# Site: https://www.birmingham.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 473
# --------

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk:
Welcome
It's time to settle in, make new friends, discover Birmingham, and to feel prepared for your studies.
Research
New fossils show how unusual armoured dinosaur, Spicomellus afer, discovered in Morocco had one metre spikes sticking out from its neck.
News
Researchers have discovered how cells repair themselves using advanced imaging and mathematical models, which could lead to better wound and cancer treatments.
01 of 03
Postgraduate
Applications for most Masters programmes close on Thursday 4 September for UK students.
Explore your options and take the next step today.
Meet our graduates
Campus life
With a green, vibrant campus with historic buildings, modern facilities, and a global student community, you'll find everything you need, from cafés and study spots to shops and inspiring study spaces.
Campus is a vibrant and diverse hub of activity all year round.
With student social events, research showcases, family fun days, live sporting events and more, there is always something exciting happening.
Student support
Whether you need help with studies, money, mental health or just settling in, we've got your back from day one with expert teams, peer mentors and round-the-clock support.
125th Anniversary
Careers
Explore more news and find out what's on
© University of Birmingham 2025

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/dubai:
Study in Dubai
Applications for our foundation, undergraduate, and postgraduate courses are still open for September 2025 entry for a limited time.
Redefine your future.
The University has risen again, rising four places in the QS World University Rankings 2026.
This reflects our position amongst the best-performing research-intensive universities in the world.
01 of 02
It's time to settle in, make new friends, discover Dubai, and to feel prepared for your studies.
Student experience
Upcoming open days
Chat to students
Prospectus
This is your time.
This is your place.
Secure your future in 2025.
Dubai switchboard

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/welcome:
Welcome 2025 begins on Monday 22 September, with Arrivals Weekend taking place on Saturday 20 and Sunday 21 September.
Teaching for the 2025/26 academic year will begin on Monday 29 September.
First things first, tick off these essential tasks before you arrive.
Download the MyUoB app, access your email, and get ready to start your studies.
It's time to plan your journey to Birmingham.
Find out what's happening across Welcome at Birmingham.
Your first year is an exciting time - we're here to support you.
Don't forget to follow our socials ( @unibirmingham ) or subscribe to our UoB Student Services YouTube channel to hear more from our Student Content Shapers and get a feel for student life.
It's time to get ready for your Welcome journey
We know that for many new students, their parents/carers and family play an important role in their transition to University.
We've pulled together some information to help you support your new student and understand what to expect, whether they will be commuting to campus or living in accommodation.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/news/2025/bizarre-armoured-dinosaur-spicomellus-afer-had-spikes-sticking-out-from-its-neck-fossils-show:
Newly discovered fossils reveal that Spicomellus afer’s skeleton was covered in spikes, some fused to the animal’s skeleton, measuring as much as a metre long.
Spicomellus Afer artists impression
The world’s most unusual dinosaur is even stranger than first realised, as new research published in Nature reports that Spicomellus afer had a tail weapon more than 30 million years before any other ankylosaur, as well as a unique bony collar ringed with metre-long spikes sticking out from either side of its neck.
Spicomellus is the world’s oldest ankylosaur, having lived more than 165 million years ago in the Middle Jurassic near what is now the Moroccan town of Boulemane.
It was the first ankylosaur to be found on the African continent.
New remains of Spicomellus found by a team of palaeontologists have helped to build upon the original description of the unusual animal.
The initial description of the species was published in 2021 and was based on one rib bone.
The team now know that the animal had bony spikes fused onto and projecting from all of its ribs, a feature not seen in any other vertebrate species living or extinct.
It had long spikes, measuring 87 centimetres, which authors believe would have been even longer during the animal’s life, that emerged from a bony collar that sat around its neck.
Professor Susannah Maidment of Natural History Museum, London, and the University of Birmingham, who co-led the team of researchers said: “To find such elaborate armour in an early ankylosaur changes our understanding of how these dinosaurs evolved.
It shows just how significant Africa’s dinosaurs are, and how important it is to improve our understanding of them.”
“Spicomellus had a diversity of plates and spikes extending from all over its body, including metre-long neck spikes, huge upwards-projecting spikes over the hips, and a whole range of long, blade-like spikes, pieces of armour made up of two long spikes, and plates down the shoulder.
We’ve never seen anything like this in any animal before”
“It’s particularly strange as this is the oldest known ankylosaur, so we might expect that a later species might have inherited similar features, but they haven’t.”
Professor Richard Butler from the University of Birmingham and project co-lead said: “Seeing and studying the Spicomellus fossils for the first time was spine-tingling.
We just couldn’t believe how weird it was and how unlike any other dinosaur, or indeed any other animal we know of alive or extinct.
It turns much of what we thought we knew about ankylosaurs and their evolution on its head and demonstrates just how much there still is to learn about dinosaurs”.
© The Trustees of the Natural History Museum, London
Authors propose that this array of spikes would have been used for attracting mates and showing off to rivals.
Interestingly, similar display armour has not yet been found in any other ankylosaur, with later species possessing armour that probably functioned more for defence.
One explanation for this is that as larger predatory dinosaurs evolved in the Cretaceous, as well as bigger carnivorous mammals, crocodiles and snakes, the rising risk of predation could have driven ankylosaur armour to become simpler and more defensive.
One feature of early ankylosaurs that may have survived, however, is their tail weaponry.
While the end of Spicomellus’ tail hasn’t been found, the bones that do survive suggest that it had a club or a similar tail weapon.
Some of the tail vertebrae are fused together to form a structure known as a handle, which has only been found in ankylosaurs with a tail club.
However, all these animals lived millions of years later in the Cretaceous.
Authors of the study believe that the combination of a tail weapon and an armoured shield that protected the hips suggest that many of the ankylosaurs’ key adaptations already existed by the time of Spicomellus .
The discovery reinforces the importance of the fossil record in solving evolutionary puzzles and deepening our understanding of the geographic distribution of dinosaurs.
It also helps to spark public imagination in dinosaurs as we learn more about the baffling characteristics of species like Spicomellus .
Professor Driss Ouarhache, lead of the Moroccan team from the Université Sidi Mohamed Ben Abdellah who co-developed the research, said: “This study is helping to drive forward Moroccan science.
We’ve never seen dinosaurs like this before, and there’s still a lot more this region has to offer.”
The Spicomellus afer remains that form the basis of this study were cleaned and prepared at the Department of Geology of the Dhar El Mahraz Faculty of Sciences in Fez, Morocco, using scientific equipment provided by the University of Birmingham’s Research England International Strategy and Partnership Fund.
The fossils are now catalogued and stored on this site.
The paper ‘ Extreme armour in the world’s oldest ankylosaur’ is available now in Nature .
This research is part of the Natural History Museum’s Evolution of Life Research Theme that seeks to reveal the causes and consequences of evolutionary and environmental change, which is central to understanding life on Earth.
It is also a contribution from the Earth Heritage Network at the University of Birmingham, which seeks to develop new ways to use palaeontological resources for the benefit of society.
Professor of Palaeobiology
Richard is a vertebrate palaeontologist with expertise in the systematics, evolution and biogeography of late Palaeozoic to Mesozoic reptiles.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/news/2025/bodys-cells-change-shape-to-deal-with-wounds:
Scientists used advanced imaging and mathematical models to understand how cells repair themselves, which may lead to better treatments for wounds or cancer.
New research discovered that the body’s cells change their shape to close gaps such as wounds.
The body’s cells change their shape to close gaps such as wounds – with part of the cell flexing depending on the curve of the gap and the organisation of cell-internal structures, a new study reveals.
Epithelial cells line the body’s surfaces inside and out - forming a barrier to protect against physical damage, pathogens, and dehydration.
They play key roles in absorbing nutrients and removing waste products, as well as producing substances such as enzymes and hormones.
Scientists have discovered that these cells’ endoplasmic reticulum (ER) changes its shape in different ways.
When the gap curves outward (convex), the ER forms tube-like shapes, but when the gap curves inward (concave) it forms flat sheet-like shapes.
The researchers found that pushing forces at outward-curving edges and pulling forces at inward-curving edges change the shape of the ER through different mechanisms.
This project was a great example of a fruitful interdisciplinary collaboration.
We previously studied endothelial monolayers, which are the cells that line blood vessels, and investigated how mechanical and geometrical features regulate gaps in the monolayer that can cause leakiness.
The experiments showed a novel, unexpected link between organelle and cell shape and monolayer behaviour.
When a gap has convex edges, the cells use a crawling movement with broad, flat extensions, but in the case of concave edges there is a ‘purse-string’ movement, where the cells contract to pull the edges together.
Publishing their findings in Nature Cell Biology , researchers from the UK and India note that the ER's ability to reorganise in response to edge curvature and determine the mode of epithelial migration highlights its crucial role in cellular behaviour.
Scientists used specialised techniques to create tiny gaps in cell layers and used advanced imaging and mathematical models to understand how the ER changes shape and helps epithelial cells move.
Dr Simran Rawal from the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research Hyderabad, who performed most of the experiments, commented: “Wound healing is an important response to injury.
Our study opens new avenues for exploring the mechanisms underlying epithelial gap closure and their broader implications for health and disease by identifying a new role of the ER in this process.”
Dr Pradeep Keshavanarayana, who developed the mathematical model when he was a Research Fellow at the University of Birmingham, remarked: “The ER's role in cell movement is not just a fascinating scientific discovery but also a potential game-changer for various medical treatments and therapies.
Using mathematical models to understand how cells repair themselves may lead to better treatments for wounds, new methods for regenerating damaged tissues, or an improved grasp of how cancer cells spread - leading to new strategies to prevent or slow down metastasis.”
Corresponding author Professor Fabian Spill, from the University of Birmingham, commented: “This project was a great example of a fruitful interdisciplinary collaboration.
“The experiments showed a novel, unexpected link between organelle and cell shape and monolayer behaviour.
The combination of these beautiful experiments by Simran and collaborators with the mathematical model developed by Pradeep led to the identification of a new, organelle-mediated mechanism of sensing mechanics and geometry.”
Professor Tamal Das, corresponding author from the Tata Institute, added: “This study started with the discovery made by Simran, who observed the ER's central role in mechanotransduction - the process by which cells convert mechanical stimuli from their environment into biochemical signals.
“Mechanotransduction is fundamental to several physiological functions, including touch, hearing, and balance, and has been studied in the context of collective cell migration.
Our collaboration shaped the theoretical framework and deepened our understanding of the underlying mechanisms.
Together, our experiments and modelling reveal a novel role for the ER in this process.”
For more information, please contact the University of Birmingham press office on  or +44 (0) 121 414 2772.
The University of Birmingham is ranked amongst the world’s top 100 institutions, its work brings people from across the world to Birmingham, including researchers and teachers and more than 8,000 international students from over 150 countries.
Curvature-dependent morphological reorganisation of the endoplasmic reticulum determines the mode of epithelial migration - Simran Rawal, Pradeep Keshavanarayana, Diya Manoj, Purnati Khuntia, Sanak Banerjee, Basil Thurakkal, Rituraj Marwaha, Fabian Spill, and Tamal Das is published in Nature Cell Biology .
Participating institutions: University of Birmingham, UK; Tata Institute of Fundamental Research Hyderabad (TIFRH), India; University College London, UK.
Professor of Applied Mathematics
Staff profile of Professor Fabian Spill, School of Mathematics, University of Birmingham.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/postgraduate:
At Birmingham we have over 600 taught postgraduate programmes and a wealth of world-leading research opportunities to choose from, to help you widen your skills base, further your knowledge and boost your career prospects.
Our high-quality teaching and supervision will help you take your skills and career to the next level.
Here, you’ll feel engaged, motivated and challenged, as part of our inclusive community that has a strong research culture.
In the recent Research Excellence Framework 2021 we were:
We have over 600 taught postgraduate courses available at the University of Birmingham.
Find out what you can study and how to apply.
Learn about our postgraduate research degrees and studying at Birmingham.
Find an 'advertised PhD' or propose your own research.
Study online with a broad range of high quality distance learning courses at the University of Birmingham
By choosing Birmingham, you’re joining a large, diverse and vibrant postgraduate community.
Whatever your area of study, you can look forward to a stimulating, engaging experience of the highest quality.
This is our commitment to you.
Visit the University of Birmingham, either on campus or online, to find out more about postgraduate study.
Explore our library of pre-recorded webinars on a wide range of topics including funding, admissions and postgraduate student life - all from the comfort of your home.
The university has successfully established an inclusive and multicultural academic community which diversifies the entire academic experience for all students.
These components have been crucial in my own experience.
If you're not yet sure which course is right for you, browse our subject areas and find out more about the courses we offer.
We offer both taught and research courses, with distance learning and online options available.
The university has offered me the chance to interact with students from diverse backgrounds in my course and made me more confident, intrigued and excited about the opportunities lying ahead.
The sense of achievement to study in an overseas country and manage it all on my own has given me the confidence I need.
Explore a wide range of stories shared by postgraduate students and alumni from the University of Birmingham.
Take a virtual tour of the University of Birmingham campus and explore your new learning environment.
Download a postgraduate prospectus and find out how studying at the University of Birmingham can help you achieve your goals.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/student-experience/careers-and-employability/graduate-high-fliers:
Meet our graduates | Built in Birmingham | University of Birmingham
My experience at Birmingham has been invaluable to kind of moving into this career path.
So, not only was I a social secretary, but also worked part time fundraising for some of the amazing initiatives Birmingham was supporting.
So that was really great for honing my sales skills, which helped me, kind of, get on to the grad scheme at PepsiCo.
I was looking for an opportunity academically to broaden my horizons that would, in the future, allow me to have that push professionally as well.
The University of Birmingham course allowed me to gain that experience.
It exposed me to so many new opportunities, to so many new contacts in the sector, that I was able to go off and meet and talk to and learn from, whilst also being able to drive that knowledge back into my role and grow personally and professionally as a result.
My time at the University has had a lasting impact on my career.
It taught me not just the science, but also how to communicate, how to interact with people, how to inspire young people.
I think my journey at university really helped prepare me for my career, because of the vast amount of people that you meet at university.
I think because UOB attracts people from all over the world.
It's just an amazing place to network and talk to people and really build your confidence in that sense.
I would 100% recommend studying at UOB.
I think academically it's amazing.
It's got such an incredible reputation.
I couldn't recommend it more.
Our alumni from Birmingham go on to work with top UK employers and lead in industries worldwide.
Hear their story and find out how they were Built in Birmingham.
Rishi graduated with an MBA and now works as the Founder and CEO of World of Gears.
Abi graduated with a MSci in Biochemistry and now works as a Medical Affairs Senior Scientist at Haleon.
Alex graduated with a BSc in Human Biology with International Study and is the co-founder and director of Burger Me Up.
Molly graduated with a BSc in Environmental Science and is the co-founder and director of Burger Me Up.
Llion graduated with both a BA Artificial Intelligence & Computer Science and MSc in Advanced Computer Science, and now works as the Co-Founder and Chief Technology Officer (CTO) of Sakana AI.
Ashlea graduated with a BSc in Physiotherapy and now works as a Senior Hepatology Research Physiotherapist at the Queen Elizabeth Hospital NHS Trust.
Oscar graduated with an MSc in Money, Banking and Finance, and now works as a General Manager & Chairman Assistant at Shanghai Imilab Technology.
Michael graduated with a MSc in Health and Healthcare Management and Policy and is now working  the Chief Manager of the Smart Hospital Development Department at Renji Hospital.
Dian graduated with an MSc in Marketing and now works as a Communication Manager at an airlines company in China.
Emma graduated with a MA in International Studies in Education and is the Charity Director at Heng Yuan Xiang (Group) Co.
Frankie studied Shakespeare Studies PhD / MA by Research, and now works as a Volunteer Officer at the Shakespeare Birthplace Trust.
Deepali Lodhia graduated from the University of Birmingham after studying a PhD in Astrophysics: Gravitational Wave Detection.
Find out about her career.
Alice graduated with a BA in Education and Sociology, followed by a PGCE in 2021.
She now works as a Year 3 Teacher in a local primary school.
Elizabeth Conway graduated from the University of Birmingham in 2020 after studying Modern Languages and English.
Elle Picton graduated from the University of Birmingham after studying BA American and Canadian History.
At Birmingham, you'll have access to the support, work experience, internships and volunteer placements that build valuable personal and professional skills.
Our dedicated Careers Network offers tailored guidance, and our career mentoring scheme connects you with industry experts for insights and advice that can shape your path forward.
Studying at Birmingham ensures that you are joining a university with exceptional links to leading industries and employers.
As an undergraduate or postgraduate student, you'll benefit from our dedicated Careers Network, offering opportunities that support your career journey every step of the way.
Through our Careers Network, you'll access funded work placements across diverse sectors and connect directly with hundreds of employers at careers fairs, workshops, and presentations.
With partnerships spanning local, national and international recruiters, you'll gain up-to-date, sector-specific advice to guide your career path.
The Careers Network provides personalised guidance to help you explore your options, build skills and connect with opportunities aligned with your career goals.
Our dedicated teams of advisors, consultants and internship officers offers support to your needs, including a one-to-one mentoring programme with distinguished Birmingham alumni.
Research shows that students with work experience have a strong advantage in graduate recruitment.
Through the University's Guild of Students, you'll find a range of volunteering opportunities, from one-off events to regular roles, helping you build skills and make a meaningful impact.
Share your story with us and we may use it on our website or in our prospectus.
Everything you need to know about the application process, including tips on how to write your personal statement.
Search for an undergraduate or postgraduate course at the University of Birmingham.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/student-experience/campus-life:
Our green and spacious campus has all the space you need to study, relax and socialise.
With all the amenities of a small town, you’ll find  shops, bars, and cafés, plus medical and dental surgeries, sports facilities, and even our own train station to transport you to the heart of the city in just seven minutes.
Looking for cultural inspiration?
With the Barber Institute of Fine Arts, the Bramall Music Building, Winterbourne House and Garden and the  Lapworth Museum of Geology on campus, you’ll be spoilt for choice.
Explore our beautiful campus from the comfort of your own home
During the busy seasons or exams, the green spaces become areas to relax, with students gathering for a break, to eat lunch or maybe just get a bit of studying done in the fresh air!
Everything is in one place but is only a short and cheap train ride away from the rest of the city
Teaching and Learning
Sports and Fitness
Main Library
Green Heart
School of Engineering
We continually invest in our campus spaces to provide the best experiences for our students.
Over the last ten years, our campus has seen a series of changes including:
But if that wasn't enough, the city centre of Birmingham, the UK's second city, is only a short train ride away from our 'University' train station.
The Barber Institute of Fine Arts is home to internationally significant art collections and exhibitions.
It hosts lunchtime concerts, evening lectures and literature workshops.
Our recently-renovated Lapworth Museum of Geology is one of the oldest specialist geological museums in the UK, and will capture your imagination as you explore life over the last 3.5 billion years!
The Bramall Music Building is home to the Elgar Concert Hall, and hosts a varied events calendar including concerts, comedy shows and free lunchtime music for students every Friday.
A beautiful Edwardian house with botanic gardens nestled in a leafy corner of our campus.
Relax in the surrounding gardens, or take in a lecture, exhibition, or special interest tour.
University Music connects students, staff, and the local community through 40+ ensembles, concerts, and competitions.
Enjoy orchestras, choirs, jazz, folk and more, all led by expert musicians.
Find out about life on campus from our current students
We have almost 7,000 rooms available so you'll have no trouble finding your home from home

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/student-experience:
With historic buildings, modern facilities and green surroundings, our Edgbaston campus is a place to be inspired.
Home to a diverse, global community of students, it has everything you need.
Our cosmopolitan city has a unique history and so much to see and do.
It’s no wonder our students fall in love with the city and almost half decide to stay in the region after they graduate.
At Birmingham, our team of careers experts support you to explore your options, find work experience and develop your skills.
The Go Global team offers a wide range of short-term and long-term opportunities for students to study, work, research, or volunteer abroad.
The quality of the environment in which you learn really matters and we’re committed to providing the best facilities for students.
Whoever you are and wherever you come from, we are committed to providing the best possible support to all of our students, so that you can get the most out of your university experience.
Discover inspiring student stories and real experiences from life at the University of Birmingham.
The Guild of Students is the students’ union at the University of Birmingham.
We’re a democratically-led organisation run by students, for students.
We are your voice, only louder.
Sport is one of the ways we bring our diverse community together – whether you’re an elite athlete or looking to find your feet among friends, there’s something here for everyone.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/student-experience/advice-support:
Whoever you are and wherever you come from, we are committed to providing the best possible support to all of our students, both before you start and throughout your time on campus, so that you can get the most out of your university experience.
Coming to university is a big life change, and you may feel the need for a little more support during your transition.
Whether you’re feeling stressed about your workload or worried about a situation at home, need help with your study skills or financial advice, there is lots of support available to you at Birmingham.
No problem is too big and no worry is too small for our team of experts, and there are a range of services so you can choose the one that best suits your personal needs.
Academic Skills Centre supports all new undergraduate students to develop their mathematical, academic writing and general academic skills.
Friendly, creative and professional staff will make sure your child is learning and growing in a safe, secure and homely environment.
Information for applicants with a disability at the University of Birmingham.
Support offered to all faiths at the University of Birmingham.
Health and wellbeing support services for students at the University of Birmingham.
Money advice and support at the University of Birmingham
University of Birmingham Student mentors are trained to offer new students help and support whilst they live in University accommodation.
The University is committed to creating a safe and respectful learning community in which all staff, students and visitors to the University are treated with dignity and respect.
Start your student journey off right.
Find your home from home at Birmingham.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/news/125-years/125-graduation-speaker-biographies:
Derrick Anderson, CBE DL is a highly respected British public sector leader with over 35 years of experience in local government.
Born in London and raised in Birmingham, he has held several senior leadership roles, most notably serving as Chief Executive of the London Borough of Lambeth from 2006 until his retirement in 2014.
Prior to that, he was Chief Executive of Wolverhampton City Council for a decade, following five years as Director of Leisure and Community Services.
Anderson was awarded a Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) in 2003 for his services to local government.
In 2012, he was named Public Leader of the Year at the Guardian Public Services Awards.
Beyond his executive roles, he has contributed to national and community development as a board member of the Home Office Policing Ministerial Reference Group, Sport England (London Region), and VSO UK.
He currently serves as a Trustee and Director of Our Hope Charity, Chair of Trustees at the WAVE Trust, and a non-executive Director of the UK Municipal Bond Agency.
He holds honorary doctorates from Staffordshire University and the University of Birmingham for his work on social inclusion and cultural policy.
His interests include sports, the arts, and international development, particularly in Southern Africa and the Caribbean.
Yvonne Elsworth obtained a PhD from the Victoria University of Manchester in 1976 for the design and implementation of a novel form of field-widened Michelson Interferometer designed for applications to faint, extended sources like that provided by the optical emission from the neutral thermosphere.
Over the next 8 years, many of the ideas developed during the PhD were applied to diverse problems including the rapid fluctuations in light from cataclysmic variable stars, wave from testing for high-powered lasers and also technology transfer when Perkin Elmer decided to move into the field of interferometers in the near infrared.
An appointment in 1984 to the permanent academic staff in the School of Physics and Astronomy at the University of Birmingham caused a change of direction in the research.
From that time, the focus has been on helioseismology and latterly asteroseismology of solar-like and red-giant stars.
John is a chemistry inventor who works to design and create commercial technologies inspired by nature consistent with the principles of green chemistry.
With over 300 patents, he has invented solutions for dozens of multinational corporations.
His inventions have also served as the basis for several new companies.
Examples include: Collaborative Medicinal Development (ALS therapy), Hairprint (hair color restoration), Collaborative Aggregates (asphalt warm mix rejuvenators), Ambient Photonics (lowlight indoor photovoltaic devices for IoT and BIPV).
He is one of the cofounders of the field of green chemistry, coauthoring the defining text “Green Chemistry: Theory and Practice” and articulating the 12 principles of green chemistry with Paul Anastas.
John has over 100 publications providing foundational work in the fields of noncovalent derivatization, polymer photochemistry, metal oxide semiconductors and synthetic organic chemistry.
John has received prestigious awards as an academic (Presidential Award for Excellence in Science Mentoring – President G.
W.
Bush & NSF, 2004) and the August Wilhelm von Hofmann Medal from the German Chemical Society, 2022), industrial chemist (Perkin Medal – Society of Chemical Industry, 2014), inventor (Lemelson Ambassadorship – Lemelson Foundation & AAAS) and for governmental chemicals policy (Reinventing Government National Performance Review – Vice President A.
Gore & EPA, 1997).
He received the American Institute of Chemistry’s Northeast Division’s Distinguished Chemist of the Year for 2002 and the Council of Science Society President’s 2008 Leadership award.
Warner was named by ICI Services as one of the most influential people impacting the global chemical industries.
In 2011, he was elected a Fellow of the American Chemical Society and named one of “25 Visionaries Changing the World” by Utne Reader.
He serves as Distinguished Professor of Green Chemistry at Monash University in Australia and was named an Honorary Professor at the Technical University of Berlin.
He served as the 2020 and 2021 Global Chair for the Center for Sustainable and Circular Technologies at the University of Bath.
In 2017 the German Ministry of Economic Affairs and The Technical University of Berlin announced the naming of “The John Warner Center for Green Chemistry Start-Ups” in his honor.
He serves as strategic advisor for the Science, Engineering and Health Committee of EPA Victoria in Australia.
John received his BS in Chemistry from UMASS Boston, and his PhD in Chemistry from Princeton University.
After working at the Polaroid Corporation for nearly a decade, he then served as tenured full professor at UMASS Boston and Lowell (Chemistry and Plastics Engineering).
In 2007 he founded the Warner Babcock Institute for Green Chemistry, with Jim Babcock (a research organization developing green chemistry technologies), and Beyond Benign with Amy Cannon (a non-profit dedicated to sustainability and green chemistry education).
John is constantly giving keynote talks and workshops on Green Chemistry, Innovation, The Circular Economy, and Biomimicry.
He continues to advise several international organizations.
Lucy Baldwin is a Managing Director and Global Head of Research at Citi.
Lucy is responsible for managing Citi’s global independent research across all asset classes.
Lucy joined Citigroup in April 2021 from Credit Suisse, where she was Global Head of Equity Sales.
Prior to Credit Suisse Lucy was at Bank of America as Head of European Equity Sales (2015-2019), and at Goldman Sachs as a Director of European Equity Research and in a variety of research analyst roles (2006-2015).
Lucy started her career at Cazenove as an equity research analyst covering the building materials sector.
Lucy graduated from the University of Birmingham in Economics.
Lucy serves as a member of Council for the University of Birmingham and sits on the Investment Sub-committee.
Additionally, Lucy is a member of the Advisory Council for the Mossavar-Rahmani Centre for Business and Government at the Harvard Kennedy School.
Sir Paul Maxime Nurse FRS 1949–present
Awarded (jointly) the Nobel Prize for Physiology or Medicine 2001.
• British geneticist and cell biologist • Graduated from Birmingham in 1970 with a BSc in Biology • Groundbreaking researcher Known for his work on cell cycle regulation, Sir Paul Nurse – • Received the Nobel Prize for Physiology or Medicine for his seminal discoveries at the molecular level of cell cycles • Enabled the development of new treatments and medicines for cancer through his studies and management of research teams • Discovered the gene that controls cell division through his postgraduate experiments on yeast After doing much of his pioneering research in the 1980s, he joined the Imperial Cancer Research Fund (ICRF) and became its Director General and Head of Cell Cycle Laboratory.
Sir Paul headed up the world’s largest volunteer-supported cancer research organisation, Cancer Research UK, when ICRF and The Cancer Research Campaign joined forces.
He moved to the United States in 2003 to become President of The Rockefeller University.
He has won many awards, including the Albert Lasker Award for Basic Medical Research, is a Fellow of the Royal Society and a foreign associate of the United States National Academy of Sciences.
Sir Paul took up his post as President of the Royal Society in December 2010.
Sir Paul Nurse presented “Controlling the Cell Cycle” at the University of Birmingham's Inaugural Humphreys Lecture in October 2013.
Anthony Lilley OBE is a co-founder with John Berry CBE of Scenario Two Ltd, a UK commercial theatre producing business.
With Scenario Two, he has produced Terry Gilliam and Leah Hausmann's revival of Sondheim and Lapine's into the Woods, high tech, genre-busting sensation, Cages at Riverside Studios winning an Offie Award in 2022 and an international tour of The Light in the Piazza starring Renée Fleming.
Previously, he has worked extensively across the creative industries, beginning in theatre before founding Magic Lantern Productions, one of the UK’s earliest specialist digital content companies.
At Magic Lantern, he produced TV, web, mobile, theatre, games and advertising projects including working with brands such as Top Gear and Doctor Who and for clients including BBC, C4, Sony PlayStation, CCTV China and ABC.
He has won BAFTA, RTS and Peabody awards in the field of digital innovation.
Anthony is chair of the Board of virtual production facility Studio Ulster Ltd and Senior Advisor to placemaking specialists, Time and Space.
He is a member of the board of UK Theatre and chairs international artists group, Blast Theory.
Previously he has held Board level seats at UK regulators OfCOM and the Gambling Commission and at various cultural organisations including English National Opera, Lighthouse and the Crafts Council.
He served two terms as a trustee of NESTA where he also chaired the Investment Committee.
He has advised the UK government at ministerial level and given keynote speeches on five continents.
Anthony graduated with an MA in Law from the University of Oxford.
He holds a personal Professorship in Creative Industries at Ulster University and was a Council Member of the Arts and Humanities Research Council until March 2023, where he was instrumental in establishing the £85m creative industries clusters programme (CICP).
He holds an Honorary Doctorate of Arts from Kent University and has previously held Visiting Professorships of Media at the Universities of Oxford and Bournemouth.
Anthony is a Fellow of the Royal Society of the Arts, a former new media correspondent of The Guardian and was appointed OBE in 2008 for services to media and the creative industries.
Since 2015, he has coached grassroots football with Ringmer Rovers.
Born in Havana in 1973, Carlos trained at the National Ballet School of Havana in Cuba.
After winning a succession of awards, including the Prix de Lausanne in 1990, he went on to dance professionally with the world’s most prestigious companies, with London’s Royal Ballet becoming his home.
Carlos retired from classical ballet in 2016, after 28 years, having performed almost every classical role from Spartacus to Romeo.
Carlos created many award-winning shows throughout his ballet career, including 'Tocororo' and 'Carlos Acosta and Friends of The Royal Ballet'.
He also choreographed the Royal Ballet productions of 'Don Quixote' and 'Carmen', plus the latest 'Guys and Dolls' production for the West End.
He has also written two books, including a work of fiction 'Pig’s Foot', and his honest and heartfelt autobiography 'No Way Home'.
'Yuli', a film inspired by his life, premiered at the San Sebastian, Havana and Berlin Film Festivals to critical acclaim before its premiere and general release in April 2019.
The culture and history of Carlos’s homeland have been important influences throughout his career and will continue to be so following his establishment of his own dance company, Acosta Danza, in 2016.
The company tours the world with its vibrant combination of classical and contemporary, fused with Cuban elements of dance.
In 2017, Carlos opened his first Dance Academy through the Carlos Acosta International Dance Foundation.
The Foundation gives young dancers the same opportunities that he himself benefited from, by providing a three-year dance training programme, free at the point of delivery in an inspirational setting.
Carlos’s extraordinary contribution to dance continues to this day and he was recognised in the Queen’s New Year’s Honours List in 2014 when he was awarded a CBE.
In 2018, Carlos received the Queen Elizabeth II Coronation Award from the Royal Academy of Dance in recognition of his standing as one of the most influential figures in Dance today and in 2019, the Critics’ Circle bestowed Carlos with their Annual Award for Outstanding Services to the Arts.
His athleticism, his sheer joy in dancing, as well as his tremendous ability to convey emotion, inspired a generation of dancers across the globe.
His very touching story and the obstacles he has overcome speak for themselves.
Carlos Acosta became Director of Birmingham Royal Ballet in January 2020.
Edgar has had a career spanning 25 years in various institutions across the UK.
Beginning his academic career at Southampton Business School, University of Southampton, where he completed his PhD and worked for nearly 15 years, culminating in his appointment as Professor of HRM and Organisational Behaviour and Director of the MBA.
In 2015, he moved to Imperial College Business School as Associate Dean of Undergraduate Programmes and Education Quality.
From there, he moved to Leeds University Business School, University of Leeds, as Deputy Dean, where he looked after Accreditations, Staffing, Executive Education, and Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion.
In 2023 Edgar commenced his appointment as Dean of Birmingham Business School, University of Birmingham.
Edgar is an academic Member of the Chartered Institute for Personnel and Development (CIPD) and an active volunteer for the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB).
He was the Vice-Chair, and then Chair, of the EDI Committee of the Chartered ABS and he continues to serve as a trustee of several charitable organisations.
He has held visiting professorial roles across the globe, such as Cotrugli Business School, Croatia, Tokyo Metropolitan University, Japan, and Universidad del Pacifico, Peru.
Valerie Ann Amos, Baroness Amos (born 13 March 1954) is a distinguished British politician, diplomat, and academic.
Born in British Guiana (now Guyana), she moved to the UK in 1963 and rose to become a trailblazer in British public life.
A member of the Labour Party, she became the first Black woman to serve as a Cabinet minister in the UK when appointed Secretary of State for International Development in 2003.
She later served as Leader of the House of Lords and Lord President of the Council.
Internationally, she was the UN Under-Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs and Emergency Relief Coordinator from 2010 to 2015.
She also served as the British High Commissioner to Australia.
In academia, Amos broke new ground as the first Black woman to lead a UK university when she became Director of SOAS, University of London, in 2015.
In 2020, she became Master of University College, Oxford, the first Black person and first woman to hold that role.
In 2022, she was appointed a Lady Companion of the Order of the Garter, the first Black person to receive this honour in the order’s nearly 700-year history.
A graduation message from Dame Judi Dench
Dame Judi Dench is one of Britain’s most distinguished and beloved actors, known for a remarkable career spanning more than six decades across theatre, film, and television.
Renowned for her powerful performances in both classical and contemporary roles, she has become a national treasure and a global icon of stage and screen.
In recognition of her outstanding contribution to the arts, Dame Judi was awarded an Honorary Doctor of Letters (DLitt) by the University of Birmingham in 1989.
She has enjoyed a long-standing connection with the University’s Shakespeare Institute , working closely with colleagues in the convergence of theatrical performance and academic research.
Dame Judi's career includes award-winning performances with the Royal Shakespeare Company and acclaimed roles in major films such as Shakespeare in Love , Notes on a Scandal , and the James Bond series, in which she played the iconic role of 'M'.
Her accolades include an Academy Award, multiple BAFTAs, Olivier Awards, and a Tony Award, among many others.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/news/2025/ozzy-osbournes-last-concert-contributed-28-million-to-the-west-midlands-economy:
New analysis from the University of Birmingham finds that Osbourne's last concert contributed £33.8 million to the UK economy (£27.6 million West Midlands).
Musician Ozzy Osbourne performs day 3 2nd Annual Sunset Strip Music Festival September 12,2009 Los Angeles, California.Credit: The Photo Access via Alamy.
New analysis from the University of Birmingham has found that the Prince of Darkness’s last concert contributed £33.8 million to the UK economy, £27.6 million of which retained in the West Midlands.
On the 22nd of July 2025, Birmingham lost one of its most iconic sons.
Ozzy Osbourne, Godfather of heavy metal, passed away at 76.
But as well as an unrivalled musical and cultural legacy, he has left a significant economic impact on his hometown and region.
Now, new analysis from City-Region Economic Development Institute (City-REDI) at the University of Birmingham , has found that Ozzy Osbourne’s final concert, Back to the Beginning, contributed £33.8 million in gross economic output across the UK, £27.6 million of which was retained in the West Midlands.
Dr Matt Lyons, who conducted the analysis, said: “Ozzy was a proud Brummie and his legacy can be seen across the city.
When you step off a train at New Street station, you are greeted by Ozzy the Bull, named for the legend himself after 2,000 names were put forward.
Black Sabbath and Ozzy are credited as inventing the heavy metal genre when they started out playing in The Crown Pub on Station Street in Birmingham.
“As regional economists from the University of Birmingham, we thought we would do our bit to honour Ozzy’s legacy by estimating the economic impact of his last gig.”
The benefit concert, which took place at Villa Park on 5th July 2025, sold out 42,000 tickets in minutes, 20% of tickets were purchased by international fans, with prices ranging from £197.50 to £834.
The impact of the Prince of Darkness obviously goes far beyond the financial impact his gigs and TV shows have netted.
Ozzy was always an ambassador of Birmingham, and in passing, becomes a symbol of the city’s working-class resilience, creativity and ability to reinvent itself.
To estimate the economic impact of the concert, the researchers used the SEIM-UK economic model, a methodology used previously for estimating the impact of megaevents such as the Birmingham Commonwealth Games in 2022.
Considering ticket sales, estimates of inward tourism spending on hotels, transport, food and other discretionary spending, the researchers arrive at direct spending of £21 million, close to other published figures.
The SEIM-UK goes beyond the direct impact of spending associated with an event, also capturing the indirect and induced (supply-chain and wage uplift) impacts that are related to the initial spending shock.
The analysis showed that including the additional areas of indirect and included impacts, resulted in Ozzy’s Back to the Beginning concert contributing £33.8 million in gross economic output across the UK, £27.6 million of which specifically impacted the West Midlands.
This analysis did not include £140 million raised for the charities Cure Parkinson's, Birmingham Children’s Hospital, and Acorn Children’s Hospice through shares of livestreams and merchandise sales.
Dr Lyons concluded: “The impact of the Prince of Darkness obviously goes far beyond the financial impact his gigs and TV shows have netted.
Ozzy was always an ambassador of Birmingham, and in passing, becomes a symbol of the city’s working class resilience, creativity and ability to reinvent itself.
The naming of Black Sabbath Bridge and Ozzy the Bull shows the civic embrace of Ozzy that transcends fandom of metal music.
“Ozzy is a global legend, and his gift of incredible music, and now his final economic impact will go on to benefit his home city far into the future.”

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/news/2025/probiotics-for-preterm-babies-lowered-antibiotic-resistant-bacteria-in-gut:
New research lays groundwork for future studies exploring the role of probiotics in antimicrobial stewardship and infection control among preterm babies.
Preterm babies with very low birth weight who received a probiotic alongside antibiotics had fewer multidrug resistant bacteria and a more typical gut microbiome.
Preterm babies with very low birth weight who received a probiotic alongside antibiotics had fewer multidrug resistant bacteria and a more typical gut microbiome, a new study shows.
The paper published in Nature Communications is the result of a trial testing probiotics among a group of 34 pre-term babies born with a very low birth weight, under 1500g representing around 1-1.5% of babies born around the world.
The study sequenced gut bacteria from the babies during the first three weeks after birth.
The collaborative study led by Professor Lindsay Hall and Dr Raymond Kiu from the University of Birmingham found that among babies who received a probiotic treatment of a certain strain including Bifidobacterium alongside antibiotics, levels of typical bacterial strains associated with early-life gut microbiota were at levels typical among full-term babies, reducing both the abundance of antibiotic resistance genes and the number of multi-drug resistant bacteria in the gut.
In the context of the global AMR crisis, this is a major finding, especially for NICUs where preterm infants are especially vulnerable.
Probiotics are now used in many neonatal ICUs around the UK, and the WHO have recommended probiotic supplementation in preterm babies.
Our paper shows how beneficial this intervention can be for babies born prematurely to help them give their gut a kickstart, and reduce the impact of concerning pathogens taking hold.
There were lower levels of drug-resistant pathogens including Enterococcus associated with risks of infections and longer hospital stays.
Babies who received probiotics also saw higher levels of certain positive bacteria found naturally in the gut.
Among babies who didn’t receive probiotics, analysis of the gut bacteria found that while some differences occurred between those receiving antibiotics or not, both groups saw a dominant microbiome develop that included key bacteria (pathobionts) that can cause health problems including life-threatening infections during the crucial period after birth, as well as in later life.
Professor Lindsay Hall from the University of Birmingham and a group leader at Quadram Institute Bioscience, and senior corresponding author of the study said: “We have already shown that probiotics are highly effective in protecting vulnerable preterm babies from serious infections, and this study now reveals that these probiotics also significantly reduce the presence of antibiotic resistance genes and multidrug-resistant bacteria in the infant gut.
Crucially, they seem to do so selectively - targeting resistant strains without disrupting non-resistant strains that might be beneficial.
“In the context of the global AMR crisis, this is a major finding, especially for NICUs where preterm infants are especially vulnerable.
“Our paper shows how beneficial this intervention can be for babies born prematurely to help them give their gut a kickstart, and reduce the impact of concerning pathogens taking hold.”
Dr Raymond Kiu from the University of Birmingham, first and co-corresponding author of the paper said: “Sequencing technology has now confirmed that probiotic Bifidobacterium rapidly replicates in the preterm gut during the first three weeks of life.
Importantly, this successful colonisation drives the maturation of the gut microbiota and is linked to a noticeable reduction in multi-drug-resistant pathogens—pointing to its pivotal role in improving neonatal health.
Our findings also shed light on the complex interactions between antibiotics, probiotics, and horizontal gene transfer (HGT) in shaping the early-life microbiome.
"We believe this research lays the groundwork for future studies exploring the role of probiotics in antimicrobial stewardship and infection control among preterm populations.”
For media enquiries please contact Press Office , University of Birmingham or call+44 (0)121 414 2772.
The University of Birmingham is ranked amongst the world’s top 100 institutions.
Its work brings people from across the world to Birmingham, including researchers, educators and more than 8,000 international students from over 150 countries.
England’s first civic university, the University of Birmingham is proud to be rooted in of one of the most dynamic and diverse cities in the country.
A member of the Russell Group and a founding member of the Universitas 21 global network of research universities, the University of Birmingham has been changing the way the world works for more than a century.
The University of Birmingham is committed to achieving operational net zero carbon.
It is seeking to change society and the environment positively, and use its research and education to make a major global contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals.
Find out more .
The University of Birmingham is a founding member of Birmingham Health Partners (BHP), a strategic alliance which transcends organisational boundaries to rapidly translate healthcare research findings into new diagnostics, drugs and devices for patients.
Birmingham Health Partners is a strategic alliance between nine organisations who collaborate to bring healthcare innovations through to clinical application:
Chair of Microbiome Research
Staff Profile for Professor Lindsay Hall, Chair of Microbiome Research, Institute of Microbiology and Infection, University of Birmingham
Postdoctoral Research Fellow
Dr Raymond Kiu is a computational and experimental microbiologist who studies early-life human gut microbiomes
Undergraduate

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/news/2025/university-of-birmingham-joins-exercise-programme-for-older-adults-at-risk-of-mobility-loss:
Three-year funding of over £1million to make the successful REACT programme available to older people at higher risk of mobility-related disability.
Older people in regions around England will soon be able to benefit from the REACT (REtirement in ACTion), a group-based exercise programme proven to support people to improve and maintain their mobility and ability to live independently.
Thanks to over £1million of funding from the Vivensa Foundation, the REACT programme will now be scaled up in two regions of England (North Central London and Bristol, North Somerset and South Gloucestershire).
A team of researchers from the Universities of Birmingham and Bath will work in partnership with local Integrated Care Boards (who pay for and co-ordinate health and social care services), voluntary sector organisations (including Age UK Bristol) and groups of older people.
Backed by a major clinical trial funded by the National Institute for Health Research (NIHR), REACT has already been shown to significantly improve older adults’ physical function for at least two years and reduce health and social care costs.
This new study will help us bridge the gap between research and real-world delivery, ensuring more older people across the UK can benefit from evidence-based support.
Our goal is to create a national blueprint for commissioning and scaling REACT.
In the new scaled-up programme at least 750 older people with mobility limitations will receive the programme which will help to:
Our recent landscape analysis of the state of ageing-related research funding has shown that one of the key funding gaps is in helping to get these evidence-based interventions adopted at scale.
We’re really looking forward to learning more about – and sharing - how this can be done well.
Professor Afroditi Stathi, lead researcher from the University of Birmingham, said:
“As people get older their physical functioning and mobility decrease, in fact, studies show that one in three older people will develop severe mobility limitations.
This affects their health, ability to live independently, their quality of life and even how long they live.
The REACT study provided strong evidence that this decline can be slowed and even reversed.
We have a duty to accelerate the implementation of research, with such strong findings, into routine practice.
“The REACT programme has already been very successful in reaching economically disadvantaged and ethnically diverse communities in a small-scale community roll-out in Bristol.
Our goal is to create a national blueprint for commissioning and scaling REACT.”
Susan Kay, Chief Executive Officer of Vivensa Foundation, said:
“We know that researchers and community innovators already have great evidence for what works.
We’re really looking forward to learning more about – and sharing - how this can be done well.”
Professor of Physical Activity and Community Health
Dr Afroditi Stathi leads the field in promoting active and healthy ageing in international/interdisciplinary research which investigates ways of supporting older people to achieve meaningful and lasting lifestyle changes

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/news/2025/obese-surgical-patients-medication-lifeline-can-reduce-risk-study:
Promising medication given before surgery could improve surgical outcomes and reduce healthcare burdens associated with obesity.
Pre-operative weight loss treatment could make surgery safer
Overweight patients waiting for operations could safely use a particular type of weight-loss treatment to reduce the risk of surgical complications linked to their obesity, a new study reveals.
The study highlights glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists (GLP-1 RAs) as a promising medication given before surgery that help control blood sugar and support weight loss - potentially improving surgical outcomes and reducing healthcare burdens associated with obesity.
However, the researchers stress an urgent need for high-quality randomised trials to validate these findings, assess cost-effectiveness, and guide implementation of the drug across diverse surgical systems.
People who are obese face higher risks during surgical procedures, so measures that help to reduce their weight ahead of surgery can help to improve their chances of avoiding post-operative complications.
Our findings challenge current guidelines around potential safety risks of patients on GLp-1 undergoing surgery – this guidance is based on opinions rather than high quality evidence.
Publishing their findings in eClinicalMedicine , the experts reveal that GLP-1 therapy led to weight reductions of up to 16.7 kg over six months, suggesting its potential as a scalable preoperative measure.
They analysed data from 21 studies encompassing over 97,000 surgical patients, 31.9% of whom received preoperative GLP-1 therapy – discovering that, across 12 studies reporting postoperative outcomes, use of the medication was not associated with increased risk.
Lead author Dr Sivesh Kamarajah, from the University of Birmingham, commented: “People who are obese face higher risks during surgical procedures, so measures that help to reduce their weight ahead of surgery can help to improve their chances of avoiding post-operative complications.
“Our findings challenge current guidelines around potential safety risks of patients on GLp-1 undergoing surgery – this guidance is based on opinions rather than high quality evidence.
“GLP-1 therapies may offer a transformative approach to surgical optimisation, but robust evidence is needed to inform clinical guidelines and health policy.
Given the scale of the obesity epidemic and surgical demand, prioritising research in this area is critical.
GLP-1 RAs were originally developed for type 2 diabetes management but have emerged as a powerful agent for weight loss.
However, their perioperative safety has remained uncertain, particularly amid concerns about delayed gastric emptying and aspiration risk.
Obesity remains a major global public health challenge, particularly among surgical patients, where it can be associated with increased risk around the operation and into the longer term.
While preoperative weight management strategies are often used to mitigate these risks, scalable interventions remain limited.
The risk of surgery in people who are obese are as high but varies according to surgical specialty.
Around a third of patients who are obese undergo surgery – most of these procedures, such as those for cancer, are time critical.
“We are not seeing GLP-1 as a routine intervention for weight loss in clinical practice because the clinical- and cost-effectiveness of wider use remains uncertain – further highlighting the need for a trial,” added Dr Kamarajah.
‘ Evaluation of safety of preoperative GLP-1 receptor agonists in patients undergoing elective surgery: a systematic review, meta-analysis and meta-regression ’ - Sivesh K Kamarajah, Nadia Gudiozzi, John M Findlay, Matthew J Lee, Thomas Pinkney, and Sheraz R Markar is published in eClinical Medicine .
Participating institutions: University of Birmingham; University of Oxford; Oxford University Hospitals NHS Trust; North Devon District Hospital, Barnstaple; and University of Exeter.
NIHR Doctoral Fellow
Staff Profile for Sivesh Kamarajah, NIHR Doctoral Fellow in the Department of Applied Health Sciences at the University of Birmingham.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/news:
27 August 2025
20 August 2025
15 August 2025
12 August 2025
17 June 2025
14 May 2025
29 July 2025
5 August 2025
Contact us
Expert guide
Stay connected
Global impact

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/contact/we-chat:
Scan the QR code to follow University of Birmingham Official WeChat for the latest news/event in Chinese.
扫描二维码
关注伯明翰大学官方微信 了解我们的最新中文资讯

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/international/global-engagement:
The University collaborates with partners across the world to produce ground-breaking research, deliver innovative teaching, and to create opportunities for students and staff to gain international experience.
We are responsible for supporting the overarching international strategy with a focus on international alliances to enhance our research and reputation.
Although our partnerships are wide-ranging and span all continents, we have identified China, India, Brazil, and North America as key strategic regions in which we wish to develop more focused engagement.
This includes diplomatic relations, pump-priming initiatives, research support, and collaborations from across the world.
We utilise our regional expertise to realise emerging opportunities.
For further information, read our Birmingham Global Brochure (PDF - 8.62Mb) or the accessible Birmingham Global Brochure (Word - 106Kb) .

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/university/campus/museums-and-attractions:
A leading art gallery and concert hall within its Grade-1 listed building, on the University of Birmingham's Edgbaston campus.
Experience an Edwardian historic house and garden nestled in a leafy corner of Birmingham
From rocks and fossils to volcanoes, earthquakes, and even dinosaurs, the Lapworth Museum captures life over the past 3.5 billion years.
Visit our city-centre venue for free exhibitions, activities and events exploring vital topics through the lens of University research.
University of Birmingham's extensive Special Collections of rare books, manuscripts, archives, photographs and associated artefacts.
The state-of-the-art teaching and performance spaces, the building attracts visitors and performing artists from across the world.
University of Birmingham’s museum without walls.
Discover more than 10,000 objects and artworks, across the arts and sciences.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/schools/colleges-schools-departments:
Use the A-Z listings in the sections below to find the area of the University you're looking for.
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z
A
B
C
D
E
F
G
H
I
L
M
N
P
S
T

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/services-facilities:
Explore the University’s services and facilities that enable students, staff and visitors to experience a world top 100 university.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/privacy:
This page explains how the University will use any personal data it collects.
The EU General Data Protection Regulation 2016/679 (GDPR) came into force on the 25 May 2018, and it is supplemented by the Data Protection Act 2018.
We refer to these as “data protection law”.
Data protection law regulates the processing of “ personal data” relating to individuals by organisations (known as “ data controllers ”).
On this page, and the pages which it links to, we have used some words and phrases, and these are explained below.
The University of Birmingham (the “ University ”) is the data controller for the personal data that we process in relation to you.
Occasionally, the University may be a joint data controller with other organisations, or we may be processing data about you on behalf of another organisation, but when this is the case, we will make you aware of this when the information is collected.
Personal data must be processed in accordance with specific principles set out in data protection law.
These include the principle that personal data should be processed ‘lawfully, fairly and in a transparent manner’.
In order to comply with this principle, the University will tell you how it will deal with your information at the time we collect it.
This information is normally set out in a “privacy notice”.
We have separate privacy notices for the different categories of people the University processes information about, for example, for students, staff, alumni, visitors etc.
These are published on our website, and there are links to them on this page.
In addition to the privacy notices, more information is set out below, in particular “Your rights as a data subject” and “Exercising your rights, queries and complaints”.
We also process your data in accordance with our Data Protection Policy .
The University handles a substantial amount of information about people.
It is important that they have trust and confidence that the University will protect their privacy and the University takes great care to ensure that personal data is handled, stored and disposed of confidentially and securely.
Our staff receive regular data protection training, and the University has put in place organisational and technical measures so that personal data is processed in accordance with the 6 data protection principles set out in data protection law.
The University has an Information Security Management System based on ISO27001 with a range of controls covering the protection of personal information.
Annual security awareness training is mandatory for staff and the University is accredited under the NHS Information Governance Toolkit, the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard and is in the process of gaining Cyber Essentials Plus for defined services.
As a data subject, you have the following rights in relation to your personal data which is processed by the University:
If:
please contact:
More information on making a Subject Access Request can be found on the University's website .
Please do read this before making a request.
If you wish to make a complaint about how your data is being or has been processed, please contact our Data Protection Officer :
You also have a right to complain to the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) about the way in which we process your personal data.
You can make a complaint using the ICO’s website .
We have additional privacy notices for the different categories of people the University processes information about:

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/legal/modern-slavery:
The University of Birmingham is committed to the fight against modern slavery and human trafficking.
We are actively working to mitigate these risks and protect vulnerable individuals through a series of strategic initiatives set out below:
We continuously review our procurement processes and templates to proactively identify and assess modern slavery and human trafficking risks when onboarding new suppliers.
Our Procurement team actively encourages our suppliers to utilise the NETpositive Supplier Engagement Tool to further enhance our efforts in addressing modern slavery.
This tool plays a crucial role in engaging our suppliers on modern slavery concerns, fostering greater awareness of these issues among our suppliers.
It aids in identifying the steps our suppliers are taking in response to the Modern Slavery Act and provides a valuable mechanism for offering support, guidance, and training to our supply chain partners to facilitate the exchange of best practices among them.
We operate at Level 5 (best-in-class status) of the Flexible Framework for Sustainable Procurement.
This means both compliant internal documentation and policies, also seeking to influence other public and private sector institutions in making improvements in this activity.
Our procurement team holds significant influence over the University's supplier spend.
Additionally, we maintain a central Buying Team to rigorously assess requisition compliance.
While we are not currently aware of any modern slavery activities within our operations or supply chains, we maintain a proactive stance.
If any such activities were to be discovered, we pledge to take immediate action to ensure compliance with relevant legislation and to revise our policies to prevent future abuses.
In the event of non-compliance with, we will assess each case individually and take remedial action tailored to the specific circumstances.
The University is committed to trading exclusively with suppliers who adhere to this statement and modern slavery legislation.
Our approach is grounded in governance.
We are working on establishing a Modern Slavery Working Group to review and enhance the University's response to modern slavery and human trafficking within our business, supply chains, and areas of activity, including international operations and improve staff awareness.
The University of Birmingham takes all reports of labour rights abuses, modern slavery, and human trafficking seriously.
All members of our community, including staff, students, and members of Council, are expected to report any concerns related to modern slavery or human trafficking.
Concerns can be reported through the ethical advice and whistleblowing mechanisms provided by the University.
Recognising the risks in our supply chains, we have implemented due diligence processes via our standard tender documentation.
These processes are continuously evolving to assess and address modern slavery risks in high-risk areas and with high-risk suppliers.
We ensure that all staff are treated fairly, including payment of a real living wage, and that we evaluate suppliers' approaches to fair working practices in line with HR policies.
We actively engage with relevant consortiums, organizations, and partnerships to address modern slavery risks, and we are affiliated with initiatives like Electronics Watch, which monitors labour rights and safety in global electronics supply chains.
We are also part of the UKUPC Responsible procurement group .
In 2024 we will focus on providing targeted training for our staff which will raise awareness and enable them to identify modern slavery risks.
We are also exploring options for wider training, considering types of training and the categories of staff that should be trained.
Recommend mandatory training for staff which will equip them with the necessary knowledge and information to raise awareness of the University's modern slavery and human trafficking policy.
We have recommended this so that staff can, whatever their role and whenever they come into contact with a potential victim, identify possible cases and know what to do.
The University of Birmingham is dedicated to the prevention of modern slavery and human trafficking.
This statement is issued in accordance with section 54(1) of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and serves as our Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement for the financial year ending 31 July 2024.
We are committed to reviewing and updating this statement annually.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/accessibility:
The University of Birmingham is committed to making its websites accessible, in accordance with the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018.
This accessibility statement applies to www.birmingham.ac.uk .
We want as many people as possible to be able to use this website, which means that you should be able to:
There are several customisation options for your browser and device that could help you use this website and other websites more effectively.
AbilityNet has advice on making your device easier to use if you have a disability .
We know some parts of this website are not fully accessible.
You can see a full list of issues we currently know about in the non-accessible content section of this statement.
Please use the submit your feedback about digital accessibility form if you have an accessibility query including:
Feedback collected through the submit your feedback about digital accessibility form are sent to the appropriate contact person.
If you would like a response or follow-up to your inquiry, please be sure to include your contact information.
Responses to your feedback will be provided within [5 to 7] business days after the form is received.
Your contact information is not mandatory to provide feedback.
Anonymous feedback is welcome.
If you need information on this website in a different format like accessible PDF (Portable Document Format), large print, easy read, audio recording or braille, please let us know using the submit your feedback about digital accessibility form.
The Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) is responsible for enforcing the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 (the ‘accessibility regulations’).
If you’re not happy with how we respond to your complaint, contact the Equality Advisory and Support Service (EASS) .
The University of Birmingham is rebranding our websites and web content.
As part of this process, we are ensuring our websites and web content are fully compliant with WCAG 2.2.
Level AA.
Rebranded sites are fully compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.2 AA standard.
The full re-brand will be completed by the end of 2025.
Sites that have not yet been re-branded are partially compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines version 2.2 AA standard, due to the non-compliance(s) and/or the exemptions listed below:
The content listed below is non-accessible for the following reason(s):
This section covers issues on our old templates that we need to fix and are working to do so as we edit and move the content to newer, more accessible templates as part of the rebranding process.
We aim to complete this by the end of 2025.
At this time, we have not made any disproportionate burden claims.
The following items found on our websites may not be accessible and are out of scope of the accessibility regulations:
Some of our PDFs and Word documents are essential to providing our services.
For example, we have PDFs with information on how users can access our services, and forms published as Word documents.
We are currently working on fixing these essential documents or replacing them with accessible html web pages.
The accessibility regulations do not require us to fix PDFs or other documents published before 23 September 2018 if they’re not essential to providing our services.
Any new PDFs or Word documents we publish will meet accessibility standards.
We do not plan to add captions to live video streams because live video is exempt from meeting the accessibility regulations .
We also have some existing pre-recorded video content that was published before the 23rd of September 2020.
This content is also exempt from the regulations.
All new video content we produce will have appropriate captions, audio descriptions and transcripts, as necessary.
Our service includes the use of online maps to show certain geographical information.
These are not used for navigational purposes and are exempt under the regulations.
If you require the information presented in an online map in a different format, please contact us to discuss reasonable adjustments.
Our websites contain third-party content.
We do not have control over and are not responsible for the accessibility of this content, but we make best endeavours to work with the third-party to improve its accessibility.
This may include:
Our newly branded site has been tested extensively through the development process and have only been released for use once we are sure that the feature meets the required accessibility standard.
This includes using automated/assisted tools like Silktide, Axe Devtools and Wave.
Once content is launched using these new components we are continously monitoring these to address any problems as they arise.
Our old sites – we selected a prioritised sample of old UoB websites based on their usage, criticality to the student experience and how representative they were of other pages using similar templates or covering related processes.
The University of Birmingham has conducted a self-assessment of our websites using a variety of automated and manual testing tools, including but not limited to Silktide, axe Dev Tools, Accessibility Insights for the Web, WAVE, TPGi CCA, screen readers (NVDA, and VoiceOver), magnification tools, keyboard navigation, etc.
The most viewed pages were tested using automated testing tools by our website team.
A further audit of the website was carried out to the WCAG 2.2 AA standard.
We are undergoing a significant migration project where we are moving content from old templates to newer, more accessible, templates.
During this process we are editing this content to improve it or remove it where necessary.
This statement was first prepared on 10 October 2024.
The statement was last reviewed in June 2025.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/university/leadership/governance/publication-scheme:
The University Publication Scheme is a guide to the information routinely published by the University, and this information is available free of charge.
If you can't find what you are looking for here, you can submit a request for information to the University, and we will provide the information if we are able to subject to any relevant exemptions or charges.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/applicants:
We understand how important a decision it is when choosing the right course and university.
To make it easier for you we have gathered together some useful information to help you in your decision about studying at the University of Birmingham.
If the University offers you a place and you decide to accept this offer, a contract will be formed between you and the University.
Your rights and obligations to the University and the University’s obligations to you arising under that contract will be set out in the documents listed below, and these will form the terms and conditions of your student contract.
The documents include:
Important terms, conditions and requirements for all applicants applying through UCAS or other routes for foundation year study.
Information regarding the terms of your postgraduate offer at the University of Birmingham.
The University's Legislation addresses matters of institutional governance and organisation.
As defined in the University Statutes, University Legislation consists of the Charter, Statutes, Ordinances, Regulations and Codes of Practice of the University.
All members of staff and students are subject to the Legislation.
Whilst the Charter and Statutes are at the top of this hierarchy and address matters of institutional governance and organisation, most staff and students are affected directly only by Ordinances, Regulations and Codes of Practice, which contain principles and standards designed to control or govern conduct, or provide direction.
A summary of the key Codes of Practice is set out below.
Most Regulations and Codes of Practice are cohort specific (i.e.
the Regulations and Codes of Practice that apply to a student will depend upon the year in which they started their studies).
University Legislation is regularly reviewed, and information is published when any significant changes are made to University Legislation.
For more information on cohort legislation and changes to legislation please visit the University Legislation Intranet page.
Students also need to be aware of, and comply with, current University policies, including;
The Student Charter outlines the standards and core principles of our learning community.
Our student charter outlines what students should expect from the University and what the University should expect from it's students.
We aim to provide an enriching and accessible learning environment, a safe place on campus and in the local community, based on cooperation and mutual respect, a productive and inclusive support structure and a diverse range of opportunities for personal development beyond the curriculum.
If you are an applicant, information about each of our courses can be found on the course pages of our website.
Undergraduate courses
Postgraduate courses
If you hold an offer with us, you can download your programme factsheet which provides a summary of your chosen course.
Select your year of entry below:
For undergraduate students applying for the 2025/26 academic year
The University will charge the maximum approved tuition fee per year.
If your offer is for 2025 year of entry, we expect that the tuition fee for your first year of study will be £9,535.
If Parliament agrees on an increase in tuition fees, the University will increase fees for each year of study normally in line with these changes and will communicate any change in the fees to you without delay.
If you are applying for 2026 year of entry, you will be advised of the annual tuition fee closer to the time.
Details of the undergraduate tuition fees, for both full-time and part-time students can be found on the undergraduate fees and funding pages.
For postgraduate students
Tuition fees vary at postgraduate level depending on the course and level you choose and whether you are a UK/EU or international student.
Details of the postgraduate tuition fees can be found on the postgraduate fees and funding pages.
It is your responsibility to make sure your fees and all expenses relating to your course are paid in full and on time.
The University’s requirements on the payment of fees can be found in Regulation 5 (PDF - 140Kb) .
If you are paying your tuition fees yourself, you must either pay the full amount at the beginning of the academic year or apply to pay by instalments using the University direct debit scheme.
If you are a sponsored student, you are responsible for payment if your sponsor does not pay your tuition fees.
Unless your offer letter says otherwise, the tuition fee quoted in your offer letter does not include any charges for residential accommodation, examination re-sits, extensions to the designated period of study, travelling expenses or any other miscellaneous expenses which may be related to your course (such as the cost of field trips).
Details of any other miscellaneous expenses you are likely to incur on your course are indicated on the course pages of our website.
If you do not pay your tuition fees in full or on time, the University may impose penalties which are set out in Regulation 5 (PDF - 140Kb) .
As a result, you may not be allowed to progress on your course or you may be expelled from the University.
The University may also take legal action against you to recover any unpaid fees.
If you do not pay any other (non-tuition) fees or other sums you owe, the University may take action to recover those sums.
This may include withholding any service for which you owe money (for example, if you do not pay library fines you may not be allowed to access the Library or use some or all of its facilities) or taking legal action against you.
However, you should note that if as part of your course you spend time in another university, institution or organisation in the UK or abroad, the rules and regulations of that university, institution or organisation will apply to you while you are there.
Some overseas institutions might impose academic sanctions, for example, they might refuse to release your marks, if you do not pay either tuition fees or any other fees or costs (such as accommodation or meal plan fees) which you owe them.
This might mean that you are not able to complete your course as planned.
If you withdraw from your programme, you may still be required to pay your tuition fees.
The policy on how withdrawal date affects your fee liability is available on our fees pages.
This does not affect your statutory cancellation rights.
A Student Protection Plan is a document that is approved by the Office for Students (OfS) that every University is required to have in place.
The Student Protection Plan sets out what measures we have in place to protect you, as a student at the University of Birmingham, in the event that a risk to the continuation of your studies arises.
The measures contained in this Plan are in addition to the protections you have under consumer protection law and do not affect your consumer rights.
Changes to programmes or modules may also be needed because of circumstances outside the reasonable control of the University, such as a key member of staff leaving the University or being unable to teach (where the programme or module is reliant on that person’s expertise) or where the minimum or maximum number of students needed to ensure a good educational or student experience has not been met or has been exceeded.
Other circumstances outside the reasonable control of the University include unexpected lack of funding, industrial action, severe weather, fire, civil disorder, political unrest, government restrictions or serious concern about the transmission of serious illness making a course unsafe to deliver.
If changes to your programme are made after you have accepted your offer, the University will try to give you early notification of those changes and minimise their impact by offering suitable alternative arrangements, helping you find an alternative programme or University, or providing compensation where it believes there is a fair case to do so.
After you have accepted an offer of a place, you can cancel your acceptance within the cancellation period without giving us any reason.
The cancellation period runs for 14 days from the date we receive your acceptance.
If you cancel your offer within the cancellation period, any deposit or administration or other fees you have paid will normally be refunded in full.
If you start your course during the cancellation period, the University will charge you a reasonable sum for the course provided.
You can cancel your acceptance by informing the University’s Admissions Office by email at admissions@bham.ac.uk or by writing to the Admissions Office, the University of Birmingham, Edgbaston, Birmingham B15 2TT using the Cancellation Form below.
Cancellation Form:
To the University of Birmingham Admissions Office:
I give notice that I cancel my offer of a place to study on the ...........................................
programme.
Name of Applicant:
Address of Applicant:
Applicant/ID Number:
Signature of Applicant (if cancellation is by letter)
You may be asked to leave the University if:
A decision requiring you to leave the University will be taken in accordance with the relevant procedure and subject to any right of appeal or review.
If the University has good reason for expelling you and does so in accordance with the relevant procedure, the University will not compensate you for any loss or damage you may suffer as a result.
If you, with material input by the University’s academic staff or as part of a collective project, develop an invention, device, discovery, material, product, process, computer software or any other potentially valuable result or innovation, Regulations 3.16 and 5.4 will apply to you in the same way as they apply to members of staff.
In other cases, the University will apply the Intellectual Property guidance which is set out below.
When does the University require an assignment of intellectual property (IP) from a student?
There are two main scenarios:
i) Where the student is working as part of a team of researchers in the University and the IP developed by the student is either:
and in both cases the University is intending to try and commercialise the IP.
ii) Where the student in the course of their study or research develops some IP jointly with a member of staff of the University or where the input from the staff member is material and the University is intending to try and commercialise the IP.
There may be other cases where the University would require an assignment but these would be dealt with on a case by case basis according to the circumstances, and the University will discuss with the student the reasons for the assignment and how the student would benefit.
The procedures and arrangements for notification and exploitation are set out in Regulation 3.16.
Any such assignment under this Regulation would cover:
The student would also have the right to be named as an inventor on any patent application where the student met the criteria for being acknowledged as an inventor under the law and the right to be named on any scientific journal articles according to normal academic practice.
The University is committed to providing a high quality educational experience, supported by a range of academic and administrative services and facilities.
From time to time, however, things do go wrong, and if the matter cannot be resolved informally, the University provides students with a system for raising concerns and complaints about both academic and non-academic matters.
The Code of Practice on Student Concerns and Complaints (PDF - 196Kb) sets out a procedure for dealing with students’ complaints fairly, consistently and as quickly as possible.
Students who are dissatisfied with a decision relating to a complaint they have raised may be able to complain to the Office of the Independent Adjudicator (OIA) , an independent body which reviews student complaints.
The Code of Practice on Admissions (PDF - 164Kb) sets out the procedure for asking for a review of decisions made in the application and admissions process.
Before deciding to transfer to a different programme or university, you should always talk it through with someone (such as your Personal Academic Tutor, Research Supervisor, Wellbeing Officer, a Career Advisor or a Guild Advice Advisor) to make sure that you are making the best decision for you, and that it is possible given time and programme constraints.
You should also consider that transferring programme is likely to have implications that will affect the following:
Transferring to the University of Birmingham from another higher education institution
Undergraduate degrees:
Whilst we cannot normally consider any transfers to the third year, it may be possible to transfer to second year, though it will depend upon whether the programme that you are interested in accepts transfers.
Your circumstances, your previous qualifications and how you are progressing through your current degree will be taken into consideration and you should discuss this with staff at your current university and make contact with the Admissions Tutor for the programme you wish to transfer to before making an application (contact details are listed on the programme webpage ).
You will normally need to have met the standard entry requirements for the programme and will need to provide a transcript of results and a reference from your current institution.
If the Admissions Tutor is happy to consider the transfer, you will then need to apply for entry point 2 through UCAS .
If you wish to transfer within the first year of your degree programme, you will need to submit an application through UCAS for entry point 1.
Postgraduate degrees:
If you have already completed part of a postgraduate degree at another university, you may be able to transfer to UoB and claim for Accreditation of Prior Learning (APL).
You can view information on our taught postgraduate programmes, and make an application, via our programme webpage .
If you wish to transfer your registration on a research degree from another higher education institution, please refer to our Code of Practice on Admissions - Section 11 .
A reduction of up to a maximum of two thirds of the minimum period of registration may be granted and, if the research degree programme comprises any taught elements, you may be able to claim for Accreditation of Prior Learning (APL).
Please note that you must make an application for admission.
You can search our research courses online .
More information on making a claim for APL can be found online .
Transferring to a programme at another higher education institution
If you decide to leave the University of Birmingham to undertake a programme at another university, you will need to contact that university to find out if they will consider you for a transfer and then seek advice from them about how you can apply.
If the transfer is agreed and you are offered a place at another university, you will need to inform us that you will be leaving Birmingham so that all the necessary paperwork can be completed.
Changing programme at the University of Birmingham
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught students
You should apply to change programme as early as you can in the academic year.
If you apply after the first two weeks of term, there may be extra conditions you need to satisfy before you can transfer onto the new programme.
You may also be asked to defer your entry to the new programme to the next academic year.
You should check with the Admissions Tutor in the School or Department to find out if this is the case.
Programme details including Admission Tutor contacts from the University prospectus
If you do decide to change programme, you will need to complete a Transfer of Degree Programme Form .
Postgraduate research students
If you wish to transfer your registration, for example from full time to part time, to/from split location, upgrade from masters to doctoral study, or to another School in the University, you should discuss this with your supervisor at the earliest opportunity.
You will need to complete a PGR Programme Transfer Form and submit it to the Research Student Administration team.
Codes of Practice describe the operational procedures that the University uses to deliver teaching and learning, and supporting services.
Codes of Practice of particular interest to applicants and students are highlighted below, and you can find out more on our website.
Code of Practise, Policies and Guidance
Outlines the application and admissions processes, including deadlines and some relevant URLs.
The Code also includes the process for the review of any unsuccessful application, as well as specific guidance on transferring registration from another Higher Education Institution (HEI).
Guidance on eligibility and the grounds for Academic Appeals, as well as an explanation of each stage of the process.
An appendix sets out the procedure at an Academic Appeal Committee hearing.
Explains the procedure for students raising concerns or complaints about the University.
The Code outlines the stages of the process and gives direction as to how the policy is to be applied.
There is reference to mediation, an alternative option in seeking to resolve complaints.
Contains stage-by-stage information on monitoring student attendance, as well as the expectations of a student with respect to attendance and diligence including timescales.
It also discusses some of the options available to staff in looking to resolve problems related to attendance or diligence.
Sets out the expectations of postgraduate researchers as well as supervisory teams and Schools, in terms of the support and monitoring that is to be provided to students, as well as the responsibilities of the students themselves.
This includes detailed information on the level of supervision and dealing with absence.
Guidance on the arrangement and conduct of the examination of Research Degree theses.
It includes guidance for the examiners and the criteria for their nomination, together with the recommendations available to the examiners.
Explanation of the requirements for assessing work, and giving feedback.
This includes sections on marking, progression and awards, and gives guidance on profiling, assessment and feedback.
This document also explains the roles of Boards of Examiners and the University Progress and Awards Board.
Information on what is considered academic integrity, as well as the processes for detecting and dealing with cases of plagiarism.
This document also discusses possible consequences and penalties, as well as the working of the College Misconduct Committee.
This Code details the procedure for the arrangement and conduct of College and University Misconduct and Fitness to Practise Committees, including the order of proceedings and potential sanctions.
A document giving information on the extenuating circumstances (or mitigation) procedure, the grounds for extenuating circumstances and general guidance on the evidence which could be submitted.
The document also discusses the options available to Extenuating Circumstances Panels including the relevant grading criteria.
Sets out how the need for reasonable adjustments should be identified and how they may be addressed.
An outline of the responsibilities around the Personal Tutor – Student relationship.
The Code also contains sections on Career and Skills Development and Quality Assurance.
Sets out the processes for addressing issues of students’ health and wellbeing in relation to their academic progression and University life in general.
Information on the types of Leave of Absence applicable in different circumstances, including a discussion of the consequences of a period of Leave of Absence, alternatives to Leave of Absence, and what happens if a student fails to return from a period of Leave of Absence.
‘Extenuating Circumstances” (also known as Mitigating circumstances) is the process for informing the University of exceptional circumstances which may have negatively affected your ability to meet the entry requirements stated in your offer or to meet the criteria to receive an offer.
Find out about extenuating circumstances
The University of Birmingham will support all students whilst they study with us, no matter what your background and what you need.
The University of Birmingham policy on harassment and sexual misconduct.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/university/leadership/governance/policies-regs/information:
The Freedom of Information Act was passed on 30 November 2000 and came into force on 1 January 2005.
It gives individuals and companies, from anywhere in the world, the right of access to all types of 'recorded' information, which is held by public authorities.
For the purposes of the Act, the University has been designated a Public Authority.
The act gives two related rights:
A substantial amount of information about the University can be found by visiting the University homepage or by consulting our Publication Scheme .
If you are unsuccessful in locating the information you require, please make a formal request for information.
If you are unable to find the information you require from our website or publication scheme, a request can be made in writing, giving your name and address, and detailing the information requested, to:
The Information Compliance Manager Legal Services University of Birmingham Edgbaston Birmingham B15 2TT Or email: foi@contacts.bham.ac.uk
Or use the form at the bottom of this page.
Please note that the University might require the payment of a fee for recovering and providing the information, or refuse to supply all or some of the information by claiming an 'exemption'; ie, we will provide a lawful reason why we will not do so.
Please see the section on exemptions, and our charging policy (PDF - 26KB) .
Under the Freedom of Information Act a Public Authority is required to provide the information requested within 20 working days.
However, it may be necessary to go back to the enquirer for clarification on what information is being requested or to request payment of a fee.
In each of these cases, the 20 day period may be extended.
There are 23 exemptions under the Freedom of Information Act 2000, which may be applied to information which the University has decided that it is not happy to release.
Exemptions will be applied by Legal Services.
The decision will be based on the information being requested and whether its release would prejudice the University.
Legal Services are required to consider whether the exemption is Absolute or Qualified.
An Absolute Exemption is where the Public Authority is not required to consider the Public Interest, these include:
A Qualified Exemption is where the Public Authority is required to consider the Public Interest; ie, does the Public Interest in receiving this information outweigh the University's in withholding it.
Examples of this type of exemption include:
Complaints and Appeals against a Refusal Notice issued in response to a request for information must be made in writing to the University’s Information Compliance Manager (address below).
Complaints in respect of the University's Publication Scheme can be made in the same way.
Information Compliance Manager Legal Services University of Birmingham Edgbaston Birmingham B15 2TT
Or email to: foi@contacts.bham.ac.uk
Complaints and Appeals will be acknowledged within five (5) working days of receipt.
The Information Compliance Manager will then refer the matter to the University’s Director of Legal Services or nominee for consideration.
If the Director of Legal Services was involved in responding to the request at the first stage, then the University’s Registrar and Secretary or nominee will be asked to investigate the matter.
The Director of Legal Services or the Registrar and Secretary as appropriate may, after having sought further information from the members of staff involved in dealing with the original request, seek to resolve the issue on the basis of the documentation submitted.
Where the Director of Legal Services or the Registrar and Secretary requires further clarification, they may decide to meet with the members of staff involved in dealing with the original request.
A full response to the request for internal review will aim to be sent within 20 working days from the date of receipt, and no later than 40 working days in line with ICO guidance.
If, having received this response, the Complainant(s) remains dissatisfied; they may make an appeal to the Information Commissioner at the address below.
Information Commissioner’s Office Wycliffe House Water Lane Wilmslow Cheshire SK95AF
Information Commissioner's website
A decision notice outlines the Information Commissioner’s final assessment as to whether or not a public authority has complied with the Freedom of Information Act 2000 or the Environmental Information Regulations 2004, with regard to a specific complaint.
When a Decision Notice is issued both parties are informed of their rights to appeal to the Information Tribunal.
A document that lists information which the University publishes or makes available to the public; it also details how to obtain a copy of the information listed.
It may be necessary for the University to charge a fee for recovering information which has been requested.
The calculation of the fee will be included with any Fees Notice issued.
The Fees Notice gives details of the estimated cost of the fees: how long the request will be kept open for, while payment is being awaited; makes suggestions about rewording the request so that the information can be provided without incurring a cost and details of how to make an appeal against the Fees Notice.
The Act recognises that it may be necessary to withhold information and provides a number of exemptions from the right to know, it may be necessary for the Public Authority to apply a Public Interest Test.
When applying some exemptions to a request for information, it may be necessary for the Public Authority to consider if it is in the Public Interest to disclose that information.
The public authority needs to decide if it serves the interests of the public to release the information or withhold it.
It is sometimes easier to ask the question “Is releasing the information in the public interest or just of interest to the public?” Public interest will favour releasing information in relation to public accountability issues.
The Act states that the Public Authority may refuse to supply information for repeat or vexatious requests.
These will include where the applicant has repeatedly asked for similar information over a short period of time, or where the applicant makes it clear that he/she is making the enquiry to cause the Public Authority maximum inconvenience by making the request.
The statement issued in response to a request for information when claiming an exemption.
It details the exemption which is being claimed and the reasons behind that decision.
Tel: +44 (0)121 414 3916 Email: foi@contacts.bham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/university/leadership/governance/publication-scheme/charitable:
The University of Birmingham is a corporate body created by Royal Charter in 1900 and an exempt charity under Schedule 3 of the Charities Act 2011.
This status means that the University is not required to register directly with the Charity Commission, and in turn is not subject to its direct supervision.
However, following the Charities Act 2006, from 1 April 2018 the Office for Students became ‘principal regulator’ of the vast majority of Higher Education Institutions in England, including the University of Birmingham.
The University of Birmingham’s full correspondence address is:
The University of Birmingham Edgbaston Birmingham B15 2TT United Kingdom
Please note that the University of Birmingham has trade marked its name and also the name Birmingham University.
The overall objective of the University, stated in its Charter (PDF - 98KB) , is that it will be “both a teaching and an examining University and shall further the prosecution of original research”.
The Charter and Statutes address matters of institutional governance and organisation; the Ordinances and Regulations contain more detailed provisions related to employment of staff, programmes of study, health and safety, discipline and the University estate.
Details of these documents are available at the Legislation homepage.
The Governing Body of the University is the Council – members of the Council are also the charitable trustees of the University.
Further information about the Council and biographies of members are available from the Council homepage .
A list of the trustees of the University together with their other trustee appointments is also available by downloading Council Member Trusteeships .
The University’s Full Audited Consolidated Financial Statements are available to download as PDF documents.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/privacy/cookies-settings:
When you first visit our website, you'll be asked to choose your cookie preferences.
Your choice will be stored for the next time you visit.
You have full control over the cookies we set, and can change your mind about the settings at any time.
For some features on our website, functional cookies are required.
Please note: This list applies to the following websites www.birmingham.ac.uk and yourpage.birmingham.ac.uk.
To see the cookies used on our other websites, please see our individual sites for cookie policies or check the relevant privacy notice.
You can also manage cookie usage through your browser settings.
The help function in your preferred browser should provide you with the correct information.
Some browsers provide helpful cookie guides:
N.B.
In the case of some mobile devices, it may be necessary to consult the device’s instruction manual to manage cookies effectively.
If you have any questions or comments about the University’s cookie policy, please contact us by emailing webservices@lists.bham.ac.uk or by post at the address below:
Cookie Policy University Web Services Team IT Services Elms Road University of Birmingham B15 2TT

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/contact:
Useful phone numbers, email and postal address for key departments within the University of Birmingham, including the University's main switchboard.
Contact information for departments not listed here can be found on their individual web pages.
To write to a member of staff, precede the address with their name and department.
Main Switchboard: Tel: +44 (0)121 414 3344 Fax: +44 (0)121 414 3971
For further information regarding accommodation, please contact us using one of the following methods:
Telephone: +44 (0)121 512 2158 Contact Student Living
Have a question about Undergraduate study?
Find your answers using our FAQ system .
Have a question about Postgraduate study?
Are you a current student?
If you are a registered student, you can access support at your Student Hub .
Admissions website
Funding, graduation and awards Academic Services University of Birmingham Edgbaston Birmingham B15 2TT United Kingdom
Financial support website Degree congregations website
Human Resources website
Birmingham Global University of Birmingham Edgbaston Birmingham B15 2TT United Kingdom
Birmingham Global website Birmingham Global Intranet
Study Abroad and Exchange team: +44 (0)121 414 4026
Any lost or found property is held by Security for a period of six weeks.
Lost or found items, including bicycles, can be reclaimed or reported to the Security Reception, Aston Webb Building.
Security Opening hours:
After six weeks any unclaimed property is passed on to Acorns Children's Charity for re-sale.
Further information relating to campus safety and security can be found on the Security web pages.
For student payment options, visit our Pay your fees here Intranet page.
For commercial customer payments, visit our Invoice Payments page.
For Nurseries customer payments, visit our Nursery Fees page.
For University-hosted conferences or events, visit our Online Shop .
If you have a query, please call the Finance team on +44 (0)121 502 7662.
Lines are open Monday to Friday, 10:00-16:00 (UK).
Call the Finance team on +44 (0)121 502 7662.
If you can’t find what you are looking for on the Undergraduate Open Days page, please contact us at openday@contacts.bham.ac.uk .
For Postgraduate Open Days, please contact the Postgraduate team for further information.
Our aim is to support the University in meeting two aspects of its Mission, to:
Enterprise and Innovation Institute of Research and Development Birmingham Research Park 97 Vincent Drive University of Birmingham Edgbaston Birmingham B15 2SQ
For general enquiries please contact:
Lesley Hewitt Tel: +44 (0)121 414 3859 Fax: +44 (0)121 414 7151
Birmingham Enterprise website
Students and graduates can use our Secure Documents Service to view, share and download their degree documents and secure letters to give proof of study at the University, for a range of purposes.
Third party organisations and companies can also use the Secure Documents Service to verify attendance at the University, check qualifications, and view degree documents.
Use the IT Service Portal to find answers, change your password, or report a problem.
If you don’t know your username or password, use the ‘I can’t login’ option when prompted to access the guest form.
You can contact our HR Department on workhere@contacts.bham.ac.uk .
Find out about connecting with our Careers Network, including promoting vacancies and attending recruitment events, via our Employer Relations team.
If you can't find what you are looking for on our Welcome website, please contact us at welcome@contacts.bham.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/dubai/study/courses:
Filter
course
Gain the specialist intellectual, analytical, communication and ethical capabilities for a successful global career in accounting and finance with our MSc Accounting and Finance in Dubai.
Study with us at the University of Birmingham Dubai on our Advanced Engineering Management course and develop your knowledge, preparing you for future career in the engineering.
Shape the future of technology with the AI and Machine Learning MSc from the University of Birmingham Dubai.
Learn the fundamental principles of AI and ML and apply your knowledge to real problems
This PhD in AI empowers you with the theoretical and/or applied knowledge and skills in the most demanded areas of Artificial Intelligence to succeed in your career.
Discover Artificial Intelligence and Computer Science with the University of Birmingham Dubai.
Our programme equips you with the scientific skills to tackle real-world problems.
Interested in AI?
Study at the University of Birmingham Dubai on our Artificial Intelligence and Computer Science BSc with Integrated Foundation Year programme.
Apply now and kickstart your career.
Gain practical experience in AI and Computer Science with our MoE accredited programme.
Designed for graduates from diverse subject backgrounds, it opens doors to exciting new career opportunities.
Unlock your creativity with our BA Digital Media and Communications.
Get the knowledge and skills needed to build a thriving career in the creative sectors.
Unlock your creativity with our BA Digital Media and Communications with Integrated Foundation Year at the University of Birmingham Dubai.
Empower yourself to explore legal issues across international jurisdictions, blending common and civil law.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/news/2025/university-of-birmingham-rises-again-in-global-rankings:
The University has risen four places in this year's QS World University Rankings.
The University of Birmingham has again improved its position amongst the best-performing research-intensive universities in the world.
The University of Birmingham has again improved its position amongst the best-performing universities in the world – rising four places in this year’s QS World University Rankings
Now placed 76 in the prestigious global ranking, which is unveiled today (19 Jun), the University has achieved an impressive third successive year of improvement, and its highest position in a decade.
Within the UK, Birmingham’s position is better than ever before, at 11th – up two places from last year.
Our world-class reputation for academic excellence allows us to welcome the best students and researchers from around the globe, and our sustained rise in this influential ranking confirms the University of Birmingham’s status as one of the world’s leading universities.
Professor Adam Tickell, Vice-Chancellor and Principal, commented: “As we celebrate our 125th anniversary this year, I’m delighted that Birmingham is continuing to impress.
Our world-class reputation for academic excellence allows us to welcome the best students and researchers from around the globe, and our sustained rise in this influential ranking confirms the University of Birmingham’s status as one of the world’s leading universities.”
Birmingham’s success builds on its performance earlier this year in the QS World University Rankings by Subject , which saw six subjects placing in the Top 50 with a further 20 in the top 100.
Professor Deborah Longworth, Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Education) said: “The University of Birmingham is an exciting place to be.
Our continuing success in the QS World University Rankings highlights that, in both Birmingham and Dubai, we continue to deliver the highest quality academic experience - stretching and challenging our students to achieve a degree that will enhance professional opportunities around the world, and to contribute to society as leaders, innovators, and global citizens.”
For more information, please contact the Press Office at University of Birmingham on +44 (0) 121 414 2772.
The QS World University Rankings are the most used global rankings and are a measure of a university’s global reputation The rankings reflect Birmingham’s rising status as a leading global university and reinforce its strategic ambition to be ranked among the world’s top 50 universities.
Its work brings people from across the world to Birmingham, including researchers, teachers and more than 8,000 international students from over 150 countries.
Dentistry, English, Theology, Anatomy & Physiology, and Linguistics all rank in the Top 50 of the QS World University Rankings by Subject, whilst Sport maintains its place in the global top 10.
Top 100 disciplines ranging from Medicine to Performing Arts and Chemical Engineering to Sociology.
Professor of English Literature
Biographical and contact information for Professor Deborah Longworth in the Department of English at the University of Birmingham.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/dubai/study/new-students:
Welcome Week 2025 begins on Monday 22 September, and teaching for the 2025/26 academic year will begin on Monday 29 September.
Find out about online registration and what other things you need to do before starting at the University of Birmingham Dubai.
Get excited to join us on campus!
Find out about events, support, and opportunities available during the week and throughout your degree.
All students need to complete online registration at the start of each academic year.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/dubai/study/student-experience:
Your future career starts here.
In a competitive global market, you need to be ready for work before you graduate.
Our careers services will help you plan and achieve your ambitions.
In just over 50 years, Dubai has transformed itself from a tiny settlement into a world-class destination.
You’ll never be short of things to do.
Explore what it’s like to be a student in Dubai.
From your first day on campus to graduation and beyond, you'll have access to the support you need, whenever you need it.
The best people to tell you what it’s really like study with us are our students.
Find out about their time at Birmingham Dubai and ask them any questions you may have.
We offer a wide range of opportunities for students to gain international experience, including studying at our UK campus.
Run by students, for students, our Students’ Association addresses your needs, organises events, and advocates for positive change.
Join societies, groups, sports clubs, and events.
Find your home away from home in our partners’ safe modern student residences near campus.
Located in Dubai International Academic City, our campus is home for up to 3,000 students.
With state-of-the-art facilities, it’s a place to be inspired.
Our dedicated welcome programme at the start of the academic year helps new students settle in, have fun, and make connections that could last a lifetime.
See for yourself.
Join our next Open Day, on campus or online.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/dubai/study/visit-us:
Discover our postgraduate Business programmes and engage with our expert academics.
Our Student Recruitment Team are available on campus for 1-1 consultations and campus tours Monday to Thursday 9:00-16:00, and Friday 9:00-11:00 (excluding University closure dates).
No booking required.
Visit us during the hours listed, and a member of our team will be happy to assist you.
University of Birmingham Dubai, Dubai International Academic City, P.O Box 341799, Dubai

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/dubai/study/student-experience/chat-to-our-students:
Want to find out about more about student life at the University of Birmingham Dubai?
Chat directly with our friendly Student Ambassadors to get their first-hand knowledge and advice to answer your questions.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/news/2025/the-birmingham-quran-an-ancient-manuscript-forging-modern-day-connection:
10 years ago, the University’s discovery of one of the world’s oldest fragments of the Qur’an made international headlines.
But the journey did not end there…
University of Birmingham Qur’an manuscript among world’s oldest
On a March evening in 2014, University of Birmingham’s Head of Conservation and Programming, Sarah Kilroy, was walking around the supermarket in a daze, knowing that, just a few hours earlier, some information of huge international and historical significance had landed on her desk.
That afternoon, she had opened an ordinary envelope to reveal some extraordinary news; the University was in possession of one of the world's oldest fragments of the Qur’an.
She recalls: “One of the University’s doctoral research students, Alba Fedeli, was studying the script of the fragment for her PhD.
She had identified the handwriting as Hijazi, a 7th-century form of writing, but the printed catalogue said the manuscript was 8th or 9th century.
During Alba’s time here, the opportunity arose for the Cadbury Research Library to have the manuscript radiocarbon dated at Oxford University.
When the results came back six months later, we thought we must have been misreading them.”
Radiocarbon dating at Oxford University Radiocarbon Accelerator Unit, found the manuscript to be at least 1,370 years old, making the fragments, written on sheep or goat skin, among the very oldest surviving texts of the Qur’an.
The tests provided a date range showing that, with a probability of more than 95%, the parchment was from between 568 and 645 – less than two decades after the Prophet Muhammad's death.
But despite the gravity of the news, it was to remain under wraps for another 16 months.
Sarah said: “We were aware of the importance of this discovery and the interest there would be surrounding it and therefore needed to have a plan in place before we brought it to the public’s attention.
First and foremost, Alba needed to be able to complete her PhD in peace, we also needed to have the manuscript expertly conserved.”
A year later, the BBC ran the exclusive story and University of Birmingham was headline news across the world, even making the front page of The New York Times .
“It was a surreal time,” Sarah recalls.
“It was a good news story and we knew there would be interest, but we were still overwhelmed by the amount of attention it actually received.”
The Birmingham Qur’an Manuscript (BQM) is one of only a handful of early manuscripts of the Qur’an in the world to have been radiocarbon dated.
It is part of The Mingana Collection, which consists of over 3,000 Middle Eastern manuscripts that were brought together in the 1930s, funded by Quaker philanthropist Edward Cadbury to raise the status of Birmingham as an intellectual centre for religious studies.
We were aware of the importance of this discovery and the interest there would be surrounding it and therefore needed to have a plan in place before we brought it to the public’s attention.
Now cared for by the Cadbury Research Library, the BQM contains parts of surahs 18-20 of the Islamic holy book, written on parchment in an early form of Arabic script known as Ḥijāzi.
The result from the radiocarbon dating suggests that the manuscript dates back to the first century of Islam, close to the lifetime of the Prophet Muhammad (about 570–632) and the rule of the first three Caliphs.
According to Islamic tradition, the Prophet Muhammad received the revelations that form the Qur’an between 610 and 632.
It is believed that the Qur’an in its codified form was established under the third Caliph, Uthman, around 650.
In the years since the discovery, with considerable investment from the Cadbury Research Library (CRL), Libraries and Learning Resources (LLR), and the Vice Chancellor's Office, the manuscript has undergone further delicate, technical testing to further verify its authenticity.
A key question that needed to be addressed was the possibility of whether or not it was a palimpsest (text that had been written on top of an older piece of script).
Multispectral Imaging (looking for evidence of ink or underwriting not visible to the naked eye) was commissioned by the CRL from the international leaders in new digital research technologies R B Toth Associates and carried out in situ at the library in 2017.
XRF Analysis (looking at trace elements in the inks) was then later carried out in 2018.
Not only did these tests serve to confirm that the manuscript was not a palimpsest but they also provided a huge 0.25 terabytes of raw and processed data that the University has made available for future academic research to those from within and outside of the University via BlueBEAR (the University’s free service to researchers) .
Increased demand for information on the BQM and the wider Mingana Collection lead to the CRL appointing a dedicated curator of the collection, Dr.
Neelam Hussain who is also a Founding Director of the MIAH Foundation (Museum of Islamic Arts and Heritage) in Birmingham.
Dr.
Hussain’s appointment opened up a wealth of increased engagement opportunities with the manuscript which had impact on both a hyper-local and global scale.
In 2016 the original manuscript was displayed at Birmingham Museum and Art Gallery as part of their new Faith Gallery.
The six-month exhibition doubled the number of BME visitors to the venue.
Shortly after, the decision was taken to remove the original ancient manuscript from display for preservation reasons.
Hussain said: “As custodians of this piece, it is very much our duty to ensure its protection and conservation for future generations.
It is a living document.
It has been through the hands of so many people during its lifetime and our intention is not to shut it away from the world under lock and key – people are still able to view it on request for research purposes where the digital surrogates don’t suffice – but we have to be sensible.
“The manuscript was in such demand we needed to find a way to safeguard the original whilst still encouraging the wonderful engagement and enthusiasm that its discovery had sparked.
A high-quality replica and digital interactive displays have since been used in its place and we’ve found that those retain just as much impact.”
© Cadbury Research Library, University of Birmingham
In 2017, the Birmingham Qur'an Manuscript digital exhibition embarked on an eight month season of events in the United Arab Emirates.
In November, it was the headline display at one of the world’s largest book fairs - the Sharjah International Book Fair – a 12-day event which hosts over 2,000 exhibitors from 109 countries.
The following month, the same exhibition was held in Abu Dhabi at the Umm Al Emarat Park.
And in the spring, the exhibition moved to the Dubai Design District ahead of the opening of University of Birmingham’s new Dubai campus.
Hussain said: “The UAE has a large expat community, so the series of events were of interest to local people and others of various nationalities and backgrounds who were there.
We chose three different types of location that would engage different kinds of audiences and every time it drew huge crowds.”
Back home in Birmingham, local engagement has been a huge focus for the manuscript and wider collection.
In 2022, the University lent the BQM replica to Soul City Arts, led by Mohammed Ali, for its Waswasa community project; an immersive theatrical experience exploring the act of Islamic prayer in British secular society as part of the Birmingham 2022 Festival.
This summer, Soul City Arts will take the replica BQM along on its Waswasa tour to Australia, exhibiting it at Monash University Melbourne.
While international news headlines have abated, there is still regular interest in the manuscript and the replica on permanent display in the CRL's reading room receives weekly visitors.
The online Flickr album about the BQM has received over 41,723 views and continues to expand its reach.
As custodians of this piece, it is very much our duty to ensure its protection and conservation for future generations.
It has been through the hands of so many people during its lifetime and our intention is not to shut it away from the world under lock and key.
In the last year in particular, the University supported local events with communities in and around the city of Birmingham as part of the ‘Qur’an in the City’ stream of the University’s Culture Forward initiative.
These events have underscored the rich cultural and historical tapestry connected to the Birmingham Qur’an and further highlighted the University’s commitment to engaging with and promoting Islamic art and heritage.
“There’s so much to discuss about the Birmingham Qur’an Manuscript,” said Dr.
Hussain.
“The dating aspect is just one part of it, but there is also the calligraphy, the manuscript’s history, the materials and inks used to create it.
There are so are many different elements we can explore and be creative with in our thinking about the ways we can continue to engage people so that it remains in the local consciousness.
“What was highlighted to me when I began as curator of the collection is that local communities – people of colour in particular – are underrepresented in the arts and heritage sector as audiences.
Yet, when you prepare programming that speaks to them and to their interests, they are interested in engaging.
I think institutions often fail to engage them in a meaningful way.
“We need to plug that gap between the interests of local communities and the fact that statistically they are less likely to enter arts spaces or feel confident around them.
We want to shift that perspective, which is where my work setting up and running the MIAH Foundation comes in: the MIAH gallery is a community-based arts organisation with programming developed at grassroots level.
Over the last 18 months, MIAH Foundation has in tandem with the University to address some of these gaps.”
‘Taught by the Pen: The Qur'an and Calligraphy’ exhibition at the MIAH Foundation launched during Ramadan in 2024.
This was the first in-house curated show at the MIAH Gallery in Balsall Heath and explored the pivotal role of calligraphy in preserving the Qur'an in written form over centuries.
The exhibition featured a diverse array of original folios, manuscripts, and works of art spanning a millennium, including a replica of the Birmingham Qur’an.
This event also marked the start of the Qur’an transcription activity – welcoming the people of Birmingham, from any background, to create a brand new Qur'an manuscript as part of a special project.
Muslims and non-Muslims alike were given the opportunity to copy and transcribe some of the 6,000 verses onto calligraphy paper, as part of a project exploring Birmingham's connection to the Islamic holy book.
And on campus itself, the high-quality replica is used regularly at the University's community Iftar, organised by the Islamic Society (ISOC).
Hussain said: “Birmingham is a very dynamic city with people always moving in and out, so we can’t take for granted that everybody locally already knows about the BQM and wider Mingana collection.
I noticed during recent events that younger audiences in particular aren’t aware of the Birmingham Qur’an Manuscript and its story, so there is a clear need for intermittent projects that continue to engage the community.” She added: “I think that using the collection in this way is exactly how Edward Cadbury originally envisioned – he talks in one of his correspondences about how the CRL was a library for the city of Birmingham and I think we’re maintaining that ethos.
“I’m keen for people to know that we have this wonderful gem of a collection containing more than 3,000 objects, which represent many of the different communities that live in the city.
I think it’s only right that they all feel a sense of ownership and that they feel that their cultural heritage is represented here within the Mingana Collection and are aware that it is accessible to them.”
Those interested in delving deeper into the University of Birmingham's extensive Special Collections, including rare books, manuscripts, archives, photographs and associated artefacts, can access the online archive catalogue or arrange a visit in person by visiting the Cadbury Research Library webpages .

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/news/2025/genomic-study-reveals-deep-roots-of-human-survival-and-adaptation-in-himalayas:
New whole-genome research uncovers ancient genetic structure, Denisovan legacies, and human resilience in Earth's harshest environments.
A Himalayan yak herder woman, representing one of the traditional subsistence lifestyles that have enabled survival in this extreme environment.
Photo: © LAND / Adobe Stock
A new genomic study reveals how human populations adapted, survived, and diversified in the Himalayas, one of the most extreme and challenging environments on Earth.
The research, a collaboration between the University of Birmingham and international partners from Europe, Asia, and the Middle East, analysed whole-genome sequences from diverse Himalayan ethnic groups, many of which had never been genetically studied before at this level.
Published in Current Biology , the study shows that population structure in the Himalayas began over 10,000 years ago, thousands of years before archaeological evidence of permanent settlement at high altitudes.
This early divergence challenges long-standing assumptions about when and how diverse groups first began accessing the extreme elevations of the Himalayas.
This study offers an unprecedented window into the genetic legacy of Himalayan populations and their extraordinary adaptations to high-altitude life.
It reveals how migration, isolation, and natural selection came together to shape human survival in one of the world’s most challenging environments.
Dr Marc Haber, lead author from the University of Birmingham Dubai, commented: “This study offers an unprecedented window into the genetic legacy of Himalayan populations and their extraordinary adaptations to high-altitude life.
It reveals how migration, isolation, and natural selection came together to shape human survival in one of the world’s most challenging environments.”
The study identifies novel genetic variants linked to adaptation in hypoxia, metabolism, immunity, and physical activity.
It also confirms that the Denisovan EPAS1 derived gene, known to be crucial for surviving low-oxygen conditions, is widespread across all high-altitude Himalayan groups.
The gene variants originate from the extinct archaic human species known as Denisovan.
Strikingly, other variants were also found in some lowland populations, including those previously reported in Southeast Asian groups known for their exceptional breath-hold diving abilities, pointing to unexpected evolutionary links.
Co-first author Dr Mohamed Almarri, from Mohammed Bin Rashid University of Medicine and Health Sciences, Dubai, commented: “The Himalayas are often seen as a barrier to movement, but our genetic data reveal a dynamic history of both isolation and migration.”
By sequencing these diverse populations, many for the first time, we uncovered how people in this region are related to one another and to their neighbours.”
Despite long-term isolation, the research uncovered bidirectional gene flow between the Himalayas and both Central/South Asia and East Asia.
Several periods of migration align with the rise and expansion of historical powers such as the Tibetan and Gupta Empires.
These findings provide new insights into how small, isolated human populations evolved in parallel and adapted under intense environmental and historical pressures.
Co-author Yali Xue from the Wellcome Sanger Institute, commented: “This work fills a major gap in our understanding of human genetic diversity.
It highlights the importance of inclusive research that reflects the full range of global populations.”
The team plans to expand on these findings through future collaborations focused on how genetic adaptations to high-altitude environments influence human health, the legacy of ancient migrations, and resilience to environmental stress over time.
For more information, please contact the University of Birmingham press office +44 (0) 121 414 2772.
Image information: Nepalese landscape, Yaks against top Ama Dablam.
The dramatic Himalayan backdrop underscores the region’s dual role as both a formidable barrier and a vital corridor for human movement.
Despite geographic isolation, the genetic history of Himalayan populations reveals a deep legacy of migration and resilience, woven into the fabric of this rugged landscape.
‘Whole-genome sequences provide insights into the formation and adaptation of human populations in the Himalayas’ - Elena Arciero, Mohamed A.
Almarri, Massimo Mezzavilla, Yali Xue, Pille Hallast, Cidra Hammoud, Yuan Chen, Laurits Skov, Thirsa Kraaijenbrink, Qasim Ayub, Huanming Yang, George van Driem, Mark A.
Jobling, Peter de Knijff, Chris Tyler-Smith, Asan, Marc Haber is published by Current Biology.
Participating institutions: University of Birmingham, UK & Dubai; Wellcome Sanger Institute, UK; Department of Forensic Science and Criminology, Dubai Police GHQ, UAE; Mohammed Bin Rashid University of Medicine and Health Sciences, Dubai, UAE; University of Padova; University of Copenhagen, Denmark; Leiden University Medical Center, the Netherlands; Monash University Malaysia Genomics Platform; BGI-Shenzhen, China; Universität Bern, Switzerland; University of Leicester, UK; Quotient Therapeutics, Saffron Walden, UK; Jackson Laboratory for Genomic Medicine, Farmington, USA.
Associate Professor
Staff profile for Dr Marc Haber, Associate Professor Director of the Health Data Science Programme in Dubai, Department of Cancer and Genomic Sciences, College of Medicine and Health, University of Birmingham

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/news/2025/health-system-research-centre-dubai-hosts-global-health-system-roundtable-on-leadership-for-impact:
An expert panel gathered to explore how leadership can shape resilient global health systems.
On Thursday, 26 June, the University of Birmingham Dubai brought together leading voices in health policy, education, policy and practice for a high-impact roundtable discussion on "Leadership for Impact: Shaping the Future of Global Health Systems."
Held on campus, the event explored the critical role of leadership in transforming the health workforce and building a resilient, people-centred health systems.
With contributions from senior officials, global health academics, and regional policymakers, the discussion offered deep insights into current challenges and future strategies for global health system strengthening.
The event was moderated by Dr Ayat Abu-Agla, Director of the Health System Research Centre Dubai at the University of Birmingham Dubai.
Her moderation reinforced the university’s commitment to advancing healthcare leadership and innovation, with a particular focus on its pioneering MSc Global Health System Leadership programme—designed to equip future leaders with the skills needed to navigate complex health landscapes worldwide.
Prof.
Tolib Mirzoev, Board Chair of Health Systems Global, opened the panel with a foundational overview of leadership in healthcare, distinguishing between management and leadership, and highlighting the value of transformational leadership in driving system-wide change.
Drawing on global frameworks and his extensive research, he emphasised the need for locally responsive policies, tailored curricula, and context-specific leadership strategies.
Sumaya AlBlooshi, Director of the Nursing Department at the Ministry of Health and Prevention (MOHAP), shared policy perspectives from national workforce planning and her leadership of the UAE’s National Nursing and Midwifery Strategy.
She spoke candidly about the challenges of inclusive policymaking, the urgent need for intersectoral collaboration, and the importance of investing in the next generation of healthcare professionals.
Basem Khalil, Deputy Chief Medical Officer and Director of Research & Development at King’s College Hospital, brought a clinical and policy perspective to the discussion, drawing from his personal journey working across different healthcare systems—from Sub-Saharan Africa to the UK and UAE.
He emphasised the importance of the need to confront social determinants of health, localise healthcare training, and recognise that sustainable health improvements are shaped not just by clinical interventions, but also by education, equity, and building financial literacy among leaders to ensure sustainable system design.
This roundtable marks the first in a series of quarterly events hosted by the University of Birmingham Dubai as part of its commitment to shaping future health leaders and promoting cross-sector dialogue in the region.
The panel also featured reflections from policymakers and professionals working across ministries and health authorities in the UAE.
A recurring theme was the importance of interprofessional collaboration, inclusive leadership development, and unified workforce planning to avoid working in silos.
Attendees and students engaged in an interactive Q&A, raising critical questions around resilience, financing, and how to ensure leadership is built from the ground up.
In his closing remarks, Prof.
Ross Millar, Director of the Health Services Management Centre at the University of Birmingham, summed up the day’s key themes using three E’s and two C’s—Education, Experience, Environment, Collaboration, and Common Purpose—capturing the shared aspiration for more equitable and sustainable global health systems.
"This roundtable marks the first in a series of quarterly events hosted by the University of Birmingham Dubai as part of its commitment to shaping future health leaders and promoting cross-sector dialogue in the region," said Dr Ayat Abu-Agla, Director of the Health System Research Centre Dubai.
"We welcome interested individuals to join us at our next roundtable, which is scheduled for 20 September 2025."
To learn more about the MSc Global Health System Leadership programme and the wider work of the Health Services Management Centre – University of Birmingham Dubai , we invite you to explore how we continue our proud tradition of civic contribution.
In line with our mission to support health policy research, deliver world-class education, and put policy into practice, the Health Systems Research Centre and our postgraduate education offer are dedicated to developing the knowledge, skills, and professional competencies required to transform the health workforce.
Together, we aim to address the health system and population challenges in the MENA region, support universal health coverage (UHC), and advance progress toward the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
Director of the Health Services Management Centre (HSMC)
At HSMC Professor Ross Millar he has been involved in a variety of policy evaluations that include examining the impact of market based reform, the promotion of social enterprise in health and social care.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/news/2025/from-inclusion-to-ai-uae-teachers-revolutionise-with-action-research:
A growing teacher-led movement is changing UAE classrooms from the inside out.
A quiet revolution is transforming UAE classrooms, and it's not coming from education ministries or technology companies; teachers themselves are leading it.
Since 2022, over 300 teachers from 75 schools have been conducting their own research to tackle real classroom challenges, from meeting the needs of neurodiverse students, to using AI chatbots with Year 3 students.
The results are reshaping how students learn across the Emirates.
Teachers are discovering what improves student wellbeing, finding new ways to support English language learners, and developing evidence-based approaches to meet the needs of gifted students, all through hands-on research in their own classrooms.
"Action research isn't just an academic exercise, it's the heartbeat of reflective practice," said Fauziah Farouk, inclusion teacher at Jumeirah College.
"The Action Research Network reminds us that education is about building a profession that is thoughtful, evidence-informed, and deeply human." This teacher-led movement, supported by the University of Birmingham Dubai's Action Research Network (ARN) , puts educators at the centre of educational change.
Unlike traditional professional development, teachers spend a year designing small-scale interventions, measuring their impact, and sharing what works with colleagues across the region.
"Teachers in the Action Research Network are committed educators who have brought their passion and pursuit of lifelong learning to real problems in their practice," said Phil Anderson, Assistant Professor and ARN coordinator.
"At the University of Birmingham Dubai, we see teachers as knowledge creators, and this grassroots model puts the power for change in their hands."
The impact extends beyond individual classrooms.
"This wasn't just about showcasing research, it was about empowering educators as researchers, leaders, and change-makers," said Kieran Burrell, Associate Assistant Head Teacher and EdTech Strategist at Deira International School.
"It was an incredibly insightful and inspiring experience to be surrounded by such passionate educators and forward-thinking professionals," added Alsha Sheikh, a biology teacher at Victory Heights School.
"I'm grateful to be part of such a dynamic community of educators pushing boundaries and sharing purposeful practice."
Teachers in the Action Research Network are committed educators who have brought their passion and pursuit of lifelong learning to real problems in their practice.
The movement reached a milestone this year when more than 250 educators gathered at the University’s campus in Dubai International Academic City on 24 May to share their classroom research findings.
The conference reflected a growing appetite across the UAE for teacher-led innovation, with educators showcasing practical, research-informed strategies that are directly shaping the future of learning in the region.
Insights and key themes from this year's Action Research Network are captured in a forthcoming policy paper to be published in the Gulf Education and Social Policy Review, co-authored by Phil Anderson and Dr Dawn England from the University of Birmingham Dubai.
The paper will offer policymakers and school leaders a deeper understanding of the priorities and perspectives driving meaningful change in UAE classrooms.
Hosted annually by the University of Birmingham Dubai’s School of Education—ranked 70th globally in the QS World University Rankings by Subject 2025—the conference supports both the Postgraduate Certificate in Education (International) (PGCEi) and the KHDA’s E33 strategy.
As the first global top 100 and UK Russell Group university to establish a campus in Dubai, the University continues to lead in empowering educators through rigorous academic programmes and impactful, practice-led research.
Learn more about our Inclusion and Special Educational Needs programmes .
Assistant Professor
Phil Anderson is an Assistant Professor at the University of Birmingham Dubai in the School of Education.
Associate Professor and Programme lead for Inclusion and Special Education Needs
The Academic profile of Sarah Benson, Associate Professor, University of Birmingham Dubai

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/news/2025/gut-bacteria-may-hold-key-to-unlocking-better-cancer-treatment:
‘Biomarkers’ could help to improve detection and treatment of gastrointestinal diseases.
Gut bacteria may hold key to unlocking better cancer treatment
Scientists have discovered a range of ‘biomarkers’ that could help to improve detection and treatment of gastrointestinal diseases (GIDs) such as gastric cancer (GC), colorectal cancer (CRC), and inflammatory bowel disease (IBD).
Researchers found that certain gut bacteria and metabolites are linked to each disease - suggesting that these biomarkers could help in early, less invasive diagnosis of GIDs, with some markers indicating risk across multiple diseases.
They used advanced machine learning algorithms to analyse microbiome and metabolome datasets from patients with GC, CRC, and IBD.
Their cross-disease analysis revealed that models trained on GC data could successfully predict IBD biomarkers, and CRC models could predict GC biomarkers with high accuracy.
Current diagnostic methods like endoscopy and biopsies are effective but can be invasive, expensive, and sometimes miss diseases at early stages.
Our analysis offers a better understanding of the underlying mechanisms driving disease progression
The research team, based at the University of Birmingham Dubai, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, UK, and University Hospitals Birmingham NHS Foundation Trust published its findings in Journal of Translational Medicine.
Co-author Dr Animesh Acharjee, from the University of Birmingham Dubai, commented: “Current diagnostic methods like endoscopy and biopsies are effective but can be invasive, expensive, and sometimes miss diseases at early stages.
"Our analysis offers a better understanding of the underlying mechanisms driving disease progression and identifies key biomarkers for targeted therapies.
These biomarkers could help identify diseases earlier and more accurately, leading to better, more personalised treatment.”
The study reveals that, for example, in GC bacteria from the Firmicutes, Bacteroidetes, and Actinobacteria groups were common, and changes in certain metabolites like dihydrouracil and taurine were noted.
Some of these biomarkers were also relevant for IBD, suggesting overlap between the diseases but, while these markers worked well for detecting IBD, they were less effective for CRC.
For CRC, bacteria such as Fusobacterium and Enterococcus, and metabolites like isoleucine and nicotinamide, were significant - sometimes overlapping with those for GC, indicating possible shared pathways in disease development.
In IBD, bacteria from the Lachnospiraceae family and metabolites like urobilin and glycerate were important, with some of these markers also involved in cancer pathways, showing how these diseases are interconnected.
The research team simulated gut microbial growth and metabolite fluxes, revealing significant metabolic differences between healthy and diseased states.
"Our study's cross-disease analysis emphasised the potential of using microbial and metabolic biomarkers identified in one GID to predict another,” added Dr Acharjee.
“This innovative approach could lead to the development of universal diagnostic tools to revolutionise the diagnosis and treatment of for multiple gastrointestinal conditions.”
The research team now plans to further explore the clinical applications of their findings, including the development of non-invasive diagnostic tests and targeted therapies based on the identified biomarkers.
They also aim to validate their models in larger, diverse patient cohorts and investigate these biomarkers’ potential in predicting other related diseases.
For more information, please contact the Press Office at University of Birmingham on  or +44 (0) 121 414 2772.
The University of Birmingham is ranked amongst the world’s top 100 institutions.
‘Deciphering microbial and metabolic infuences in gastrointestinal diseases-unveiling their roles in gastric cancer, colorectal cancer, and infammatory bowel disease’ - Daryll Philip, Rebecca Hodgkiss, Swarnima Kollampallath Radhakrishnan, Akshat Sinha, and Animesh Acharjee is published by Journal of Translational Medicine .
Staff profile of Dr Animesh Acharjee, Assistant Professor, Department of Cancer and Genomic Sciences, College of Medicine and Health, University of Birmingham

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/dubai/news:
Professor Sarah Montano, from the Marketing department at Birmingham Business School, unpacks the Taylor Swift marketing model.
New software helps ambulance crews and hospitals in Rwanda coordinate faster and better care for emergency patients.
New research into economic impact of post-traumatic stress disorder has found that average annual costs exceed £14,780 per person, which equates to £40 billion.
Total joint replacements have transformed millions of lives, but their success demands rigorous assessment of long-term safety, durability, and performance.
Global Standards, Local Impact: Advancing Musculoskeletal Care Through Physiotherapy
The University of Birmingham has improved in all areas, ranking seventh in the Russell Group.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/dubai/events:
We host a wide range of events including Open Days, campus tours, virtual Q&A, Continuing Professional Development and guest lectures.
Along with this we will be attending recruitment events throughout the year.
1-1 consultations and campus tours
Our Student Recruitment Team are available on campus for 1-1 consultations and campus tours Monday to Thursday 9:00-16:00, and Friday 9:00-11:00 (excluding University closure dates ).
Open Days
Register for an upcoming Open Day, where you can meet academics on our programmes, speak with the Careers Network Dubai, meet current students, see accommodation providers, take a campus tour, and much more!
Browse our upcoming events to register for one of our upcoming Open Days , online and on campus.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/dubai/study/register-your-interest:
Register your interest to access our online prospectus and be the first to receive updates on our courses, scholarships, events, and admissions.
Complete the form to start your journey with the University of Birmingham Dubai.
By registering, you’ll receive:

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/dubai/collaborate/global-engagement:
The University collaborates with partners worldwide to produce ground-breaking research, deliver innovative teaching, and create opportunities for students and staff to gain international experience.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/dubai/about/campus:
While we’ve been here since 2018, we moved into a new, purpose-built campus in 2022.
One that offers a student experience like no other in Dubai.
Take a virtual tour of our Dubai campus.
Come and explore our campus to see for yourself.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/dubai/about/campus/history-heritage:
Located in the heart of England, the University of Birmingham is steeped in history and tradition.
Since its establishment in 1900, the University has played a key role in shaping the academic landscape locally and globally.
Our journey is marked by groundbreaking achievements, notable alumni, and a commitment to knowledge.
Starting out as the first civic university in England, the original ‘redbrick’, we have evolved into a renowned hub for education, research, and innovation.
At Birmingham, we've been challenging and developing great minds for more than a century.
Since 2018, students have had the opportunity to study with us in Dubai.
In 2022, we moved into a new, purpose-built campus that fuses the historic redbrick Aston Webb buildings in Birmingham with the cultural richness and architectural beauty of Arabic heritage.
The University of Birmingham announces its plans to open a campus in Dubai, becoming the first Russell Group university to establish a campus in this rapidly developing international education hub.
A landmark day as the University’s Phase One campus opens its doors to the first cohort of students.
Phase Two campus ‘breaks ground’ marking the beginning of construction.
Professor Sir David Eastwood, then Vice-Chancellor of the University, said: “Breaking ground on our iconic new campus is another exciting milestone and demonstrates the University of Birmingham’s long-term commitment to the UAE.”
The first undergraduate students 'receive' their degrees in a special online ceremony.
Following the completion of the Phase Two site, the University moves into the new purpose-built, state-of-the-art campus, occupying a prominent position in Academic City.
The new campus welcomes the Birmingham 2022 Commonwealth Games Queen's Baton Relay, coinciding with UK National Day at Expo 2020 Dubai.
Student baton bearers carry the baton into the University of Birmingham Dubai campus, welcomed by Lord Karan Bilimoria, then Chancellor of the University, in a ceremony blending UK and Arabic culture.
The University of Birmingham officially opens the Dubai campus in the presence of His Highness Sheikh Hamdan bin Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Crown Prince of Dubai, and Chairman of The Executive Council of Dubai.
Official opening ceremony of the University of Birmingham Dubai.
The iconic new Dubai campus wins a Special Prize in the prestigious Prix Versailles 2022 global architecture and design awards.
The World Judges Panel selected the Dubai campus for its innovation, creativity, reflection of local heritage, and ecological efficiency, with sustainable development at its core.
Dubai’s Roads and Transport Authority (RTA) signs an agreement with the University of Birmingham Dubai to establish their Transportation Research and Innovation Pavilion (TRIP) at the University.
In February 2023, the RTA opens the facility, driving RTA’s innovation agenda and supporting the next generation of UAE innovators, start-ups, universities, and technology companies.
The United Arab Emirates hosts the UN Climate Change Conference (UNFCCC COP 28) at Expo City in Dubai.
As part of the Universities Climate Network (UCN), the Dubai campus holds a programme of events, discussions, and projects, highlighting the University's leading research to tackle the climate crisis.
A new groundbreaking report on adaptation and resilience is also launched.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/dubai/about/contact:
Whether you have questions, need assistance, or want to learn more about the University of Birmingham Dubai, we’re here to help.
Discover how to reach us and key departments by phone, email, or post.
Fill out the enquiry form, and our dedicated team will connect you with the right person to address your query.
Call our Dubai campus switchboard on +971 442 80500 and select the relevant department.
If you are calling to speak with the Admissions Team regarding an existing application, please have your 7-digit Application ID ready.
You can find this on your Conditional Offer letter or in the Application Portal.
The University of Birmingham Dubai Dubai International Academic City P.O.
Box 341799 Dubai UAE
If you are writing to a member of staff, please include their name and department before the address

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/welcome/essential-tasks/timeline:
There is lots to think about when getting ready to start University.
We've put together a simple timeline to help you understand what to expect and when.
This page gives a general overview of what happens each month.
Find out what happens in June and July, August (including what happens around results day), and into September and Welcome Week itself.
We also have answers to a few frequently asked questions.
Page last updated: Tuesday 22 July 2025
Please make sure to refer to the Accommodation Guarantee Scheme page for the latest information and dates.
Arrivals Weekend ( Saturday 20 and Sunday 21 September 2025 ) will be a busy time with lots of students moving into accommodation.
Everyone is welcome, so bring your friends and family!
You and your guests will be able to:
Visit the What's on in Welcome to find out more as we get closer to September.
Attend your academic induction sessions, and meet students and staff from your School and College.
Enjoy a full programme of Welcome activities.
Join a campus tour to find out more about campus.
Explore the Sport & Fitness Fair to find teams and activities for every level and interest.
Take part in the Guild of Students' exciting Welcome events and activities, including the Societies Fair.
Teaching will begin fully on Monday 29 September, following your academic timetable.
This is usually the date you will receive the first instalment of your student loan, if you are eligible for one.
You can check your payment dates on your student loan account.
There will still be plenty of support available and lots of events and activities taking place after Welcome Week, including the Welcome Registration Hub for ID cards and completing Right to Study checks.
The student intranet is your best place to find out all the latest information as a student and the MyUoB app will connect you to essential services and updates.
No, registration and enrolment is done through Online Registration and so you do not need to register or enrol in-person when you arrive.
You must complete Online Registration before you can begin your studies.
International students will need to attend the Welcome Registration Hub to complete the final step of the right to Study check in-person and collect their student ID card.
When you complete Online Registration, you agree to become a member of the Guild of Students, your students' union.
You do not need to register with them separately.
Find out more about what you are agreeing to in Online Registration , and how you can opt out of membership.
You will be able to receive your student ID card once you have completed Online Registration.
If you have a home address in the UK and complete Online Registration before the deadline in early September (TBC), your ID card will be posted to you.
Otherwise, you can collect it from your accommodation or the Welcome Hub on campus from Saturday 16 September onwards.
Once you have completed Online Registration, you can access Verify the next working day - our proof of study system.
On Verify you can access downloadable and shareable letters which prove your student status, for example to apply for a council tax exemption or to open a student bank account.
The University is required to confirm to Student Finance England (or equivalents) that you are a student.
We confirm your attendance after you have completed Online Registration , and send daily updates to Student Finance during this time.
You can check your payment dates by logging into your Student Finance account.
Your loan is usually paid to you when teaching begins - for most students, this will be Monday 29 September.
We have hundreds more FAQs available on our Student Help site, answering questions about everything from Welcome Week to visas and immigration to student administration.
The FAQs also connect you directly to the teams who can answer your questions - just click Contact Us at the bottom of any answer.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/welcome/essential-tasks:
There's lots to think about when starting university, whether this is your first time studying as an undergraduate or you're returning for postgraduate study.
At any time, if you're unsure what to do or when by, you can refer back to our handy Welcome Timeline.
Let's begin...
Your first step is to complete Online Registration as soon as you're asked to.
Online Registration is your official enrolment with the University, and is what makes you a student here.
Online Registration opens in June for the following academic year, and you'll receive an email once you're eligible to complete it.
This is usually once you've met any conditions of your offer, such as A Level results for undergraduates or degree results for postgraduate study.
For programmes beginning during the year, you will receive your Online Registration email when you have met the conditions of your offer.
As part of Online Registration, you'll be asked to:
When you've completed Online Registration, you'll receive a confirmation email.
We recommend that you keep this for your records.
You don't need to attend any registration events on campus.
For new students, your ID card photo will be checked.
If it's not suitable, you'll be contacted and asked to upload a new photo.
Having trouble logging in?
Make sure you are using your student username , which is made up of letters and numbers (e.g.
ABC123).
Do not use your student email address.
If you are having difficulty with completing Online Registration, our Student Help pages offer answers to a range of frequently asked questions.
You can also contact the Online Registration Helpline by selecting 'Contact Us' at the bottom of any question on Student Help , which will create an email enquiry.
If you're having any problems with your username and password, contact the IT Service Desk for support.
Alternative arrangements can be made for students who can't access Online Registration due to a disability.
Please contact the Aston Webb Student Hub on +44 (0)121 414 5130 or submit an email enquiry via Student Help .
Once you've completed your Online Registration, you'll be eligible to get your student ID card.
You'll need this to access buildings and services.
Your student ID card proves that you are a student at the University and gives you access to buildings and services including Student Living Plus and the Library.
You can also access Proof of Study letters to show you are a student, for example to open a student bank account or to receive a Council Tax discount.
Students with a UK address who complete Online Registration before Wednesday 3 September will receive their student ID card through the post.
You should keep this safe and remember to bring it to campus with you.
If you register after Wednesday 3 September, you will need to collect your ID card from the Welcome Registration Hub, which is open in the big marquee in the Green Heart daily throughout Welcome Week, and into the first weeks of term.
You do not need to book an appointment - just come along during opening hours, and bring your student ID number and a form of photo ID with you (e.g.
passport, driving licence).
If you are an international student, you will receive your student ID card when you complete the final step of your Right to Study check.
You will need to book an appointment to complete this step - look out for more information on how to do this.
A proof of study letter confirms your student status at the University, for example to be used when opening a student bank account or applying for council tax exemption.
Both new and returning students can view, download and share these online.
Your ID card is valid throughout your programme, so you don't need to request a new card unless yours is lost, damaged, or the information on it has changed.
If you need to request a new ID card for one of these reasons, you can use the online request form .
There are a couple of extra steps to complete as an international student, but we are here to support you.
Find out what you need to do and start preparing before you leave for Birmingham.
If you are a student who requires immigration permissions to be in the UK, the University is required by the UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) to check your Right to Study.
My Right to Study is a simple process which allows you to upload documents as you receive them, so our International Student Team can check and confirm them.
You'll then complete your final check in-person at the Welcome Registration Hub once you arrive.
International students studying in the UK for more than six months need to set up a UK based bank account.
Having a bank account here in the UK will allow you to manage your money more easily including setting up direct debits for bills and getting paid for any work that you do.
Opening an account can take time so try and do this as soon as you can (and make sure you have access to any money you'll need during this time).
The Welcome Registration Hub brings together key teams to help you complete essential tasks quickly and easily during the Welcome period.
It will be open daily throughout Arrivals Weekend (19-21 September) and Welcome Week (22-26 September), and then weekdays until Friday 3 October.
Check our What's on in Welcome page for opening times and details.
Once you've sorted the essentials, it's time to get prepared and set up ready to join us.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/welcome/essential-tasks/your-next-steps:
Online Registration completed?
Perfect.
Here are a few more simple things you can do for a smooth start to your studies.
Once you've completed your Online Registration, you'll have access to all our online systems, including the MyUoB app.
During your time at UoB, your student email is the main way we'll communicate with you.
Remember to check your inbox regularly from the moment you're set up, so you don’t miss any important messages.
You can also access Wi-Fi on campus and at accommodation sites, and use other resources like Canvas (our virtual learning environment), Microsoft 365 for free, and or libraries.
Learn more about the MyUoB app with Student Content Shaper Mimi
We'll use your student email address to contact you about important matters relating to your studies and being a student here.
You should check it daily for updates and useful information, including about your induction (orientation) sessions.
Your student email address will take the format of username@student.bham.ac.uk
You'll receive your student username when you're asked to complete Online Registration.
It'll be three letters (your initials) followed by three or four numbers.
For example, if your username is ABC123 then your email address will be abc123@student.bham.ac.uk
You can access your student email through the MyUoB app .
You can also set it up on your mobile device or computer email service, or access it via outlook.office.com.
University of Birmingham students get free access to Microsoft 365, a cloud-based service that provides Microsoft tools like Word, Excel, PowerPoint and OneNote on multiple devices.
You also get access to your own personal OneDrive, which provides 50 GB of secure file storage.
As part of Microsoft 365, you also have access to Microsoft Teams, an online collaborative space for group messaging, video calling and document sharing, wherever you are; so you can carry on working on your group projects and share ideas with classmates even when you are not on campus.
Find out more about Teams .
You also get free access to a wide range of educational software applications and productivity tools for study, research or personal use.
These are available from anywhere, whether you're using a personal Windows device or any University of Birmingham PC on campus via our Apps Anywhere service .
To help keep your data safe, all our student accounts are protected by multi-factor authentication (MFA).
To set up MFA, you’ll need either a smartphone with an authentication app (we recommend downloading the free Microsoft Authenticator app) or a phone capable of receiving text (SMS) messages.
It's also a good idea to add your personal email address as an additional authentication method just in case you forget your phone.
The first time you access your student account you’ll be guided through the process of what you need to do.
Just follow the simple instructions on screen or watch the video in our set-up guide.
With Self-Service Password Reset (SSPR) you can change, reset and unlock your student password.
A strong password is essential for keeping you, and the University, safe online.
Visit our IT Service Portal for more information on using the service.
The IT Service Desk is here to help if you have any IT related issues at the University.
You can visit the IT Service Portal to report a problem, make an IT request or search for an answer to your IT question in our easy to use Knowledge Base.
Support is available 24/7 through our dedicated support telephone line or via the Live Chat facility on the IT Service Portal, or you can visit the team in the Main Library.
Get connected, wherever you are on campus.
Eduroam is the University’s main Wi-Fi network for students and staff, providing high-speed Wi-Fi access in every building across our campuses.
If you're living in University-owned accommodation, the Wi-Fi and wired connections are available through ASK4.
Packing to move?
Planning your commute?
It's time to think about arriving on campus.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/welcome/travel-and-getting-to-campus:
Whether you're travelling from Dudley or Dubai, it's time to start thinking about your journey to campus.
We have useful information for international students, UK students, and students who will be living at home.
Travelling to campus can be busy and stressful, but we're here to help.
We know lots of you will arrive to campus by car, with family or friends.
Make sure you know which site you are heading to.
Guest parking is available in our North East Multistorey car park on Pritchatts Road.
Disabled parking is available at all our car parks, and on campus.
If you are driving to campus, make sure you are aware of the Birmingham Clean Air Zone, which covers the city centre.
Vehicles that do not meet the emission standards for the zone are subject to a daily fee.
Campus itself is outside of the Zone, and it is possible to travel to campus from all directions without passing through the Zone.
Many cars and vehicles are exempt.
We have more information about arriving as an international student.
We know your journey will take extra planning, and we want to help make it as easy as possible.
Our packing list includes tips for those travelling internationally, and we have guides on arriving to different airports.
You can even request a free National Express voucher to help you travel from London Heathrow, London Gatwick and Manchester airports during Welcome.
If you will be living with us during your studies, planning your arrival will be key.
For students moving into University or partner accommodation, you'll receive your offer and important updates via the Accommodation Portal.
You can also use the portal to book your timeslot to move in.
If you're looking for private accommodation in the local area, our Community Living team can provide you with advice and guidance.
Find out what to expect from booking your arrival time slot and arriving on the day.
The moving in process at our partner accommodations may vary - check with your accommodation provider.
A good list is essential for planning your move to University!
We've put together our very own packing list to help you start thinking about what to include (and what to leave behind).
We've included some extra tips for international students too.
Whether you're commuting or exploring your new city, campus is well connected for travel!
There are options to suit every journey.
Find out more about travelling to and from campus , including our on-campus facilities for cyclists (like bike lockers and showers), student parking permits, discount and season ticket travel options, and planning your journey.
Walking is the most popular way for students to get around the local area.
We have our own train station, for local and longer distance travel.
Campus is well connected for lots of busy bus routes, taking you into the city centre or to other parts of Birmingham.
Cycling can be a great option - we have lots of facilities for cyclists on campus.
Not sure if bus travel is a good option?
Want to get out and see Birmingham?
We've got you.
We've teamed up with Transport for West Midlands, who are offering free 4-week bus passes for new undergraduate and postgraduate students, covering the nBus network area .
Your first opportunity to sign up is available until Sunday 31 August.
Complete the Transport for West Midlands Early Bird Freshers' Offer form to register.
Make sure to check the terms and conditions.
You'll need to use your UoB student email address.
There'll be another opportunity to sign up online from Monday 8 - Monday 22 September.
You can also register at the Welcome Fair in the Great Hall over Arrivals Weekend.
We know that not all students move into university accommodation - with our own train station and our central location, lots of students choose to live at home and commute.
You may already be familiar with the local area but Welcome is a great way for you to explore campus, get involved with events and activities, and meet other people including other commuter students.
Welcome Week is a busy time!
Start planning what you want to do and where you need to be.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/welcome/your-new-student-life/events:
Welcome is such a busy and exciting time!
There's a lot going on, but we're here to help you decide where to go and what to do as you start your student life at Birmingham.
Everything begins with Arrivals Weekend (Saturday 20 and Sunday 21 September), the key time for students moving into University and partner accommodation.
Arrivals Weekend is open to everyone, whether you'll be living with us or not, and your friends and family are invited too.
Welcome Week begins on Monday 22 September .
The fun continues with lots of extra activities across campus, to help you discover everything your new student life at Birmingham has to offer!
Kick start your University experience on Arrivals Weekend!
Our key events and venues will start over the weekend, so whether you're moving in or commuting to University, you can head onto campus to explore and start settling in ahead on Welcome Week getting underway.
Parents and carers of new students, you're welcome too!
Whether you're tagging along with your new student, or leaving them to get to know their flatmates, you're invited to campus to explore and find out all the useful information to help you support your student.
Your programme induction sessions form the core of your Welcome experience - you can meet staff, get to know your coursemates, and find out what to expect as you begin your studies with us.
Check your timetable in the MyUoB app from September.
There is also a huge range of additional, optional events and activities taking place.
You won't be able to attend everything, so we recommend taking some time to think about what's most important to you and planning your time so you don't miss the things that matter to you.
Our student events page helps you explore what's on during Welcome and throughout the year.
You can browse what's happening, add events to your calendar, and sign up to take part.
Browse events you can attend, in addition to your programme induction.
Saturday 20 - Friday 26 September, 10:00-16:00, marquee near Old Joe
Dive into student life and start discovering what it means to be part of our student community!
Find fun activities, meet staff here to support you, or just find space to relax and take a break in this busy time.
We're open every day in Welcome Week!
Saturday 20 - Monday 22 September, 10:00-16:00, Great Hall, Aston Webb
Meet the teams and departments here to support you as a student!
Get useful information, ask any questions you might have, and maybe even pick up a freebie or two.
Drop in any time - everyone is welcome, so bring your family and friends along too.
Tuesday 23 September, 09:00-16:00, Sport & Fitness Centre
Join us at Sport & Fitness to discover how you can start or continue your sporting journey, socially or competitively.
With 58 sports to choose from and a huge range of fitness opportunities, there really is something for everyone.
Saturday 20 - Friday 26 September, 11:00, 13:00 and 15:00, meet outside Main Library
Join our student Welcome Assistants for a tour of campus so you can find your way around and discover some of their favourite spots!
Wednesday 24 and Thursday 25 September, 11:00-16:00, Guild of Students
Here at the Guild of Students, we support over 300 incredible student groups, societies and associations!
Today is your chance to meet academic, interest, activity, and recreational and competitive groups, plus our Associations.
The Guild of Students is your students' union, and is there to ensure you get the most out of University life.
Explore events from the Guild of Students and groups and societies on their website.
The Guild of Students also offer the Welcome Pass , the only official 'freshers' package for University of Birmingham students.
Celebrate the festive season with Christmas on Campus, including an extra special visit from Santa!
Sign up for fairs, workshops, and opportunities to start building your employability.
Drop-in to activities to take a break and chat with other students and staff here to help you.
Try Social Sports, enjoy free Active Residences sessions, or join teams and clubs with Sport & Fitness.
Get more out of your summer term with UoB Xtra - our FREE programme of events, challenges, and opportunities!

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/welcome/your-new-student-life:
Your programme induction is the core of your Welcome Week experience.
Learn about what you will be studying, how your department works and what to expect from your first year at your School inductions.
Your academic timetable will be available on the MyUoB app.
You will log in to the MyUoB app using the login details you received for Online Registration.
If you are a postgraduate research student or starting at other times of the year, your School will be in touch directly about induction and orientation sessions.
Our Welcome activities are designed to help you settle in and feel at home, no matter how far you've travelled.
Discover what's on offer and start planning your own Welcome schedule.
You won't be able to attend everything, so think about what's important to you!
Remember to prioritise attending your programme induction sessions and plan a visit to the Welcome Registration Hub if you haven't received your ID card, or need to attend a Right to Study check (for international students).
Find events and activities during Arrivals Weekend and Welcome Week.
Explore our huge range of events for students throughout the year.
Starting university brings a whole new set of opportunities and challenges.
We're here to support you, whether it's your first time studying as an undergraduate, or you're taking your next steps in a postgraduate degree.
Our support covers academic, wellbeing, and specialist needs.
Take time to understand what's on offer, even if you don't need it right now.
We've pulled together some information to help you support your new student and understand what to expect as they navigate their new student life, whether they will be commuting to campus or living in accommodation.
Find useful links as well as tips and advice, designed for parents and carers.
Our popular resource takes a month-by-month look at what to expect, with some useful advice for supporting students as they navigate the first year.
Welcome Week finishes on Friday 26 September, but we're still here for you.
Teaching for your modules (for Undergraduate and Postgraduate Taught students) begins on Monday 29 September .
This is when your academic timetable will begin.
You can access your timetable through the MyUoB app from early September.
Make sure to check it regularly.
Teaching begins on Monday 29 September and we'll start to move into our normal routines.
As a student, you'll receive our Brum Bulletin newsletter fortnightly during term-time, with all the latest news, updates, and useful advice.
Make sure you look out for it!
Our student intranet is your place to find the information you need and you can check events and activities on our What's On for Students page .
It's never too late to get involved, try something different, and meet new people.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/welcome/your-new-student-life/parents-and-carers-of-new-students:
Starting university is a big step in students' lives, but it can mean many changes for their families too.
Every student is different, but for many their parents and carers will play an important role in supporting them throughout their studies.
Our ever popular Understanding the first year resource was developed with students and parents, and works through some of the key moments in students' first year of studies, from nerves around moving in, to first assignments and thinking about accommodation for their second year.
Getting a feel for what to expect will help you to guide your student and to feel more prepared for what's coming up.
For a more in-depth look at the run-up to starting in September, our Welcome Timeline sets out important deadlines and useful information for students to help them track where they are up to.
A community for our current students' supporters.
This group provides an opportunity to meet other families, share tips and advice, ask questions, and discover everything you need to know about life at Birmingham.
Arrivals Weekend is one of the busiest weekends on campus each year.
Arrivals Weekend is open to family and friends too.
You can check out the Welcome Fair, enjoy the atmosphere, and explore campus.
We encourage you to come down, with or without your student.
We know that many parents and guardians help their student move into university accommodation, and will be keen to know the details!
You can find out more about moving into accommodation , but our top tips especially for you:
Not all students will be moving into accommodation.
If your student is going to be commuting from home, there are still plenty of things to think about.
Our commuting students information provides some useful tips and advice, and remember that Arrivals Weekend is open to all.
Find out if your student would like you to come with them, or encourage them to bring a friend if they don't feel confident coming alone.
Understanding what to expect is the first step in supporting your student, but it can be useful to understand the range of support available in case your student needs it so that you can encourage them to make use of the options available to them.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/university:
For more than a century, the University of Birmingham has been pursuing and sharing knowledge through outstanding teaching and world-leading research.
We are the original ‘redbrick’ University, part of the prestigious Russell Group; our thriving student population enjoys a wide range of courses, and exceptional campus and research facilities.
The 10 Nobel Laureates we count among our staff and alumni have contributed to some of science’s greatest discoveries, including in recent times the Higgs Boson and Gravitational Waves.
Our research provides innovative solutions to the challenges we face in our city, our region and across the globe.
Birmingham 2030 sets out our aspiration to establish Birmingham in the top 50 of the world’s leading universities
At Birmingham, we teach and research across the full breadth of academic disciplines, creating a vibrant community with multi-disciplinary opportunities for research and education.
We are committed to making our campus a destination which is accessible, sustainable, and one which will carry us into the future.
25 of our academic subjects are ranked in the top 10 for their respective areas of study.
The Complete University Guide 2026
Maintaining our position in the top 100 universities globally, we are placed 11th amongst UK universities.
QS World University Rankings 2026
Find out more about our leadership team and the governance structures that support the University’s continuing success.
To understand how and where the University of Birmingham contributes to its city, region and country, we commissioned London Economics to look at our economic and social impact.
Founded in 1900, the University of Birmingham was England’s first civic university, a place where students from all backgrounds were accepted on an equal basis.
Cultural attractions
The Exchange
Read more about our sustainability programmes and strategy at the University of Birmingham

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/staff/profiles/gees/butler-richard.aspx:
School of Geography, Earth and Environmental Sciences Professor of Palaeobiology Director of Research, College of Life and Environmental Sciences
His research addresses major patterns and drivers of biodiversity change through deep time, particularly as exemplified by four-limbed vertebrates (tetrapods), over the last 375 million years.
He is also interested in the origin and dramatic evolutionary radiation of dinosaurs and closely related fossil groups in the aftermath of the Permo-Triassic mass extinction, the largest extinction event in the history of life on Earth.
In addition to research, he acts as Director of Research for the College of Life & Environmental Sciences.
2007 – PhD, University of Cambridge 2002 – BSc Geology, University of Bristol
In addition to research, he acts as Director of Research for the College of Life & Environmental Sciences.
Richard supervises major/advanced projects and makes contributions to a number of other modules, including Palaeontology Field & Museum Skills.
Systematics, taxonomy, and anatomy of fossil reptiles, particularly dinosaurs and closely related groups Terrestrial recovery from the Permo-Triassic mass extinction event Phanerozoic and Mesozoic diversification patterns among vertebrates, and fossil record quality Late Palaeozoic–Mesozoic vertebrate biogeography Body size evolution and its drivers in deep time Early evolution of the avian respiratory system, and lung ventilation among fossil archosaurs
2021–2022.
Vice-President, Palaeontological Association.
2021–.
Scientific Advisory Board of the Institut Català de Paleontologia Miquel Crusafont, Catalonia.
Advisory Board, Evolutionary Studies Institute, University of the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg.
Member, Jurassic Coast Trust Collection Working Group.
Editorial Board, Journal of Systematic Palaeontology .
2020–2022.
Director of Global Engagement, College of Life and Environmental Sciences, University of Birmingham.
2018–2021.
REF lead, UoA7 Earth Systems and Environmental Sciences, GEES, University of Birmingham 2013–2018.
Academic Keeper, Lapworth Museum of Geology, University of Birmingham 2015–2018.
Chair of Steering Group, Symposium on Vertebrate Palaeontology and Comparative Anatomy (SVPCA) 2012–2017.
Program Committee, Society of Vertebrate Paleontology 2014–2016.
Member of Council, the Palaeontological Association 2013–2017.
Executive Committee, the Paleobiology Database 2013–2018.
Editorial Board, Journal of Vertebrate Paleontology 2013–.
Editorial Board, Acta Palaeontologica Polonica 2012–2014.
Editorial Board, PLOS ONE 2010–2013.
Associate Editor, Paläontologische Zeitschrift 2008–2011.
Section Editor, Fossil Reptiles, Zootaxa
Foffa, D , Dunne, EM , Chiarenza, AA, Wynd, B, Farnsworth, A, Lunt, DJ, Valdes, PJ, Nesbitt, SJ, Kligman, BT, Marsh, A, Parker, WG , Butler, R , Fraser, NC, Brusatte, SL & Barrett, PM 2025, ' Climate drivers and palaeobiogeography of lagerpetids and early pterosaurs ', Nature Ecology and Evolution , vol.
9, pp.
1359–1372.
https://doi.org/ 10.1038/ s41559-025-02767-8
Edgar, K , Butler, R , Larwood, J & Smith, J 2025, ' Determining the relative scientific and cultural “value” of the UK’s in-situ dinosaur track sites ', Proceedings of the Geologists' Association .
https://doi.org/ 10.1016/ j.pgeola.2024.12.003
Markovic, Z, Milivojević, M , Butler, RJ , Barrett, PM, Wills, S, van de Weerd, AA, Wessels, W & Radovic, P 2025, ' First dinosaur remains from Serbia: Sauropod and theropod material from the uppermost Cretaceous (Maastrichtian) of Osmakovo ', Cretaceous Research , vol.
176, 106177.
https://doi.org/ 10.1016/ j.cretres.2025.106177
Smyth, RSH, Breithaupt, BH , Butler, RJ , Falkingham, PL & Unwin, DM 2025, ' Identifying pterosaur trackmakers provides critical insights into mid-Mesozoic ground invasion ', Current Biology , vol.
35, no.
10, pp.
2337-2353.e5.
https://doi.org/ 10.1016/ j.cub.2025.04.017
Maidment, S & Butler, RJ 2025, ' New frontiers in dinosaur exploration ', Biology Letters , vol.
21, no.
4, 20250045.
https://doi.org/ 10.1098/ rsbl.2025.0045
Marsden, MK, Gunn, J , Maidment, SCR , Nichols, G , Wheeley, JR , Russell, CE , Boomer, I , Stukins, S & Butler, RJ 2025, ' Palaeoenvironment and taphonomy of the Hypsilophodon Bed, Lower Cretaceous Wessex Formation, Isle of Wight ', Journal of the Geological Society .
https://doi.org/ 10.1144/ jgs2024-046
Panciroli, E, Funston, GF , Maidment, SCR , Butler, R , Benson, RBJ, Crawford, BL, Fair, M, Fraser, NC & Walsh, S 2025, ' The First and Most Complete Dinosaur Skeleton from the Middle Jurassic of Scotland ', Earth and Environmental Science Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh .
https://doi.org/ 10.1017/ S1755691024000148
Dean, CD , Chiarenza, AA, Doser, JW, Farnsworth, A, Jones, LA, Lyster, SJ, Outhwaite, CL, Valdes, PJ , Butler, RJ & Mannion, PD 2025, ' The structure of the end-Cretaceous dinosaur fossil record in North America ', Current Biology , vol.
1973-1988.e6.
https://doi.org/ 10.1016/ j.cub.2025.03.025
Maidment, S , Ouarhache, D , Butler, RJ , Boumir, K, Oussou, A, Ech-charay, K, El Khanchoufi, A & Barrett, PM 2025, ' The world’s oldest cerapodan ornithischian dinosaur from the Middle Jurassic of Morocco ', Royal Society Open Science , vol.
12, no.
3, 241624.
https://doi.org/ 10.1098/ rsos.241624
Meade, LE , Butler, RJ , Jones, MEH & Fraser, NC 2024, ' A new procolophonid with complex dentition from the Late Triassic of southwest England ', Papers in Palaeontology , vol.
10, no.
6, e1605.
https://doi.org/ 10.1002/ spp2.1605
Fawcett, MJ , Lautenschlager, S , Bestwick, J & Butler, RJ 2024, ' Functional morphology of the Triassic apex predator Saurosuchus galilei (Pseudosuchia: Loricata) and convergence with a post‐Triassic theropod dinosaur ', The Anatomical Record .
https://doi.org/ 10.1002/ ar.25299
Smyth, RSH, Breithaupt, BH , Butler, RJ , Falkingham, PL & Unwin, DM 2024, ' Hand and foot morphology maps invasion of terrestrial environments by pterosaurs in the mid-Mesozoic ', Current Biology .
https://doi.org/ 10.1016/ j.cub.2024.09.014
Butler, R , Meade, L , Cleary, T , McWhirter, K , Brown, E , Kemp, T, Benito, J & Fraser, N 2024, ' Hwiccewyrm trispiculum gen.
et sp.
nov., a new leptopleuronine procolophonid from the Late Triassic of southwest England ', The Anatomical Record .
https://doi.org/ 10.1002/ ar.25316
Schnetz, L , Dunne, EM , Feichtinger, I , Butler, RJ , Coates, MI & Sansom, IJ 2024, ' Rise and diversification of chondrichthyans in the Paleozoic ', Paleobiology , pp.
1-14.
https://doi.org/ 10.1017/ pab.2024.1
Butler, RJ , Edgar, KM , Haller, L , Meade, LE , Jones, HT, Hill, O, Scriven, S & Reedman, C 2024, ' Sauropod dinosaur tracks from the Purbeck Group (Early Cretaceous) of Spyway Quarry, Dorset, UK ', Royal Society Open Science , vol.
11, no.
7, 240583.
https://doi.org/ 10.1098/ rsos.240583
View all publications in research portal
Dinosaurs, vertebrate palaeontology, fossils

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/staff/profiles/maths/spill-fabian.aspx:
School of Mathematics Professor of Applied Mathematics UKRI Future Leaders Fellow
Fabian Spill is a Professor of Applied Mathematics.
Fabian's research is centred on various aspects of Mathematical Biology.
From the mathematical side he is mainly interested in applications of stochastic models and various differential equations, from ODEs to coupled bulk-surface reaction-diffusion systems.
From the application side, he is interested in cancer biology, mechanobiology, and the dynamic interplay of cells and their microenvironment.
PhD in Physics, Imperial College London, 2010 Diploma in Physics, Humboldt University Berlin, 2007
Fabian Spill studied physics and mathematics at Humboldt University, Berlin, graduating with a diploma in physics in 2007.
He then completed a PhD in theoretical physics at Imperial College London in 2010, working on Yangians, integrable systems and string theory under supervision of Arkady Tseytlin.
After a brief spell in finance, where he worked as a quantitative analyst developing and implementing mathematical models to price and risk-manage complex derivatives, he moved into mathematical biology.
First, he joined the University of Oxford in 2012, working with Helen Byrne and Philip Maini.
Then, he moved to the US in 2014, working with Roger Kamm and Muhammad Zaman at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and at Boston University.
He returned to Britain in 2017, starting his current position at the University of Birmingham; he received a UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship in 2020, and was promoted to Reader in 2021 and Professor in 2023.
Fabian is happy to supervise PhD students in any area of his research.
All PhD projects may either focus on the development of mathematical methods, or they may be performed in close collaboration with leading experimentalists, for example, in biology, medicine or engineering.
Please refer to the PhD Opportunities list for more information, choosing F Spill as the supervisor for a list of currently available projects.
Contact Fabian if you have ideas for alternative projects.
Fabian has diverse research interests in the field of mathematical biology.
Currently, he is trying to understand how mechanical properties of the cells and their microenvironment influence cell behaviour through mechanosensing pathways.
For instance, YAP/TAZ are two important intracellular molecules which increase their activity with increasing stiffness of the substrate on which the cells are attached too, and this can drive proliferation of these cells.
In the context of tumours, which are often stiffer than comparable healthy tissues, this might imply that physical properties such as stiffness can drive tumour progression (such as uncontrolled proliferation), complementing well-studied genetic alterations in tumours.
Fabian is developing mathematical models of the YAP/TAZ regulating pathway to study how mechanical and molecular stimuli are integrated by cells to mediate their responses.
Moreover, he is interested in understanding how the subcellular localisation of signalling molecules affects the outcome of signal integration.
This is of importance far beyond mechanosensing pathways, as almost all pathways involve subcellular localisation of at least some important molecules, such as those binding to the cell membrane.
This can be especially important when cells change their shapes, and thus the region of membrane/cytosol interactions changes.
Consequently, otherwise identical cells with different shapes can behave differently, simply because of their altered geometry.
Fabian is also interested in the application of stochastic models to biology.
He investigated how stochastic effects can change the behaviour of reaction-diffusion systems, developed methods to improve simulation efficiency of such systems, and applied such methods to biological systems including tumour angiogenesis or travelling wave problems.
More recently, he investigated how stochastic effects can shift the evolutionary outcome of the in-vitro selection of oligonucleotides.
This later system is used to identify molecules which have particular binding properties to diverse target molecules.
Google Scholar

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study:
Find your perfect undergraduate course and study at the University of Birmingham.
The University of Birmingham offers a wide range of non-credit short course and microcredential opportunities.
Learn about our Degree Apprenticeships for students and for employers at the University of Birmingham.
If you're considering a complete change in career from your current sector, we offer opportunities to pursue a postgraduate degree in fields which don't require a specialist undergraduate degree.
Read through useful information to help you in your decision about studying at the University of Birmingham.
Discover the student experience at Birmingham and why students love studying and living here.
Birmingham students will tell you that campus is special and from the moment you see it you'll see what they mean.
The city centre has a vibrant, diverse atmosphere with something to suit all tastes.
The University is a centre of culture for the region.
From museums and galleries to concert halls and a botanic garden, our campus is brimming with things to do.
Stroll along the city's canal paths or take a break in one of the city centre's many bars and restaurants.
Birmingham is one of the UK’s greenest cities with more than 550 parks and open spaces to relax in.
Our students and alumni share their experiences of settling in, studying, and living in Birmingham.
Discover their research, career journeys, and everything in between.
Get to know the students and alumni who make up our Birmingham community.
Discover their backgrounds, their programmes, their ambitions, and more.
Discover our accommodation options for undergraduate and postgraduate students
Explore our vibrant campus, where cutting-edge facilities meet a rich history with our virtual tour.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/university/fact/ref/index.aspx:
The latest Research Excellence Framework (REF 2021, published May 2022) confirms that we are one of the best universities in the UK.
The REF results are an outstanding vote of confidence in the quality of our research and our contribution to society, bolstering our ambition to become a Top 50 Global University.
Discover more about the University's REF 2021 results, showing the quality profiles for each of our 28 submissions.
Overall quality profiles (percentage of research activity at each quality level and overall GPA)
The University of Birmingham’s Vice-Chancellor, Professor Adam Tickell, says: ‘This was a tremendous result and reflects many years of hard work by outstanding researchers working at the forefront of their disciplines.
But the most important thing is not the ranking itself but the confirmation that we are collectively engaged in world-leading work that has a genuine impact on people’s lives.
‘Our REF results highlight the strong partnerships we have, including with industry and the health, education, and cultural sectors.
It is not enough to simply undertake high quality research, it is only through working in partnership with others in our region and across the world that we can deliver solutions to improve people’s lives, society and our planet.’
I am extremely proud that the quality and significance of our research and its wider impact were recognised by the assessment panels.
Our credo over a number of years now has been to produce ‘research that matters’, whether that means breakthroughs in discovery science and philosophical enquiry that change the way people think, or innovations across the full range of our disciplines that transform the way people and institutions act.
Excellent results in the REF derive from our pursuit of a larger goal: that is, for our research, in partnership with diverse people and organisations, to make the world a better place for individuals, society, and the environment.
The Research Excellence Framework (REF) is a national assessment which is carried out by the UK’s four higher education funding organisations every seven years to evaluate the standard and broader impact of research in the country’s higher education institutions.
It helps to maintain quality and world-class research across the breadth of the UK’s universities and assesses the impact of this multi-disciplinary work, informing accountability and future funding and public investment.
The most recent REF results were delayed because of the COVID-19 pandemic, which is why it was branded REF21.
A total of 157 UK higher education institutions (HEIs) made submissions in 34 subject-based Units of Assessment (UOAs).
The submissions were assessed by panels of experts, including international researchers skilled in interdisciplinary collaboration, who produced an overall quality profile for each submission.
Each profile shows the proportion of research activity judged by the panels to have met each of the four-starred quality levels in steps of 1%.
Three key areas were scrutinised: output, impact and environment, alongside an assessment of the overall standard of the institution.
60 per cent of the weighting was given to the output 25 per cent was given to its significance 15 per cent covered sustainability
The panel assessed the overall research excellence and graded outputs from the top 4 * to unclassified.
4* = Quality classed as world-leading in originality, significance and rigour.
3* = Quality classed as internationally excellent in originality, significance and rigour but falling short of the highest standards of excellence.
2* = Quality classed as international in originality, significance and rigour.
1* = Quality classed as national in originality, significance and rigour.
Unclassified = Quality below the standard of nationally recognised; or work ineligible for the REF.
The REF results also recognise the game-changing impact that the University’s research has on global health challenges: tackling inequalities, driving innovation with industry and manufacturing, and addressing major issues such as climate change.
Pioneering breakthroughs, multidisciplinary collaborations and significant global impact.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught:
We offer over 600 taught Masters and Masters by Research opportunities that will enable you to develop your career and pursue your interests.
This journey has not only expanded my knowledge base but has also exposed me to diverse perspectives, research methodologies, and collaborative opportunities.
I am excited about the prospect of contributing meaningfully to my field upon the completion of my postgraduate studies.
Meet our postgraduate students and alumni, and read blogs they've written.
The best people to tell you what it’s really like to live, learn and research at Birmingham are our students.
Discover more about what life as a taught or research student is like, read their blogs and explore postgraduate life at Birmingham.
Make your move with a conversion course
Looking to make your move into a new subject area?
If you're considering a complete change in career from your current job or sector, we offer opportunities to pursue a postgraduate degree in fields which don't require a specialist undergraduate degree.
Student accommodation at Birmingham is much more than just a room.
It’s your chance to be a part of a vibrant and diverse community of over 6,000 students from across the world.
With over 8,700 international students from approximately 150 countries, and 31% of our academic staff from overseas, our campus is truly a diverse and global place which attracts the brightest and best international students and staff.
Join one of our on campus or online events to find out more about life in Birmingham

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research:
Our research programmes involve the completion of original academic research, or a piece of scholarship, which you will conduct under expert supervision from a Birmingham academic.
You will be supported by the University Doctoral school which brings together everything you need to succeed in your research journey.
Working alongside internationally renowned research staff and talented research peers, you’ll be researching in a place like no other.
At Birmingham, you’re free to pursue your own independent research, while building the skills and confidence to make an impact on global society.
A platform for significant, pioneering research, Birmingham is a hub for innovation, delivery and academic rigour.
We focus on global issues, with a collaborative, cross-disciplinary culture.
Combined with modern facilities and academic expertise, it’s an approach that shapes and inspires all our teaching, creating and learning.
There are generally two routes to a Birmingham research degree.
You can apply to an ‘advertised PhD’, which means it is part of an established research project and is usually funded by the University or other funding body.
Generally, advertised PhDs are associated with the physical and life sciences subjects.
Some advertised PhDs will be pre-defined but some may require you to propose your own research.
Apply to any of our PhD programmes and propose your own research that is ‘self-funded’ (by you, a sponsor, or other sources not explicitly attached to the PhD on application).
Usually you submit a research proposal and identify your proposed supervisor.
These are generally associated with the arts and social sciences.
At Birmingham, our postgraduate researchers don’t just contribute to their fields - they drive discovery, innovation, and change.
Through our Doctoral School, we offer a unified, inspiring environment where your research journey is supported every step of the way.
The Doctoral School brings together everything you need to succeed in your research journey.
We work across all subject areas to offer exceptional supervision; tailored researcher development; wellbeing support and community engagement; global opportunities and sector placements; and career preparation for life after your research.
The Birmingham Doctoral Programme is a structured PhD experience delivered through the Doctoral School.
It offers world-class supervision, a tailored development framework, and real-world engagement opportunities that prepare you to flourish - whatever your future holds.
It was designed to give Birmingham researchers the support they need to excel in their research, develop essential skills, and connect with global opportunities.
All while benefiting from a supportive and enriching academic environment.
Once you have decided if you'd like to apply for an 'advertised PhD' or propose your own research, you'll need to follow a few simple steps to get your application to the University started.
Each year we invest in research funding to attract outstanding students to our PhD programmes, nationally and internationally.
Find out what opportunities are available to help you fund your research.
1st year PhD student Felicity shares how she got started with her research degree
Birmingham is one of the most popular UK Universities for postgraduate study.
We offer 140 research degrees across 47 different subject areas to suit your interests and specialisms.
We also offer flexible research options that can be studied part-time or online to help fit your research around your other current job or other commitments.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/online-learning:
Online learning at the University of Birmingham, provides you with the flexibility to study from wherever you are in the world, allowing you to fit your learning around your other commitments.
Online learning presents a modern and more flexible learning alternative for working professionals around the world.
Accessible across multiple devices wherever you are, our online learning platform allows you to study while maintaining control over daily schedules in a way that goes beyond that of an on-campus degree.
Online learning allows you to take control of your learning and and fit your studies around your other commitments.
Our user-friendly online platform, combined with unparalleled academic support, allows you to truly take control of your learning.
All of your learning materials for our online courses can be accessed in your own time, on the University of Birmingham's virtual learning environment (VLE).
From application through to graduation, we will support you throughout your exciting online learning journey.
Supporting your studies, your wellbeing and your career, you will benefit from experienced academic staff, tutors, support staff and our wellbeing resource, which includes 24-hour online support.
Studying online gives me the benefit of developing my career without having to leave my responsibilities of managing my own company.
It has helped me as a person and it has helped my business.
For every module I have studied, I have done something to improve my business.
Enhance your ability to perform at the highest level in global business.
Designed for public sector professionals aspiring to take on senior leadership roles.
Our unique fully online Masters in Bioinformatics will equip you with all the tools you need for a bright future in bioinformatics.
This programme will help you get to grips with the causes of poor mental health, how to prevent it, and how to respond to illness.
Providing the legal framework to respond to the world’s energy issues, while considering the impact of climate change.
Bringing together the latest thinking in computing, design, the social sciences and education.
Learn more about your subject area and the postgraduate student experience at Birmingham.
PhD English Literature student Ellen, writes about what to expect when studying online.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/pg-guarantee:
By choosing Birmingham, you are joining a large, diverse and vibrant postgraduate community.
Whatever the nature of your programme, we aim to provide a stimulating and engaging study experience of the highest quality.
You can expect to engage with challenging debates, theories and concepts.
We have the strength and variety of programmes to suit your individual needs and interests, backed by the academic expertise and influence, support and facilities of a research-intensive global university.
Your experience will be unique, but we will ensure you benefit from both academic and personal development that will help you to achieve success and ensure your degree is an asset in your future prospects.
Our postgraduate guarantee underscores the commitment, dedicated resources and support we deliver for all Birmingham postgraduates.
Our expert careers support and training will equip you for the next step in your journey.
Your health, wellbeing and personal development will be as important to us as your academic achievement.
You will receive expert teaching, supervision and resources to help you succeed in your degree.
You will benefit from our world-leading research culture and you will be welcomed into our vibrant and stimulating research community.
Your ambition is our ambition.
Whether you are already employed, changing career or are yet to enter the job market, when you join us you will benefit from our sector-leading employability support.
Get ready for tomorrow, with advice, guidance and opportunities at every step of your studies.
From developing new skills to preparing for a PhD, our Careers Network can help you gain an advantage in the job market or advance in your field.
A Birmingham postgraduate degree will help you to grow and boost your professional prospects.
As one of the most targeted UK university by top employers, we can teach you the skills required to make you a highly desirable graduate for employers locally, nationally and internationally.
We expect a lot from our postgraduates, but you can expect a lot from us in return.
We will work with you to identify your personal training and support needs as you engage in a challenging, yet rewarding postgraduate degree.
We use technology to enhance your learning and research.
Take advantage of our library, collections and archives and choose your mode of study; from traditional methods to using e-resources to interact with collections digitally.
Among purpose-built, modern surroundings, including labs that support both research and teaching, you will work alongside an expert team who can help you to exploit our state-of-the-art tools.
You will be taught and supervised by our outstanding academics, whose research shapes and informs your learning.
Our schools and departments, and the University Graduate School will provide the best possible research and education environment, including dedicated study spaces in which you can work, and events and training programmes to support your development.
As a safe, inclusive community, your wellbeing is our top priority.
We’ll support
every part of your mental and physical health, so you can realise your full potential.
As a civic university, we are committed to the principles of equality and diversity.
We work to make sure that all our students feel safe and valued and that we contribute to the region through education and research.
Postgraduate students make up more than 40% of our student community, so you are integral to our work as a university, whether you are learning on our Edgbaston campus, online or at our Dubai campus.
Your wellbeing is at the heart of your success.
If you are based on, or near to, the Birmingham campus, you can take advantage of a wide range of opportunities beyond the curriculum, including sports, community volunteering, arts and culture.
From joining the gym or a sports league to meeting like-minded people in a society or special interest club, you will have plenty of opportunities to socialise, network and enjoy your time at Birmingham.
Your degree will teach you the skills of research, enable you to engage with the insights of leading researchers in your field, and expose you to the challenges and excitement of original thinking and the pursuit of knowledge.
You will have opportunities to participate in the activities of the University’s research centres and work alongside our research-active academics.
You will benefit from working in an environment in which excellence and innovation are made possible by brilliant people, outstanding facilities and strong collaborative networks.
Within this nurturing academic community, you will be able to contribute to shaping and changing lives.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/open-events:
Visit our beautiful campus to find out more about the taught and research programmes we offer, learn about the support available for postgraduates, and hear from current students about life at Birmingham.
Exploring the university’s facilities and interacting with faculty staff can contribute to an informed decision-making process for prospective students.
I found the close proximity of stations and designated parking spots ensure a seamless arrival, while key areas on campus provide valuable insights into academic life.
Watch all of our online events again, in your own time.
Learn about the support available for postgraduates, and hear from current students about life at Birmingham—all from the comfort of your home.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/subjects:
At Birmingham, you will join a stimulating postgraduate community of students and researchers.
We offer over 600 taught Master's opportunities to choose from, and 140 research courses, which enable you to develop your career and pursue your interests.
Explore our subject areas below to find out what Birmingham can offer you.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/postgraduate-stories:
Discover what it’s like to live and learn at Birmingham through the voices of our postgraduate students and alumni.
No results, try again
Our postgraduate alumni go on to work with top UK employers and lead in industries worldwide.
Hear their story and how they were Built in Birmingham.
A graduate who studied PhD Astrophysics: Gravitational Wave Detection, and now works as a Senior Education and Future Workforce Manager for Space Exploration for the UK Space Agency.
Kritesh graduated with a MSc Management in 2022 and founded InStudents, a social enterprise aimed at promoting equity in education worldwide.
Frankie graduated with a BA English Literature and MA Shakespeare Studies and now works as a Volunteer Officer at the Shakespeare Birthplace Trust.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/virtual-tour:
Copy the URL to share a direct link to this 360Â° view.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/prospectus:
You can request a prospectus based on the programmes you're interested in, whether taught or research.
You can also find out more about accommodation, postgraduate support, our campus, sport and societies,  and the city of Birmingham.
Choose your subject of interest and you'll receive a link to download the prospectus via email.
If you are also looking for research (i.e.
PhD) information in more depth, such as potential supervisors, or funded projects, as well as how to propose your own research, then we recommend you use our PhD advice pages, as your search process and the information you need will be bespoke to you.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/student-experience/careers-and-employability:
High Fliers Report, The Graduate Market 2024
were in graduate level jobs or further training 15 months after graduation.
(HESA, 2022)
Careers Network offers information, advice and guidance service to help you develop your skills and gain access to career opportunities
Opportunities for work experience, internships and volunteering
As an international student, Careers Network provides you with tailored support to explore career paths, develop essential skills, and secure employment—both during your studies and after graduation
The University Graduate School runs regular events with Careers Network that are specifically aimed at postgraduate students.
Worklink is the University of Birmingham's recruitment agency which gives students the opportunity to find flexible, part time work on campus.
The Business School Careers team provided invaluable assistance throughout the application process.
I had regular monthly appointments with them to ensure that I was submitting applications correctly, updating my CV effectively, and progressing in a manner that would increase my chances of securing a desirable job.
Bhulla Beghal graduated from the University of Birmingham in 2016 studying MA Film and Television: Research and Production.
Find out about his career.
Haripreeth Iyer graduated from the University of Birmingham with a Masters in Civil Engineering and Management.
Josh Robson graduated from the University of Birmingham with a MA in International Heritage Management.
Change direction with a conversion course at the University of Birmingham.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/student-experience/careers-and-employability/graduate-stories:
Alumni
MSc International Money and Banking
Aarya is currently working as a PWM (Private Wealth Management) Performance Analyst (Contract via Russell Tobin) at Gold...
Data Science
Abdul is a graduate of MSc Data Science (2022)
Biochemistry
Abi works as a Medical Affairs Senior Scientist at Haleon.
Abi works as a Patient Safety Scientist in Oncology at AstraZeneca.
Social Work
MA Social Work graduate from the University of Birmingham
Adam is a graduate of our Sport, PE and Coaching Science programme
Computational Neuroscience and Cognitive Robotics MSc
UoB Alum, Aditya, talks about his time at the University of Birmingham and his experiences since graduating.
History
PhD History alumna at the University of Birmingham
BSc Electronic and Communications Engineering
Ahmad is a graduate of BSc Electronic and Communications Engineering (2013)
Physics
Alex is a graduate of MSci Physics (2022)

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/student-experience/meet-our-students/rishi-sher-singh:
Meet Rishi from World of Gears | Built in Birmingham | University of Birmingham
I’m Rishi, and I am the Founder and CEO of World of Gears, a sustainability consultancy based in India.
My work focuses on helping companies and supply chains implement ESG, Human Rights Due Diligence (HRDD), and ethical practices in ways that are practical, locally rooted, and aligned with global expectations.
With over 25 years of experience across sectors like automotive, electronics, FMCG, agriculture, renewables, and technology, I bring a deep understanding of both business systems and the realities on the ground.
I’m passionate about bridging corporate goals with the voices of workers, farmers, and communities through participatory and culturally sensitive approaches.
In my current role as Founder and CEO of World of Gears, no two days are ever the same, but they are always purposeful.
My work sits at the intersection of business strategy and human rights implementation, so a typical day might involve coaching supply chain leaders on ESG practices, facilitating workshops for factory managers, or reviewing progress on grievance mechanism projects with our field teams.
I spend a substantial amount of time on the ground; in farms, factories, and supplier locations engaging directly with workers, farmers, and local managers.
This allows me to stay closely connected to the real-world challenges and ensure that our solutions are not just theoretical, but practical and respectful of local realities.
Alongside project work, I dedicate time to mentoring young professionals who are passionate about responsible business.
Helping the next generation grow with clarity, compassion, and courage is one of the most meaningful parts of my role.
Amidst all this, I make space to reflect, write, and stay grounded in why this work matters,  ensuring that World of Gears doesn’t just grow, but grows with empathy and integrity.
For me, the best thing about the MBA course at the University of Birmingham was how globally diverse and intellectually grounded it was.
The classroom brought together professionals from all over the world, which meant that every discussion was rich with different perspectives.
But what really stood out was the focus on practical learning, whether through case studies, real-world projects, or deep reflection on leadership styles.
It wasn’t just about management theories, it was about how to lead with purpose, how to navigate complexity, and how to think systemically.
That blend of academic depth and real-world application gave me the confidence to later build World of Gears and lead meaningful change in supply chains across India and beyond.
My MBA from the University of Birmingham gave me the foundation to lead with purpose and think globally while acting locally.
It’s a privilege to continue applying those lessons today as I build partnerships for sustainable change across India and beyond.
The Careers Network at the University of Birmingham played a meaningful role in shaping my career path.
As an international student, I appreciated how approachable and practical the team was, they helped me refine my CV to reflect both global and local relevance, and gave me confidence in how to present my experience during interviews and networking sessions.
I remember attending career workshops that weren’t just about getting a job; they helped me think more broadly about purpose, leadership, and entrepreneurship.
I had the early spark of building something of my own, and the conversations with mentors and advisors gave me the foundation to pursue that path.
Importantly, the Careers Network created networking opportunities that expanded my thinking.
Interacting with alumni, employers, and students from diverse sectors helped me explore possibilities beyond the obvious.
That spirit of curiosity and connection continues to shape my journey as a founder today.
I also had a scholarship which allowed me to be able to self fund my MBA without any debt.
My biggest achievement during the MBA was developing the clarity and confidence to lead with purpose.
The course gave me space not only to build technical knowledge, but to reflect deeply on who I was becoming, as a professional and as a person.
Through modules focused on leadership development, reflective practice, and goal setting, I began to shape a vision for the kind of work I wanted to do and the impact I wanted to create.
I learned to set meaningful goals, not just for career progression, but for contribution, growth, and balance.
I also took on challenging group projects and learned how to work across cultures and perspectives.
But it was the inner growth, learning to think critically, lead with empathy, and stay aligned to my values, that has stayed with me the most.
That foundation became the springboard for launching World of Gears and continuing to build a values-led business

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/student-experience/meet-our-students/abi-weaver:
Meet Abi from Haleon | Built in Birmingham | University of Birmingham
My name is Abi and I studied Biochemistry with a Year in Industry at the University of Birmingham, and now I am a Medical Affairs Senior Scientist at Haleon.
Haleon is a global consumer healthcare company.
We own brands like Sensodyne and Aquafresh and Panadol.
Generally, my role within the company is to kind of support our product launches from a scientific perspective.
So, it's the interplay between the commercial teams and the science that's been done on our products, and kind of communicating that in a way that the consumers are going to understand.
My time studying at Birmingham was very influential in me being able to secure my role, the placement year specifically, very helpful, but also the flexibility that they gave me when I got back from placement.
I was able to do a research project at the Dental School at the University of Birmingham, and I was able to look at the science more specifically and worked in the labs there, which allowed me just to continue my interest that I had built up during my placement year and not lose those skills that I had previously built up and still make it relevant for my employer.
I think an industrial placement is the most influential thing that I did during my time at university, and although the process of getting a placement is pretty tough – you know, there's lots of applications to put out, loads of different companies, even just to look at – I think the only thing that I could say is just try, if you don't get one, then it's not the end of the world, there are other things and other opportunities that you can also make the most of.
But if you want to experience something in industry and you think it's probably where you want to go rather than staying in academia, then it can just open up so many doors and you can network with so many people and you don't know where those people will end up in the future.
I would definitely recommend studying at the University of Birmingham.
I think that it's a lovely green space.
I was able to meet and be friends with a bunch of amazing people.
It was just a great place for me to kick-start my career, really.
The opportunities and the flexibility that I got given at uni really allowed me to excel in what I wanted to.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/student-experience/meet-our-students/alex-best:
BSc Human Biology with International Study
Meet Molly and Alex from Burger Me Up | Built in Birmingham | University of Birmingham
I’m Alex, and I co-own Burger Me Up with Molly.
The business started almost five years ago, back when we were both in our final year at the University of Birmingham.
Today, we’ve grown from a small football club kitchen to a flagship restaurant in Stirchley, with other ventures along the way.
I look after operations, strategy, and making sure the team runs smoothly.
Running a kitchen with 8 to 10 people on a Friday night means everything needs to get done fast—and managing that requires great delegation and leadership.
Before starting the business, I worked on the grill at Nando’s, so I had a good idea of how these types of places run.
Molly brought years of hospitality experience.
When we started, we bought our first piece of equipment while still working full-time jobs and opening five days a week.
We began at Wake Green Football Club, moved to the Indie Lounge in Selly Oak, then opened our own store in Selly Oak.
From there, we added a Digbeth venture, a pop-up in Solihull, and one in Manchester before launching our flagship in Stirchley.
Birmingham is a great place to come.
It’s a campus university with a massive student feel in Selly Oak.
Everyone’s of the same mindset, you can learn, be free, and do what you want to do.
I studied Biology.
One of the biggest things I took from my degree was learning to analyse and question everything.
In business, people put deals in front of you all the time.
Having the ability to step back and think before jumping in is invaluable.
I also developed my people management skills at university, especially through sports clubs.
You learn how to get the best out of people, skills I now use daily in the kitchen.
If you want to start a business, understand the model you’re trying to create.
Because we were students, we knew what students wanted; good food, delivered fast.
Know your margins, understand your costs, take risks, and most importantly, have fun with it.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/student-experience/meet-our-students/molly-thompson-dykes:
I'm Molly, and I co-own Burger Me Up, a fun, energetic smashburger restaurant.
When Alex and I started this venture, we were still in our final year at the University of Birmingham.
Today, we run multiple locations, including our flagship restaurant in Stirchley.
Going into work every day, I'm just so happy.
I don't ever dread going into work, and I think that's a huge thing.
My focus is on ensuring we make everything in-house to create the best possible product for our customers.
From sauces to cheesecakes we work hard to keep things fresh and authentic.
We started in a little football club called Wake Green Football Club, then moved to the Indie Lounge in Selly Oak.
Later, we opened our own store in Selly Oak, expanded to a venture in Digbeth, a pop-up in Solihull, and even a location in Manchester.
Now, we’ve built a fully fledged flagship restaurant in Stirchley.
I thought the campus was beautiful, it just seemed like a place where I would fit in and enjoy.
As well as the academic side, I developed other transferable skills like independence, time management, and confidence, skills that are so important when running a business.
I also really valued the resources the University offered, like Careers Network, B-Enterprising, and the Elevate programme.
They can really give you a nudge in the right direction.
I'm so glad I got the opportunity to go to the University of Birmingham.
I’ve made friends for life and connections that have helped me well beyond graduation.
Enjoy the experience.
Get a part-time job, learn to manage your time, and have a passion for what you want to do.
Be honest and open.
If you're not sure about something, ask questions.
And take advantage of the resources at UoB—they're there to help you succeed.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/student-experience/meet-our-students/llion-jones:
BSc Artificial Intelligence & Computer Science
Meet Llion from Sakana AI | Built in Birmingham | University of Birmingham
My name is Llion Jones and when I was at Birmingham University, I studied Artificial Intelligence and Computer Science.
If I think back to my experiences at the Computer Science school, I have got very fond memories and the professors and lecturers that I had back then, I think were of very high quality and extremely supportive.
I think the reason that I was actually able to get into Google without having a referral was because I had such a good Computer Science school on my CV.
I would absolutely recommend Birmingham University to others.
I had a really good time here, very fond memories and the quality of the lecturers and the professors and the material that I learnt here definitely set me up in a big way for the success that I've had since then.
If I were to give some advice to students currently studying here, I would probably think back to what I would need to hear, that there are any number of paths to success.
You can get to where you need to go in many, many different ways and just sort of enjoy the journey basically.
My day-to-day, it actually looks very, very different every single day.
So, all the way from managing people, managing projects, interviewing potential employees and then of course, going and giving talks and visiting conferences and things like that.
So, my current role and my current company is actually a company that I started myself in Japan, Tokyo.
Somebody gave me the opportunity to start a company with them, and I was very happy to try to do something different, basically.
It's called Sakana AI and I actually left Google Research in order to start it.
And my current role is CTO.
Now, Sakana is the Japanese word for fish.
It might sound weird to call your company ‘fish’, but the idea behind it is we're trying to do things like swarm intelligence.
So, an individual fish might not be very smart, but a school of fish can maybe have emergent behaviour and we want to apply these kind of nature-inspired ideas to AI research.
I'm well-known for being a part of the team that came up with the transformer network, which is the T in ChatGPT.
And during that time at Google, we had a lot of freedom to do the research that we wanted to.
So, I'm trying to recreate the same atmosphere that we had in order to be able to come up with that kind of research.
So, when I have people start at the company, I literally tell them, I want you to work on what you think is interesting, is important.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/student-experience/meet-our-students/ashlea-hargreaves:
BSc Physiotherapy
Meet Ashlea from Queen Elizabeth Hospital | Built in Birmingham | University of Birmingham
My name is Ashlea Hargreaves.
I studied BSc Honours in Physiotherapy at the University of Birmingham and I’m a current Specialist Hepatology Transplant Physiotherapist, working at the Queen Elizabeth Hospital in Birmingham.
The variety of placements that I had at UoB were really beneficial in terms of getting me to where I am now.
The courses provided lots of placement opportunities across critical care, musculoskeletal, and actually one of my favourite placements was on critical care on the trauma unit here.
Within that role, I was able to meet some of the senior physiotherapists who I work with today, so it's quite nice having a full circle and they’re some of my best mates now, which is, again, really nice to loop back round, but certainly having that experience, we're renowned here for being a large trauma and a critical care centre, so working with those expertise is a really big pulling factor of why I wanted to come here.
I certainly felt well-supported as a student throughout my time at UoB.
The lecturers were also clinically-based, as well, so you had the transition of academia and clinical practice, which was great to draw upon.
The Library Services, as well, there was always the support around lectures, essays, dissertation, which was a big challenge for me.
But I'd certainly found that support really useful.
Certainly having a wide breadth of clinicians and academics across a different variety of physiotherapy areas really enhanced the skill and the delivery of the programme.
Anyone looking to study at the University of Birmingham, I couldn't recommend it enough.
My current role, day-to-day, is a mixture of inpatient and outpatient work.
So, currently I'm working on an NIHR funded trial looking at outcomes and quality of life for patients on the liver transplant waiting list.
So, looking at whether physiotherapy can improve frailty, strength, quality of life, both before and after transplant, which is great.
So typically, I'd come in in the morning, we'd look at what patients need to be seen on the ward, if they've had the transplant, and then we work in clinics making sure that patients are as fit as they can be going into surgery.
Within that role, I was able to meet some of the senior physiotherapists who I work with today, so it's quite nice having a full circle and they’re some of my best mates now, which is, again, really nice to loop back round.
Certainly having that experience, we're renowned here for being a large trauma and a critical care centre, so working with those expertise is a really big pulling factor of why I wanted to come here.
The advice that I'd give to my student self would just to be so open-minded with each placement and each learning opportunity that came to me.
Ultimately, just working in so many different areas, meeting so many different people, whether that be clinicians, whether that be lecturers, it's all going to enhance your growth, both personally and professionally.
It's really good to keep developing your mindset.
And just being honest and open, when you're not sure of something, make sure you say and ask questions, certainly.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/student-experience/meet-our-students/oscar-xing:
Meet Oscar from Shanghai Imilab Technology Co., Ltd | Built in Birmingham | University of Birmingham
My name is Xing Xing, and this is my Chinese name.
And my English name is Oscar.
I studied at the University of Birmingham from 2012 to 2013.
I studied a Master’s programme called Money, Banking and Finance .
Currently, I'm working at a company called IMILAB , and we are now one of the biggest home security camera makers in China.
I’m leading the entire overseas business of this company.
The reason why I chose to study at the University of Birmingham comes down to many factors.
A lot of Chinese students tend to apply to multiple schools, but for me, I wanted to find a place where I could balance my learning and life, and somewhere not as expensive as London.
So, Birmingham came into consideration.
Then, I looked for a good university in this city — and the University of Birmingham was absolutely the best choice for me.
It has a really good ranking and offers very comprehensive courses, so I could choose what I really wanted.
I felt very welcomed as an international student.
A lot of staff on campus were friendly, and it was very easy to ask for help.
There was a lot of support available, especially from the Guild of Students, so the atmosphere was really nice and comfortable.
I benefited from my degree programme in two major ways:
First , I developed strong logical thinking.
My programme required intense mathematical skills and logical reasoning.
Second , I improved my teamwork skills.
Some courses required group work to complete essays or projects.
As an international student, I had to work with people from different countries, which sometimes led to culture shock or different understandings.
Learning how to align mindsets and solve problems with such diversity was challenging, but I gained a lot of experience from it.
This has helped me in my current role, where I work with clients from Europe, the US, and the Middle East.
Understanding their perspectives can be difficult, but thanks to my experience at the University of Birmingham, I’ve become quite good at handling it.
We also had a Career Centre at the university.
When I was about to finish my degree, I went there for support — to find out what kind of job might suit me.
There were many professional coaches and several seminars and sessions.
One session I benefited from the most was about how to use LinkedIn — how to reach out to professionals, send cold emails, and get through the frustrating interview process.
That seminar was very helpful, and I’m still using techniques from it today to build strong connections.
I would definitely recommend all students to apply to the University of Birmingham.
It’s a reputable university — especially in China, where many people recognise it.
That makes it easier to be acknowledged once you return.
At the university, you’ll meet many people and experience a different life filled with stories and opportunities.
It’s going to be a truly unforgettable experience.
My name is Xing Xing, though I also go by my English name, Oscar.
I completed my MSc in Money, Banking and Finance at the University of Birmingham in 2013.
I am currently the General Manager of Overseas Business and Chairman Assistant at IMILAB Technology, one of China’s largest home security camera manufacturers.
In my role, I lead the entire overseas business operation.
This involves working with clients and partners across Europe, the United States, and the Middle East.
I coordinate international strategies, manage cross-cultural teams, and work closely with the Chairman on the company’s long-term global vision.
IMILAB is a fast-growing technology company known for its smart home products, and it has rapidly become a leader in the home surveillance market.
My workdays are dynamic and international in scope.
I engage in strategic planning, product positioning, and communication with global partners.
I often find myself navigating different business cultures and expectations—skills I began building during my time at Birmingham.
I coordinate closely with our R&D and product teams in China while ensuring our overseas customers receive high-quality, tailored solutions.
I’m also actively involved in international exhibitions, negotiations, and partnership development.
I chose the University of Birmingham because I was looking for a place where I could strike a balance between academic rigour and quality of life.
Compared to London, Birmingham offered a more affordable and comfortable environment while still being home to a top-ranking university with a strong reputation, especially in China.
The academic atmosphere was very supportive.
Staff were approachable and always ready to help, and the Guild of Students created a warm, welcoming environment for international students.
I felt truly at ease on campus.
My course equipped me with strong logical thinking and advanced mathematical skills, which have been essential in managing data-driven business decisions.
I also gained valuable experience in teamwork through group assignments with students from all over the world.
These projects helped me develop cross-cultural communication skills that are crucial in my current international role.
The University of Birmingham had a profound influence on both my career and personal growth.
One of the most impactful resources was the Career Centre, where I received guidance on job searches, LinkedIn strategies, cold emailing, and navigating interviews.
One particular seminar on building professional networks still influences how I connect with people today.
Studying at Birmingham also improved how I approach complex, multicultural business problems.
Learning to understand and align different mindsets has become one of my biggest strengths in global business development.
I strongly recommend the University of Birmingham to anyone considering international study.
It’s a highly respected institution, especially in China, which can enhance your recognition and job prospects when returning home.
More than that, it offers a life-changing experience.
You’ll meet people from all over the world, gain new perspectives, and build memories that stay with you forever.
At IMILAB, I’ve had the opportunity to lead our international business growth, working across multiple continents and adapting strategies to diverse markets.
My success is built on the foundation laid at the University of Birmingham—where I learned not only technical knowledge but also how to work with people, solve problems, and lead with confidence.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/student-experience/careers-and-employability/graduate-stories/michael-wang:
Health and Healthcare Management and Policy
Meet Michael from Renji Hospital International | Built in Birmingham | University of Birmingham
My name is Michael Chunming Wang.
My current job title is Smart Hospital Development Department, including AI settings of the hospital, digitalisation and also in charge of international medical service and the collaboration of the hospital.
I enrolled into the University of Birmingham in 2005, I graduated in 2006 for my Master of Science degree, Health and Health Care Management and Policy.
Obviously, Birmingham is one of the top leading universities in the world.
And then, my school, School of Policy at Birmingham University, it has a huge reputation not just in the UK but worldwide.
Because my classmates actually from worldwide, internationally, with different, you know, cultures that work together, it so benefits for my further career.
As you know, I'm in charge of our international medical service of the whole hospital, so these abilities, either to work with your colleagues and to understand the different cultures, to figure out how to, you know, deal with the different situations.
I feel very, you know, welcomed by our school, by the University and by the Student’s Union as well.
And the students kindly to, you know, set up mentor programme and this mentor, they’re based on the dormitory.
Actually they visited us, you know, per week to discuss and give the support, whether in the living, you know, perspective or the study perspective.
So very friendly, very supportive, and gracious about everything.
Definitely, I will recommend the University of Birmingham to any other potential students and my colleagues to study and to do the collaboration and to do the training at the University.
When you graduate, you are not graduating back to your hometown or cities alone.
Actually, you graduate still connected with the huge and strong communities of the University of Birmingham.
And that's like a fortune, that we can help together, work together, and every year we can, you know, have this opportunity, seeking new friends, new alumni, and seeking the opportunities that we can partnership to establish some of the new ecosystem and to accelerate, actually, support our job altogether.
My work focuses on the development of smart hospitals, integrating AI technologies and digital services into the healthcare system.
I also lead international medical services and global collaborations for the hospital.
In this role, I draw on many of the cross-cultural communication and collaboration skills I developed during my time at Birmingham.
My daily work involves overseeing the hospital’s digitalisation, including smart systems and AI integration, as well as managing international partnerships.
I lead strategic planning for hospital services, meet with international collaborators, and ensure high-quality patient experiences through innovative service delivery models.
Being responsible for both advanced technology development and international relations means my day is split between meetings with internal departments, global partners, and research and development teams.
Every day brings new challenges that require both technical and interpersonal skills.
I chose the University of Birmingham because of its global reputation, especially the School of Policy, which is known for excellence in health policy and management.
My classmates came from all over the world, and the diverse perspectives we shared have proved incredibly valuable in my international role today.
The learning environment was supportive and welcoming.
I still remember how the university and the Student Union made international students feel at home.
We had mentor programmes organised in our dormitories, with mentors visiting regularly to help us adjust to both academic and everyday life.
That sense of community was unforgettable.
Studying at Birmingham gave me more than a degree—it gave me lifelong global connections and collaboration skills.
In my current role leading international medical services, those soft skills and the ability to work across cultures have been just as important as academic knowledge.
Being part of the Birmingham community doesn’t end at graduation.
It’s a network that continues to support you, both personally and professionally.
Through alumni events and partnerships, I’ve continued to connect with fellow graduates to build meaningful collaborations and healthcare initiatives.
If you're thinking about studying at Birmingham—go for it.
The education is world-class, and the opportunities to learn from diverse peers will stay with you for the rest of your life.
Be open to every experience, especially those outside the classroom.
The friendships, mentoring, and cross-cultural teamwork will shape your career in ways you might not expect.
Leading the development of smart hospital services, including AI and digital health, is a major professional milestone in my career.
My time at the University of Birmingham prepared me for the complexity of international healthcare management and equipped me with the leadership and collaboration skills to innovate in a global context.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/student-experience/meet-our-students/dian-li:
Meet Dian | Built in Birmingham | University of Birmingham
In my role, I focus on brand communication, content strategy, and developing creative marketing campaigns to engage our audiences.
The academic knowledge and practical skills I gained at Birmingham have helped me confidently face real-world challenges and make a strong impression in the workplace.
Each day in my role is different.
I’m often involved in cross-functional meetings to plan marketing strategies, coordinate with design and media teams, and create content across digital platforms.
I also analyse customer data and feedback to refine our communication efforts.
The ability to think creatively and critically is key—and it’s something I first developed during my studies.
I chose the University of Birmingham because of its global academic reputation, especially within China.
The Business School is highly ranked, and many of its programmes are considered among the best in the UK.
Another big draw was the beautiful campus, which truly felt like a home away from home.
Everything—from the library and gym to cafés and social spaces—was all in one place, fostering a close-knit community.
One of the most valuable aspects of my academic journey was learning how to think critically.
Our professors always encouraged us to analyse issues from multiple perspectives and support our ideas with evidence.
This skill has helped me approach workplace challenges with creativity and an open mind.
My degree from the University of Birmingham gave me both confidence and capability.
It not only helped me gain theoretical understanding and practical skills, but also made a strong impression on my employers.
I believe that holding a globally respected qualification has opened many doors and positioned me for long-term success.
The critical thinking and analytical mindset I developed continue to influence how I approach my work.
I’ve spoken to friends who studied at other top universities around the world, and we all agree: the ability to think critically is one of the most valuable things we’ve taken from our education.
Embrace the unknown and don’t be afraid.
The University of Birmingham is full of valuable resources—both academic and personal—that will help you become who you really want to be.
Make use of them.
Also, don’t forget to join societies and make as many friends as you can.
The diversity and energy on campus is something truly unique, and the memories you create will become your most cherished treasures.
Earning my degree from Birmingham was a significant milestone, and it gave me a strong foundation for my career.
The skills I gained—especially in critical thinking and communication—continue to help me every day.
More than anything, my time at the university helped shape who I am, both personally and professionally.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/student-experience/careers-and-employability/graduate-stories/emma-wang:
International Studies with Education
Meet Emma from Heng Yuan Xiang | Built in Birmingham | University of Birmingham
My name is Emma Wang.
I was graduated from University of Birmingham in 2018, with a Master's Degree in International Studies in Education.
When I finished my study, I turned back to China and working for a local company named Heng Yuan Xiang in Shanghai, because I've been serving for this company for more than 17 years now, and when I back to China, I'm working as Charity Director of that company, and our company enjoys a high prestigious reputation in China.
I'm in charge of the charity department.
I initiate a lot of charity activities.
We are the Chinese Olympic Committee sponsor.
We sponsor three times of Olympic Games, in 2008 in Beijing and 2012 in London and 2022 in Beijing Winter Olympics.
We customised the uniforms for the Chinese committee athletes and also provided the refugee groups uniforms.
The reason I chose the studies in Birmingham, the first one is University of Birmingham enjoys a high prestigious reputation in the world, and the second one reason is the major I choose, the education, because it ranks third in the UK and the second in Europe.
And as a last reason is that because of the location, it's very near to London, and everything is very convenient.
I think the faculty gave me a lot of help, not only in my curricular, they also provide us a lot of opportunity to visit the kindergarden, boys school, and vocational school and give us a lot of opportunity to see how the education and how they work in the UK.
I really recommend the curriculars our Education School provided for us, it’s not only focussed in education area, but also enlarges my horizon in citizenship and the education iniquity and girls education in developing countries.
That gave me a deep thinking about our charity work in China, and when I come back, I can use that latest research and the latest information in my real work and it helped me to co-operate well, and talk well with the government and the non-governmental organisations.
For myself, I really enjoy my life in Birmingham and I also recommend students if you wanted to choose study in the UK, Birmingham is a good place and it's a location very close to the city centre and we have a high reputation in the world and we have a very good academic environment.
You can find your confidence in that very amazing, diverse environment and the diverse culture.
My name is Emma Wang, and I completed an MA in International Studies in Education at the University of Birmingham in 2018.
I am currently the Charity Director at Heng Yuan Xiang (Group) Co., a well-known and highly respected company based in Shanghai, China, where I have worked for over 17 years.
In my role, I lead the company’s charitable activities, collaborating with government and non-governmental organisations to implement meaningful programmes.
Our company is a proud sponsor of the Chinese Olympic Committee and has supported athletes in the 2008 Beijing Olympics, 2012 London Olympics, and the 2022 Beijing Winter Olympics.
We not only custom-designed uniforms for athletes but also extended our support to refugee groups.
My day-to-day work involves initiating and managing charity projects, maintaining partnerships with stakeholders, and ensuring that our activities contribute positively to society.
I work closely with teams to align our philanthropic efforts with the company's values and national priorities.
Collaborating with both government and non-profit sectors is a key part of my work.
I chose to study at the University of Birmingham for several reasons: its strong global reputation, the high ranking of the School of Education—third in the UK and second in Europe—and its convenient location near London.
The faculty were incredibly supportive, both in the classroom and beyond.
One of the most impactful aspects of the course was the placement opportunities, which allowed us to visit a variety of educational settings including kindergartens, boys’ schools, and vocational institutions.
These experiences helped me understand the UK’s education system and inspired new ways to approach education equity in my work back in China.
The curriculum extended beyond traditional educational theory, broadening my horizons with subjects like citizenship, girls' education in developing countries, and education inequality.
These topics had a lasting influence on my thinking and allowed me to integrate global best practices into the charity programmes I now oversee.
The academic knowledge and practical experiences I gained at Birmingham equipped me to make informed, impactful decisions in my current role.
I’ve been able to incorporate up-to-date research into my charity initiatives and engage more effectively with both government and NGO partners.
I highly recommend the University of Birmingham for its excellent academic environment and international reputation.
If you are considering studying in the UK, Birmingham offers a diverse and inclusive atmosphere that helps build confidence and broadens your worldview.
You’ll find inspiration not only in the classroom, but also in the vibrant student life and cultural diversity the city offers.
One of my proudest achievements is applying what I learned at Birmingham to real-world challenges.
The focus on equity in education and global perspectives directly influenced the design and implementation of our charity work in China.
Supporting Olympic athletes and refugee groups are just a few examples of how our work has national and international reach.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/student-experience/meet-our-students/frankie-rhodes:
Meet Frankie from the Shakespeare Birthplace Trust.
In my current role, I work as the Volunteer Officer for the Shakespeare Birthplace Trust.
I help to recruit new volunteers—we have nearly 100—and I support them at our three public Shakespeare family homes, making sure that they're happy in their role.
After my first few weeks in Birmingham, I wanted to start volunteering.
So, I started off with Birmingham Museums Trust as an Activity Volunteer.
After a while, I also began volunteering at the Library of Birmingham.
Shortly before I graduated from my Masters, I had my first part-time role as an archive assistant.
That was really helpful because it aligned well with my degree.
I was looking at archives while also writing my dissertation.
From that, I realised I wanted to work more closely with people.
My first full-time job was as a volunteer coordinator for a small museum, where I recruited volunteers.
I found it really exciting coming to Birmingham.
I remember even my first weekend—I came out of the train station, turned right, and saw what looked like a museum (and it was!).
I explored it and then found the Rep Theatre and many other places to explore.
Soon after, I visited Stratford as well.
There was just so much available, all within close proximity and easy to get to from the campus.
I think if you're interested in Shakespeare, this is really the place to be.
People from all over the world come to the Shakespeare Institute.
It's one of the only dedicated postgraduate institutions for Shakespeare.
You get the best of both worlds, the heritage institutions in Stratford and job opportunities in Birmingham.
I've chosen to still live in Birmingham, so I get to enjoy both.
Some of the best things about my course were the variety and progression.
In my first year, I had optional modules—I took creative writing and another in global politics.
As I progressed, I became more specialised, focusing on Shakespeare and specifically Shakespeare heritage.
It was a real journey from broad to specific.
The facilities were excellent.
I used the research reserve in the Main Library to check out older books for my degree, and the same at the Shakespeare Institute Library.
The academic support was great—weekly office hours allowed me to speak to tutors about my essays.
From a career perspective, the Careers Network was also very supportive.
I would absolutely recommend studying English at the University of Birmingham, especially if you love to read like I do.
The University is well-recognised when you're applying for jobs.
If you also get involved in societies alongside your course, you'll build up really useful skills that help you stand out.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/student-experience/careers-and-employability/graduate-stories/deepali-lodhia:
MSci and PhD in Physics and Astrophysics
Meet Deepali from the UK Space Agency | Built in Birmingham | University of Birmingham

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/student-experience/careers-and-employability/graduate-stories/alice-peddie:
Meet Alice from Maney Hill Primary School
I began my undergraduate degree in 2017 in Education and Sociology.
From the placements I undertook during my degree, I decided I was interested in teaching.
I then applied for my PGCE course and graduated in 2021.
The highlight of my time at Birmingham was the opportunity to have two different placements.
My first placement was in an EYFS setting, and my second placement was in primary school setting.
This helped forge my love for primary teaching and I decided to pursue my career within this field.
My day is never the same and I meet different children who I get to inspire.
My programme offered CPD opportunities, which helped with my professional development around my studies.
In my spare time, I was able to gain extra qualifications, which helped me secure my role.
My tutor helped prepare me for interviews and draft a personal statement, which proved really useful in interviews.
The course is fantastic and the team were really supportive.
Our lecturers were subject experts in their area and the pastoral care I received was fantastic.
I am excited by the opportunity to be a positive role model for these children and working in the school community.
Teaching can be an incredibly rewarding and sustainable career.
I see myself teaching for long into the future.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/student-experience/careers-and-employability/graduate-stories/elizabeth-conway:
Meet Elizabeth from the BBC | Built in Birmingham | University of Birmingham
0:05I'm Elizabeth Conway and I studied Spanish and English language at UoB0:09from 2016 to 2020, and I'm now a BBC sport0:12journalist and reporter.0:16I think my journey at uni really helped prepare me for my career,0:19because of the vast amount of people that you meet at university.0:22I think because UoB attracts people from all over the world,0:26it's just an amazing place to network and talk to people0:28and really build your confidence in that sense.0:30Because now, every day, I have to talk to random people on the street0:34and interview them.0:35So I think it really gave me confidence and set a great foundation0:38for me to be a journalist.0:40I also think the societies that they offer0:42are just fantastic and really replicate what being a journalist is like.
0:47One thing that really helped me whilst I was at UoB0:49was the Work Experience Bursary, which allowed me to go to London0:53for two weeks, all expenses paid for Sky Sports0:56News work experience, which I wouldn't have been able to do otherwise.1:00And it just completely inspired me to become a sports journalist.1:03I'd never been in a newsroom before with cameras, with TV presenters,1:07with reporters.1:08But thanks to that bursary, I was able to have a wonderful experience.1:11And it just totally inspired me to pursue my dream of being a sports reporter.
1:16So I would say my favorite part of being a sports reporter1:20is the fact that every day you wake up and you just have no idea1:22what your day is going to bring.1:24It's depending on which part of the country you're going to be sent to,1:27whatever sports news is happening,1:29whatever sport you're going to be covering.1:31The variety is just massive,1:33and you get to meet so many different people every day.1:36You chat to strangers on the street, you meet footballers,1:39you meet ordinary people with extraordinary stories.1:42And I just love being able1:43to share other people's stories on the radio or on social media or on TV.
1:48A standout moment for1:49me whilst at UoB was definitely living and working in Madrid for the year.1:53Because I was a Spanish language student, we had to do a year abroad,1:57and the prospect of going1:58and living abroad whilst I was 18, 19 was so nerve wracking.2:03It was such a daunting prospect, but I was well supported by the University,2:07who gave me confidence to go and do it and live my best life.2:10And I really did, Madrid for a year2:12was amazing.2:13To immerse myself in Spanish culture for a full year2:16was just a dream, and it really improved my language skills so much.2:20And now I use Spanish as part of my job,2:23I translate for footballer interviews,2:26I translate for Spanish-speaking athletes at different events,2:29so it's come in very handy.
2:33The advice I’d2:33give to my younger student self would be that rejection is redirection.2:37So, when you're in your final year2:38applying for loads of graduate jobs, it is so competitive2:42and there will be rejections along the way.2:44I had plenty and it is so disheartening.2:47But the best thing is to be positive and to know that rejection2:50is going to lead to a better redirection2:52and a job that you're going to love, and it's going to be more suited to you.2:55And that's what happened to me.2:56And now I'm doing my dream job, so everything works out.
3:01I would 100% recommend studying at UoB.3:04My friends and I talk about it all the time.3:06We reminisce constantly about the amazing memories we made.3:09I think academically it's amazing,3:11it's got such an incredible reputation3:13and in the industry I’m in, people recognise the University of Birmingham3:16and note it as being very academically strong.3:19But equally it's an amazing sports university,3:22it's got incredible opportunities for societies3:25and overall it's just a beautiful place to be for four years.3:27The campus is stunning and I just loved it.3:30I couldn't recommend it more.
As part of the BBC Journalism Trainee Scheme, I will work across four key areas at BBC Sport over two years including: TV, radio, online and social media.
I will research news stories, pitch ideas, present news bulletins, interview athletes, edit packages for radio and TV and produce sports news.
Achieving my dream job at BBC Sport has been far from easy but it has been worth every rejection.
Like many industries, the journalism industry is incredibly tough to break into.
3500 people applied to be part of the BBC Journalism Trainee Scheme for only 10 places across the UK.
Although I was successful in being offered the only BBC Sport trainee place, it has not been easy!
I decided I wanted to be a sports presenter and journalist in sixth form when I realised it was a job that combined my passions of sport, writing, meeting new people and languages.
I wrote match reports for my local hockey team and decided when I was 17 to write to Gabby Logan to ask for advice on how to become a sports presenter.
To my surprise, she sent me a delightful reply with advice to get as much work experience as possible.
I took this advice with me to UoB.
I continued playing hockey for the University of Birmingham whilst completing my Spanish and English Language degree.
I maintained lots of part-time jobs such as working as a Bramhall steward and a student ambassador, whilst trying to gain as much work experience as possible.
I wrote for the UoB linguist magazine, Redbrick newspaper and got involved with Burn FM radio too.
I also applied to be a media volunteer through UBSport at the IAAF World Athletics Championships where I ended up translating and interpreting for Spanish speaking athletes.
As a result of this experience, I was successful in becoming the BBC Trainee Kickoff Reporter for Sport England in my summer of second year, which gave me my first experience of working at BBC Sport in Birmingham.
It was a wonderful experience, and I knew after that summer that working at BBC Sport was my ambition.
Whilst spending a year abroad teaching in Madrid as part of my degree, I continued working as online sports editor for Redbrick.
I also gained work experience with GiveMeSport Women which allowed me to report at the Champions League Final in Madrid.
I was also chosen as one of the top one hundred young journalists in the world for the Future News Worldwide Programme delivered by Reuters.
On my return to final year, I felt in a strong position to apply for graduate jobs.
In February 2020, I was fortunate to apply for and receive a bursary from the University of Birmingham to help fund two weeks work experience at Sky Sports News.
Work experience in the media is often in London which was never affordable for me, so the bursary helped massively.
I had two incredible weeks working at Sky and I felt confident and prepared when submitting my applications for graduate schemes in journalism.
Then in March 2020, the global pandemic hit and the sports journalism industry haemorrhaged.
Week by week, each scheme I applied for either delayed its start or was cancelled completely.
By August 2020, I hadn’t secured a job and I was dismayed.
Remaining positive, I decided to focus on my other strengths which were in teaching, having enjoyed teaching during my year abroad.
I therefore applied to train as a secondary school Spanish teacher.
For the following year, I trained and qualified as a teacher, working in a North Solihull secondary school.
I loved passing on my passion for languages to younger students and learnt so much from this job.
Despite enjoying my year in teaching so much, I couldn’t shake my dream of being a sports presenter and journalist.
I kept working during my holidays and weekends as a freelancer to keep my foot in the door.
As the summer approached, opportunities slowly started to open again, and I applied for everything I saw.
By July 2021, I had secured a summer job working as a presenter for The Hundred based at Edgbaston for Birmingham Phoenix.
I presented in front of 25,000 people at cricket matches throughout the summer which was an unforgettable experience.
By August 2021, I secured a job as a content creator for the Birmingham 2022 Commonwealth Games where I spent four wonderful months working with the Queen’s Baton Relay content team.
During this time, I received an email from the BBC saying the BBC Trainee Scheme I had applied for over a year and a half ago was back running for a January 2022 start and I was invited to interview.
After a gruelling interview and assessment centre process, I got the call I have dreamed of!
“Elizabeth, we would like to offer you a job at BBC Sport!”
I love the variety in my job.
I love finding new stories, meeting new people, finding extraordinary stories about ordinary people and giving exposure to sports people who don’t get the exposure they deserve.
My time at Birmingham gave me so many experiences that I could talk about in my applications.
This ultimately allowed me to get to interview stage.
Burn FM radio and Redbrick helped me understand how to package radio shows, broadcast news and publish and propagate stories.
I formed a great network of like-minded people and attended alumni events of people in the industry who I kept in touch with and gained advice from.
Finally, my bursary to complete two weeks work experience was invaluable.
I learnt so much in those two weeks at Sky Sports News and gained huge confidence and belief in myself that I could make it in the industry.
I am so grateful for that opportunity as I know it all contributed to being able to achieve my dream.
Make the most of every opportunity that you can get at university.
Make contacts in the industry and keep in touch with them.
Gain as much work experience in the industry as possible.
Start locally and work your way out to more national opportunities.
One work experience will snowball into the next.
Ask the university if you need financial or career support.
They have so much to offer and it helped me so much.
Finally, rejection is redirection!
Every rejection I had led to another opportunity that was more suited to me.
Although each rejection was hard to take, I learnt to embrace it and move on.
I always knew that being a sports presenter and journalist was a job that combined everything I loved.
But playing hockey at university, joining societies, completing work experience and attending Q&A sessions with alumni who have gone on to be so successful in the industry made me even more determined to succeed.
I remember Tom Garry, an alumnus from UoB who worked for BBC Sport at the time and is now the Women's football reporter for The Telegraph coming to speak to Redbrick.
I was very inspired.
Studying at the University of Birmingham was the best four years of my life.
I couldn’t have wished for a greater university.
It has a beautiful campus, amazing sports and societies, fantastic teaching and it feels like a safe community.
I learnt so much from my degree but also from the people I met and all the opportunities I took from the university.
I really made the most of my experience there and I would recommend that everyone does the same.
What was your favourite thing about studying at the University of Birmingham?
My favourite thing about studying at University of Birmingham was playing for the UoB hockey team.
I loved travelling to different universities on a Wednesday to play in BUCS and of course all of the fun nights out at the guild that came with playing hockey.
UOBHC has given me friends for life and so many incredible memories.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/student-experience/careers-and-employability/graduate-stories/elle-picton:
BA American, Canadian History
I would really recommend going to the University of Birmingham to study.
Not only do they offer amazing facilities and opportunities to make lifelong friends, but the course was incredible.
I had a great time working with my tutors to learn more about my passion subject and they really were supportive with their time.
It was a really fantastic experience that has helped me get into my role.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/student-experience/careers-and-employability/careers-network:
Our Careers Network is designed to meet your unique needs with tailored support from our five college teams.
Each team includes Careers Consultants, Advisers, Employability Advisers, and Internship Officers, all committed to helping you navigate your career journey.
You’ll find your dedicated team in your college and at our central Careers Network hub in the Student Hub.
For international students and postgraduates, our specialist advisers offer enhanced support.
From one-to-one guidance and group workshops to comprehensive online resources, we provide the tools and advice you need to shape your future with confidence.
We offer subject-specific fairs, workshops, and events, bringing together leading graduate recruiters, alumni, and professional bodies.
Our up-to-date, sector-focused advice ensures you’re equipped to make informed career decisions and confidently navigate your future path.
The Birmingham Award is the University of Birmingham's recognised employability programme for undergraduate students.
Endorsed by graduate employers, the award supports you to develop and recognise the skills you gain through extra-curricular activities, and how to articulate these skills in preparation for real world recruitment process.
The award is completely flexible so you can make it work for you, it is open to all undergraduate students in any year.
The Birmingham Project offers a unique opportunity for first-year undergraduate students.
By working with employers on a collaborative group project, you will enhance your skills, discover your strengths and develop your confidence.
The B-Enterprising team provides specialist advice, support and guidance to give you the confidence to develop your own ideas, whether you want to set up your own successful business or social enterprise, or help to lead others.
The team offers a range of programmes and services designed to support you - from assisting business start-ups to enterprising skills in the curriculum - and you’ll have access to training, mentoring and start-up funding to help you shape your plans.
When you choose to study at Birmingham, you will be joining a university that prides itself on our exceptional links to a wide variety of leading industries and employers.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/student-experience/careers-and-employability/work-experience-internships-volunteering:
Being able to demonstrate your experience of the world of work, when coupled with an excellent degree from a respected university can really help you on your career journey.
At Birmingham, we give you all the support you need to secure work experience, internships and volunteer placements which can help you to develop personal and professional skills that are highly valued by employers.
At the same time, you’ll demonstrate your commitment to your chosen career path and be building a valuable network of contacts.
Internships and work experience really make you stand out in a competitive jobs market.
Research has shown that students that undertake some form of work experience are more likely to succeed in graduate recruitment processes.
Careers Network can help you make it happen with support to find, secure and finance work experience opportunities.
From conservation projects in China, to working for a social enterprise in the UK, our students undertake exciting and rewarding work opportunities.
Our work experience bursary schemes enable undergraduate students to undertake opportunities that they might not otherwise be able to afford.
Bursaries are awarded following a competitive applications process in which successful candidates are selected by a panel of experts, on their application form and interview performance.
We also target some funding for specific priority groups, ensuring everyone has equal access to good quality work experience.
Volunteering is fast becoming an essential part of the student experience, and research tells us that 93% of our volunteers believe that taking part in volunteering has increased their employability.
The University's Guild of Students has different volunteering opportunitie s that students can participate in on a regular or one-off basis.
You could support a local voluntary organisation or international charity such as Oxfam or the British Red Cross, or even set up and run your own project.
Intervol (International Volunteering Society) also sends students every year to projects across the globe, including promoting sexual health awareness, nutrition and maternity care in developing countries; animal rescue and conservation in Ecuador and other long-term initiatives.
Guild volunteers have an induction and receive advice and support before and during the period of volunteering.
Specialised training including Child Protection and First Aid, and free Disclosure and Barring Service checks (a requirement of UK law) are also provided to those volunteering with a Guild project.
Volunteering undertaken through the Guild of Students is also recognised as part of the Personal Skills Award (PSA).
Mentoring is a great way to gain insight into your future.
The mentoring programmes that the Careers Network offers provide students with the opportunity to receive one-to-one mentoring from high-profile Birmingham alumni.
The leadership mentors – experts in their fields, from media to medicine – spend time with you to provide practical advice on employability and offer invaluable support as you prepare to enter the workplace.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/research/centres-institutes/birmingham-institute-of-forest-research/volunteering:
Our students are closely integrated into the cutting-edge research underway at the BIFoR FACE facility.
Since we opened up opportunities for students to volunteer with us, they have clocked-up over 3,000 hours of volunteering.
Sign up to become part of a our network.
By completing this short sign up form you will:
We try to keep track of volunteering hours so we can give service awards and write references accordingly.
It also helps you identify on your CV to future employers the level of commitment given.
Mattie Park, a Geography student at University of Birmingham said, "During my time at BIFoR I thoroughly enjoyed getting to know the team, who made me feel like a valuable member, while also taking the opportunity to practice fieldwork skills in a proper outdoor laboratory.
The work was interesting, enjoyable and I would thoroughly recommend gaining some work experience at BIFoR to anyone with an interest in that type of science."
Rejwana, who completed a summer voluntary internship with BIFoR through the Nuffield Summer Research Placement said, "I have had so much fun on this placement and have learnt so much in a university environment.
I would definitely recommend taking up one for BIFoR as bias as it is, I am grateful for this opportunity and all the people who have made this experience worthwhile."
Ekta, who also completed a summer voluntary internship with BIFoR said, "I wholly enjoyed my experience as it was a real eye opener to exactly what kind of situations or conditions trigger a scientist to do research about a particular topic, or how research requires you to look at the specific details and look to improve the world around us – especially when the world is changing so drastically due to global warming."
Deemah, who came to us on a Nuffield Summer Research Placement said, " Overall, my experience at BIFoR was extremely entertaining and engaging; I’ve discovered much about trees and their significance to the environment and us, in particular, the different diseases that affect them which puts them at risk.
This is something that I would recommend to aspiring scientists or researchers as I’ve been obliged for the opportunity.
Elizabeth Ogilivie, a second year Biosciences student at UoB, said “Volunteering with BIFoR has been a wonderful experience, I’ve learnt lots of new data handling skills, and become especially good at sorting the dried leaves collected from the woodland!
It feels great knowing that the work I am doing is going to be used for real research that will help us to better understand the effects of climate change.”
Gold level volunteer Sarah Sheehan, who completed a summer placement said, “Each day was unique and varied, enabling me to gain deep insights into the different components”

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/student-experience/careers-and-employability/graduate-stories/share-your-story:
As a Birmingham graduate we know that since graduation you’ve gone on to great things.
That’s why we want to celebrate and share your success with future Birmingham students.
Share your story of your time at Birmingham and your career to date on the form below and we may use it on our website or prospectus.
We may also be in touch to arrange capturing your story on video.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/apply:
For all undergraduate courses at Birmingham, you apply online through UCAS.
For more information and advice around the application process, please visit the UCAS website.
Find out why we're the most targeted university by top graduate employers.
Top tip: Over the summer you can do extra reading around the subject you wish to study, which will help with your personal statement – a key part of your application
Top tip: If you’re applying with the support of your school/college, they’ll give you a buzzword to enter into the UCAS Hub – this will link your application to your school/college so that they can provide support, including adding your reference.
If you are applying independently within the UK (i.e.
not through a UK school or college), the most comprehensive source of supporting information is the UCAS website .
If you are applying from overseas and your school/college is not registered with UCAS, you are responsible for your own application.
Advice is available from the British Council and from the UCAS website .
Your personal statement is your chance to convince admissions tutors to offer you a place on the courses you’re applying for.
You should showcase your passion for your subject and show that you have the motivation and ambition to succeed.
Make sure your personal statement is relevant to the course(s) you're applying to.
You want to show your genuine interest in the course and that you have taken the time to properly find out what's involved.
Make sure to analyse your reading, activities and work experience - don't just say what you've done and that you enjoyed it.
Everyone's personal statement should be different, so while it might be helpful to find templates on the internet or at school to get you started, you should make sure that you make it your own.
At least 75% of your personal statement should be related to what you want to study, and why you want to study that subject.
You need to tell us what it is about your chosen subject that interests you so much that you have chosen it above everything else.
Show your passion, enthusiasm and intellectual curiosity.
We like to see evidence that your interest is genuine.
For example:
The remaining 25% of your statement should be about your other achievements.
You don’t need to write a list of everything you have done at school, but we are interested to see if you have taken full advantage of the opportunities that have been available to you.
When you use these examples, you should demonstrate the skills and experiences that they have given you and how they will help you at university.
Meeting the entry requirements
The first step is to make sure you can meet the entry requirements for the course you’re interested in.
University offers will be made based on predicted grades from Year 12, and some particularly competitive courses and universities will look at your GCSE results, too.
At Birmingham, you can use our Offer Calculator tool to check your predicted grades and whether they meet the requirements for your chosen course.
There is more flexibility for some courses than others.
Widening your subject knowledge
To support your personal statement, there are a few things that you can do to widen your knowledge of your chosen subject.
But be creative and think outside the box, there are many things you can do in addition to our suggested list below:
Writing a great personal statement
The personal statement is an important part of the admissions process and is your opportunity to tell admissions tutors why they should offer you a place.
The things that universities are looking for can vary, but all will want to be persuaded that you have a genuine academic interest in the subject and that you have the motivation and enthusiasm to succeed.
Gaining work experience
Work experience can be a useful way of demonstrating your interest, motivation and transferable skills as well as providing you with a useful insight into potential future careers.
For some vocational courses, work experience might form part of the entry requirements, so check them carefully.
Extended Project Qualification
If there’s an area of study you really love – whether it’s engineering, languages, sport or art-based – an Extended Project Qualification (EPQ) gives you the chance to develop your skills and knowledge and impress universities at the same time.
At the University of Birmingham, we recognise the EPQ as valuable proof of your capacity for independent learning, as well as your passion for the subject you want to study at a higher level.
So when we see it on your UCAS application, it shows us that you’re serious.
Carry on having fun!
Keep up any extra-curricular activities such as music, drama, sport, volunteering, coaching and more, as all these things help you to develop relevant skills for university.
Think about the relevant skills and attributes these activities have helped you to develop, and how you can apply them to life at university and in your future career.
We encourage applications from people who have been out of education for some time and whose academic qualifications might not meet the current, standard programme entry requirements.
The Admissions Tutor for the programme that interests you will be happy to advise on the suitability of your qualifications and experience.
You may be invited to attend an informal interview, take a test or submit a piece of written work as part of your application.
You may also be advised to undertake an access course before applying.
Some programmes, have very specific entrance requirements and these are detailed both on individual course listings in course finder and in our terms and conditions.
For advice on specific courses, contact the Admissions Tutor listed against the course entry in the your course page or go to the relevant department's website.
Tips for writing your personal statement
Find out what the undergraduate course entry requirements are to study at the University of Birmingham.
Find out more about how we make undergraduate offers at the University of Birmingham.
We offer a wide selection of programmes for Year 12 and Year 13 students.
These programmes help to introduce you to university life and studies.
They also assist with applications, decision-making, as well as offer alternative options and financial support.
Information around the support the University provides to care leavers.
Support for students estranged from their parents including help with making the right choices and receiving financial help and assistance.
If you are a young carer, we can offer you a range of additional support to help with your transition from school or college to university.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/courses:
Gain cutting-edge skills, industry insights, and global opportunities to excel in the dynamic world of finance.
Join a community of ambitious learners and shape your future today!
Enhance your skills in acute medicine with the postgraduate module at the University of Birmingham.
Ideal for advanced clinical practitioners.
This course is designed to provide you with the knowledge and skills to effectively use healthcare simulation technology.
This is a module on the MSc Genomic Medicine Programme at the university of Birmingham, UK.
It is also available as a stand-alone module for CPD.
During the Advanced Chemical Engineering you will learn about the aspects of chemical engineering that deal with the design and development of formulated products such as food and pharmaceuticals
This course is designed to improve your knowledge and abilities in conducting physical health assessments for patients in your specialised clinical field.
The fully funded Advanced Clinical Practice (Advanced Critical Care Practitioner) Degree Apprenticeship trains registered physiotherapists to deliver advanced practice across various specialties.
This postgraduate programme provides healthcare professionals with specialised skills in diagnosis, treatment, and leadership, designed to enhance patient care across diverse clinical settings.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/visit-us:
Find out more below about our undergraduate and postgraduate Open Days at our Edgbaston campus, or check for upcoming events at our Dubai campus.
Our alumni work with top UK employers and lead in industries worldwide, using their Birmingham-honed skills to make an impact around the globe.
Our graduate stories highlight the achievements of Birmingham alumni and the way their university experience shaped their journey.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/libraries/our-libraries/main-library:
The Main Library is the largest of our sites, with nearly 2,000 study spaces and is open 24/7 during term time.
Located in the centre of campus in the Green Heart, it houses the majority of our collections both on the upper floors and in our Research Reserve.
The Main Library houses over 400,000 books, journals, DVDs, CDs and more, over the first, second, and third floors.
Search for items on our library catalogue , or use our interactive map to browse by subject.
Over 50 km of research stock is in the Research Reserve on the lower ground floor.
You can borrow items using the self-issue machines on the ground, first, and second floors, and can bring them back using the returns machine on the ground floor, just before the entrance gates.
Some of the PCs in the Main Library can be booked in advance , and we have laptops you can borrow .
Our multifunctional devices allow you to print, scan and photocopy using the same machine.
We also have several dedicated book scanners .
Fellows Coffee Shop sells sandwiches, cakes, snacks, and hot and cold drinks, with seating.
The fourth floor Main Library Training Room and the Academic Skills Centre on the first floor are used for a variety of skills and research training sessions.
This chill-out area is on the ground floor of the Main Library, with soft seating, helpful information, and contacts for advice.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/student-experience/living-in-birmingham:
Birmingham isn’t just where you’ll study - it’s where you’ll start a new chapter.
It’s a city to make your own, a second home full of opportunities, and a place to create lasting memories.
As the UK’s top regional city for quality of life, and with almost 40% of its population under 25, Birmingham is one of the youngest and most dynamic cities in Europe.
It's the perfect setting to shape your future.
With a buzzing cultural scene, a vibrant community, and a rich history, it’s no wonder so many of our students choose to stay long after graduation.
Birmingham's waterways make the ideal escape to unwind in the middle of the busy city.
There are plenty of green spaces, vibrant waterfront bars and restaurants, and historic architecture to explore.
The Library of Birmingham provides a showcase for Birmingham's internationally important collections of archives, photography and rare books.
Cannon Hill Park is only a couple of miles from campus and includes 80 acres of formal parks and 120 acres of conservation and woodland.
It’s a brilliant place to enjoy a walk, run or cycle, or just to sit and relax in the Midlands Art Centre.
Our ever-changing city offers everything you need from independent shops to famous brands in the city centre.
You’ll be spoilt for choice.
As well as major shopping centres like the Bullring, Selfridges, Mailbox and Grand Central, you can find vintage clothing stores and artisan workshops in the world-famous Jewellery Quarter.
Birmingham is such a great place to live, spend a day getting to know it and you'll fall in love
When the sun sets, Birmingham turns up the volume.
From underground warehouse raves in Digbeth’s Lab 11 to indie gigs at The Sunflower Lounge, the city pulses with energy.
You’ll also find jazz at Eastside Jazz Club, classical concerts at Symphony Hall, and open-air festivals at Mostly Jazz, Funk & Soul.
Whether you're into global acts at the Utilita Arena or intimate, open-air performances at the Botanical Gardens, Birmingham’s music scene is as diverse as its people.
Birmingham is a city built on creativity and craft.
Once known as the “city of a thousand trades,” its legacy lives on in the Jewellery Quarter - a designated World Craft City where 40% of the UK’s handmade jewellery is still produced.
The city’s industrial roots have evolved into a thriving cultural scene.
Former factories in Digbeth now host street art and studios.
Festivals including Birmingham Pride and Moseley Folk & Arts Festival see the city come alive in colour and passion.
Art lovers can explore over 40 galleries at the Birmingham Museum & Art Gallery, discover cutting-edge exhibitions at Ikon, or catch world-class performances at the Birmingham Hippodrome, home to the Birmingham Royal Ballet.
From independent theatres to open-air concerts, Birmingham’s creative energy is everywhere.
With flavours from every continent and prices to suit every student, Birmingham is a true foodie city.
From the legendary Balti Triangle to the award-winning street food at Digbeth Dining Club, our food scene reflects the multicultural heart of the city - bold, diverse, and always evolving.
Explore authentic Korean comfort food at Kimchi, grab bao buns at Tiger Bites Pig, or enjoy a full English breakfast at Grand Central Kitchen.
From Chinatown’s hidden gems to independent bakeries, cocktail bars, and late-night eats, Birmingham’s food festivals, pop-ups, and community markets offer endless ways to discover your next favourite dish.
From high street favourites to hidden gems, Birmingham is a shopper’s paradise.
Head to the Bullring for over 150 stores, or explore Digbeth’s creative quarter for vintage finds, handmade goods, and pop-up markets.
Discover unique gifts in the world-famous Jewellery Quarter, or browse boutique shops in the elegant Great Western Arcade.
Whether you're after fashion, food, tech, or something totally unique and unexpected, Birmingham’s mix of big brands and small businesses means there’s always something new to explore and plenty of student discounts to enjoy.
At the centre of England, Birmingham benefits from being a major cosmopolitan city with the beautiful countryside just a stone’s throw away.
With more parks than Paris and more miles of canal than Venice, there are lots of cycling and walking routes throughout the city, including a cycle route from the city centre straight through to the University.
As one of the UK’s greenest cities, Birmingham hosts over 8,000 acres of parks and open spaces to explore.
Whether you're relaxing by the lake in Cannon Hill Park, walking along the canals, taking a trip to Sutton Park or enjoying a picnic in the Botanical Gardens, there’s always a peaceful spot nearby to unwind and recharge.
From Birmingham New Street station, you can reach all corners of the UK easily.
Reach London in 90 minutes, and Stratford-Upon-Avon in under an hour - and most importantly, you can get to the University itself (which has its own train station helpfully called ‘University’) in just 7 minutes.
Home to a major international airport and surrounded by the UK’s network of motorways, no weekend trip is far away from Birmingham.
Two miles from campus, Moseley is home to many independent cafés, vintage stores and green spaces.
It brings together creatives and students alike with markets, festivals and events.
Digbeth is one of the city’s most up-and-coming areas and combines beautiful street art with independent shops.
Searching for live music venues?
Swing by The Mill and Mama Roux’s for a mix of music genres.
Harborne is a popular spot for students due to its proximity to campus, making it the perfect place to take a break from the buzz of student life.
With regular farmers markets and a vibrant high street full of cafés and charity shops, Harborne strikes the perfect balance between a lively town and a quaint village.
The Jewellery Quarter is a national treasure and famous for its bespoke jewellery making legacy which dates back over 200 years.
Home to independent boutiques, galleries and studios, immerse yourself in its close-knit community just a short distance from the city centre.
Visit Birmingham for yourself by booking on to one of our regular Open Days or find out why our students fall in love with the city by reading one of our student written blogs.
Undergraduate student Millie talks through her top places in Birmingham including runs along the canal, nights in Digbeth and trips to Sutton Park.
Student content creator Aiyesha Swarnn shares some reflections on what makes her feel safe and secure in Birmingham.
Postgraduate student Danny talks through his favourite things about Birmingham including food, sports, music and nightlife, green spaces and even the Birmingham Christmas Market.
PhD student Georgie Rowe had just left their rural Norfolk home when they started University in Birmingham.
Adjusting to a big city and new faces felt overwhelming—could it ever feel like home?
Undergraduate student Guneet shares his sober social activities to do in Birmingham.
From bowling to movie nights, there's a wide variety to explore and still discover amazing places in the city.
Here are some other websites you can use to explore what else Birmingham has to offer:

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/cultural-attractions/lapworth-museum-of-geology:
From volcanoes to dinosaurs, imagination soars when visitors explore 4.6 billion years of history with the exceptional objects in our galleries.
Entry is free to all and there is no need to book.
Housing one of the UK’s most outstanding geological collections, we support teaching at the University of Birmingham as well as international researchers.
On Monday 25th August 2025 (August Bank Holiday), the Museum is closed.
Normal opening hours will resume on Tuesday 26th August 2025.
Until Friday 29th August 2025 inclusive, the Museum is open Monday to Friday 10:00 till 17:00.
From Monday 1st September 2025 inclusive, the Museum is open Monday to Friday 10:00 till 16:00.
Saturday and Sunday opening times do not change.
Please see our "Visit the Museum" page for more information.
For any questions regarding events, please contact lapworth@contacts.bham.ac.uk
Between 8 Feb - 7 Sept 2025, become a detective and unravel a series of curious, whimsical mysteries in the Museum.
Ben Miller was the first stand-up artist in residence at Hawai'i Volcanoes National Park.
Learn and laugh as he explores volcanology, history, cats, cookies, and more at the Lapworth Museum!
From 14 July, visit our new temporary exhibition where we celebrate student life and research centred at the Museum and associated programmes over the last 125 years.
Ever wondered about your local rocks, fossils and wildlife?
Take part in a family fun workshop to identify real fossils from around Birmingham.
Artwork: Ning-ning Li
Join us for our first live at the Lapworth music performance of the year where Mediterranean soul meets acid jazz groove.
Our popular Quiz Nights are back!
Join us on 1st October 2025 for an evening of trivia surrounded by fossils, questions ranging from film and TV to science and geography.
Join us on 6th Oct (12:00-13:00) for a tour of the Museum and behind-the-scenes.
All tours are free and run as first-come, first-served.
Meet at reception or enquire with the Director.
Join us on 5th November 2025 for an evening of trivia surrounded by fossils, questions ranging from film and TV to science and geography.
The mighty Major Toms will perform a tribute to the music of David Bowie and other Glam Era delights.
Join us on 3rd December 2025 for an evening of trivia surrounded by fossils, questions ranging from film and TV to science and geography.
See images from our previous events.
The Museum's new shop has arrived.
Drop in to see our new gifts, from cuddly toys to fascinating books, there is something for everyone.
Calymene blumenbachii — An exceptionally well-preserved ‘Dudley Bug’ or ‘Dudley Locust’, a 428-million-year-old fossil trilobite from the Much Wenlock Limestone Formation of Dudley.
It dates back to a time when much of the area was covered by warm, shallow, tropical sea with small reefs containing a rich and diverse ecosystem.
It was discovered in the 1830s and described as the finest example ever found.
Calcite and galena coated with quartz — This exquisite mineral specimen comprises pink, rhombic calcite and lead-grey galena, both encrusted with fine quartz crystals.
It is one of the largest and finest examples from the former lead mines of South Shropshire.
While the lead ores were exploited by the Romans, it was during the 18th and 19th centuries that the mines became some of the most productive lead mines in Europe.
The specimen is from the collection of Robert Jasper More (1836–1903) a Shropshire-based landowner and MP.
Milne-Shaw seismograph — Black Country born John Shaw (1873–1948) became interested in the study of earthquakes and began designing seismographs.
His prototype was constructed from anything he could get his hands on, from tin cans to old bicycle parts, and then it was precision made in the Midlands.
He converted the cellar and greenhouse of his home into a mini production line, from which the machines were distributed worldwide.
This is Shaw’s own instrument, which he used in the seismic recording station at his home in West Bromwich.
Shaw became a well-known authority, providing early reports of distant earthquakes and broadcasting a series of talks on seismology for the BBC.
Neonate ichthyosaur — This is an extremely small (70 cm) and very young, example of Ichthyosaurus communis, a 199-million-year-old marine reptile.
It is a newborn, or neonate, just a few weeks old, and is exceptionally well-preserved, with the fossilised remains of its last meal in its stomach.
It was previously thought that younger ichthyosaurs solely ate fish, but this specimen revealed the remains were that of prehistoric squid-like animals called belemnites.
Lapworth cross-section — This beautiful cross-section illustrates the geological structure of Dob's Linn in the Southern Uplands of Scotland.
It shows the rock units and the zones of graptolite fossils identified by Charles Lapworth, which allowed him to unravel the complex geological history of the region.
The section was drawn by Lapworth as a large teaching aid at Mason College, the forerunner of the University of Birmingham.
During lectures, it was hung, along with others, on a rope and pulley system operated by Lapworth, appearing at the front of the lecture room when required - the PowerPoint slides of the 1880s.
________________________________________________
A visit to the Museum provides insight into how the Earth and its life began and changed through time.
Help enable our exciting events and develop our globally important collections.
Director
Jon oversees the direction and management of the Museum.
Digital Technologies Officer
Andy specialises in specimen digitisation and 3D reconstruction.
Assistant Curator
J.
D.
cares for the Museum’s >300,000 specimens.
Learning, Communication and Engagement Officer
Anna is the Museum's secondary school learning officer, and also supports with communications and events delivery.
Learning and Community Development Officer
Jake is the Museum's contact for primary learning and the local community.
Data Scientist and Revenue Optimisation Manager
Angela blends data science and strategic insight to shape the future of the Museum.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/bramall:
The Bramall Music Building is a bustling multipurpose building at the centre of the University of Birmingham’s Edgbaston campus.
Home to the University’s Department of Music and state-of-the-art teaching and performance spaces, the building attracts many visitors and welcomes performing artists from across the world.
When not hosting concerts and performances, the Elgar Concert Hall welcomes delegates from across the globe through its doors for standout events and conferences on campus.
Facilities for our students and researchers
Concerts and performances
Conferences and events

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/schools/lcahm/departments/music/universitymusic:
University Music is the heart of extra-curricular music making at the University of Birmingham.
Open to all students, staff, and the local community, there are over 40 different ensembles you can get involved in, along with competitions, concerts, and an extensive health and wellbeing programme.
From orchestras to choirs, folk music and jazz, an award-winning brass band, and extensive early music provision, we offer a wide range of opportunities to perform with like-minded musicians under the guidance of our professional team.
You can even run an ensemble yourself through the University Music student committee, along with enjoying the facilities at the University Music Hub .
University Music
Get involved
Explore our ensembles - instrumental and choral, auditioned and un-auditioned.
Find out how to get involved and learn about our audition process.
Sign up for information from University Music and Concerts.
University Music is the extra-curricular music programme at the University of Birmingham, and incorporates ensembles, mentoring, and coaching from the Department of Music.
We are open to students, staff, and the local community, and information on how to get involved can be found on these pages.
All of our ensembles require participants to be members of University Music – details of how to join, along with the rules of our offer, can be found by clicking the button below.
If you have any queries about our activities and our performing ensembles, please contact the University Music and Concerts Team .

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/accommodation/index.aspx:
Coming to Birmingham to study might be your first time living away from home.
Our student accommodation will allow you to enjoy your independence in safe, welcoming and sociable surroundings.
We're lucky to have over 7,500 student rooms at University of Birmingham.
Moving into university is your chance to live independently and embrace everything student life has to offer.
That’s why our accommodation isn’t just a place to rest your head.
It’s an experience like no other – a place where you can find your people, discover who you are, and thrive in supportive surroundings.
Keep an eye on this page for the latest updates and announcements
From lakeside ensuites to spacious studios, sustainable townhouses to modern shared accommodation, we offer homes to suit your lifestyle and your budget.
When it comes to student homes, no one size fits all.
That’s why each of our villages has its own unique character so you can find where you belong.
Be a part of something special.
Join our vibrant community – made up of nearly 7,500 students from around the world – where no two days are ever the same.
Take the first step in your university journey.
Apply for accommodation today and look forward to having everything campus has to offer at your fingertips.
Get in touch with us today online, by phone or by visiting us in University Centre.
Recognising students feel safe, supported and happy living in our accommodation.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/student-experience/study-abroad:
These opportunities provide students with a time of personal and academic development, and are proven to increase employability.
Discover locations and experiences all over the world for a transformative international experience and to become a Global Citizen.
Going abroad as part of your University experience guarantees a range of benefits, both personal and professional.
From a few weeks to up to a year, taking part in a Go Global opportunity will
Why study abroad?
Find out more about our international experiences.
Find out more about our international summer experiences.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/student-experience/academic-experience:
What you choose to study at university is up to you and this experience is a strong foundation for the rest of your life.
Our Main Library is home to a range of facilities to suit your working style, with space for group study, silent study, and informal areas too.
We also have specialist libraries and resources across campus to support your needs.
The Teaching and Learning building provides teaching and social study spaces to support the modern university experience.
The Collaborative Teaching Laboratory brings together practical teaching activities across the sciences with wet and dry labs and a computer e-lab.
The School of Engineering building brings together a number of engineering disciplines under one roof.
Our Open Days give you the perfect opportunity to discover our campus
You can think of your education at Birmingham as a two-way conversation.
We put you at the heart of your learning enabling you to shape your own development.
Your lecturers are subject experts who use everything from large lectures to small discussion groups and practical sessions to engage you in new ideas and discoveries.
Our teaching and research are closely interlinked, so there will be plenty of opportunities for you to become involved in exploring new ideas in your subject and beyond.
Studying as part of the Birmingham community is likely to be different to what you have experienced before.
You will be challenged and stretched, and you will develop the independence that is essential for many graduate careers.
As well as learning about your subject in depth, you will develop the all-round skills needed for a modern working world, such as critical thinking, problem solving, communication, innovation and creativity.
For many students, the transition to university is all about experiencing a transformation in the way that you will learn.
That’s why we offer so much support at each stage of your study if you need it.
Universities like ours are passionate about making the world a better place.
The big challenges of our time require collaboration between individuals and across disciplines and our teaching and research are closely interlinked to support this.
In your first year, volunteer to be part of the Birmingham Project to give yourself a unique opportunity to work with academics and other students from across the university, and with leading employers, to tackle a ‘real world’ problem – a great addition to any CV.
Studying at Birmingham will be different to what you have experienced before, and you will have access to a range of support to enable you to get the most out of your time here.
You will have a Personal Tutor right from your first day, and there are Wellbeing Tutors and Welfare Officers in our Schools too.
The University has a wide network of support around student wellbeing and this is tailored to your personal circumstances.
You will have access to the University’s Academic Skills Centre, which provides workshops, online tutorials, and appointments with specialist advisors to give you the support you need around your academic life.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/student-experience/stories:
Explore a wide range of blogs and stories shared by undergraduate students and alumni from the University of Birmingham.
Find out more about what some of our graduates have achieved and how their time studying at Birmingham helped them on their journey.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/student-experience/advice-support/academic-skills:
The University Academic Skills Centre, located in the University’s Main Library, supports all new undergraduate students to develop their mathematical, academic writing, digital, and general study and research skills.
The Academic Skills Centre helps students to become more effective and independent learners by providing a range of support services.
These include drop-ins, one-to-one appointments, online resources and workshops.
Students may also come across the Centre in modules as they embed workshops or resources directly into programmes.
To contact the Centre email asc@contacts.bham.ac.uk .
The transition to a new way of learning can be a challenge.
To help you prepare for the differences of studying at undergraduate level we have the following interactive resources.
Get to grips with what it is like to study at a university such as Birmingham with our interactive study skills materials site Skills4Uni .
The Academic Skills Gateway includes resources covering essential academic skills like time management, independent learning, and getting the most out of your lectures and seminars.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/student-experience/advice-support/childcare-facilities:
Settings are calm and welcoming, with natural resources and extensive outside space.
Outdoor learning, sustainable practices, curiosity and mindfulness are key values.
At The Maples (Edgbaston Park Road), curiosity-led learning takes place in a home-from-home setting.
Thanks to a location next door to Winterbourne House and Garden, children visit the botanic garden daily to explore and learn.
The Nursery uses no single-use disposable wipes, and cloth nappies are welcomed.
The Maples is for children aged 2 to 4-years-old.
07.55 - 18.20 Monday to Friday, 50 weeks of the year.
Closed for approximately eight days over the Christmas vacation and four days over the Easter vacation.
Children can attend full time, or on a sessional basis of mornings or afternoons.
At The Elms (Edgbaston Park Road) and The Oaks (off Bristol Road, Selly Oak), your child can go on an adventure at Forest School, unwind in the Sensory Room, and enjoy a host of activities from music and cookery to yoga and sport.
These nurseries are for children aged 6 weeks to 4 years.
07.30 - 17.55 Monday to Friday, 50 weeks of the year.
University of Birmingham students receive reduced fees at these nurseries.
All fees are detailed on the Birmingham Day Nurseries website.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/student-experience/advice-support/disability:
The Student Disability Service is here to support you throughout your time studying at the University of Birmingham.
Find out how you can apply with our service and access the support you need, allowing you to focus on your studies and enjoy your time as a student.
You can find out more about our service and answers to most of our common frequently asked questions by accessing our Student Disability Service Guide (Word - 85 KB).

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/student-experience/advice-support/faith:
At Birmingham, we respect all faiths and provide opportunities for prayer in our multi-faith chaplaincy, St Francis Hall.
We have Christian, Muslim, Jewish, Hindu, and Buddhist chaplains as well as many student-led faith groups and societies.
Our Multi-Faith Chaplaincy is for students of all faiths and none.
Here you can meet for worship, relax in the Oasis Lounge, see a chaplain for spiritual and religious advice or pastoral counselling.
We have chaplains from most major faith traditions, as well as many faith groups and societies run by students.
You’ll find more about these events on the multi-faith chaplaincy events website .
The chaplaincy, which you’ll find next to the Guild of Students, has two large worship rooms, a small room for quiet prayer or meetings and a large lounge and kitchen facilities.
The Selly Oak Chapel at our Selly Oak campus is also open during the day for prayer and reflection.
If you need support or have a question, our team of full and part-time chaplains from a diverse range of faiths are available every weekday during term time.
They’ll talk with you in a relaxed atmosphere and extend a warm welcome to all, regardless of religious belief or background.
The University’s vibrant spiritual and social life centres on the lively student societies based at the chaplaincy.
There are groups representing most major faiths including Buddhism, Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism and Sikhism.
For more information, please take a look at the Guild of Students religious and faith groups .

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/student-experience/advice-support/health-wellbeing:
We want you to enjoy and make the most of your time at Birmingham.
When you’re away from home and faced with all the new challenges and excitement of university life, it can be all too easy to forget about your own personal wellbeing.
So we make sure you have all the support you need to stay healthy and happy, and to succeed in your academic studies.
If you’re feeling a bit nervous about your first few days at university, don’t worry.
Your School will allocate you a Personal Tutor who will meet with you at the start of your programme to help you begin your studies in the best way.
They’ll also be on hand for advice and guidance throughout your time with us.
If you’re living in University accommodation, you’ll also be allocated a trained Student Mentor .
We have a range of resources to help you develop skills to manage any practical, emotional and psychological issues that may have an effect on your studies.
Our team of professional counsellors offers one-to-one sessions, including online counselling, as well as group workshops on everything from time management to coping with exam stress.
You can also access a wide range of interactive resources that enable you to set and achieve goals relating to your physical health, diet, mental wellbeing – even getting a good night’s sleep.
Explore Your Wellbeing Portal for more resources.
Guild Advice is a professional student advice service, helping you with any financial, academic, employment, housing and immigration issues you may face during your time at the University.
The service is free and you can either drop into the centre for a chat in a safe, relaxed environment, or contact its online service where professional advisors can respond to your queries or concerns.
The University is a centre of excellence for sport and fitness.
We offer a huge range of competitive sport with our 55 sports clubs, from American Football to Wing Chun Kung Fu, which attract around 4,000 students.
The main Sport & Fitness Club has many activities you can get involved with to keep active such as Pay & Go exercise classes, climbing and squash.
We also offer sport volunteering opportunities through The Extra Mile programme for those who want to participate in sport through volunteering, coaching or officiating.
Most students are entitled to healthcare on the NHS.
We recommend that you sign up with a doctor and dentist near the University - you can find out more about locating a suitable practice on the Welcome website.
The University has its own recovery programme for people in recovery from alcohol, drug or behavioural addictions.
The programme provides a range of activities and support meetings to help you maintain your recovery while you study with us.
Better Than Well is coordinated by academic staff from the Institute for Mental Health , but run by students supporting their peers to maximise educational and social opportunities whilst continuing a personal programme of recovery from addiction.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/student-experience/advice-support/money-advice:
Knowing that your finances are under control means you can relax, concentrate on your studies and enjoy your time here at Birmingham.
For UK students beginning their studies in September 2026, we intend to charge the maximum approved tuition fee per year for our full-time undergraduate courses, subject to Office for Students' approval.
Loans from the Government are available for all eligible full-time UK students to cover tuition fees and assist with living expenses.
The amount that you can borrow to help with your living costs will be determined by your household income and where you choose to study.
More information about fees and funding, including international fees, can be found on our study pages .
Some degree programmes may require you to cover the cost of additional activities (for example field trips).
In addition to any costs associated with your course or programme of study, there are other costs that you are likely to incur as a student at the University of Birmingham.
This is not an exhaustive list however, it is useful for you to be aware of the types of things you may have to pay for.
Part-time employment could help you get some work experience and increase your income.
The University recommends that full-time undergraduate students do not work for more than 15 hours a week during term time.
The University's Guild of Students operates Jobs, Skills and Volunteering which promotes employment opportunities on offer at the University and at reputable local employers who understand that your working hours must remain flexible in order to fit in with the requirements of your course.
Worklink is based at University Centre and operates alongside the Jobs, Skills and Volunteering to match students to on-campus casual work at the University.
The national minimum wage for ages 18-20 is £8.60 per hour, for those aged 21-22 it is £10.18, and for 23 and above it is £10.42.
International students who wish to know if they can work in the UK under their student visa can get advice and guidance from the UKCISA website .
One of the most important things that you’ll need to learn as a student is how to manage your money.
Knowing that your finances are under control means that you can relax, concentrate on your studies and fully enjoy your time here at Birmingham.
It is crucial to remember that most students receive their funding in fairly large instalments, normally at the start of every term.
So once a payment has been received, it usually has to last quite a while (typically until the start of the following term) before another payment comes through.
This is why budgeting is so important.
First you need to establish the total income that is available to you.
This might be a combination of your student loan, any scholarships that you receive, contributions from family members or sponsors and wages from part-time work.
You can learn more about all of these sources of income through our funding pages .
Once you know how much you have coming in, you will need to work out how much money you are likely to have left over after you've covered the essentials like rent, utilities and food.
This will give you an idea of how much you can put aside for socialising and life's little luxuries.
We have produced a budget planner to help you do this ( PDF - 1,413KB ).
For an accessible, non-PDF version please use the Word document of the front section of the planner ( Word - 70KB ), in conjunction with our calculations spreadsheet ( Excel - 21KB ).
Our top tips are:
There are lots of free budgeting apps that may be able to help, including:
When calculating your budget, don't forget about one-off costs such as special occasions, birthday presents, family outings...
and trips to the dentist!
Save the Student provides some handy tips for saving money , together with a broad range of useful online tools and calculators to help you make the most of your finances.
Don't forget to look out for discounts and savings, especially those aimed at students.
Use your TOTUM ( NUS student card) wherever possible to get student discounts and freebies.
Finally, if you are still struggling you may wish to consider applying to our Student Support Fund .
You can also get further advice and support from Funding, Graduation and Awards or Guild Advice .
Each year, we recruit a team of enthusiastic students to join our Ambassador Scheme.
We regularly employ our ambassadors to support student recruitment activity and encourage prospective students to consider further study.
The Ambassador Scheme is flexible and works around your timetable.
You only work if you have no prior study or social commitments and there is no minimum hourly requirement.
We recruit ambassadors near the start of each academic year, and the role is advertised on Worklink.
At Birmingham, we ensure that fears about finance do not constrain prospective students from considering university and that excellence is rewarded.
The University offers a range of additional financial support for students studying at Birmingham in the form of scholarships, bursaries and other awards .
The Chamberlain Award is a means-tested bursary that supports students from across the UK who are under-represented at the University.
More information including eligibility criteria can be found on the Chamberlain Award dedicated webpage .
We offer a number of Music Scholarships each year.
Offering approximately 17 hours of musical tuition per year for three years(total equivalent cash value of £3,000), these scholarships are open to prospective students who are performing at a Grade 8 standard in an instrument or vocals and have an offer of a place on a full-time undergraduate programme (other than a programme offered by the Department of Music) at the University.
University of Birmingham Sport & Fitness offers scholarships each year to international-level performers from any academic department and of any nationality.
Scholarship support consists of facility membership, strength and conditioning work, sports science and medicine services (including physiotherapy), lifestyle workshops and help with sports-specific expenditure.
Depending on the subject you have chosen to study, there may be additional scholarships available to you.
The eligibility criteria can vary depending on the School, but students are usually judged on their academic performance and/or financial need, with scholarships offered in addition to the Chamberlain Award.
You can explore all scholarship opportunities, including some scholarships managed by the schools on our undergraduate funding database .
Funding, Graduation and Awards provide information and advice about financial support available for students.
Accounts Receivable monitors and collects all your tuition and accommodation payments.
The team can be contacted via the Finance Portal .
Guild Advice offers free, impartial and confidential information, advice and representation on a full range of student issues including finance.
Guild Advice was previously called the Advice and Representation Centre (ARC).
The International Student Team (IST) provides support and advice - including financial - to international students.
Living offer safe and informal student accommodation to suit your budget.
The Hub Services Team (HST), based in the Aston Webb Student Hub, provide front-of-house support for all students at the University.
Working at the University of Birmingham allowed me to open new opportunities outside of University and develop upon my skills that needed improving such as my confidence, my networking skills and presentation skills.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/student-experience/advice-support/student-mentor:
Our Student Mentors are a team of current students trained to offer you help and support while you live in University accommodation.
The team are here to help you as soon as you receive your accommodation offer and throughout the rest of your year in halls.
Talk to us for information, guidance and support in a range of areas including:
There’s no problem too big or too small!
Student Mentors can also offer 1-to-1 support to help you find your feet or work through any issues you might be experiencing.
This support can be a one-off or on a more regular basis – whatever works for you.
If you feel like you’d benefit from this support please email mentorwelfare@guild.bham.ac.uk .
The scheme also runs a range of events and activities throughout the year to help you when you need it.
This includes a timetable of Welcome Week activities, campaigns to help you move into the private housing, events for you to de-stress around the exam period, and activities to share personal safety advice.
To access the service you can phone, email or drop in to the Mentor Office based in The Vale Hub, next to The Duck and Scholar in Shackleton .
The office is open Monday to Friday, 16:00 to 20:00 during term time.
If you need support outside these hours, please contact your accommodation reception for assistance.
Email: mentorwelfare@guild.bham.ac.uk Telephone: +44 (0)121 415 8568

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/student-experience/advice-support/harassment-and-sexual-misconduct:
We expect all members of the community to act in accordance with the Equality Act 2010, the Worker Protection Act 2024 and the University Charter and its Statutes to support and promote the creation of a working environment free from sexual misconduct and harassment.
The University believes that sexual misconduct and harassment damages the working and learning environment and have a detrimental effect upon the wellbeing, health, confidence, morale and performance of those directly affected by such behaviour or who are witness to it.
We use harassment as a term to define any unwanted behaviour or conduct including harassment, bullying and victimisation which has the purpose or effect of violating a person’s dignity or creating an intimidating, hostile, degrading, humiliating or offensive environment.
The term sexual misconduct is used to describe any kind of sexual activity that was unwanted or happened without consent, including online.
Anyone can be subjected to sexual violence, regardless of gender or sexuality.
This webpage is the 'single comprehensive source of information' required by the Office for Students (OfS registration condition E6).
It details the policies, training, disclosure process, and person-centred support the University of Birmingham has in place to effectively address and prevent incidents of harassment and sexual misconduct.
All our services treat disclosures of sexual misconduct and harassment with appropriate confidentiality.
The University reporting tool, where you can report incidents of sexual misconduct and harassment, access online advice and support, and request support from a trained Responder.
The University has regulations and policies which enable us to maintain a safe and respectful campus, and to take action against those who do not act in a respectful manner.
We provide training to our community to foster a safe and inclusive campus environment, and support everyone to understand what sexual misconduct and harassment is.
Find information and guidance about our reporting processes, wellbeing services and academic support and how to access them.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/about/college-of-arts-and-law/shakespeare-institute:
An internationally renowned research institution based in the heart of Shakespeare's beautiful Stratford-upon-Avon.
Established in 1951 to push the boundaries of knowledge about Shakespeare studies and Renaissance drama.
Study in Stratford-upon-Avon or online.
Please note that visits to the Shakespeare Institute from prospective students need to be arranged in advance.
Please contact us for more information and we will be happy to arrange this.
The Shakespeare Institute Mason Croft Church Street Stratford-upon-Avon Warwickshire CV37 6HP United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)121 414 9500 si-courses@contacts.bham.ac.uk
Enquiries managed by the Postgraduate Marketing and Student Recruitment team.
Messages will be passed on to the relevant Admissions Tutors where appropriate.
Information Assistant +44 (0)121 414 9525 silib@contacts.bham.ac.uk
We only have limited parking at The Shakespeare Institute so if you are visiting the Institute and travelling by car, we would urge you to use the local pay and display car parks or the park and ride scheme.
The railway station is about 10 minutes walk from the Institute on the Alcester Road.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/staff/profiles/microbiology-infection/hall-lindsay.aspx:
Institute of Microbiology and Infection Chair of Microbiome Research
Professor Lindsay Hall is Chair of Microbiome Research and a Wellcome Investigator.
Leading a dynamic, multidisciplinary team, she is on a mission to unravel the mysteries of how host-associated microbial communities foster well-being.
Her research is focused on the critical early stages of life, including pregnancy and infancy, where the colonisation of microbes like Bifidobacterium coincides with pivotal physiological programming, laying the foundation for future health and vitality.
Beyond these foundational aspects, Professor Hall and her team delve into the potential of early life microbes to positively influence the risk and progression of chronic diseases, including cancer.
Her work has garnered support from various grant and charitable organisations, underscoring the significance of her research in the scientific community.
Professor Hall's collaborative network stretches across the globe to like-minded researchers who share her passion for microbiome investigation and the development of innovative dietary and microbial therapies.
Lindsay also has a strong commitment to making the captivating world of the microbiome accessible to diverse audiences.
She passionately engages with the public and schoolchildren, bringing the magic of microbiome science to life in an educational and inspiring manner.
2011-2014: Postgraduate Certificate in Higher Education Practice, University of East Anglia
2003-2007: PhD, Microbiology and Immunology, University of Cambridge
Professor Lindsay Hall assumed the role of Chair of Microbiome Research at the University of Birmingham in 2023, marking another major milestone in her academic journey.
Her exploration of the microbial world began at the University of Glasgow, where she earned her BSc in Microbiology, followed by a PhD in Microbiology and Immunology from the University of Cambridge at the Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute.
Lindsay's intellectual journey took her to the dramatic landscapes of South Ireland, where she embarked on a postdoctoral fellowship at University College Cork within the APC Microbiome Institute.
It was during this period that her fascination with gut-associated microbial communities was ignited.
Her return to the UK saw her take up her first independent role, a lectureship at the University of East Anglia in Norwich.
Here, she dedicated herself to expanding her research portfolio, with a particular focus on the intricate world of the gut microbiota, especially during the critical early stages of life.
In 2015, Lindsay's curiosity and dedication to microbiome research led her to the Quadram Institute in Norwich.
During her tenure, she made significant strides in her research agenda, establishing several clinical cohort studies that would further our understanding of the gut microbiota's role in human health.
Beyond her research, Lindsay embraced the opportunity to engage with the public and share the wonders of science through various outreach and educational initiatives, all under the captivating theme of 'Guardians of the Gut.'
Before her arrival at the University of Birmingham, Lindsay held the prestigious position of Chair of Intestinal Microbiome at the Technical University of Munich in Germany.
In this role, she continued her pioneering research into the world of beneficial microbes and developed innovative therapies to enhance infant health.
Her academic journey is a testament to her unwavering commitment to advancing our understanding of microbiomes, their impact on human health, and their potential to shape the future of medicine.
As a distinguished microbiologist and educator, Professor Lindsay Hall brings a wealth of knowledge and experience to her role, enriching the University of Birmingham's academic community and contributing to ground-breaking research in microbiome science.
Prof Hall has a distinguished record of guiding and nurturing postgraduate scholars through their academic journeys.
She welcomes aspiring students who share her deep enthusiasm for the captivating realm of microbiome research.
Specifically, Lindsay is keen to collaborate with those driven by curiosity for unravelling the intricate mechanisms by which beneficial microbes communicate with their host.
Additionally, she seeks students who share her interest about the dynamic interactions among microorganisms, as they work together to foster the development of robust and harmonious microbial ecosystems.
Ultimately, these ecosystems play a pivotal role in enhancing the well-being of infants, making this an exciting and impactful area of study.
If you share Lindsay's passion for microbiome research and aspire to make meaningful contributions in these topics, she looks forward to hearing from you directly, or for any general doctoral research enquiries, please email mds-gradschool@contacts.bham.ac.uk
For a full list of available Doctoral Research opportunities, please visit our Doctoral Research programme listings
Research interests
Understanding Microbiome Interactions:
Professor Lindsay Hall leads a dynamic, multi-disciplinary team dedicated to unravelling the molecular intricacies of microbiome interactions, with a primary focus on the interface of the gut mucosa.
Their research is driven by a profound interest in the critical early stages of life, particularly during pregnancy and infancy.
This period, marked by the colonisation of vital microbes like Bifidobacterium , plays a pivotal role in programming essential metabolic and immune foundations for future health and well-being.
Beneficial Microbes and Disease Modulation:
The team's exploration extends to understanding how select early life microbes may positively influence the risk and progression of chronic diseases, including cancer.
Professor Hall's research program is organised into three interconnected themes:
1.
Microbe-Diet Interactions: Investigating how microbes interact with dietary components.
2.
Colonisation Resistance: Exploring the mechanisms that prevent harmful microbe invasion.
3.
Microbiota-Host Crosstalk: Unravelling the complex communication between microbiota and the host.
Lindsay and her teams work is firmly grounded in extensive longitudinal cohort studies, including a preterm infant cohort and a mother-infant dyad cohort, where Professor Hall serves as Chief Investigator.
These clinical studies underpin broader research activities.
To tackle critical outstanding questions in the microbiome field, Prof Hall and her team adopts a diverse array of multidisciplinary approaches encompassing both 'wet' and 'dry' laboratory techniques.
They leverage state-of-the-art in vitro models and model colon systems to gain insights into ecological and host interactions.
Additionally, they harness various 'omics technologies and employ advanced bioinformatics tools to delineate distinctive microbiome signatures associated with health.
Furthermore, they draw upon preclinical and clinical samples, enabling them to translate discoveries into tangible benefits for individuals at risk.
This comprehensive approach aims to decipher the fundamental mechanisms governing microbiome-host interactions in health and disease, ultimately paving the way for intervention and therapy development.
For further details visit www.thehalllab.com
Metris, A, Walker, AW, Showering, A, Doolan, A, McBain, AJ, Ampatzoglou, A, Murphy, B, O'Neill, C, Shortt, C , Darby, EM , Aldis, G, Hillebrand, GG, Brown, HL, Browne, HP, Tiesman, JP, Leng, J, Lahti, L, Jakubovics, NS, Hasselwander, O, Finn, RD, Klamert, S, Korcsmaros, T & Hall, LJ 2025, ' Assessing the safety of microbiome perturbations ', Microbial Genomics , vol.
5, 001405.
https://doi.org/ 10.1099/ mgen.0.001405
Jain, V, Nulty, J, Alexander, EC, Burford, C, Davenport, M, Chokshi, S, Riva, A , Dalby, MJ , Verma, A , Hall, LJ , Yuksel, M & Dhawan, A 2025, ' Claudin-3, Lipopolysaccharide Binding Protein, and Jaundice Clearance in Infants with Biliary Atresia ', Journal of Pediatrics , vol.
286, 114703.
https://doi.org/ 10.1016/ j.jpeds.2025.114703
Saeed, MH, Kujawska, M, Ellen, K, Acuna-Gonzalez, A, Bernabeu Lorenzo, M, Carmen Collado, M, Mommers, M, van Best, N , Hall, LJ & Neuhaus, K 2025, ' Comprehensive analysis of Enterococcus spp.
from two European healthy infant cohorts shows stable genomic traits including antimicrobial resistance (AMR) ', Gut Microbes , vol.
17, no.
1, 2516699.
https://doi.org/ 10.1080/ 19490976.2025.2516699
Kaktcham, PM, Kujawska, M, Kouam, EMF, Piame, LT, Tientcheu, MLT, Felsl, A, Truppel, B-A, Ngoufack, FZ & Hall, LJ 2025, ' Genomic insights into the beneficial potential of Bifidobacterium and Enterococcus strains isolated from Cameroonian infants ', Microbial Genomics , vol.
2, 001354.
https://doi.org/ 10.1099/ mgen.0.001354
Samarra, A, Renwick, S, Arzamasov, AA, Rodionov, DA, Spann, K, Cabrera-Rubio, R, Acuna-Gonzalez, A, Martínez-Costa, C , Hall, L , Segata, N, Osterman, AL, Bode, L & Collado, MC 2025, ' Human milk oligosaccharide metabolism and antibiotic resistance in early gut colonizers: insights from bifidobacteria and lactobacilli in the maternal-infant microbiome ', Gut Microbes , vol.
1, 2501192.
https://doi.org/ 10.1080/ 19490976.2025.2501192
Kiu, R , Darby, EM , Alcon-Giner, C, Acuna-Gonzalez, A, Camargo, A , Lamberte, LE , Phillips, S, Sim, K, Shaw, AG, Clarke, P , van Schaik, W , Kroll, JS & Hall, LJ 2025, ' Impact of early life antibiotic and probiotic treatment on gut microbiome and resistome of very-low-birth-weight preterm infants ', Nature Communications , vol.
16, 7569.
https://doi.org/ 10.1038/ s41467-025-62584-2
Zenner, C , Hall, LJ , Roy, S, Hauer, J, Sroka, R & Maiti, KS 2025, ' Measurement of Bacterial Headspaces by FT-IR Spectroscopy Reveals Distinct Volatile Organic Compound Signatures ', Analytical Chemistry , vol.
97, no.
1, pp.
106-113.
https://doi.org/ 10.1021/ acs.analchem.4c02899
Lamberte, LE , Darby, EM , Kiu, R , Moran, RA , Acuna-Gonzalez, A, Sim, K, Shaw, AG, Kroll, JS, Belteki, G, Clarke, P, Felgate, H, Webber, MA , Rowe, W , Hall, LJ & van Schaik, W 2025, ' Staphylococcus haemolyticus is a reservoir of antibiotic resistance genes in the preterm infant gut ', Gut Microbes , vol.
1, 2519700.
https://doi.org/ 10.1080/ 19490976.2025.2519700
Dawson, SJT, Shibu, P, Garnett, S, Newberry, F, Brook, TC, Tijani, T, Kujawska, M , Hall, LJ , McCartney, AL, Negus, D & Hoyles, L 2025, ' Weberviruses are gut-associated phages that infect Klebsiella spp ', FEMS Microbiology Ecology , vol.
101, no.
5, fiaf043.
https://doi.org/ 10.1093/ femsec/ fiaf043
Jain, V , Dalby, MJ , Alexander, EC, Burford, C, Acford-Palmer, H, Serghiou, IR, Teng, NMY , Kiu, R , Gerasimidis, K, Zafeiropoulou, K, Logan, M, Verma, A, Davenport, M , Hall, LJ & Dhawan, A 2024, ' Association of gut microbiota and gut metabolites and adverse outcomes in biliary atresia: A longitudinal prospective study ', Hepatology Communications , vol.
8, no.
11, e0550.
https://doi.org/ 10.1097/ HC9.0000000000000550
Mudhluli, TE, Kujawska, M, Mueller, J, Felsl, A, Truppel, B-A , Hall, LJ , Chitsike, I, Gomo, E & Zhou, DT 2024, ' Exploring the genomic traits of infant-associated microbiota members from a Zimbabwean cohort ', BMC Genomics , vol.
25, no.
1, 718.
https://doi.org/ 10.1186/ s12864-024-10618-2
Kujawska, M, Neuhaus, K, Huptas, C, Jiménez, E, Arboleya, S, Schaubeck, M & Hall, LJ 2024, ' Exploring the Potential Probiotic Properties of Bifidobacterium breve DSM 32583-A Novel Strain Isolated from Human Milk ', Probiotics and antimicrobial proteins .
https://doi.org/ 10.1007/ s12602-024-10346-9
Jain, V, Alexander, EC, Burford, C, Davenport, M , Dalby, MJ , Hall, LJ & Dhawan, A 2025, ' Ethanol in biliary atresia ', Archives of Disease in Childhood .
https://doi.org/ 10.1136/ archdischild-2024-328338
Flores Ventura, E, Esteban-Torres, M, Gueimonde, M, van Sinderen, D, Koren, O , Hall, LJ , Segata, N, Valles-Colomer, M & Collado, MC 2025, ' Mother-to-infant vertical transmission in early life: a systematic review and proportional meta-analysis of Bifidobacterium strain transmissibility ', npj Biofilms and Microbiomes , vol.
1, 121.
https://doi.org/ 10.1038/ s41522-025-00720-y
Zhernakova, A, Yassour, M , Hall, LJ & Collado, MC 2025, ' Unlocking the power of human milk and infant feeding: Understanding how nutrition and early microbiota interaction shapes health programming ', Cell Host and Microbe , vol.
33, no.
6, pp.
820-835.
https://doi.org/ 10.1016/ j.chom.2025.05.014

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/staff/profiles/microbiology-infection/kiu-raymond.aspx:
Department of Microbes, Infection and Microbiomes Postdoctoral Research Fellow
Dr Raymond Kiu is a computational and experimental microbiologist who studies early-life human gut microbiomes and pathogen genomics within Prof Lindsay Hall’s group at the Institute of Microbiology and Infection.
His research primarily focuses on understanding the roles of various microbial communities and particularly bacterial pathogens (including Clostridium spp.
) in the preterm infant gut via Next-Generation and Third-Generation Sequencing techniques including Shotgun Metagenome Sequencing, Whole Genome Sequencing, Amplicon Sequencing and RNA Sequencing.
His on-going collaborative works also include probiotic Bifidobacterium spp.
and multidrug-resistant pathogen Enterococcus spp., as well as exploring the gut resistome, i.e.
the collection of antibiotic resistance genes within gut microbiome, in the context of preterm infant.
PhD in Biomedical Sciences, University of East Anglia, 2019 MSc in Nutrition and Food Science, University of Reading, 2013 BSc in Nutrition and Health Sciences, Taipei Medical University, 2008
Dr Raymond Kiu obtained his BSc in Nutritional and Health Sciences from Taipei Medical University in 2008 under which programme he was professionally trained as a clinical dietitian.
He then undertook an MSc at the University of Reading in Nutritional and Food Sciences where he was involved in investigating the protective effects of bioactive compounds anthocyanins on human immune cells.
He then went on to do a PhD in Microbiology at the University of East Anglia, while he was primarily based at Quadram Institute as a PhD student.
His PhD research concentrated on understanding the genomics and pathogenicity of Clostridium perfringens in relation to gastrointestinal diseases using genomic approach, in vitro assays and pre-clinical models.
He obtained his PhD in 2019 and subsequently started a Research Scientist position at Quadram Institute.
During this time, he explored the probiotic role and impact of Bifidobacterium in early life (both pregnancy and infancy) using both bioinformatics (Next Generation Sequencing) and experimental approaches (including metabolomics).
In the meantime he continued his previous PhD works on understanding disease-causing mechanisms of gut pathogen Clostridium perfringens in preterm gut and antibiotic-resistant Enterococcus species in immuno-compromised patients, both represented his long-term research interest.
Dr Raymond Kiu joined the Institute of Microbiology and Infection the University of Birmingham in 2023 as a Research Fellow within Prof Lindsay Hall’s lab.
This includes the preterm infant gut microbiome, a long-term research interest within the Prof Lindsay Hall lab, also animal and adult human gut microbiomes in the context of health-promoting and disease development.
Dr Kiu is experienced in analysing gut microbiome data, having worked with multiple international collaborators previously.
Dr Kiu remains interested in understanding the roles of gut pathogen Clostridium perfringens in both humans and animals using sequencing/computational techniques as well as wet lab assays.
In addition, he also studies multi-drug-resistant bacterium Enterococcus in diseased patients.
Member of the Microbiology society Reviewer for the Microbiology Society journal Microbial Genomics (2020 – present)
Dalby, M.
J., Kiu, R., Serghiou, I.
R., Miyazaki, A., Acford-Palmer, H., Tung, R., Caim, S., Phillips, S., Kujawska, M., Matsui, M., Iwamoto, A., Taking, B., Cox, S.
E., & Hall, L.
J.(2024).
Faecal microbiota and cytokine profiles of rural Cambodian infants linked to diet and diarrhoeal episodes.
npj Biofilms and Microbiomes , 10 , Article 85.
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41522-024-00562-0
Lopez-Tello, J., Kiu, R., Schofield, Z., Zhang, C.
X.
W., Sinderen, D.
V., Gall, G.
L., Hall, L.
J., & Sferruzzi-Perri, A.
N.
(2024).
Maternal gut Bifidobacterium breve modifies fetal brain metabolism in germ-free mice.
Molecular metabolism , Article 102004.
Advance online publication.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.molmet.2024.102004
Teng, N.
M.
Y., Kiu, R., Evans, R., Baker, D.
J., Zenner, C., Robinson, S.
D., & Hall, L.
(2023).
Allocoprobacillus halotolerans gen.
nov., sp.
nov and Coprobacter tertius sp.
nov., isolated from human gut microbiota.
International Journal of Systematic and Evolutionary Microbiology , 73 (7), Article 005950.
https://doi.org/10.1099/ijsem.0.005950
Serghiou, I.
R., Baker, D., Evans, R., Dalby, M.
J., Kiu, R., Trampari, E., Phillips, S., Watt, R., Atkinson, T., Murphy, B., Hall, L.
J., & Webber, M.
A.
An efficient method for high molecular weight bacterial DNA extraction suitable for shotgun metagenomics from skin swabs.
Microbial Genomics , 9 (7), Article 001058.
https://doi.org/10.1099/mgen.0.001058
Neumann, C.
J., Mahnert, A., Kumpitsch, C., Kiu, R., Dalby, M.
J., Kujawska, M., Madl, T., Kurath-Koller, S., Urlesberger, B., Resch, B., Hall, L.
J., & Moissl-Eichinger, C.
Clinical NEC prevention practices drive different microbiome profiles and functional responses in the preterm intestine.
Nature Communications , 14 (1), Article 1349.
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-023-36825-1
Kiu, R., Shaw, A.
G., Sim, K., Acuna-Gonzalez, A., Price, C.
A., Bedwell, H., Dreger, S.
A., Fowler, W.
J., Cornwell, E., Pickard, D., Belteki, G., Malsom, J., Phillips, S., Young, G.
R., Schofield, Z., Alcon-Giner, C., Berrington, J.
E., Stewart, C.
J., Dougan, G., ...
Hall, L.
Particular genomic and virulence traits associated with preterm infant-derived toxigenic Clostridium perfringens strains.
Nature Microbiology , 8 (6), 1160-1175.
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41564-023-01385-z
Lopez-Tello, J., Schofield, Z., Kiu, R., Dalby, M.
J., van Sinderen, D., Le Gall, G., Sferruzzi-Perri, A.
N., & Hall, L.
(2022).
Maternal gut microbiota Bifidobacterium promotes placental morphogenesis, nutrient transport and fetal growth in mice.
Cellular and Molecular Life Sciences , 79 (7), Article 386.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s00018-022-04379-y
https://research.birmingham.ac.uk/en/persons/raymond-kiu/publications/

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/subjects/medicine-courses/medicine-and-surgery-mbchb:
Dive into the world of Medicine and Surgery and be empowered to make a significant impact on people's lives.
Guided by experts in the field, gain a hands-on experience in one of Europe's top clinical education settings.
Master the practical, theoretical, and communication skills essential to becoming a safe, compassionate, and ethical doctor.
Stand out for your professionalism and excel in making a meaningful impact on others' lives.
We're proud to shape the doctors of the future, embracing constant change and innovation to stay ahead in a rapidly evolving NHS.
I love the range of teaching you get from lectures to bedside teaching, to simulation sessions!
It is always exciting and learning in many ways really helps you solidify your learning.
Discover more about your chosen subject at one of our Open Days or by asking us a question.
Our graduates are entitled to provisional registration with the General Medical Council, with a licence to practise, subject to demonstrating to the GMC that their fitness to practise is not impaired.
in the West Midlands for Medicine
Complete University Guide, 2026
in the world for Medicine
QS World University Rankings, 2025
Located at the beating heart of the UK, train in one of the UK's largest healthcare regions, with leading hospitals right on our doorstep.
With a strong community feel and student medical society at its heart, join a community like no other.
Become part of the UK's biggest (and best) student medical society and connect with a vibrant community of over 3,000 members.
With more than 60 societies, sports teams, and charities, MedSoc offers something for everyone.
It's the perfect way to make friends, meet new people, and fully embrace our Medical School community.
Hear more about studying at Birmingham.
Chat to one of our friendly students to find out more about your favourite course, our beautiful campus and life in our vibrant and cultural city.
Teaching is led by world-class academics combining  a variety of teaching methods coupled with simulated practice and clinical placements.
Anatomy teaching – Benefit from the use of leading anatomy facilities including our in-house prosectorium and small group learning spaces housing interactive touch screen anatomage tables.
Clinical practice - Undertake simulated practice in top clinical skills facilities under the guidance of expert clinicians.
This prepares you for your placements and life on the wards after graduation.
Practice placements - Designed to maximize patient contact hours, dive into hands-on experiences in a wide range of local hospitals and patient care settings.
You will have access to a comprehensive support system to help you make the transition to higher education when you start at Birmingham:
Personal academic tutors – Your personal tutor will be an academic staff member that teaches on the MBChB Medicine and Surgery course.
They will get to know you as you progress through your studies.
They will provide academic support and advice to enable you to make the most of your time here at Birmingham.
Student Services Centre - Based within the Medical School, access many services from drop in sessions for advice and guidance, referral to internal and external services to support regarding extenuating circumstances.
Here you will find our Wellbeing Officers.
They provide professional support, advice and guidance across a range of issues.
Academic Skills Centre - The centre is a place where you can develop your mathematical, academic writing and general academic skills.
Become an effective and independent learner through the use of a range of high-quality and appropriate learning support services.
Our student experience team will help you get the most out of your academic experience.
They offer research opportunities, placement support, and help you prepare for your post-university career.
They also organise social events to help you meet fellow students from your course.
You will be assessed in a variety of ways to help you transition to a new style of learning.
At the beginning of each module, you will be given information on how and when you will be assessed.
You’ll receive feedback on each assessment within four weeks, so that you can learn from and build on what you have done.
Assessments methods will vary with each module and could include:
The modules listed for this programme are regularly reviewed to ensure they are up-to-date and informed by the latest research and teaching methods.
The optional module information listed for this programme is intended to be indicative, and the availability of optional modules may vary from year to year.
Where a module is no longer available, we will let you know as soon as we can and help you to make other choices.
During your first two preclinical years, you will lay the foundations for your learning, looking at the function of the human body and how each system is controlled.
You will learn about the effects of disease and how medical treatments work.
Much of the anatomy is taught in small-group sessions, including substantial experience of prosection.
You’ll start patient contact from as early as week two to quickly build up your skills and confidence when communicating with patients.
The following must be taken:
From your third year onwards, most of your teaching will take place in our partner teaching hospital trusts.
Teaching in hospitals and general practices takes place within a highly organised academy structure with senior clinicians and dedicated Clinical Teaching Fellows (junior doctors).
This ensures that you receive excellent training in each speciality and develop your basic clinical skills, as well as studying the communication skills needed for effective patient-doctor relations.
Your final two years will focus on undertaking clinical attachments in a wide range of specialities to prepare you for the range of problems that you will encounter as a Foundation Doctor.
Your final year offers an exciting opportunity: a one-month elective placement, either in the UK or abroad, where you can choose your study focus.
Whether it's in a lab, an educational setting, or conducting clinical research at Birmingham Medical School, the choice is yours.
With a strong emphasis on treating acutely ill patients and hands-on assistantships, you'll be fully equipped to step into your role as a new resident doctor, ready to make a difference from day one.
To secure a place at Birmingham, you'll need to meet our general entry requirements as well as those specific to your course.
A*AA with predicted AAA including Biology and Chemistry.
7,6,6  at Higher Level from Chemistry and Biology and one other approved subject.
Minimum of 32 points.
For full entry requirements for all applicant categories please visit our Applying to Medicine website.
You will also find a breakdown of our medicine admissions process, how we select for interview as well as a description of our interview process.
Number of A levels required: 3
A levels must include Biology/Human Biology and Chemistry.
You must be predicted a minimum of AAA.
We do not have a preference of a third A Level however, General Studies, Critical Thinking and EPQ are not accepted as a third A level.
Required subjects include English Language at grade 6/B or higher, Mathematics (or one, but not both, of Methods in Mathematics and Applications of Mathematics) at grade 6/B or higher, Biology and Chemistry or dual award science at grade 6/B or higher.
As this programme has a mandatory clinical placement, every applicant for admission to the University must have reached the age of 18 years on 1 October of the year of entry.
If you are an international student, you will need to demonstrate you have a suitable level of English proficiency, usually through the form of an IELTS or equivalent qualification or a Presessional English course.
*Further information on can be found at the IELTS website .
IELTS tests must be the Academic version, we cannot accept the General test.
** For more information on the Pearson Test of English visit their website .
*** For more information on Cambridge English exams, please visit their website .
For Cambridge English exams taken before 2015, please see under Alternative Qualifications for the accepted grades.
**** Business School programmes require one of the following scores: A TOEFL score of 88 overall with a minimum of 22 in Writing and Speaking, an IELTS score of 6.5 overall with minimum of 6.5 in Writing and Speaking, a Pearson Test of English score of 67 overall, with 67 in Writing and Speaking, a Cambridge English score of 176 overall with 176 in Writing and Speaking, a Language Cert ESOL SELT (UKVI) score of B2 ‘Communicator’ with no less than 33 in Listening and Reading and 38 in Speaking and Writing, or a Trinity ISE III score of Merit in Speaking and Writing, Pass in other skills.
If you have a conditional offer for Birmingham where English is a requirement, you can take a Presessional English course as an alternative to retaking IELTS or a similar qualification.
We offer on-campus courses all year round starting from September, including additional online courses in the summer term.
Teaching takes place in small classes with no more than 18 students to maximise class participation.
Students who are eligible and complete a Pathways to Birmingham programme will receive an alternative offer, which is typically two grades below the standard offer.
For more information, please contact outreach@contacts.bham.ac.uk .
Our Contextual Offer scheme recognises the potential of students whose personal circumstances may have restricted achievement in school or college.
If you are eligible to benefit from the Contextual Offer scheme, you will receive an offer which is one grade lower than the standard offer.
You don’t need to apply for this – it will be assessed and applied at the point of application if you’re eligible.
ABB to include Biology and Chemistry
AAA to include Biology and Chemistry.
Please see applying to Medicine for contextual schools
The University tuition fee covers the cost of your tuition, examination and graduation, and includes membership of the Guild of Students.
If your offer is for 2025 year of entry, we expect that the tuition fee for your first year of study will be £9,535 for UK students.
per year for domestic (UK) students for 2025/26
You will need to take into account your living costs and that you will have sufficient funds to finance your full duration of your studies.
This will include travel to and from university and placement, learning resources, equipment and costs associated with elective placements in the UK or abroad.
There are student travel passes for you to purchase to use on public transport around the West Midlands network.
The programme also makes a contribution to travel costs based on the number of days at placement.
For eligible UK students, you may also get partial reimbursement from the NHS bursary .
To help with the cost of studies, undergraduate students from the UK can apply for student finance through the Student Loans Company.
The support available is made up of a tuition fee loan and a maintenance loan which helps to cover living costs.
At Birmingham, we believe that financial worries should not be a barrier to accessing higher education.
That’s why we offer a range of additional financial support for students through scholarships, bursaries and other awards.
If you're a UK student and starting university in September 2025, find out more about what financial support is available to you.
We want to help you reach your full potential.
Explore our wide variety of scholarships available for international students.
Whatever your journey to university looks like, we’re here to support you every step of the way.
The UCAS website has lots of information and advice around the process.
Application deadline for September 2025 entry.
All applicants must:
View further information on how to apply for undergraduate courses, including advice for UK and overseas applicants.
Unlock your future in medicine!
Visit our Applying to Medicine website for a comprehensive guide to our admissions process including interviews and application scoring.
Become a healthcare leader of the future equipped for today and tomorrow's challenges.
Ranked as the top University for the UK's major graduate employers (The Graduate Market in 2024, High Fliers report), a Birmingham degree can help you achieve your career goals.
Once you have completed two foundation years, you'll be ready to pursue your chosen specialty.
Most of our graduates secure positions in hospital and primary care within the NHS, but exciting opportunities also await in laboratory research, the pharmaceutical industry, politics, medical journalism, and the media.
At the end of your course, you will receive your MBChB degree, which is a primary medical qualification (PMQ).
Holding a PMQ entitles you to provisional registration with the General Medical Council (GMC), subject to its acceptance that there are no Fitness to Practise concerns.
The GMC has introduced a Medical Licensing Assessment for all medical students graduating from UK university to ensure those with a license to practice medicine meet a common threshold for safe practice.
You will need to pass the MLA as part of your degree and demonstrate your fitness to practise before you can join the medical register.
Our aim is to make sure that success in your studies leads you on to a fulfilling career.
Whatever you plan to do after your degree, the Careers Network offer support to help you identify your options, develop your skills and gain access to opportunities that propel you towards your career goal.
Hear from some of our inspiring alumni who have gone on to work for leading employers such as the UK Space Agency and BBC Sport.
Your experience studying at Birmingham will give you the opportunity to discover new experiences, develop different skills and make friends for life.
Our bustling campus with its beautiful grounds, friendly community, and excellent facilities will quickly make you feel at home.
We offer you a huge variety of accommodation options in the UK’s second city, exciting activities to get involved in outside your studies, as well as all the support and advice you need.
In our student accommodation, you can enjoy your independence in safe, welcoming and sociable surroundings.
With an ever-changing food and drink scene, a vibrant nightlife and plenty of culture, our city is more than somewhere to study.
Whoever you are and wherever you come from, we are committed to providing the best possible support to our students, both before you start and throughout your time on campus.
Our beautiful campus is the place where our diverse community comes together to learn and socialise.
Like a town of its own, it’s just minutes from the hustle and bustle of the UK’s second city.
Explore our beautiful campus from wherever you are.
Get a feel for the wide range of historic and modern spaces and state-of-the-art facilities.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/staff/profiles/sportex/stathi-afroditi.aspx:
School of Sport, Exercise and Rehabilitation Sciences Professor of Physical Activity and Community Health Community Health Lead - Centre of Urban Wellbeing
Professor Afroditi Stathi is an expert in the field of the promotion of active and healthy ageing.
She leads a portfolio of international, interdisciplinary research which investigates ways of supporting older people achieving meaningful and lasting lifestyle changes and living healthier and fulfilling lives.
PhD Exercise and Health Science.
University of Bristol, U.K.
MSc Recreation Management.
Loughborough University, U.K.
BSc in Physical Education and Sports Sciences.
Democritus University of Thrace, Greece
Professor Afroditi Stathi joined the School of Sport, Exercise and Rehabilitation Sciences at the University of Birmingham in February 2018.
Previously, she worked for 11 years at the University of Bath where she holds an Honorary Professorship.
She completed her postgraduate studies at Loughborough University (MSc) and Bristol University (PhD) with scholarships by the Greek State Scholarships Foundation and the A.S.
Onassis Public Foundation.
Professor Stathi’s teaching methods and approach reflect her 20 years of experience as an educator and researcher.
Her drive is to be at the forefront of research, education and career development in the area of physical activity promotion with a particular focus on educating undergraduate, graduate, professional and post-graduate students in an integrated model of practical care and research.
A testament of her focus on transformative teaching is her involvement with The Vice-Chancellor’s Challenge (UoB) initiative in 2019, 2020 and 2021.
Since 2015, Professor Stathi has served as Lead Supervisor for 5 PhD students and Co-supervisor for 4 PhD students with a 100% completion success rate to date and served as Lead Supervisor for 3 MRes students.
She currently supervises 2 doctoral students and welcomes applications from potential doctoral researchers in her areas of interest.
Students who are considering applying to the University of Birmingham to work with Afroditi should contact her by email in advance.
A.Stathi@bham.ac.uk
Professor Stathi has a sustained track record of success in the field of active ageing and public health research with an outstanding profile in leading large community-based trials over the last 25 years.
Within a period of only five years (2015-2020), she secured as Chief Investigator two large grants (total value of £3.4 million) from the NIHR-Public Health Research Programme.
She is a recognised international researcher, evidenced by collaborations and publications with colleagues from 16 countries.
In 2018 she was invited to serve as an Expert Member the UK Chief Medical Officers’ physical activity panel for older adults.
The panel produced the technical report which scientifically underpins the revised physical activity guidelines for children, adults and older adults.
https://bit.ly/38QpgnA
Her research portfolio focuses on three inter-related themes:
1) Exploring relationships between physical activity, mobility and well-being;
2) Employing citizen science methodologies to better understand the social, psychological, and environmental determinants of and barriers to physical activity; and
3) Developing and evaluating lifestyle interventions targeting older adults.
KEY RESEARCH GRANTS
Grants with Dr Stathi as Chief investigator
£1,834,090 NIHR Public Health Research Programme.
A multi-centre randomised controlled trial of a peer-volunteer led active ageing programme to fprevent decline in physical function in older people at risk of mobility disability.
The ACE (Active, Connected, Engaged) study.
2021-2025.
https://bit.ly/3gYRkIH
£1,641,790 NIHR Public Health Research Programme.
A multi-centre randomised controlled trial and economic evaluation of a community-based physical activity intervention to prevent mobility-related disability for retired older people.
The REACT (REtirement in ACTion) study.
2015-2020.
https://www.activeageingresearch.org/
£248,899 MRC (Lifelong Health and Wellbeing Initiative-Phase 3).
Developing a model of volunteering action in promoting active ageing in the community: Project ACE (Active, Connected and Engaged).
2012-2014.
4.
£48,058 MRC (Lifelong Health and Wellbeing Initiative-Phase 2).
The Avon Network for Physical Activity Promotion of Older People in the community.
2009-2010.
Grants with Professor Stathi as Co-Investigator
£8679 ESRC Impact Acceleration Account – Urgency Fund.
(Chief Investigator: Victoria Goodyear, University of Birmingham).
Optimising Social Media for Physical Activity and Nutrition during COVID-19.
2020.
£589,601 MRC National Prevention Research Initiative.
(Chief Investigator: Dylan Thompson, University of Bath).
Mi-PACT: Multi-dimensional personalised physical activity profiles in at risk men & women.
2012-2016.
£86,400 Dunhill Medical Trust.
(Chief Investigator: Ken Fox, University of Bristol).
OPAL-PLUS: How have you been?” A four-year follow-up of the “Older people and active living: Project OPAL” study.
2011-2012.
£239,713 NIHR-Research for Patient Benefit.
(Chief Investigator: Colin Greaves, University of Exeter).
Waste the Waist: Pilot randomised controlled trial of a primary care based lifestyle intervention for reducing cardiovascular and diabetes risk.
2010–2013.
5.
£11,940.
AVON Primary Care Research Collaborative Partnership.
A process evaluation of the Avon Network for Physical Activity Promotion of Older People in the community.
2010-2011.
6.
£167,600 MRC/ESRC National Prevention Research Initiative.
Older People and Active Living: Project OPAL.
2006-2009.
Her long-term goals are to sustain and further develop her international research programme around the above themes, to strategically inform social and health care policy and practice, to produce publications in high impact peer-reviewed journals, and to translate these activities into real world impact.
Her research programme tackles important current and future health priorities and is closely aligned with national and international government and health service policy and initiatives.
In 2017, Professor Stathi received the University of Bath Vice Chancellor’s Award for Public Engagement with Research.
Watch the video of her winning talk here: http://www.bath.ac.uk/announcements/vice-chancellors-awards-highlight-shining-examples-of-public-engagement-in-practice/
Fellow of the European College of Sport Science (ECSS)
Member of:
The Our Voice: Citizen Science for Health Equity Global Network led by Stanford University which involves colleagues from Australia, Colombia, Israel, Mexico, Chile, Brazil, Argentina, Germany, South Africa, Switzerland, UK and the US.
Together we build an agenda for robust research, implementation and dissemination of Citizen Science projects globally.
https://med.stanford.edu/ourvoice.html
The University of Sydney-led international VILPA (Vigorous Intermittent Lifestyle Physical Activity) network which develops an international, multidisciplinary research programme dedicated to the study of intermittent lifestyle physical activity.
This is an international collaboration with leading researchers in England, Ireland, Denmark, USA, Canada and Australia.
Expert Member of the UK Chief Medical Officers physical activity panel for older adults.
The panel’s work was to produce a technical report which scientifically underpins the revised physical activity guidelines for children, adults and older adults.
Member of the Goldies Charity Board of Trustees and Health and Well-being Lead.
https://www.golden-oldies.org.uk/
Mathur, P , Thomas, H, Cooper, A , Chechlacz, M , Stathi, A , Goodyear, V , Miller, C, Krauss, T , Ives, N , Magill, L , Kinghorn, P , Wilson, D & Chiou, S-Y 2025, ' Supervised and self-directed technology-based dual-task exercise training programme for older adults at risk of falling - Protocol for a feasibility study ', PLOS One , vol.
20, no.
3, e0314829.
https://doi.org/ 10.1371/ journal.pone.0314829
Balthazaar, SJT , Hodgkiss, DD , Chiou, S-Y , Lucas, SJE , Stathi, A , Kalla, M, Osman, AEF, Budithi, SC, Kumar, N, Chowdhury, JR & Nightingale, TE 2025, ' 'Time is of the essence': upper-body aerobic exercise to improve cardiovascular health during inpatient rehabilitation within the first year following spinal cord injury - protocol for a randomised clinical trial ', BMJ open , vol.
15, no.
4, e089868.
https://doi.org/ 10.1136/ bmjopen-2024-089868
Cavill, N , Greaves, C , Chatwin, KE , Szekeres, Z, Davies, A, Hawley-Hague, H, Crone, D , Withall, J , Thompson, J & Stathi, A 2024, ' Using systems mapping within the process evaluation of a randomised controlled trial of the ACE active ageing programme in England and Wales ', BMJ Public Health , vol.
2, no.
1, e000229.
https://doi.org/ 10.1136/ bmjph-2023-000229
Stathi, A , Withall, J , Crone, D, Hawley-Hague, H, Playle, R , Frew, E , Fenton, S , Hillsdon, M, Pugh, C, Todd, C , Jolly, K , Cavill, N, Western, M, Roche, S, Kirby, N, Boulton, E , Thompson, J , Chatwin, K , Davies, A, Szekeres, Z & Greaves, C 2023, ' A peer-volunteer led active ageing programme to prevent decline in physical function in older people at risk of mobility disability (Active, Connected, Engaged [ACE]): study protocol for a randomised controlled trial ', Trials , vol.
24, no.
1, 772.
https://doi.org/ 10.1186/ s13063-023-07758-3
Cross, R , Greaves, C , Withall, J , Kritz, M & Stathi, A 2023, ' A qualitative longitudinal study of motivation in the REtirement in ACTion (REACT) physical activity intervention for older adults with mobility limitations ', International Journal of Behavioral Nutrition and Physical Activity , vol.
1, 50.
https://doi.org/ 10.1186/ s12966-023-01434-0
Thoomes, E , de Graaf, M , Gallina, A , Falla, D & Stathi, A 2023, ' Comparison between two patient-reported outcome measures for patients with cervical radiculopathy: A think-aloud study ', Musculoskeletal Science and Practice , vol.
65, 102764.
https://doi.org/ 10.1016/ j.msksp.2023.102764
Improving Your Local Area Citizen Scientists and Community Stakeholders 2023, ' Employing citizen science to enhance active and healthy ageing in urban environments ', Health and Place , vol.
79, 102954.
https://doi.org/ 10.1016/ j.healthplace.2022.102954
Schoenfelder, A, Metcalf, B, Langford, J , Stathi, A , Western, MJ & Hillsdon, M 2023, ' The Analytical and Clinical Validity of the pfSTEP Digital Biomarker of the Susceptibility/ Risk of Declining Physical Function in Community-Dwelling Older Adults ', Sensors , vol.
23, no.
11, 5122.
https://doi.org/ 10.3390/ s23115122
Ladlow, P, Western, MJ , Greaves, CJ , Thompson, JL , Withall, J , Koning, JD, Bollen, JC , Moorlock, SJ , Guralnik, JM, Fox, KR & Stathi, A 2023, ' The REtirement in ACTion exercise programme and its effects on elements of long term functionality in older adults ', Frontiers in public health , vol.
11, 1151035.
https://doi.org/ 10.3389/ fpubh.2023.1151035
Dogra, S, Dunstan, D, Sugyiama, T , Stathi, A , Gardiner, P & Owen, N 2022, ' Active aging and public health: evidence, implications, and opportunities ', Annual Review of Public Health , vol.
43, no.
439-459.
https://doi.org/ 10.1146/ annurev-publhealth-052620-091107
Wood, GER , Pykett, J & Stathi, A 2022, ' Active and healthy ageing in urban environments: laying the groundwork for solution-building through citizen science ', Health Promotion International , vol.
37, no.
4, daac126, pp.
1-13.
https://doi.org/ 10.1093/ heapro/ daac126
Stathi, A , Withall, J , Greaves, CJ , Thompson, JL , Taylor, G, Medina-Lara, A, Green, C, Snowsill, T, Johansen-Berg, H, Bilzon, J, Gray, S, Cross, R, Western, MJ, Koning, JLD, Ladlow, P, Bollen, JC , Moorlock, SJ , Guralnik, JM, Rejeski, WJ, Hillsdon, M & Fox, KR 2022, ' A group-based exercise and behavioural maintenance intervention for adults over 65 years with mobility limitations: the REACT RCT ', Public Health Research , vol.
`0, no.
14.
https://doi.org/ 10.3310/ MQBW6832
Jarallah, M , Withers, TM , Rosewilliam, S , Stathi, A & Greaves, CJ 2025, ' Correction: Methods for assessing exercise fidelity in unsupervised home-based cardiovascular rehabilitation: a scoping review ', BMC Sports Science, Medicine and Rehabilitation , vol.
1, 152.
https://doi.org/ 10.1186/ s13102-025-01235-x
de Jong, J, van der Lucht, F & Stathi, A 2024, ' Editorial: Future directions of active lifestyle promotion in community-dwelling older adults ', Frontiers in public health , vol.
12, 1372316.
https://doi.org/ 10.3389/ fpubh.2024.1372316
Jarallah, M , Withers, TM , Rosewilliam, S , Stathi, A & Greaves, CJ 2025, ' Methods for assessing exercise fidelity in unsupervised home-based cardiovascular rehabilitation: a scoping review ', BMC Sports Science, Medicine and Rehabilitation , vol.
1, 31.
https://doi.org/ 10.1186/ s13102-025-01069-7

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/subjects/medicine-courses/inflammation-and-ageing-phd:
Contribute to research focusing on finding solutions to a range of chronic inflammation-driven illnesses through a highly collaborative approach with University Hospitals Birmingham.
Work amongst renowned researchers to produce original and distinctive world-leading research, with the ultimate goal to identify shared biological mechanisms that define the functional features of acute and chronic inflammatory disease by integrating disease specific expertise.
This PhD programme can be undertaken full-time (minimum 36 months) or part-time (minimum 72 months).
Applications are accepted all year round and there is flexibility on the start date with the largest intakes normally in October and April.
Following completion of your minimum period of study, you’ll normally transfer to a thesis awaited status (maximum 12 months).
To successfully progress into each year you’ll need to pass an Annual Progress Review (APR).
You’ll be required to submit a progress review form plus a project report based on the first year of research.
You’ll also be asked to review your Development Needs Analysis form.
The APR meeting will take place with two academics, with one being an internal expert.
You’ll be required to submit a progress review form plus a min-project report based on one thesis chapter.
The APR meeting will take place with two academics, with one being an internal expert (normally the same two academics as Year 1).
You’ll be required to submit a progress review form and a thesis plan for discussion with the PGR Lead.
Part-time You’ll be a required to submit a progress review form every academic year and an attend an APR every other year.
To be awarded a PhD, you must submit your final thesis and defend it at an oral examination (viva) which is assessed according to University Regulations.
Ask our subject team a question or sign up to our mailing list to stay up to date with our latest events, scholarships and subject news.
By pursuing our PhD/MSc by Research you’ll gain high quality research training that will enable you to conduct independent investigative research with confidence and expertise.
You can choose from a wide range of research areas within Inflammation and Ageing covering:
Birmingham is ranked 76th in the QS World University Rankings 2026, maintaining our position in the top 100 universities globally.
By studying this programme you’ll become part of the Graduate School within the College of Medicine and Health giving you access to:
Collaborative and translational approach between discovery science and clinical expertise with an emphasis on training, development and career development.
Postgraduate Research degrees within the College of Medicine and Health are vital to making a meaningful contribution to world-leading developments, expansions and improvements to medical research.
As one of our Postgraduate Research students within College of Medicine and Health, you'll be part of a research community which includes around 600 research students from all over the world.
You’ll become part of the wider University of Birmingham postgraduate research community located at Westmere House where you have access to training and skills development, careers and employability advice, wellbeing and counselling services as well as welcome activities and events.
Chat to one of our friendly postgraduate students to get their thoughts on our courses, stunning campus and life in a vibrant and cultural city.
The Birmingham Doctoral Programme is a structured research experience co-ordinated by the University Doctoral School.
It offers world-class supervision, a tailored development framework, and real-world engagement opportunities that prepare you to flourish, whatever your future holds.
As a postgraduate research student, we'll support your development in a variety of ways.
At Birmingham, you can apply for an advertised PhD or propose your own research.
An advertised PhD is typically part of an established research project and is usually funded by the University or another funding body.
If you want to pursue your own research project, you can apply to our research programmes to propose this.
This is self-funded, although scholarships are available.
Find a PhD project that suits your interests by using our FindAPhD tool.
If you’d rather propose your own research, the first step is to find your supervisor.
We encourage you to browse the biographies of faculty members to familiarise yourself with the research going on in your preferred areas.
Each of these contains detailed information on research interests, current projects and recent publications.
When you apply, you can suggest one or two potential supervisors, who you think might be a good fit for you.
However, this is not essential.
If you know what you want to work on, but are unsure on supervisors, you can indicate this in your application and the PhD programme co-directors will study your proposal in detail, and judge who is best suited to be your supervisory team.
To gain a place at Birmingham you will need to meet our general entry requirements, as well as those specific to your course.
Your application will be reviewed by the course’s Admissions Tutor, who will decide whether your application should receive an offer.
In a relevant subject area
For this course we require IELTS 6.5 with no less than 6.0 in any band, which is equivalent to:
If you are proposing your own research topic, you will need to submit a research proposal.
It’s a key part of your application, so take your time.
Your potential supervisors will use it to decide if your research is something they can support.
Your proposal should be a clear and concise summary of your research.
It generally consists of an outline of your proposed research project, including your main research questions and the methods you intend to use.
You should also comment on the potential impact and importance of your intended research and on how your work would interact with current trends in your academic field.
It should illustrate the relevance of your topic to the research interests and expertise of the staff within your chosen department.
The University tuition fee covers the cost of your tuition, supervision, assessment and includes membership to the Guild of Students.
Full-time
Part-time
We charge an annual tuition fee.
Fees for 2025 entry are above.
The fees quoted are for one year only.
For those studying courses that are longer than one year, tuition fees will also be payable in subsequent years of your programme.
Tuition fees can either be paid in full or by instalments.
You can check whether you are eligible for UK or international fees with our admissions team.
Learn more about postgraduate tuition fees and funding.
These are most common in STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Medicine) subjects, but they can sometimes be available for pre-defined research projects in the arts, humanities or social sciences.
These may be advertised as fully funded (with fees and a stipend) or competition funded, meaning the projects compete against other projects at each institution.
You devise your own PhD topic, find and consult with a potential supervisor, explore funding opportunities, write a research proposal and apply to the relevant programme.
Our Postgraduate Scholarships and Funding database lists all available funding.
A limited number of scholarships and studentships may be available to outstanding applicants.
For further information, please explore our scholarships and funding database.
To apply for a postgraduate research programme, you will need to submit your application and supporting documents online.
If you are applying to an ‘advertised PhD’, please check the details of the specific research project for application deadlines.
If you are submitting your own research proposal, applications are accepted all year round.
However, if you wish to start in September, we would encourage you to apply by 1 June.
Whilst you are still welcome to apply after this date, it is important to allow time for us to review your application.
If you are seeking funding, please be aware that the majority of funding opportunities have deadlines in early spring so we would encourage you to apply as early as possible.
We have put together some helpful information on the research programme application process and supporting documents on our how to apply page.
Please read this information carefully before completing your application.
Find out how to apply to our postgraduate research programmes.
If you have a question about our admissions process, including how to apply, your offer and how to track your application, please visit our admissions portal.
A PhD is the highest level of academic achievement available and vital for the continued professional development of scientists.
Completing a PhD at Birmingham will extend your knowledge base in your chosen subject, as well as enhancing your problem solving and analytical, communication and teaching, and leadership and management skills – all of which are valued across the academic and private sectors.
It’ll also provide you with the opportunity to develop your network of peers, collaborators and colleagues to support your onward career.
Many of our postgraduate research students go onto roles such as Research fellow/postdoctoral researcher, medical writer, scientist/research scientist in the pharmaceutical industry, and clinical trial coordinator.
Employers include the NHS Trusts, Cancer Research UK, Wellcome Trust, pharma and biotech companies (including AstraZeneca, Covance, Binding Site, Immunocore, Johnson and Johnson), Medical Communications agencies (e.g.
Fishawack, Insight Medical Writing), the Armed Forces and the University of Birmingham.
Whatever you plan to do after your degree, the Careers Network offers a range of events and support services including networking opportunities, career coaching, one to one guidance, careers fairs and links with leading graduate recruiters.
As a postgraduate researcher, you’ll benefit from tailored support to prepare you for a career in academia or set you up for a wide range of other professions.
We also offer subject specific careers consultants and a dedicated careers website for international students.
Find out why we are the most targeted UK university by top graduate employers (High Fliers report, The Graduate Market 2024) by meeting some of our successful alumni.
At Birmingham, your university experience isn’t just about studying.
You will have the opportunity to discover new experiences, develop different skills and make friends for life.
Our bustling campus with its beautiful grounds, friendly community and excellent facilities will quickly make you feel at home.
As a postgraduate researcher, you’ll have a variety of choices of accommodation.
Stay with us in our dedicated postgraduate halls or explore a wide range of private accommodation close to campus.
As one of the original pioneering cities, Birmingham is a melting pot for shopping, food and drink, nightlife, sport, culture, and industry.
It’s no wonder our students fall in love with the city.
Our green and spacious campus is the place where our community comes together to learn, relax and socialise.
Like a town of its own, just minutes from the hustle and bustle of the UK’s second city.
Whoever you are and wherever you come from, we are committed to providing the best possible support to all of our students so that you can get the most out of your university experience.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/postgraduate/courses/moocs/healthy-ageing.aspx:
The world’s population of older people is growing.
The number of adults aged over 60 is expected to reach 2.1 billion by 2050.
However, while lifespan is increasing, the number of years one can expect to spend in good health is not keeping pace.
It is therefore ‘time for action’.
The University of Birmingham’s Healthy Ageing MOOC course will help anyone who wants to make a difference to older peoples’ lives understand the consequences of ageing and how to intervene in order to maintain good health.
Open to anyone from family members, carers, nurses, practitioners, researchers, policy makers to older adults, our free online course will help you understand how lifestyle behaviours can promote health and physical independence in ageing populations and what is being done to prepare us all for a healthier, more independent future.
Over 3 weeks, you will learn the meaning of ‘Healthy Ageing’.
The course will present current knowledge of physical activity and nutrition research in diverse groups of older adults across different settings.
The sessions will examine ageing and frailty demographics through a global lens, age-related health inequalities and government policies.
You will also be introduced to different research methods, tools, and technologies to help older adults live healthier lives.
Delivered by internationally recognised experts in the field within our School of Sport, Exercise and Rehabilitation Sciences and designed in collaboration with older adults, our course will positively impact your knowledge, behaviours and practices.
What is a MOOC?
A MOOC is a Massive Open Online Course - these are free, open, online courses designed to offer a taste of Higher Education to learners from across the UK and the world.
The University of Birmingham is delivering new MOOCs in partnership with FutureLearn, the UK’s first MOOCs provider established by the Open University.
Delivered by world-class academics from the University of Birmingham, the courses enable learners worldwide to sample high-quality academic content via an interactive web-based platform from a leading global University, increasing access to higher education for a whole new cohort of learners.
The courses have been developed by senior academic staff and their content is quality-assured in line with our other programmes.
The courses do not offer credits towards admission to the University of Birmingham.
Carolyn Greig is a translational scientist with research interests in the influence of use, disuse, age and disease on human skeletal muscle mass and function.
She is particularly research active in the design and conduct of nutritional and physical activity interventions to maintain muscle mass and function in older healthy men and women and in frail patient groups.
She also has an interest in human sedentariness and the development of interventions to reduce sitting time in older adults.
Janice Thompson is a leading expert in the field of public health nutrition and exercise, and their role in preventing and treating risks for obesity, cardiovascular disease, and type 2 diabetes across the lifespan.
This free online course runs at various times throughout the year and runs for 3 weeks.
You can register at any point during the course run via the FutureLearn website .

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/subjects/sport-and-exercise-sciences-courses/sport-and-exercise-science-phd:
Empower your career in sports and allied professions at an internationally renowned department.
Become part of a unique learning environment with world leading academic research and applied practice providing high level support for your career development.
The Doctorate in Sport and Exercise Science is distinct from a traditional PhD.
Instead of a sole focus on academic research training, this degree has a more practical emphasis.
You’ll evolve into a professional researcher capable of conducting impactful research and applying findings to enhance practices within the field of sport and exercise.
This practically focused doctorate is ideal for sport professionals aiming to become practicing researchers, driving innovation and excellence in their fields.
Our PhD programmes are available as full-time or part-time study.
The full-time route is 36 months and part-time 72 months, with study normally commencing in October.
Both modes of study have an optional additional 12 months, commonly used to write up the final thesis.
The first year of PhD studies is probationary.
Your supervisor will identify your training needs and invite you to attend relevant training as appropriate.
To successfully progress onto the next year of study students must pass an annual review.
Students submit a 10-week report and a 10-month report, both assessed by the thesis committee.
Each committee consists of the student's supervisory team, the committee chair, and up to two additional academic staff members.The 10-week report is a short report outlining the project, with the 10-month report an extended version that includes a literature survey.
While meeting their thesis committee, students deliver an oral presentation of their work.
Students complete a presentation during the School’s annual Poster Day.
Academic staff and peers review presentations, with feedback discussed with the thesis committee during a 2nd year review meeting.
Students deliver a presentation to academic staff and their peers, traditionally during their Institute’s annual symposium.
They also submit a thesis plan for their 3rd year review meeting that contains a timetable for completion, content listings of each chapter, completed work and highlighting outstanding tasks.To be awarded a PhD, students must submit their final thesis and defend it in an oral examination (assessed according to the University's regulations).
Become an expert researcher by studying at one of the UK's leading research departments, ranked 6th in the latest Research Excellence Framework.
Based in one of the UK’s largest custom-built Sport and Exercise facility, you will access state-of-the-art research labs and a wide range of equipment for diverse research areas.
The research component is highly tailored, allowing you to explore diverse areas like sport and exercise science, nutrition, coaching, physiotherapy, sports medicine, sport education, and sport management.
Our blended learning approach, combined with personalised tutor-student supervision, ensures flexibility.
You can engage with the program’s learning requirements in a manner that suits your current professional commitments.
in the latest Research Excellence Framework (REF)
in the World for Sports-related subjects
QS World University Rankings 2025
in the UK for Sports-related subjects
Blended learning provides the basis for the delivery of this course.
This structured learning is supported by the completion of independent research projects that are supported by expert supervision from the staff within the school.
The course operates a flexible approach to learning that is based around the concept of blended (in-person and online) delivery.
A variety of learning and teaching approaches are used to support learning opportunities.
These include
All of these approaches will be associated with professional learning within each student's real-world settings.
Modules are assessed using a combination of coursework assessments to include research papers, reports, reflective commentaries and viva voce examination.
The research component of the award will be evaluated using a formal viva vice examination.
Each student will be allocated a project supervisor and supervisory team (who will specifically support the research programme) and an academic mentor who will support their development from a broader perspective.
Engagement with these key individuals will be completed in a flexible way that is aimed at optimally engaging the student in their learning journey.
Seminars and tutorials are aimed at supporting both the learning opportunities included in the core programme modules and facilitating the processes in and around the completion of the research projects.
Seminars and tutorials will be led by both tutors and students on the programme to facilitate peer-to-peer learning.
The blended approach to the delivery of these aspects of the curriculum will ensure that all students can engage in individual and small-group learning.
Lectures and other key content will be delivered by a mixture of academic experts and professional individuals who are active within high-performance sports or sports-related organisations.
Research and high-level professional experience and competency will be a key underpinning of all individuals involved in the programme.
The Doctoral programme is concerned with original research which has professional, organisational and/or developmental implications.
The aims of the programme are:
We welcome applications for research programmes that complement the academic interests of members of staff in the Department, and we recommend that you investigate staff research interests before applying.
In a subject aligned to the research interests of the applicant
Students will be required to hold an undergraduate 2:1 degree in a discipline related to sport and exercise science.
The professional vocation of the student will, in certain situations (e.g.
medicine and physiotherapy) also inform the appropriateness of the application and the area of research that they undertake and hence their ability to obtain a specific named award (e.g.
physiotherapy/medicine).
The healthcare industry is growing rapidly, and professionals with expertise in health sciences, exercise, and sport science are in demand.
The competitive nature of the sports industry and the drive to improve practice quality, create a need for high-level Continuing Professional Development (CPD) opportunities for those involved in sports.
This degree develops high-level thinking and problem-solving skills, essential for leadership in elite sports organisations.
It’s a launchpad for management roles and a great for those seeking to influence the industry with innovation and excellence.
MRes
PhD / MSc (Res)

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/subjects/sport-and-exercise-sciences-courses/exercise-and-sport-sciences-mres:
Become an expert researcher at the forefront of your field.
Through combining taught and research elements, you will be equipped with the scientific understanding and practical skills to address key challenges in sport, exercise and rehabilitation.
Gain research-oriented training in exercise and sport sciences, enhancing your practical, theoretical, and applied skills.
This research degree prepares you for diverse career opportunities in academic or industrial settings within exercise, health, or sports sciences.
The MRes in Exercise and Sport Sciences is a research-focused programme that blends taught modules with an extended independent research project.
The course is structured across two academic terms.
You can find out more about key term dates below.
Autumn Term : 29 September 2025 – 12 December 2025
In the first semester, you will immediately begin working on your research project with the guidance of your supervisor.
You will also undertake a compulsory module in Research Methodology in Sport, Exercise, and Rehabilitation, which will equip you with essential skills in understanding the research process and analysing data.
Additionally, you have the option to choose one or two elective modules* offered during this semester, such as Innovation in Professional Development or Advanced Pedagogies.
Spring Term: 13 January 2025 – 4 April 2025
In semester two, you will continue working on your research project with the goal of submitting your thesis by the end of the academic year.
You may also choose one or two elective modules* offered during this semester, such as Neuromuscular Adaptations to Training, Mixed Methods Research Designs, Player and Participant Development, or Digital Practice in Sport, Exercise & Health.
Additionally, the following modules can be taken in either semester one or two, depending on your preference: Project Management and Research Governance, Continuing Professional Development and Mentored Practice, or Work-Based Professional Development.
*You must choose two elective modules for the whole duration of the programme
Follow your interests through choosing optional modules in core exercise and sports sciences disciplines to tailor your degree.
Learn in a highly interactive teaching and research environment from world-leading active researchers.
Take the unique opportunity to undertake a six-month research project in your chosen field and active research areas like exercise metabolism, cardiovascular physiology, and behavioural medicine.
Our blend of theoretical and practical training prepares you for diverse career opportunities in both academic and industrial settings.
The taught elements of the course will be delivered in the form of optional modules in core disciplines within exercise and sports sciences, allowing you to shape the course to their particular interest.
Extended research experience is offered in the shape of a six-month research project in your chosen discipline.
A variety of assessments will be used through the course, including presentation, problem based assessments, portfolio and extended writing.
The courses have a taught component, and an extended period of research to produce a dissertation.
The methods in which the course is delivered will depend on the optional modules you choose.
These will vary from lecture based modules/practical based modules to self managed modules.
There will be ample opportunity for laboratory time as you propose a research project and conduct your research.
or equivalent in a relevant science subject
At least a 2:1 or equivalent in a relevant science subject (E.g.
Sport and Exercise Sciences, BMedSci, Biochemistry, Health Sciences, Natural Sciences, Biology, Biological Sciences).
The career opportunities for sport and exercise scientists are rapidly expanding.
With increased funding and recognition, roles in elite sports, public health, cardiac rehabilitation, and health promotion are growing.
Potential opportunities include embarking in careers as performance analysts, biomechanists, coaches, and more.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/dubai/study/postgraduate/subjects/physiotherapy-courses/sport-and-exercise-medicine-msc:
Become part of the next generation of experts in sports medicine as you build the skills to propel yourself into a rewarding career in elite sports.
Explore the dynamic world of Sports and Exercise Medicine and Musculoskeletal Rehabilitation Science.
This degree is perfect for physiotherapists and doctors aiming to move into, or progress, in elite sports and exercise or musculoskeletal medicine.
Dive into the roles and significance of interdisciplinary teams within elite sports and exercise medicine.
Deepen your understanding of how to prevent injuries and illnesses.
Assess and diagnose sports-related issues, and master rehabilitation techniques to support athletes returning to play.
Chat to one of our friendly students to get their thoughts on our courses, state-of-the-art campus, and life in Dubai.
This course will run over 12 months in a full-time mode.
There is also scope to undertake the programme on a part-time basis.
While the exact content may change, here’s what you can expect to study each semester.
This is based on a full-time Masters course.
In Term One, you will dive straight into undertaking research activities to boost your competence in knowledge generation and implementation.
You will undertake a range of compulsory modules with the opportunity to tailor your degree to your interests, such as Research Methods and Sports Medicine 1 which focuses on injury and illnesses assessment.
Your dissertation project will be launched this term and run through to term 3.
Select from our optional modules and choose to study mixed methods research or Advanced MSK Physiotherapy (lower limb focus).
During Term two, you will integrate evidence based practice with clinical skills to develop your rehabilitation and management skills in Sports Medicine 2.
You will also be able to select your second optional module including Innovations in professional development, Advanced MSK Physiotherapy (upper limb focus), or Work based continuing professional development.
In your final term, you will integrate all your learning from your studies, by undertaking a period of mentored clinical practice with one of our external sporting, musculoskeletal partners and complete your research dissertation.
Our course is unique in its focus on professional practice and clinical mentorship within a sports medicine or musculoskeletal environment.
Foster adaptability, cross-cultural and commercial awareness, the perfect preparation for the dynamic challenges of sports medicine.
Sharpen your clinical reasoning skills in sports medicine and cultivate transferable skills such as communication, leadership, teamwork, critical thinking and practical skills, that are sought-after by employers.
At the University of Birmingham, Dubai, research and teaching go hand in hand.
You will experience multiple teaching and learning methods throughout the course which will be supported by self-directed learning.
Mixed teaching methods – learn through lectures, tutorials and seminars as well as practical skills training and 1:1 supervision.
Interactive and collaborative teaching – all learning will be centred around contemporary evidence-based musculoskeletal sports practice.
You will benefit from reflective and problem-solving approaches.
Assessments vary across modules.
You will undertake written and oral case reports, practical assessments and you will write up a research study.
MSc Sport and Exercise Medicine will be awarded following successful completion of the Research Dissertation (60 credits) to provide a cumulative total of 180 M level credits.
Year: 1 2025/26 Session
Students must choose two modules (40 credits) from the following:
Programme director for MSc Musculoskeletal Physiotherapy
Karthikeyan Muthumayandi, Programme director for MSc Musculoskeletal Physiotherapy
To secure your place at the University of Birmingham Dubai, you must meet both our general entry requirements and the specific criteria for your chosen course.
Your application will be carefully reviewed by the course’s Admissions Tutor, who will determine if you will receive an offer.
in undergraduate MBBS or (pre-registration) Physiotherapy qualification.
You must also have registration either as medical doctor or practicing physiotherapist in the country where you are currently/have been practicing.
You will also need to submit the following documentation in support of your application:
If you meet the entry criteria, you will be invited to an in-person/online interview to discuss your motivations and eligibility for the programme.
In order to undertake a programme of study here at the University, you will need to demonstrate that you have a good level of written and spoken English.
You can demonstrate your level of English with IELTS/TOEFL/PTE or alternative qualifications.
The University tuition fee covers the cost of your tuition, examination and graduation.
Full-time (September 2025)
Part-time (September 2025)
The fees quoted are by full time or part time per year of study.
For those studying courses over two or more years, the tuition fee will also be payable in subsequent years of your programme.
Tuition fees can be paid in full or in three instalments per year of study.
Birmingham attracts the best and brightest students from across the globe.
For students with the potential to thrive here, we have a number of scholarships available at our Dubai campus.
To apply for a postgraduate programme, you will need to submit your application and supporting documents online.
Identifying and responding to opportunities from professional practice, you will develop the knowledge, skills, and attributes that lead to exciting, rewarding, and valuable careers.
Through the developments in practice and influence, you will ensure that sport, physical activity, and rehabilitation can change the world in diverse and inclusive ways.
Typical career pathways include working in elite sport full or part-time.
At the University of Birmingham Dubai, our careers services will help you plan and achieve your ambitions.
Whatever you plan to do after your degree, the Careers Network Dubai information, advice, and guidance service offers support to help you identify your options, develop your skills and gain access to opportunities that propel you towards your career goal.
MSc
You will have the opportunity to discover new experiences, develop different skills and make friends for life at our Dubai campus.
Our state-of-the-art Dubai campus, with its iconic buildings overlooking stunning parkland and friendly community, will quickly make you feel at home in the UAE's second city.
Expect plenty of exciting activities to get involved in outside of your studies, as well as all the support and advice you need.
Coming to the University of Birmingham Dubai to study might be your first time living away from home.
Our student accommodation partners allow you to enjoy your independence in safe, welcoming, and sociable surroundings.
Enrich your life with endless attractions, entertainment and lifestyle opportunities.
In just over 50 years, Dubai has transformed itself from a tiny settlement to a glistening city and world-class destination.
Our state-of-the-art Dubai campus is where our diverse community comes together, providing a home for up to 3,000 students to learn, relax, and socialise.
Explore our Dubai campus from wherever you are.
Get a feel for the wide range of modern spaces and state-of-the-art facilities.
An overview of some of our Student and Alumni stories

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/subjects/sport-sciences-courses/sport-exercise-and-health-sciences-bsc:
Study at one of the world's highest ranked universities for sport-related subjects.
You’ll learn how to enhance sporting performance, uncover how the body responds to exercise, and discover ways to boost both physical and mental health.
Our course emphasises practical experience, research and critical thinking.
Our graduates leave ready to address global challenges such as obesity, inactivity, and unhealthy ageing.
The lecturers are genuinely passionate about the subject which they are teaching, providing an engaging environment to learn and challenge ourselves.
Join our three-year programme consisting of core (compulsory) and optional modules.
Each module will be assessed in different ways depending on the topic you're studying.
In Year 1, you will develop a strong foundation through core modules, including Human Physiology and Exercise, Functional Anatomy, Sport, Exercise and Health Psychology, and Exercise Biochemistry, while gaining practical experience in laboratory settings.
Additionally, you will be introduced to the world-class research conducted within our School and begin building essential skills in scientific and professional communication.
In Year 2, you will integrate fundamental scientific principles with their practical applications in sport, exercise and health.
You can choose optional modules in areas such as physiology, metabolism, human movement and psychology that align with your strengths and interests, allowing you to tailor your learning experience.
Additionally, placement opportunities in real-world professional settings will enhance your practical knowledge and skills.
In Year 3, choose from an extensive selection of advanced modules tailored to your interests, ranging from Performing in Extreme Environments, Sports Injury Rehabilitation, Athletic Training and Conditioning, Sport and Mental Health and Exercise Prescription.
You will also undertake an extended research project in the topic you are most passionate about or gain hands-on experience in a professional placement.
in the UK for sports-related subjects
QS World Rankings 2025
in the UK for Sport, Health and Rehabilitation Sciences
The Complete University Guide 2025
You will experience a variety of teaching methods, including lectures, small group seminars, computer workshops, practical classes in both laboratories and the sports centre, placement opportunities and research projects.
Personal tutors - will get to know you as you progress through your studies.
Wellbeing officers - provide professional support, advice and guidance to students across a range of issues.
They can discuss extensions, disabilities, reasonable adjustments, extenuating circumstances and help you access wider support on campus and beyond.
Academic Skills Centre - helps you become a more effective and independent learner through a range of high-quality support, with workshops on topics such as note-taking, reading, academic writing and presentation skills.
Student experience team - will help you get the most out of your academic and social experience, including research opportunities, study skills support and preparing for your post-university careers.
Throughout your degree  you can expect an average of 12 hours of contact time per week made up of 10 hours of lectures or seminars and 2 hours of practical classes
Sport, Exercise and Health Sciences uses a variety of methods to assess student performance, including exams, essays and dissertations.
At the beginning of each module, you'll be given information on how and when you'll be assessed for that particular area of study.
Core module:
Students must choose three or four from the following optional modules:
Optional modules include:
Project - You will plan and carry out a research project, analysing the data you will collect and presenting the results.
You will produce a poster and you will write a dissertation to present your project.
or
Professional Dissertation - You will apply your theoretical knowledge and skills, to an authentic challenge, in collaboration with a community organisation by undertaking voluntary placement work.
The focus of the placement could be based on research on an area of concern, evaluating existing provision, or designing resources for an organisation.
Before the start of the project you will produce a project proposal and timeline, and following its conclusion you will create one multimedia presentation summarising your findings and recommendations, as well as a report for the organisation.
Admissions Tutor
Carl Hulston joined the University of Birmingham as an Associate Professor in Sport and Exercise Nutrition in 2023.
AAA - ABB dependent on the number of preferred science subjects included
6,6,6 - 6,5,5 in Higher level subjects plus 32 points overall, dependent on the number of preferred science subjects as defined for the A-level qualification.
BTEC Extended Diploma in science related subject will be considered.
BTEC Diploma accepted in combination with an A level.
BTEC Subsidiary Diploma accepted in combination with two A levels.
AAA–ABB A level requirements dependent on the number of preferred science subjects included.
Preferred Science Subjects: Biology/Human Biology, Chemistry, Economics, Geography, Maths, PE/Sports Studies, Psychology, Physics, Statistics, Geology
Some offers of ABB will be made to those applicants with multiple A levels from the preferred list and an exceptional supporting statement.
Specified subjects excluded for entry: Applied Science, Citizenship Studies, Communication and Culture, Critical Studies, Critical Thinking, General Studies, Moving Image Arts, Science in Society, Use of Maths and World Development.
GCSE Mathematics, English and a science at a minimum of grade 4/C.
ABB-BBC dependent on preferred science subjects included
AAB-BBB dependent on preferred science subjects included
Applications close at 18:00 GMT.
Our graduates are highly sought after, with Birmingham being the top UK university targeted by top employers (High Fliers ‘Graduate Market in 2024’ report).
You'll have access to our expert career advice and support during your degree and after graduation.
Our Sport, Exercise and Health Sciences graduates go on to excel in a diverse range of career settings such as Teaching, Data Analyst, Events Management, Occupational Therapy, Strength and Conditioning Coaching, Research, and Performance Physiologist.
All of which can be found in a variety of sectors like Elite Sport, Healthcare and Higher Education.
Our students have the opportunity to go on to study Postgraduate courses including Medicine, Physiotherapy, Dietetics and Occupational Health.
Graduates from this programme have gone on to work for organisations including:
University of Birmingham NHS Blood and Transplant Derby County Community Trust Positive Intelligence Coventry City Football Club Brighton & Hove Albion Football Club British Cycling Ladies European Tour Chichester College Group Novo Nordisk Srixon Sports Europe Ltd University of Hertfordshire East Suffolk and North Essex NHS Foundation Trust University College London Hospitals NHS Trust Southampton Football Club
Their job roles include:
Director Physiotherapist Account Director Managing Director Chief Executive Officer Business Development Manager Project Manager Event Coordinator Regional Sales Manager Mental Fitness Coach Clinical Specialist Physiotherapist Chief of Staff Commercial Director Director of Sport Senior Consultant Founder Head of Blood Supply Chain Planning
BSc
MSci

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/subjects/sport-and-exercise-sciences-courses/exercise-and-sports-medicine-msc:
Taught by staff in the world-leading School of Sport, Exercise, and Rehabilitation Sciences, this degree is perfect for physiotherapists and doctors aiming to thrive in elite sports.
Explore the dynamic world of Sports and Exercise Medicine.
Dive into the roles and significance of interdisciplinary teams within elite sports.
Sharpen your clinical reasoning skills in sports medicine and cultivate transferable skills that are sought-after by employers.
I would have no hesitations in recommending this course to others considering applying.
The teaching provided was first class and extremely practical, supporting those with aspirations to work in elite sports.
The course is tailored to your schedule to work around your personal commitments.
This is based on a full time Masters course.
In Term one, you will dive straight into undertaking research activities to boost your competence in knowledge generation and implementation.
You will undertake a range of compulsory modules with the opportunity to tailor your degree to your interests, such as Research methods and Sports Medicine 1 which focuses on injury and illnesses assessment.
Your dissertation project will be launched this semester and run through to semester 3.
Select from our optional modules and choose to study either Theory and Practice in leadership or Advanced MSK Physiotherapy (lower limb focus).
Spring Term : 12 January 2026 – 27 March 2026
During Term two, you build upon your learning to enable you to develop your rehabilitation and management skills in Sports Medicine 2.
You will also be able to select your second optional module including Neuromuscular adaptions to training, Advanced MSK Physiotherapy (upper limb focus), or Evaluating Performance.
Summer Term : 27 April 2026 – 26 June 2026
In your final term, you will apply all your learning from throughout your studies, to focus on completing your applied-themed research dissertation.
You will also commence your clinical placement which will be based with one of our external sporting partners.
With our world-leading research expertise in sports, exercise, health, and rehabilitation you will be taught by experts in the field.
Access dedicated state-of-the-art research laboratories including our on-site prosectorium to develop your anatomy skills.
Undertake a specialist module that promotes professional practice and clinical mentorship within a sports medicine environment.
This course is closely associated with the Graduate School of Sport and Professional Practice.
In the World
In the UK for Sport Subjects
At Birmingham, research and teaching go hand in hand.
Our new Centre for Movement and Wellbeing (MoveWell) clinic will provide unique opportunities to interact with patients and gain real-life experiences through placements.
The physiotherapy clinic is at the heart of MoveWell, offering targeted therapies to support good health, through the treatment and rehabilitation from injury, acute illness and chronic disease.
You'll also have access to our elite sport facilities such as our Sport and Fitness Gym which is home to our Olympic sized swimming pool.
The Postgraduate Diploma (PGDip) in Sports and Exercise Medicine is awarded with successful completion of six 20 credit masters level modules.
Cumulative total of 120 M level credits.
The award of Master of Science (MSc) in Sports and Exercise Medicine will be awarded following successful completion of the Research Dissertation (60 credits) to provide a cumulative total of 180 M level credits.
The modules listed below are an indication only and may be subject to change.
Occasionally, it may be necessary to make changes to modules, for example, to ensure they remain current and relevant.
As a research-intensive University, our teaching is informed by the latest academic thinking and expertise of our staff.
For more information on the circumstances in which the University may need to make changes to modules, please refer to the Terms and Conditions for applicants .
You must select only ONE of the following modules:
*For those wishing to work as a manager or coach in Professional Football, this module includes a two-day Pitchside emergency care qualification that is internationally recognized and equivalent to the FA Level 4.
In addition to the optional modules listed, you can take other modules with agreement from the Programme Leader.
Optional module choices must total 40 credits.
A minimum of 2:1 Honours Degree within a Medical or Physiotherapy discipline.
You must hold a minimum of a 2:1 Honours Degree in a medical discipline such as BMBS, BM, MBChB, or a 2:1 Honours BSc or BA Degree, preferably in a pre-registration Physiotherapy degree qualifications.
Once accepted onto the course, you will also need to complete a number of non-academic requirements prior to admission.
In addition, you will need to submit a personal statement.
This should be a maximum of 500 words in length.
An explanation of how MSc Sports and Exercise Medicine will help you with your career development should also be included.
Before your application can be processed you must submit the following items:
If you have met the admission criteria, you will then be required to take part in an interview.
We offer on-campus courses all year round starting from September including additional online courses in the summer term.
International students undertaking a postgraduate taught degree are required to pay a tuition fee deposit before an electronic Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) can be issued.
To help with the cost of studies, this loan is available to all UK students.
You can use this loan towards fees, maintenance or other costs at your own discretion.
It’s available for all full-time, part-time and distance learning Masters programmes, as long as you don’t already have a Masters qualification (or equivalent).If you’re a student from Wales, Scotland or Northern Ireland, you can apply for Masters loans from your country’s government.
To help you afford your studies, we’ve put more than £33 million into student support and scholarships.
We also offer a range of advice on searching for funding and managing your finances.
We want to welcome the brightest talent to our postgraduate community.
That’s why our Birmingham Masters Scholarships award £3,000 to more than 300 students each year.
Application deadline for UK and non visa requiring applicants.
We will close applications as soon as the programme is full.
Early applications are encouraged.
Find out how to apply to our postgraduate taught programmes.
Identifying and responding to opportunities from professional practice, our graduates are developing the knowledge, skills, and attributes that lead to exciting, rewarding, and valuable careers.
Through the developments in their practice and influence, they will ensure that sport, physical activity, and rehabilitation can change the world in diverse, inclusive ways.
Typical career pathways from this course include many of our graduates going on to work in elite sport full or part-time.
Read our latest Blog posts: https://blog.bham.ac.uk/gsspp-blog/
This course is closely associated with the Graduate School of Sport and Professional Practice*.
The Graduate School of Sport and Professional Practice (GSSPP) is a world-leading centre for professional development in sport, physical activity, and rehabilitation based at the University of Birmingham.
I studied this course at the University of Birmingham part-time while I was working in a third division professional football club in Italy.
I would not hesitate to recommend this course, which I feel made a difference in allowing me to secure a position at Juventus Football Club.
The award itself from such a prestigious University surely made my CV stand out among the others, but what I feel most important are the strong clinical reasoning skills I developed throughout the course particularly thankfully to a top-class faculty of lecturers.
Whatever you plan to do after your degree, the Careers Network offers a range of events and support services including networking opportunities, career coaching, one-to-one guidance, careers fairs and links with leading graduate recruiters.
We also offer subject-specific careers consultants and a dedicated careers website for international students.
An overview of Student and Alumni Stories

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/staff/profiles/applied-health/kamarajah-sivesh.aspx:
Department of Applied Health Sciences NIHR Doctoral Fellow
Sivesh is a NIHR Doctoral Fellow and General Surgery Registrar in the West Midlands.
He is undertaking a mixed methods PhD on developing and testing complex interventions for multimorbidity in surgical patients.
His PhD is based on utilising principles of the NIHR / MRC Complex Intervention framework and includes methodologies such as data science and implementation science.
ORCiD iD: 0000-0002-2748-0011
Google Scholar profile
ResearchGate profile
PubMed profile
Diploma of Membership of the Royal College of Surgeons (MRCS), RCS England 2021
MBChB in Medicine, University of Birmingham, 2018
BMedSci in Liver Immunology, University of Birmingham, 2016
Sivesh Kamarajah is from Malaysia and read medicine at University of Birmingham.
He completed the academic foundation programme in Newcastle upon Tyne Hospitals NHS Trust & University of Newcastle from 2018 - 2020.
Sivesh then moved back to University of Birmingham as a NIHR Academic Clinical Fellow (2020 - 2023) as a General Surgery Trainee.
Following a competitive application process, he was successfully awarded the NIHR Doctoral Fellowship to undertake a clinical PhD on “Learning to develop randomised trials for people with multiple long-term health conditions undergoing major surgery” .
Sivesh has delivered national and international cohort studies in surgery and perioperative care.
He was Chief Investigator of an international cohort study assessing postoperative cardiac complications after major abdominal surgery ( CASCADE ), including >24,000 patients across 446 hospitals from 29 countries in Europe.
He is currently co-leading the GECKO GlobalSurg-4 cohort study including >53,000 patients from >1,200 hospital from 108 countries.
Intercalated BSc project supervisor (Anatomy)
BMedSci project supervisor
Current Membership of Committees:
Past Membership of Committees:
STARSurg Collaborative; EuroSurg Collaborative, Kamarajah SK.
Impact of postoperative cardiovascular complications on 30-day mortality after major abdominal surgery: an international prospective cohort study.
Anaesthesia.
2024 Feb 2.
doi: 10.1111/anae.16220.
NIHR Global Health Unit on Global Surgery.
Evaluation of a quality improvement intervention to reduce anastomotic leak following right colectomy (EAGLE): pragmatic, batched stepped-wedge, cluster-randomized trial in 64 countries.
British Journal of Surgery.
Jan 3;111(1).
doi: 10.1093/bjs/znad370.
Lof S, Claassen L, Hannink G, Al-Sarireh B, Björnsson B, Boggi U, Burdio F, Butturini G, Capretti G, Casadei R, Dokmak S, Edwin B, Esposito A, Fabre JM, Ferrari G, Fretland AA, Ftériche FS, Fusai GK, Giardino A, Groot Koerkamp B, D'Hondt M, Jah A, Kamarajah SK, Kauffmann EF, Keck T, van Laarhoven S, Manzoni A, Marino MV, Marudanayagam R, Molenaar IQ, Pessaux P, Rosso E, Salvia R, Soonawalla Z, Souche R, White S, van Workum F, Zerbi A, Rosman C, Stommel MWJ, Abu Hilal M, Besselink MG Learning Curves of Minimally Invasive Distal Pancreatectomy in Experienced Pancreatic Centers.
JAMA Surg.
2023 Sep 1;158(9):927-933.
doi: 10.1001/jamasurg.2023.2279.
GreenSurg Collaborative, 2023, 'Elective surgical services need to start planning for summer pressures', British Journal of Surgery, vol.
110, no.
4, pp.
508-510.
https://doi.org/10.1093/bjs/znad033
Moore JL, Green M, Santaolalla A, Deere H, Evans RPT, Elshafie M, Lavery A, McManus DT, McGuigan A, Douglas R, Horne J, Walker R, Mir H, Terlizzo M, Kamarajah SK, Van Hemelrijck M, Maisey N, Sita-Lumsden A, Ngan S, Kelly M, Baker CR, Kumar S, Lagergren J, Allum WH, Gossage JA, Griffiths EA, Grabsch HI, Turkington RC, Underwood TJ, Smyth EC, Fitzgerald RC, Cunningham D, Davies AR; ‘Pathologic Lymph Node Regression After Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy Predicts Recurrence and Survival in Esophageal Adenocarcinoma: A Multicenter Study in the United Kingdom.’J Clin Oncol.
2023 Oct 1;41(28):4522-4534.
doi: 10.1200/JCO.23.00139.
Epub 2023 Jul 27.
PMID: 37499209
Kamarajah SK, Markar SR, Low D, Phillips AW (2023).
Prognostic implications of the extent of downstaging after neoadjuvant therapy for oesophageal adenocarcinoma and oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma.
BJS Open.
7(3):zrad042.
doi: 10.1093/bjsopen/zrad042.
PMID: 37341158
Oesophago-Gastric Anastomotic Audit (OGAA) Collaborative, Kamarajah SK.
Postoperative and Pathological Outcomes of CROSS and FLOT as Neoadjuvant Therapy for Esophageal and Junctional Adenocarcinoma: An International Cohort Study From the Oesophagogastric Anastomosis Audit (OGAA).
Ann Surg.
2023 May 1;277(5):e1026-e1034.
doi: 10.1097/SLA.0000000000005394.
National Institute of Health Research Unit on Global Surgery, Kamarajah SK (2022).
Alcoholic chlorhexidine skin preparation or triclosan-coated sutures to reduce surgical site infection: a systematic review and meta-analysis of high-quality randomised controlled trials.
Lancet Infect Dis.
2022 Aug;22(8):1242-1251.
doi: 10.1016/S1473-3099(22)00133-5.
Epub 2022 May 26.
STARSurg Collaborative and TASMAN Collaborative, Kamarajah SK.
Evaluation of prognostic risk models for postoperative pulmonary complications in adult patients undergoing major abdominal surgery: a systematic review and international external validation cohort study.
Lancet Digit Health.
2022 Jul;4(7):e520-e531.
doi: 10.1016/S2589-7500(22)00069-3.
NIHR Global Health Research Unit on Global Surgery, COVIDSurg Collaborative, 2022, 'Elective surgery system strengthening: development, measurement, and validation of the surgical preparedness index across 1632 hospitals in 119 countries', The Lancet, vol.
400, no.
10363, pp.
1607-1617.
https://doi.org/10.1016/S0140-6736(22)01846-3
STARSurg Collaborative and TASMAN Collaborative 2022, 'Evaluation of prognostic risk models for postoperative pulmonary complications in adult patients undergoing major abdominal surgery: a systematic review and international external validation cohort study', The Lancet Digital Health, vol.
4, no.
7, pp.
e520-e531.
https://doi.org/10.1016/S2589-7500(22)00069-3
STARSurg Collaborative 2022, 'Impact of postoperative acute kidney injury in patients undergoing major gastrointestinal surgery on 1-year survival and renal outcomes: a national multicentre cohort study', BJS Open, vol.
5, no.
6, zrab134.
https://doi.org/10.1093/bjsopen/zrab134

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/news/2025/navigating-free-expression-and-youth-engagement-with-race-and-faith-in-english-schools:
Study reveals how race, faith and free speech are negotiated in English schools amid global debates on equality, expression and impartiality.
A University of Birmingham study is illuminating how issues of race and faith equality are negotiated in England’s schools at a time of intense debates internationally around free speech, anti-racism, and political impartiality.
The research study, titled Free Expression at School: The Making of Youth Engagements with Race and Faith , is co-led by Professor Karl Kitching and Professor Reza Gholami alongside colleagues Dr Aslı Kandemir and Dr Md.
Shajedur Rahman .
Funded by the Leverhulme Trust , the almost three-year study combines national survey data, policy document analysis, classroom observations, youth participatory methods, and interviews with teachers, policymakers, and key stakeholders.
The study was motivated by growing concern over how free speech is being used as a political tool, paradoxically, to restrict conversations about inequality in educational settings.
“There’s been a lot of debate over freedom of speech at the university level, but this overlooks the experiences of young people before university or before adulthood.
So we wanted to ask the question, why is policy and political debate not addressing young people’s freedom of speech and wider expression in school contexts?” Professor Kitching explains.
The study emerges against a global backdrop of moral panics and debates about the presence of anti-racist and LGBTQ+ inclusive education in schools.
US president Donald Trump, for instance, is seeking to abolish the Department of Education and denounce Diversity, Equality and Inclusion (DEI) programmes.
This presents challenges to human rights and comprehensive and inclusive education for young people.
“Education has become the battleground in lots of countries for hard-right culture wars, and it's obviously very effective to use the figure of the child for particular political goals,” says Professor Kitching.
“The idea that children's innocence is being lost, for example, is a very charged and effective method of convincing people that something's wrong in the school system, and that ‘woke ideologies’ are part of the reason for it.
These claims lack any kind of meaningful evidence base.”
In England, debates have centred on the perceived dangers of having anti-racist and faith-inclusive conversations in schools.
In 2020, the former Minister for Equalities, Kemi Badenoch, now leader of the Conservative party, argued that the teaching of white privilege in schools was illegal if presented as fact and ' unnecessarily antagonistic’ , while the Department for Education has published and updated guidelines around discussions of politically ‘contentious’ issues, encouraging impartiality.
Professor Kitching points out that there is an explicit contradiction here.
“Policy and politics has become so polemic around this, where, on the one hand, you see people talking about freedom of speech and protecting freedom of speech, and on the other hand, we see efforts to actually stop certain things being talked about, or at least being taught about in schools.
Our research is really trying to get underneath some of those issues.”
Education has become the battleground in lots of countries for hard-right culture wars, and it's obviously very effective to use the figure of the child for particular political goals.
The idea that children's innocence is being lost, for example, is a very charged and effective method of convincing people that something's wrong in the school system, and that ‘woke ideologies’ are part of the reason for it.
These claims lack any kind of meaningful evidence base.
The University of Birmingham team conducted a nationwide survey of over 3,000 year 10 pupils (aged 14–15) and more than 200 year 10 teachers across 29 schools in nine English regions.
Sampling was carefully stratified by geography, population density, and school type to reflect the diversity of England’s educational landscape.
The results were striking.
While many young people said they cared deeply about race and faith equality, a large proportion expressed discomfort speaking openly in front of peers even when they felt safe and listened to by their teacher.
When a peer said something they strongly disagreed with, over half (52%) of students said they are likely to keep their feelings private in response.
The study found that overall, young people often self-censor on race and faith equality issues in schools, including regarding reporting discrimination, due to multiple factors including worries about offending others and concerns about judgment or being disciplined.
Overall, only 34% agreed that most pupils treat each other with respect, showing that how students perceive each other within school environments is one of the reasons affecting whether they exercise their right to freedom of speech.
Dr Rahman, Research Fellow at the University of Birmingham, highlights a compelling set of findings: “Students surveyed say that they learn about socio-political issues from social media rather than from school, but they're also pretty positive towards their teachers’ practice and support to handle things like race and faith issues in principle.
Yet most students also responded that they would not, or were unsure of, their confidence to report racism or related experiences they face in school.
The study also found a significant minority of young people felt their teachers were not always well-prepared to lead an accurate discussion about racism.”
Dr Rahman points out other key findings; 43% viewed ‘unfair treatment of people like me because of our skin colour, ethnicity, religion, or nationality’, as a worrying issue.
61% of those from Black, African, Black Caribbean and Black British backgrounds, 55% of those from Asian or Asian British backgrounds, and 37% of white students also agreed with this view.
Moreover, whilst 47% of students surveyed felt that their school taught their community’s history accurately, although this depended on geographic location and area, young people of Black and Asian backgrounds were at least 2.5 times more likely to disagree that the history of people from their racial or ethnic background is accurately taught in their school.
The research team carried out lesson and assembly observations alongside focus groups and interviews in six schools in Birmingham and London, and ethnographic work in four additional schools during the second year of the study.
“We wanted to examine the social structures and dynamics within schools,” explains Dr Aslı Kandemir, Research Fellow at the University of Birmingham.
“[We found that] young people are very racially literate, or literate in terms of inequalities in the wider society, but they believe to what extent they would prefer to express themselves should be their own decision.
They want to bring their own agency, and to highlight that they are a citizen of the school, a citizen of this country or this society, an equal member of the society.”
The discourse around Britishness was integral to the societal context and the study’s findings.
“There's been a lot of debate about fundamental British values, how meaningful they are, and how they affect schools.
There’s also been a debate on how they affect religion, and minoritised young people,” Professor Kitching explains.
“British values are spoken about in a very top-down way, but we’ve seen that the effects are a lot more subtle than direct.
It has a paradoxical silencing effect, whereby if you challenge the mainstream political view, you risk being seen as un- British.”
The study points out that, currently, race and related prejudice issues are addressed primarily in Key Stage 4 (14-16 years) through the Personal, Social and Health Education (PSHE) subject, but that these conversations need to be tackled in the entire curriculum and go beyond one subject for inclusive youth empowerment and engagement.
The study calls for a revised curriculum that broadens civic and political education for young people, which also explicitly and critically addresses the work of racially and religiously minoritised communities in creating social change in Britain.
As part of this, Professor Kitching argues for the development of the secondary school-level subject of Citizenship to include political education in a way that educates and empowers students to develop their own view on citizenship and related rights and freedoms.
“How we look at the democratic process involved in schools and young people needs to change so we are enacting the value of democracy and seeing it more from a bottom-up point of view."
The study also utilised participatory research methods to reveal insights, including a ‘Photovoice’ exercise where pupils submitted photographs reflecting their experiences of race, faith, and freedom of expression, and discussed them in a workshop.
Collectively, they support Dr Kandemir’s observation that many young people have strong interests in conversations on equality and human rights and exploring them.
A Youth Advisory Group was also consulted to help interpret findings from a student perspective.
Teachers are navigating this complex terrain, with some expressing discomfort about addressing politically sensitive topics, citing behavioural management as a key obstacle.
“Teachers themselves wouldn't say too much that they're struggling with these issues, in part because there's such a successful disciplinary culture around these things that relates to child protection policies,” says Professor Kitching.
“We also have an exam system that doesn't facilitate us to talk about these things.
But you will come across teachers who say things like, ‘I don't think I can push this issue with these students because they're too disruptive, or because it'll spiral out of hand’.”
This issue is compounded by the limited teacher training currently offered.
“You can really see the difference when there is a teacher who is comfortable with these issues, is agentic, and makes the space to talk about them,” Professor Kitching explains.
The study highlighted that in more open school environments, students felt more able to confidently talk about race and faith related issues.
For example, where Black Lives Matter was discussed in their school, surveyed students were 2.5+ times more likely to say teachers present several sides of an issue, than in schools where Black Lives Matter was not discussed.
These findings challenge political claims in England that Black Lives Matter is being taught in an ideological way in schools.
At the same time, young people’s expectations of school as a place to learn about social and political issues varied depending on geographic location and area, experience of poverty, and lower achievement contexts.
The study recommends that teacher training and educational guidance must address and recognise this.
“Initial teacher education requirements have become narrower and narrower regarding how to approach and examine complex issues on inclusion,” Professor Kitching points out.
“So to some degree, the new early career student teachers might be even less capable of talking about these things than some of the more experienced teachers who know their students really well,” he concludes.
To help address this, the team is developing a Continuing Professional Development (CPD) programme informed by their findings, equipping teachers with tools to build confidence in managing difficult conversations and supporting student voice more effectively.
The final report and its outputs come at a crucial moment for British education.
The government is currently considering a new Race Equality Act, and the findings from this study present a crucial opportunity to address current policy reform in the areas of curriculum and assessment, school inspection, teacher and student wellbeing, as well as political impartiality and teaching issues that are sensitive in particular classrooms.
Sign up for research updates >
Professor of Public Education
Professor Kitching's research and teaching focuses on challenging multiple inequalities in education, in childhood, and in young people's lives.
Professor of Sociology of Education
Professor Gholami's research is internationally recognised and focuses on questions of belongingness, diversity, inter-communal relations and community engagement in education.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/news/2025/new-phd-scholarship-announced-for-sustainability-in-the-creative-industries:
The Birmingham Institute for Sustainability and Climate Action invites applications for several projects, including one working with the Birmingham Rep Theatre.
Credit: Kris Askey
A project working with the Birmingham Rep Theatre to promote sustainability in the creative industries is one of several new PhD scholarships being offered by the Birmingham Institute for Sustainability and Climate Action ( BISCA) .
The PhD opportunity – which has a deadline of Friday 22 August – is one of a set promoted through BISCA's 'Adaptation and Resilience' theme that will be competitively selected and is especially of interest to arts and humanities scholars.
“The UK creative and cultural sector is economically highly significant, generating substantial economic value,” says Professor Adam Ledger (Drama and Theatre Arts, University of Birmingham), who is supervising the project with Dr Nana O Bonsu (Business School, University of Birmingham).
“This project looks at how sustainable practices and organisational development can be introduced, modelled, tested and scaled up in the sector.
“It offers an opportunity for a truly interdisciplinary enquiry and methodology, working with Birmingham Rep Theatre, a nationally significant, Birmingham-based organisation, and other potential local and regional partners.
It will track current adaptation interventions while introducing new sustainable creative solutions and business and creative perspectives.”
Ultimately, the project aims to develop sustainability models that are applicable to other creative industries, such as music, dance and cultural events – all of which face similar organisational, material, and practical challenges.
Candidates will benefit from arts and business expertise and research training, producing meaningful data and outputs that will benefit both the research and industry sectors.
Students will also join a vibrant, interdisciplinary research network at BISCA and should ideally have a background in theatre or the cultural industries with an interest in business development.
For full details of the project, view the FindAPhD listing .
Professor of Theatre and Performance
Biographical and contact details for Dr Adam Ledger, Professor of Theatre and Performance, at the University of Birmingham.
Assistant Professor in Responsible Business & Sustainability
Dr Nana Osei Bonsu is an Assistant Professor at the Centre for Responsible Business at Birmingham Business School, University of Birmingham.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/news/press-and-media-contacts:
Working closely with staff and students right across campus, our Media Relations team are your key contacts, whatever the story.
Email us: pressoffice@contacts.bham.ac.uk
Contact the Press Office (including out of hours): +44 (0)121 414 2772
Kathryn Hobbs - Deputy Director of Communications Telephone: +44 (0)7773 726 976 Email: k.hobbs.1@bham.ac.uk
Danann Swanton - Head of Corporate Communications
Mobile: +44 (0)7966 311 390
Email: d.swanton@bham.ac.uk
Timothy Mayo - Communications Manager (Health, life and environmental sciences) Mobile: +44 (0)7815 607 157 Email: t.mayo@bham.ac.uk
Tony Moran - Communications Manager (Engineering, physical sciences and international) Mobile: +44 (0)7827 832 312 Email: t.moran@bham.ac.uk
Ellie Hail - Communications Officer (Arts, humanities and social sciences) Mobile: +44 (0)7966 311 409 Email: e.hail@bham.ac.uk
For all enquiries, please contact:
Telephone: +44 (0)121 415 8262 Email: publicaffairs@contacts.bham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/news/search:
A political framework, created by Birmingham and Oxford researchers, to support aid donor countries to protect human rights, wins the Atlas Award 2025.
Results of randomised Phase 2 ImmunoTACE trial saw an increase in progression-free survival time for Hepatocellular Carcinoma (HCC) patients.
US air pollution from oil and gas causes hundreds of thousands of severe health issues, with Black, Asian, Native American & Hispanic groups the most affected.
Brummie book lovers will be able to gather together in the Vaults of The Exchange for a new book club exploring themes from mental health to the environment.
The University is collaborating with relevant stakeholders on a development plan for two sections of Selly Oak campus.
The first comprehensive study to validate the Women's Risk Needs Assessment tool in the UK, has shown it effectively predicts reoffending risks for women.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/experts:
The University of Birmingham is one of the UK's leading universities for research and can offer expertise to the media on many different subjects.
The guide is searchable by name, keyword or academic school.
You can find a list of all experts from an academic school using the pull down menu.
Alternative contact numbers are available for some academics.
Please contact the Press Office for assistance.
Select                                     a school or department to filter your search

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/research:
Our unbound approach to research lets us reimagine and rethink the established.
In all our research, we are transforming lives across the globe and changing how the world works.
Guiding our focus and drawing across our vast expertise and resources, our five research challenge themes showcase our pioneering breakthroughs, multidisciplinary collaboration, and significant global impact.
Our research is driving meaningful change to tackle inequalities that permeate society.
Our research is improving air quality and access to clean water, and advancing the clean technologies needed to ensure a sustainable future.
We are driving innovation with industrial and manufacturing partners, advancing technology and accelerating impact on human progress.
Our research promotes and connects diverse cultures, fosters social inclusion, shared ownership, and a sense of belonging.
We are improving the health of people across the world through new discoveries, treatments, and patient pathways.
Get updates on the latest research, news, and developments from University of Birmingham.
Ranked 10th in the Russell Group for Grade Point Average (Source: REF 2021)
Of our research is rated as world-leading or internationally excellent (Source: REF 2021)
We offer a wide range of world-leading research opportunities to choose from.
Be the first to know about future academic recruitment rounds, research highlights, and news related to our 125th Anniversary Fellows and Chairs.
We welcome the latest cohort of researchers joining us as 125th Anniversary Fellows and Chairs.
Discover who will be driving our ambitions to become a global top 50 university.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/open-days:
Our Undergraduate Open Days are the perfect opportunity to explore our facilities, meet your future lecturers, and chat with our current students.
Explore our beautiful, green campus and discover what it's like to become a part of our vibrant student community.
Book your place on our autumn Open Days using the form below.
Our 2025 Open Days will take place on the following dates:
We can't wait to welcome you!
Open Days are a great opportunity for you to explore our campus and chat to current students and academic staff about student life here at Birmingham.
Our beautiful campus university is just minutes from the hustle and bustle of the UK's second city, making it a prime location for student living.
There's lots to discover at our Open Days.
We don't want you to miss a thing so we've got some top tips for you to get the most out of your day.
Open Day top tips
Welcome to our Open Day at the University of Birmingham.
This is the perfect opportunity to explore our green and spacious campus, our state-of-the-art facilities and chat with our current students and staff.
We're here to help you get future ready.
So, make sure you come prepared with any questions you might have.
This is just the start of your university experience, so here are some top tips to make sure you have an amazing visit.
Firstly, make sure to plan your travel in advance.
When coming to campus, we have limited parking, but we do have our own train station called University on the centre of campus.
It's about seven minutes from Birmingham New Street, so it's really easy and convenient to use.
For our second top tip, book a campus tour.
These are a great way to discover the hidden gems of our campus.
You'll be in the safe hands with our helpful and friendly student ambassadors.
They can answer all of your questions and show you the best part of student life.
There's more to uni than just studying.
Studying is important though.
So, for my top tip, make sure you find out more about the course that you're interested in.
All of the subjects are putting on talks, taster sessions or holding drop-in sessions to ask questions.
You can talk to current students as well as lecturers and staff who will be supporting you whilst you're studying here.
Top tip number four, visit our accommodation villages.
We have three villages and they're all within walking distance of campus.
But it would be a lot to visit all of them on the day.
So, we suggest looking at our accommodation options beforehand to make sure you visit your favourite one.
Top tip number five, plan all of this in advance.
With all the activities we've mentioned and more, you can create your own personal itinerary.
Make sure you book your place on activities, tours, and talks so that you can make the most out of your trip.
Just remember that our campus is big, so leave 10 to 15 minutes between each of your talks to get to each location.
Also, if you have the time, head in to Birmingham City Centre to explore our friendly and diverse city.
There are loads of shops and plenty of restaurants to head to for dinner.
Finally, relax and enjoy your day.
Our student ambassadors can help you at information points to make the most of your Open Day experience.
We can't wait to welcome you to the University of Birmingham.
Use our offer calculator to find out if you're likely to receive an offer to study with us

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/teachers/index.aspx:
We run a wide range of programmes, events, resources, and opportunities to encourage participation and engagement with university study.
In the Outreach and Widening Participation team, we work with schools to:
We offer a progressive programme of activity across all age groups from primary school to Year 13.
Although we predominantly work within the West Midlands, we do offer a national programme for Year 12 state school students called the National Access Summer School .
In the Student Recruitment team, we work with a selection of state schools and colleges outside the West Midlands, as well as independent schools across England and Wales.
We can offer presentations to Year 12 students at your school or college, either during the daytime or in the evening, to include parents/carers/guardians.
We can also attend a university fair at your school or college, or host a campus visit.
University of Birmingham runs events to support Year 6 pupils through the transition period from primary to secondary school.
We work with state schools across the West Midlands to raise aspirations, with a wide range of support available from Year 7 to Year 11.
From programmes to contextual offers, discover the range of support and opportunities we offer to students in Years 12 and 13.
We run a wide range of events and activities that aim to give students exposure to university study, an insight into some of their favourite subjects, and an opportunity to learn in a new environment while raising aspirations.
We provide a range of resources, advice, and development to teachers and advisers on all aspects of the university admissions process and keeping up with any changes in the sector.
Explore our timeline and discover the milestones, opportunities and advice along the way

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/contact/directions/index.aspx:
Our campus map has been designed to help students, staff and visitors find their way around the University of Birmingham’s Edgbaston and Selly Oak campuses.
Features include: building to building navigation, study space locations and availability, opening times for shops and services, and real-time travel information.
For the best user experience and to access this information on the move, the UoB Campus Map app is available as a free download for iOS and Android devices.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/events/the-exchange/125/cry-when-the-baby-cries:
Share this event
engage@contacts.bham.ac.uk
Join cartoonist and writer Becky Barnicoat and award-winning poet Liz Berry for an unmissable, intimate session exploring the chaos, wonder, and delirium of early parenthood.
Becky’s darkly funny and insightful graphic memoir Cry When the Baby Cries is a glorious antidote to traditional parenting books, capturing everything from hospital bags to toddler mayhem, with honesty and wit.
Alongside her, Liz Berry shares powerful, tender poems that give voice to the transformative experience of new motherhood, from its darkest hours to its brightest joys.
Together, they’ll explore how creative expression can help make sense of the wild, beautiful puzzle of parenthood.
Tickets for this event are £10 per person.
To make our events as accessible as possible, we are also offering a limited number of free Solidarity Tickets.
For more info on Solidarity tickets, go to our ticketing information page .
Presented in partnership with Birmingham Literature Festival .

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/events/exhibitions/uob-125-through-the-university-archives:
Celebrating our anniversary this exhibition features photographs of the campus, staff and students over the past 125 years.
Highlights include the 1937 Nobel Prize gold medal awarded to chemist Professor Norman Haworth, and the University's two Queen's Anniversary Prizes.
Curated by Dr Helen Fisher, University Archivist, with material from the University Archives held in the Cadbury Research Library.
A full version of the exhibition with extended captions is available on CRL Flickr.
Free and open to all.
Non-University ID card holders please sign in at Reception.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/events/125/largely-in-your-hands-making-and-shaping-a-university:
“To the students I say that the honour and dignity of this university are largely in your hands, and I look to you to initiate and hand down worthy traditions to your successors.”
Spoken by King Edward VII at the formal opening of England’s first civic university, these words preceded 125 years of creativity, discovery, action and ideas at the University of Birmingham.
Through film, art and objects, this exhibition delves into the stories of the people behind the institution, exploring the ‘worthy traditions’ that have been passed on and reinvented.
From civic foundations to transformation in times of crisis, to student life past and present, explore over a century of history with University Collections.
Want to delve deeper into University Collections?
Discover more than 10,000 objects and artworks , each with their own fascinating story to tell.
View the accessibility guide for the Aston Webb Building
Find directions and transport information
Find campus facilities like toilets, food and drink outlets or baby changing and feeding rooms

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/facilities/lapworth-museum/events/activities/2025/cardboard-clues:
Please direct any questions to the Cardboard Clues team at hello@cardboardclues.com
Cardboard Clues have brought their Murder Mystery Adventure game to the Lapworth Museum of Geology.
Running from 8th February 2025 to 7th September 2025, become a detective and unravel a series of curious, whimsical mysteries in the Galleries.
Scour the museum to discover hidden clues and ‘cardboard’ characters, who could be suspects, witnesses or victims, guided by the companion app.
Connect the dots in the stories across the museum and tests your wits and problem-solving skills.
Perfect for families, friends, and curious minds looking for a unique experience in a fun setting.
£25 per team with up to 6 players.
Book your tickets on the Cardboard Clues website.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/events/the-exchange/heritage/heritage-tours:
Join our friendly guides on a heritage tour of The Exchange and discover its hidden history and fascinating stories.
Our guides will take you on a journey through time, revealing the secrets of this beautiful art deco building, from its beginnings as the headquarters of the Birmingham Municipal Bank to the University’s recent redevelopment and restoration.
You will explore the stunning banking hall, see the original safe deposit boxes and vaults, visit rooms not normally open to the public and learn about the building's unique features and design.
You will also learn more about our current National Lottery Heritage Funded project, Unlocking the Vaults .
Book your heritage tour today and discover the past and future of this magnificent building.
2 August, 6 September, 4 October, 1 November, 6 December: 11:00, 13:00 and 15:00.
Our tours on 6 September are in celebration of Birmingham Heritage Week 2025 .
The tour lasts approximately one hour .
The meeting point for the tours are in the Banking Hall at The Exchange.
Previous tour participants have said…
"The whole experience was excellent, made possible by the very informative guide along with past photographs.
I know I will visit The Exchange again."
"Reflects well on The University for quality of restoration."
"Knowledgeable tour guide."
This event is presented as part of a public programme of exhibitions and events exploring the heritage of The Exchange, University of Birmingham's city-centre location and former headquarters of Birmingham Municipal Bank.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/events/barber-events/online-exhibition-fragments-of-devotion:
Devotion leaves traces—on parchment, in song, through touch.
Across centuries, acts of worship have imprinted themselves on sacred manuscripts, transforming them into deeply personal objects of connection and belief.
Fragments of Devotion invites you to explore the sensory and emotional dimensions of devotion from the medieval to early modern periods.
Through illuminated manuscript cuttings and rare Books of Hours, this online exhibition reveals how people expressed their faith—not just through words, but through gesture, music, and intimate interaction with the page.
You’ll encounter worn edges where saints’ images were kissed by generations of believers, and quiet notes scribbled in the margins of sacred songs.
These small, powerful details offer a window into the lived experiences of devotion—how it was seen, felt, and heard.
The exhibition will explore the later Victorian fascination with manuscript aesthetics, leading to the dissection and dissemination of these intricate illuminations, removed from context and forever fragmented.
Curated by MA Art History and Curating students at the University of Birmingham, the exhibition brings together exquisite manuscript cuttings from the Victoria and Albert Museum’s world-renowned collection, alongside rarely displayed intact Books of Hours from the Barber Institute and the Cadbury Research Library.
Each object has been carefully selected for its beauty, craftsmanship, and the sensory stories it tells.
This is the second exhibition in an annual partnership between the Barber Institute of Fine Arts, the V&A, and the University’s Department of Art History, Curating and Visual Studies.
It reflects a shared commitment to making historic collections accessible, engaging, and relevant to new audiences.
To deepen your experience, the exhibition includes interactive and auditory features that bring these manuscripts to life—early music, close-up details and deep-dive videos will enable you to connect to these objects in new and unique ways.
Whether you're a scholar, a student, or simply curious, Fragments of Devotion offers a rare opportunity to connect with the past through the senses—and to discover the enduring power of devotion in material form.
Explore the exhibition: https://devotion.barber.org.uk/

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/facilities/lapworth-museum/events/activities/2025/27-aug-25-whats-below-bham:
Jake Atterby - j.atterby@bham.ac.uk
Join us at the Lapworth Museum of Geology on Wednesday 27th August to learn more about the rocks and fossils beneath your feet.
Take part in a workshop to identify real fossils from around Birmingham.
Recommended age: 6+, but any younger children fascinated by nature will find much to enjoy.
No booking required, drop in and out all day (10:00-17:00).

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/events/events/artisan-market-2-september:
Our Artisan Market will welcome local craftspeople and producers onto campus, bringing baked goods, homemade produce, handmade items, vintage and unique gifts, crafts, and street food.
You'll also find our own students hosting stalls with their own creations.
Meet local favourites and discover new traders from across the West Midlands.
Working with LSD Promotions, there is a focus on sustainability which will ensure that traders use sustainable practices in their methods, ingredients, and produce.
Single-use plastics are banned, so make sure you bring your own bag with you!

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/events/the-exchange/125/rethinking-masculinity:
From mental health to masculinity, the challenges facing boys and young men are increasingly in the spotlight.
Too often, the conversation is shaped by blame - focused on what boys are doing wrong, rather than the systems shaping their lives.
This thought-provoking event brings together academics, frontline experts, and community voices to rethink how families, schools, and society can support boys to thrive.
We’ll explore how social and educational structures, harmful stereotypes, and algorithm-driven content are shaping boys’ identities, and what we can do to interrupt harmful cycles with evidence, care, and practical tools.
Chaired by Mark Brooks (Centre for Men and Boys), panellists include Dr Sophie King-Hill (University of Birmingham), Kasim Ali (author), Nikki Holmes (Safer Together), Shaheim Minzie (project participant), and David Russell (Parent to Parent).
In 2025 the University is celebrating 125 years .
This milestone marks a legacy of driving change and shaping society.
The public programme at the Exchange explores boundary pushing research of the past, present and future.
Come along and discover how University research impacts you, and help us shape the future together.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/schools/lcahm/departments/languages/events/2025/association-of-british-and-irish-lusitanists-conference:
The Department of Modern Languages, at the University of Birmingham is delighted to host the XI Conference of the Association of British and Irish Lutanists (ABIL) this autumn.
[Versão em português segue abaixo]
In this intervention, brief reflections on “Portuguese Studies”, from both a disciplinary as well as an interdisciplinary perspective, will aim at considering some key developments as well as pressing needs.
A call for more comparative work and for a political, materialist-informed, strategy will be made.
Closely related though is a consideration of various challenges, both specific to the discipline and to the present moment.
Paulo de Medeiros is Professor of Modern and Contemporary World Literature, and Head of the Dept.
of English and Comparative Literary Studies at the University of Warwick.
He was Associate Professor at Bryant College (USA) and Professor at Utrecht University (Netherlands) before moving to Warwick.
In 2011-2012 he was Keeley Fellow at Wadham College, Oxford and in 2013 and 2014 President of the American Portuguese Studies Association.
He recently co-edited two books, one on Postcolonial Theory and Crisis , (DeGruyter, 2024the other on Approaches to the Teaching of Fernando Pessoa (MLA, 2025).
Current projects include a study on 'Challenges for World-Literature'.
HerStory is a term coined by Robin Morgan to designate a historical narrative told from a feminist perspective.
Based on this concept, HerCinema proposes a lecture/performance in media res that reactivates archive footage to create a new cinematic narrative.
In a gesture of resistance and memory, women forgotten by the history of dominant cinema are evoked.
HerCinema is configured as a space for editing and creation, where the female gaze challenges dominant representations and restores women to their role as narrator and author.
Through the reconfiguration of the archive, new perspectives emerge — poetic, political and feminist.
Luísa Sequeira is an artist, filmmaker and film curator.
She holds a PhD in Media Arts and works across different platforms, exploring the boundaries between digital and analogue, combining collage, archive and expanded cinema in her artistic practice.
Recently, the focus of her work has been the poetic reconstruction of female narratives in the history of art and cinema, which have been made invisible by patriarchal power.
Her works include: Quem é Bárbara Virgínia?
, Os Cravos e a Rocha , All Women Are Maria , Rosas de Maio, As Pioneiras do Cinema em Língua portuguesa, Que Podem as Palavras (co-directed with Luísa Marinho), Născută , Memória, substantivo feminino .
She is also founder, with the artist Sama, of Oficina Imperfeita, a space dedicated to cinema and contemporary art in the city of Porto.
Nesta intervenção, breves reflexões sobre os "Estudos Portugueses", tanto de uma perspetiva disciplinar como interdisciplinar, visarão considerar alguns desenvolvimentos-chave, bem como necessidades prementes no campo.
Será feito um apelo por um trabalho mais comparativo e a uma estratégia política, de cariz materialista.
Intimamente relacionada, porém, está a consideração de vários desafios, tanto específicos da disciplina como do momento atual.
Paulo de Medeiros é Professor Catedrático de Literatura Mundial Moderna e Contemporânea e Chefe do Departamento de Estudos Literários Ingleses e Comparativos da Universidade de Warwick.
Foi Professor Associado no Bryant College (EUA) e Professor Catedrático na Universidade de Utrecht (Holanda) antes de se mudar para Warwick.
Em 2011-2012, foi Keeley Fellow no Wadham College, Oxford, e em 2013 e 2014 foi Presidente da Associação Americana de Estudos Portugueses.
Recentemente, coeditou dois livros, um sobre Teoria e Crise Pós-coloniais (DeGruyter, 2024) e outro sobre Abordagens ao Ensino de Fernando Pessoa (MLA, 2025).
Seus projetos atuais incluem um estudo sobre "Desafios para a Literatura Mundial".
HerStory é um termo cunhado por Robin Morgan para designar uma narrativa histórica contada a partir de uma perspetiva feminista.
A partir deste conceito, HerCinema propõe uma palestra/performance in media res que utiliza imagens de arquivo, reativadas para criar uma nova narrativa cinematográfica.
Num gesto de resistência e memória, evocam-se mulheres esquecidas pela história do cinema dominante.
HerCinema configura-se como um espaço de montagem e criação, onde o female gaze desafia representações dominantes e devolve à mulher o seu papel enquanto narradora e autora.
Através da reconfiguração do arquivo, emergem novas perspectivas — poéticas, políticas e feministas.
Luísa Sequeira é uma artista, cineasta e curadora de cinema.
Com doutoramento em Arte dos Media, transita em diferentes plataformas, explorando as fronteiras entre o digital e o analógico  combinando colagem, arquivo e cinema expandido na sua prática artística.
Ultimamente o foco do seu trabalho tem sido a reconstrução poética das narrativas femininas na história da arte e do cinema, que foram invisibilizadas pelo poder patriarcal.
Entre os seus trabalhos destacam-se: "Quem é Bárbara Virgínia?", "Os Cravos e a Rocha", "All Women Are Maria","Rosas de Maio" “As Pioneiras do Cinema em Língua portuguesa” "Que Podem as Palavras", (correalização com Luísa Marinho),"Născută", "Memória, substantivo feminino".
Fundadora, com o artista Sama, da Oficina Imperfeita, um espaço dedicado ao cinema e à arte contemporânea na cidade do Porto.
Registration is now open via the button at the top right of this webpage with a deadline 10 August.
Call for papers (CFP) is now closed but you can access the CFP information here for reference .
The University of Birmingham is situated in Edgbaston, just three miles from Birmingham city centre.
It is well served by public transport services, including its on train station.
The conference will take place in our Arts Building, R16 on our campus map in the red zone.
You can find details via our online and downloadable maps of the campus available .
Information about building accessibility for the Arts Building is available on our AccessAble guide.
If you cannot find the information you need or have other access requirements or need reasonable accommodations, please get in touch with the conference organisers at m.clulee@bham.ac.uk
Please see the Visit Birmingham website to explore accommodation options across the city.
Trains from Birmingham New Street station in the city centre run regularly to our university train station, taking around 7 minutes.
Taxis from the city centre to main campus would take around 15-20 minutes dependent on traffic.
The University does also have a hotel on campus Edgbaston Park Hotel and Conference Centre .
Please contact reservations@edgbastonparkhotel.com or call +44 (0)121 414 8888 for best rates.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/facilities/lapworth-museum/events/events-lectures/2025/benmillersciencecomedy:
lapworth@contacts.bham.ac.uk
What happens when a comedian walks into a volcano?
In 2023, Ben Miller was the artist in residence at Hawai'i Volcanoes National Park, the first stand-up comedian ever selected.
This was probably a terrible idea on their part.
Now Ben will be doing stand-up in the perfect venue, a geology museum.
Come watch this show where he explores volcanology, entomology, Hawaiian history, cats, cookies, and more.
And yes that photo is real.
Ben has made people laugh in front of a burning lava lake and he is not afraid of you.
Ben Miller is a New York-based scientist turned comedian who has been working for the past 8 years.
In that time, he has performed at all the top clubs in the city such as Broadway Comedy Club, Carolines, and The Stand.
Ben was once ranked as the top roast battler in NYC.
He has a degree in Materials Science and Engineering, worked on a science bus, 3D printed cookies and has diffused a few bar fights while on stage.
In 2022, Ben Miller's debut hour, Stand-Up Science , had a completely sold-out run at the Edinburgh Fringe Festival and he now tours internationally.
Reviews for the show:
**** – Winnipeg Free Press **** – The Mumble **** – Bookmarks and Stages
“Ben Miller’s nerdy and vivid comic mind erupts in this hour-long set!” – Winnipeg Free Press “Ben does a fantastic job of getting the facts across & making us laugh at the same time!
A real & rare treat.” – The Mumble
Ben will perform two sets of his comedy show at the Museum, the first set being suitable for those aged 12+ and the second set being suitable for an adult audience only.
Schedule:
5:30pm - 6:30pm - Volcano (suitable for 12+)
7:30pm - 8:30pm - Volcano (suitable for an adult audience only)
Book your tickets on Eventbrite.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/events/the-exchange/heritage/heritage-open-day:
Don't miss this family-friendly day celebrating the rich heritage of The Exchange, formerly the headquarters of Birmingham Municipal Bank.
Enjoy hands-on art and craft activities, follow a heritage trail, and take part in mini tours of the building.
Explore the original vision for the area now known as Centenary Square and its surroundings on a guided tour, and view the historic architectural model on display at Birmingham Museum & Art Gallery.
Discover more about Unlocking the Vaults , our National Lottery Heritage Fund-supported project, and how we’re bringing the hidden stories of The Exchange to light.
Delivered as part of Birmingham Heritage Week ,  a once-a-year opportunity to explore 100s of places and discover Birmingham’s hidden heritage and fascinating history.
This year, the University of Birmingham is a proud official sponsor of Birmingham Heritage Week.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/events/the-exchange/heritage/pioneers-thrift-radiates-happiness:
Historian Dr Justine Pick leads this illustrated talk tracing the story of Birmingham Municipal Bank, from its founding in 1919 as a pioneering civic institution to its evolving role in the city’s financial and social life.
Known affectionately as the People’s Bank, it offered working people a new way to save and invest in their futures.
Justine will draw on material being uncovered by volunteers working with us as part of the Unlocking the Vaults project, our National lottery Heritage Fund-supported project revealing fresh insights into the bank’s legacy and the lives it touched.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/events/the-exchange/heritage/centering-on-civic:
Civic Gospel was a Victorian municipal ideology that provided citizens with quality architecture, thoughtful urban design and improved utilities.
Join Ben Waddington, author and founder of Still Walking for a walk around the block as he explores how those 19th-century ideals translate to the demands of today, from public spaces and parks to security, Wi-Fi and beyond.
Tours start at 14:30 and 17:30.
Tours last approx.
90 minutes and start at The Exchange.
Tickets are £5 per person, per tour.
To make our book club as accessible as possible, we are also offering a limited number of free Solidarity Tickets.
For more info on Solidarity tickets, go to our ticketing information page.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/research/culture-forward/events/rolling-at-the-tower:
We explore what it means to be human – in historical and cultural contexts, within ethical and legal norms and through languages and communication.
From atoms to astronomy, computers to cars and robots to robust materials, our goal is to transform our understanding of the world to make life easier, healthier and more sustainable.
Across the breadth of life and environmental sciences, we discover, apply and translate science to forge major advances in human and environmental health.
We address the challenges facing society and the economy, from shedding light on the refugee crisis, to character education in schools, through to developing leaders in the NHS.
A community documentary film about the history of roller skating in Birmingham.
The screening of a community documentary film, ‘Rolling at the Tower’, about the history of roller skating in Birmingham which started in 1871 with the building of the Tower Ballroom at the Edgbaston Reservoir in Ladywood.
The Tower Ballroom was recently demolished to make space for luxury flats.
Ladywood is an area which is under threat of gentrification due to its closeness to Birmingham city centre, risking the erasure of its strong working class history.
Ladywood is one of the most deprived, one of the youngest, and most diverse areas in Europe.
Researched and developed by members of the local community, this documentary aims to break this disconnect and re-establish a sense of place and identity in Ladywood by exploring the heritage and importance of skating to Ladywood and Birmingham residents across history.
The screening will be followed by a panel of community members and creatives involved in the making of the documentaries, and experts on Birmingham’s social and cultural history.
Audience members can arrive at the Mockingbird early to enjoy a drink in the café.
Parking and access details can be found on the Mockingbird Cinema website .
This event is organised by Bertz Associates in association with the University of Birmingham’s Culture Forward initiative.
The University of Birmingham is a proud sponsor of Birmingham Heritage Week .

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/events/arts-and-law/nice-work:
Join us for a day exploring the fiction and literary criticism of David Lodge, who spent most of his academic career in the Department of English Literature at the University of Birmingham.
We will celebrate Lodge’s legacy with talks by playwright David Edgar and novelist Jonathan Coe as well as panel discussions and screening of Lost in Adaptation, introduced by producer Roger Shannon.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/events/the-exchange/125/pioneers-alexander-parkes:
Discover the story of Alexander Parkes, Birmingham-born inventor of Parkesine, the world’s first synthetic plastic.
In this talk, Dr.
Susan Mossman, Honorary Research Associate at the Science Museum, London (where she was formerly a curator and latterly exhibition project director), Chair of the Plastics Historical Society, and University of Birmingham alumna, explores Parkes’ inventive career, from silver-plated spider webs to the creation of materials that paved the way for modern plastics.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/events/the-exchange/125/babylab-sessions-october:
A relaxed session for parents and carers to explore fascinating research while little ones play, feed, or snooze.
Each session welcomes guest researchers to share insights on topics from child development to science, health, and society.
The Exchange offers a welcoming, accessible space with excellent baby-changing facilities.
Come as you are - curious minds (and wriggly babies) encouraged!
In this session, find out why reading books, from a favourite picture book to a bedtime story, matters for children’s language and social development.
Plus, explore the fascinating world of bacteria, and how having too many or too few could affect how children grow and develop.
This event is organised in partnership with Birmingham BabyLab at the School of Psychology at University of Birmingham, the Centre for Developmental Science , and the Centre for Human Brain Health .

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/events/the-exchange/booktober/bookclub-rootless:
This October, join The Exchange Book Club in partnership with Lyza Lawal, founder of Blacklore.
Together, we’ll celebrate Booktober by exploring powerful stories by writers of colour that reflect shared human experiences and emotions.
The first book on our TBR (to-be-read) list is Rootless by Krystle Zara Appiah.
“Efe and Sam have been best friends since before they were married.
To an outside eye, they have a relationship most can only dream of.
But behind closed doors, Sam wants to start a family, while Efe longs for a life free of responsibility.
When an unplanned pregnancy forces Efe into a stark choice, she has to decide which is more important – her love for her family, or the life she wanted for herself.”
Tickets for this book club are £5 per person, which includes entry to the session and a drink.
To make our book club as accessible as possible, we are also offering a limited number of free Solidarity tickets.
For more information on Solidarity tickets, please visit our ticketing information page .
Our official Booktober bookselling partner is The Heath Bookshop .
The Heath Bookshop is a vibrant, award-winning, independent bookshop in the heart of Kings Heath in Birmingham.
The Heath Bookshop is for everyone and anyone, offering a safe community space with a diverse range of books, delicious hot and cold drinks, and a much-loved Kate Bush coffee table.
The Heath Bookshop won Independent Bookshop of the Year 2025, which was announced at the British Book Awards in May of this year.
To place an order with The Heath Bookshop, head to Bookshop.org or contact them directly by email at orders@theheathbookshop.co.uk .
This event is presented as part of Booktober at The Exchange.
Running throughout October 2025, the programme celebrates the joy of creative writing and reading in all its forms and will be bursting with activities, events and opportunities to explore the magic of literature.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/events/the-exchange/125/writing-pregnancy:
Join postgraduate researcher Sydni Zastre for a fascinating look at her research, Writing the Pregnant Body in Britain, 1918–1945.
Drawing on a wide range of sources, including novels, diaries and letters, Sydni uncovers how women's experiences of pregnancy were shaped by medical, legal and cultural factors in the interwar and wartime years.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/events/the-exchange/booktober/bookclub-there-are-rivers-in-the-sky:
The second book on our TBR (to-be-read) list is There Are Rivers in the Sky by Elif Shafak.
This is the story of one lost poem, two great rivers, and three remarkable lives – all connected by a single drop of water.
“In Victorian London, an extraordinary child is born at the edge of the dirt-black Thames.
When his brilliant memory earns him a spot as an apprentice at a printing press, the world opens up far beyond the slums and across the seas.
In 2014 in Turkey, Narin, a Yazidi girl living by the River Tigris, waits to be baptized.
The ceremony is cruelly interrupted, and soon she and her grandmother must journey across war-torn lands in the hope of reaching the sacred valley of their people.
In 2018 in London, broken-hearted Zaleekhah, a hydrologist, moves to a houseboat on the Thames to escape the wreckage of her marriage – until an unexpected connection to her homeland changes everything.
A dazzling feat of storytelling from one of the greatest writers of our time, one that spans centuries and continents, this is the story of one lost poem, two great rivers, and three remarkable lives – all connected by a single drop of water.”

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/events/the-exchange/125/the-way-i-see-it:
The Way I See It is a collection of seven short films capturing voices from across Birmingham during the first year of our new government.
Created by Little Earthquake , Birmingham’s unofficial Election Artists, and inspired by hundreds of real conversations, the films feature reflections on health, climate, democracy, food, libraries, and the future.
Anonymised and brought to life by local performers, these stories reflect the hopes, frustrations, and everyday experiences of people across the city.
The Way I See It will be on show in the South Entrance of The Exchange, open to all during opening hours.
Drop in anytime!

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/events/the-exchange/125/baby-loss-awareness:
Miscarriage affects around one in four pregnancies, yet access to care remains unequal across the UK.
Specialist support is often only offered after three losses, leaving many families to navigate early pregnancy loss alone.
Join us during Baby Loss Awareness Week for a special event marking a pivotal moment in miscarriage care and maternal health.
The evening will begin at 6pm with a creative candle-painting session led by artist Flic Blades.
At 7pm, we’ll light candles together as part of Tommy’s Wave of Light, a national moment of remembrance and reflection for babies lost during pregnancy or shortly after birth.
From 7.30pm, we’ll host a chaired panel discussion bringing together researchers, clinicians, families, and community leaders to spotlight the 'Graded Model of Care' – a new approach developed by Tommy’s and the University of Birmingham to offer support from the first miscarriage, including mental health care, early testing, and continuity of care in future pregnancies.
The model has the potential to transform care across the NHS, but its rollout depends on political will, public awareness, and wider support.
We’ll also celebrate the ongoing partnership between the University of Birmingham, Tommy’s, and Birmingham Women’s and Children’s Hospital, where collaborative research is helping to improve maternal care nationally and beyond.
Whether you come to honour your own experience or to support others, this is a space for reflection, creativity, and quiet connection.
We’re creating a welcoming space for everyone.
While this event is designed with adults in mind, some attendees may bring babies.
We understand this may be difficult for some, and quiet spaces will be available for anyone who needs a moment away.
Attendees will need to book a separate ticket for the candle-painting session and the panel discussion.
You are welcome to attend either or both sessions - our candle painting session has limited places.
Please contact our team at engage@contact.bham.ac.uk to let us know of any assistance or adjustments you may need during your visit.
This event is presented in collaboration with the University of Birmingham, Tommy's, and Birmingham Women's Hospital.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/events/the-exchange/125/frayed-atlantic-edge:
Join University historian, Dr.
David Gange, for a captivating talk about his immersive journeys along the Atlantic coasts of Britain and beyond.
Drawing on his books The Frayed Atlantic Edge (2019) and Afloat (to be released in 2026), David shares stories from thousands of miles travelled by kayak and traditional boats, nights spent on wild shorelines, and time learning from boatbuilders and coastal communities.
These books reflect on today’s ecological challenges, showing how the resilience, knowledge, and environmental ethics of these water-connected communities offer vital insights for a sustainable future.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/events/the-exchange/125/world-anatomy-day:
Join the University’s Human Anatomy Unit for World Anatomy Day!
This year’s theme, "Global Perspectives of Anatomy," explores how anatomy is understood around the world.
Enjoy fun, family-friendly, and interactive activities, perfect for all ages and knowledge levels!

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/events/the-exchange/125/how-to-say-no-to-your-phone:
Inspired by the powerful themes in Adolescence and the empowering and practical guide, How to say no to your phone , this workshop feeds into the urgent conversation about phone use and online safety.
Anna Lavis from the University of Birmingham will shed light on what children and young people see and do online, reflecting on how they may often stumble across unexpected content.
Jenny Moore, owner of children's bookshop, How Brave is the Wren , will invite families to share experiences and concerns, helping parents and children think through what "good" online habits look like together.
Join us for a chance to better understand the digital world and have an open conversation with your family about navigating it, and sometimes saying no.
Suitable for adults and young people over age 11.
Tickets for this event are £5 per adult and £2.50 for people under 18.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/events/the-exchange/booktober/bookclub-allow-me-to-introduce-myself:
The third book on our TBR (to-be-read) list is Allow Me to Introduce Myself by Onyi Nwabineli, a sharp, timely novel that lifts the lid on influencer culture and its impact on children thrust into the spotlight.
“HER LIFE.
HER RULES.
FINALLY.
Ophelia is the mumfluencer the world didn't know they wanted.
Anuri is here to take her down.
Every second of Anuri's childhood was documented by her successful influencer stepmother, Ophelia.
Picture-perfect, beautifully curated shots of their family life are everywhere on social media.
There's only one problem: it's all entirely fake.
And when Anuri sees her little sister being dragged into Ophelia's online world, she decides she's had enough: it's time to take back control.
Sharply witty and piercingly relevant, Allow Me to Introduce Myself is a fierce takedown of influencer culture and the ways we live – and lie to each other – online.”

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/events/arts-and-law/heritage-leadership-workshop-with-dr-mark-pickel-honorary-fellow:
Cultural heritage engagements represent a powerful opportunity for heritage site visitors to remember their humanity in support of their wellbeing.
Heritage leaders are uniquely positioned to optimise the positive impact of heritage on local communities and individuals by centring strategies on promoting human dignity.
A transformational humanistic leadership approach based on supporting human dignity prepares heritage leaders to lead with impactful purpose.
Based on Mark Pickel’s book titled Cultural Heritage Tourism Leadership , this workshop explores how current and future cultural heritage leaders can practically apply a novel transformational humanistic leadership approach that promotes visitors’ human dignity.
In exploring how visitors engage in a cultural heritage site’s hospitality, aesthetic, and storied experiences, leaders will reflect on how they might apply visitor engagement learnings within a pluralistic leadership ethic that balances social, environmental, and technological considerations.
Suggesting humanistic leadership core values of human dignity, autonomy, and creativity prepares heritage leaders to develop their individual and organisational leadership purpose statement to guide future strategy development.
Focusing on the core value of human dignity, leaders will reflect on the meaning of human dignity as a human right, the role of heritage in supporting human flourishing, culture as an experience of human dignity, and the effect of cultural heritage on human dignity.
Heritage case studies will help inform how cultural heritage engagements can support visitors’ sense of grounding, reflection, understanding, healing, and gratitude.
Culminating in the proposition of a transformational humanistic leadership approach based on clearly defined core values, ethics, purpose, and guiding principles, a strategic framework will be introduced to assist in developing practical leadership strategies within each leader’s organisational context.
There are limited places for this unique event via the International Centre for Heritage, so reserve your free ticket via Eventbrite here .
The workshop's location within the University of Birmingham will be announced nearer the time.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/events/the-exchange/125/pixel-flesh:
Join author Ellen Atlanta and academic Jwana Aziz for a powerful conversation exploring the impact of beauty culture, social media and digital pressures on young women’s mental health.
Drawing on Ellen’s new book Pixel Flesh, a bold examination of how filters, editing apps and cosmetic ideals distort our self-image, they’ll unpack what it means to grow up online.
With a focus on body image, empowerment and the hidden costs of digital beauty, this is a vital event for anyone concerned with the wellbeing of girls in a hyper-visual age.
Tickets for this event are £5 per person.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/events/the-exchange/125/half-term-news-detectives:
Step into the NewsWise Detective Agency and help crack the case of fake news!
Join academics from the University of Birmingham and experts from The Guardian Foundation for a fun, hands-on session designed for children aged 7 to 11 and their grown-ups.
In today’s world of endless information, it’s more important than ever to know what we can trust.
Through interactive activities, families will explore how to spot fake news, understand how images and stories can be manipulated, learn how websites shape what we see online – and discover ways to talk about the news in a healthy, informed way.
Presented in partnership with The Guardian Foundation and The Jubilee Centre for Character and Virtues .

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/events/the-exchange/125/more-than-money:
Join Professor Adele Atkinson, financial education expert from the University of Birmingham, as she explores how families and communities can build economic resilience.
Drawing on research into financial literacy, inclusion, and wellbeing, this talk examines what truly underpins financial health and how we can support it from the ground up.
Presented as part of Talk Money Week, a national campaign encouraging everyone to talk more openly about money.
Let's help everyone #TalkMoney.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/events/the-exchange/booktober/bookclub-we-need-to-talk-about-money:
The fourth and final book on our TBR (to-be-read) list is We Need to Talk About Money , by Otegha Uwagba, a candid and insightful exploration of how money shapes our lives, identities, and relationships.
“An extraordinarily candid personal account of the ups and downs wrought by money, We Need To Talk About Money is a vital exploration of stories and issues that will be familiar to most.
This is a book about toxic workplaces and misogynist men, about getting pay raises and getting evicted.
About class and privilege and racism and beauty.
About shame and pride, compulsion and fear.
In unpicking the shroud of secrecy surrounding money – who has it, how they got it, and how it shapes our lives – this boldly honest account of one woman’s journey upturns countless social conventions, and uncovers some startling truths about our complex relationships with money in the process.”

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/events/the-exchange/125/money-matters:
Get involved with Talk Money Week at The Exchange!
This November, we’re joining Talk Money Week, a national campaign encouraging everyone to talk more openly about money.
From pocket money to pensions, we know that honest conversations help people feel more confident, make better decisions, and strengthen relationships.
Throughout the week, we’ll share events, activities, and resources designed to break the money taboo and support financial wellbeing across our communities.
Let’s help everyone #TalkMoney.
Talking about money can be hard but learning how to manage it well is a skill for life.
That’s why starting these conversations early, at home and in schools, is so important.
As part of Talk Money Week, join us for Money Matters, a free, family-focused day of engaging workshops, hands-on activities, and expert advice to help build confidence around everyday money decisions.
We’re excited to welcome Money Ready , a financial education charity working with young people and adults across the UK.
Join us for a fun, high-energy workshop designed for the whole family!
Whether you’re helping your children understand the value of saving or working toward your own financial goals, this is a great chance to start open conversations about money, with tools, tips, and fun for all ages.
Whether you're helping children grasp the value of saving or navigating your own financial goals, this is a great chance to start open, judgment-free conversations about money, with tools, support, and fun for all ages.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/events/the-exchange/125/living-green:
Human behaviour and the environment are deeply intertwined.
Our actions shape the world around us, just as our surroundings influence how we think, feel, and act.
Understanding this relationship is key to addressing today’s environmental challenges, from pollution to climate change and biodiversity loss.
Join leading University of Birmingham academics and partners to explore how everyday behaviours impact the environment and how we can each make a positive difference.
Discover how messages about energy use, sustainable travel, and pollution are designed to connect with the public and inspire action.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/events/arts-and-law/birmingham-law-school-annual-lecture:
The Birmingham Law School is launching a new series of high profile Annual Lectures which will begin with a lecture by Professor Lawrence O.
Gostin of Georgetown University.
Lawrence Gostin is Distinguished University Professor, Georgetown University’s highest academic rank conferred by the University President.
Professor Gostin is Co-Faculty Director of the O’Neill Institute for National and Global Health Law and is the Founding O’Neill Chair in Global Health Law.
He served as Associate Dean for Research at Georgetown Law from 2004 to 2008.
In 2021, Professor Gostin received the Steve Goldberg Memorial Award for Community Service at Georgetown.
He is Professor of Medicine at Georgetown University and Professor of Public Health at the Johns Hopkins University.
Professor Gostin is the Director of the World Health Organization Collaborating Center on National and Global Health Law.
He supported the negotiation and drafting of the Pandemic Treaty adopted at the 2025 World Health Assembly.
He also served on WHO’s Review Committee for amendments to the International Health Regulations (IHR) and assisted in the drafting and negotiations on the IHR, adopted by the World Health Assembly in 2024.
The lecture will be followed by a drinks reception in the Bramall Music Building rotunda.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/schools/historycultures/departments/history/events/2025/global-identities-international-conference-2025:
The Historic Houses Global Crossroads project team is delighted to invite interested parties to submit paper proposals for the project’s upcoming Global and Local Identities Conference , which will be held at the Edgbaston Park Hotel , University of Birmingham on 14 November 2025.
Confirmed speakers: Professor Durba Ghosh (Cornell University, New York), Professor Chandrika Kaul (University of St Andrews), Professor Diane Urquhart (Queens University, Belfast), Dr Kate Smith , University of Birmingham, Dr Oliver Cox (Head of Academic Partnerships, Victoria & Albert Museum).
We welcome submissions that engage with one or more of these themes in the form of an individual paper presentation, no more than 20-minutes in length.
09:30 - Welcome and Introduction
09:50-10:30 - Empire Global Identities and Moving Monuments
Taylor Family Director of the Cornell Society for the Humanities , Associate Editor, Journal of Asian Studies .
Author of Moving Monuments , forthcoming, CUP, 2026; Gentlemanly Terrorists: Political Violence and the Colonial State in India, 1919-1947 (CUP, 2017); Sex and the Family in Colonial India: the making of empire (CUP, 2006); co-editor Decentring Empire: Britain, India and the Transcolonial World (2006).
10:30-11:10 - A Brave New World?
Empire, Media and Cultures of Benevolence
Chandrika Kaul’s research interests focus on British imperialism and decolonisation, the monarchy, media, and popular culture, and Global media networks.
She has published widely in these areas as well as being passionate about public history contributing frequently to national and international media including television, radio, newspapers and podcasts.
Her monographs include, Communications, Media and the Imperial Experience: Britain and India in the twentieth century; and Reporting the Raj: The British Press and India 1880-1922 – the first book on the subject .
Her edited and co-edited books include News of the World and the British Press ; Media and the British Empire ; International Communications and Global News networks; Media and the Portuguese Empire; and M.K.
Gandhi, Politics, Media and Society: New Perspectives .
She is currently completing a major new monograph on the BBC and India to be published by Oxford University Press in 2026.
11:10-11:30 - Break
11:30-13:00 - Panel 1 (3 papers) – Global Identities and the Historic House
Kate Smith is Head of Research in the School of History and Cultures.
She is author of The East India Company at Home, 1757-1857 | UCL Press
13:00-14:00 - Lunch
14:00-15:30 - Panel 2 (3 papers)
15:30-15:40 - Break
15:40-16:20 - Being Lady Londonderry: identity and aristocratic decline, 1875-1959
Professor Urquhart is an elected member of the Royal Irish Academy, Fellow of the Royal Historical Society; President of the Women's History Association of Ireland (WHAI) and Deputy Editor of the Women's History Review .
Her monograph, Irish Divorce: A History (Cambridge University Press, 2020) won the James S.
Donnelly, Sr.
prize for best book in the Humanities and Social Sciences, ACIS, 2021.
Her next book is Ireland’s Criminal Conversations: Gender, Law and Adultery 1701-1981 (forthcoming, 2028).
16:20-16:50 - Reflecting on the Themes of the Day
Dr Cox leads the V& A’s growing portfolio of partnerships with universities in the UK and internationally in support of their mission to champion design and creativity in all its forms, advance cultural knowledge, and inspire makers, creators and innovators everywhere.
This includes responsibility for Collaborative Doctoral programmes, PhD placements, Fellowships and Exchanges, alongside the development of new teaching and research opportunities across the V&A’s family of sites.
Dr Cox is also the national lead for the Collaborative Doctoral Partnership consortium, which comprises 15 cultural and heritage organisations and consortia.
He is an historian by training, and received his undergraduate, masters and doctoral degrees from the University of Oxford.
His research interests are rooted in the global histories of the eighteenth-century country house and the ways in which these collections and spaces have been understood and interpreted by visitors.
He is currently Principal Investigator on a British Academy Innovation Fellowship – ‘Private’ Spaces for Public Benefit: Country Houses as sites of Knowledge Exchange Innovation.
16:50-17:30 -  Concluding HHGC Panel: Historic Houses & Identity Over Time
RIA Dr Briony Widdis , Queen’s University Belfast; Co-Lead (International) Professor Mark McGowan , Principal Emeritus, St Michael’s College, University of Toronto; Co-Lead Professor Annie Tindley , Co-Lead, Centre for Landscape, University of Newcastle; Co-Lead Julieanne McMahon , Cultural Heritage Curator, National Trust.
Partners:
Funded by UKRI under Standard Research Grant AH/Z506436/1 ‘Historic Houses Global Crossroads’.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/events/the-exchange/125/babylab-sessions-baby-science:
Bring your baby to join researchers from the University’s BabyLab for a morning of baby friendly activities.
Explore senses, language, brain development, learning and memory – and discover how little brains engage with the world around them.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/schools/edacs/departments/shakespeare/events/2025/open-day:
Interested in Shakespeare?
Join our Open Day to discover the postgraduate opportunities at the Shakespeare Institute and join our Thursday Seminar on Shakespeare at the Theatre with Daniel Swift.
Hear first-hand about life studying at the Shakespeare Institute in Stratford-upon-Avon and how our exciting collaboration with the Royal Shakespeare Company (RSC) will enhance your studies.
Join an insightful Thursday Seminar on Shakespeare at the Theatre with Daniel Swift, author of The Dream Factory - London's First Playhouse and the Making of William Shakespeare.
Join us either at the Shakespeare Institute in Stratford-upon-Avon or online via Zoom .
This event is ideal if you're looking to develop or advance your career in creative or academic fields related to Shakespeare.
Our Shakespeare experts, Dr Abigail Rokison-Woodall and Professor Tiffany Stern , will introduce you to our Masters and Postgraduate Research opportunities at the Shakespeare Institute.
Our postgraduate Shakespeare courses include:
If you have any  problems registering for this event, please email calpg-comms@contacts.bham.ac.uk
[Photography - Sam Allard c.
RSC]

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/facilities/lapworth-museum/events/events-lectures/2025/20-nov-25-major-toms:
Email: a.z.a.leppanen@bham.ac.uk
Join us for a Lapworth LIVE Special celebrating the legend that is David Bowie, The Glam Era and more!
The Major Toms are a supergroup of some of the best musicians and performers in the Midlands, adding their own spin on all of your favourite Bowie tracks, with a dash of the delights of the Glam Era and more.
They will perform at the unique venue of the Lapworth Museum of Geology for the first time, playing the best of Bowie under a dinosaur.
Date: Thursday 20th November
Time: 7:30pm-9:30pm, doors at 7pm
Set one: 7.30pm-8.15pm
Set two: 8.30pm-9.15pm
Please note: There will be complimentary soft drinks and water available.
Limited seating - seats are not guaranteed.
The lineup:
Owen Comaskey - Vocals
Dave Roberton - Keys
Andy Pell - Guitar
John Large - Drums
Kate O'Malley - Sax/flute
Simon Smith - Bass
For more information on the Major Toms, visit their website .

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/events/arts-and-law/roundtable-on-new-book-plantation-goods-a-material-history-of-american-slavery:
On Friday 16 January 2026 (14.00-16.00), the Centre for Material Cultures and Materialities and the Centre for Global American Studies , will be hosting historian Seth Rockman (Brown) .
We will be holding a roundtable to discuss his new book Plantation Goods: A Material History of American Slavery (Chicago, 2024).
The roundtable will feature responses by historian of American slavery Aisha Djelid (Oxford) , scholar of literature and culture Karen Lipsedge (Kingston) , historian of clothing and textiles Sally Tuckett (Glasgow) and historian of political thought Apeike Umolu (Cambridge) .
Everyone welcome.
Please contact Kate Smith ( k.smith@bham.ac.uk ) for further details.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/events/events/medici2026:
For more details email Eleanor Burdis e.g.burdis@bham.ac.uk
Medici is the University of Birmingham’s flagship training programme designed for research staff currently exploring the commercial potential of their research.
The Medici programme will give you the business skills, knowledge and confidence you need to engage with business and industry in an impactful and professional way.
The programme is aimed at research staff interested in developing the impact of their research be that through creating new inventions, therapies, treatments and medical devices, providing expert consultancy, licensing a technology, collaboration with business, spinning out a company, developing a service or delivery of CPD training.
Potential delegates may be at a very early stage with no clear commercial offering or they may already be working on a viable project.
The programme consists of 7 days of training that will be delivered at the Edgbaston Park Hotel on the University of Birmingham campus, on the following dates:
Limited funded places are available for University of Birmingham staff.
External delegate places are £2750 +VAT.
Apply now

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/events/arts-and-law/uk-and-ireland-health-ethics-and-law-association-conference:
On  Wednesday 17 June 2026 Birmingham Law School is delighted to host the first Conference of the new UK and Ireland Health Ethics and Law Association.
Professor Sir Jonathan Montgomery will deliver the Plenary Professor Margaret Brazier Memorial Lecture.
The conference will be held in the Birmingham Law School buildings.
Registration with Tea and Coffee will be from 09:30.
Conference proceedings will start at 10:00 and finish at 17:30.
Further details in relation to the Various Streams within the Conference and the call for papers for the Streams, along with details as to how to Register for attendance at  the Conference will be posted in due course.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/events/arts-and-law/british-association-of-romantic-studies-conference-2026:
In-person: Wednesday 29th–Friday 31st July 2026
University of Birmingham, Edgbaston Campus, Birmingham
Online Conference: Thursday 6th August 2026
The British Association for Romantic Studies’ 2026 International Conference will take as its theme Romantic Retrospection.
The Romantic period has frequently been associated with newness, whether that’s its poets ushering in a new age reflective of a new spirit, moral and political philosophies associated with emerging notions of modern government and the self in relation to others, visions of utopian and dystopian futures, or a deeper appreciation for and sense of responsibility towards the natural world.
Yet one of the contradictions and therefore abiding instincts of Romanticism is the way its writers, artists, and thinkers invariably performed a double move: looking and moving forward by glancing and turning back.
Romantics saw and even defined themselves in relation to what had come before, tried to understand and explore the present by means of the past, contemplated their own past lives and selves as well as cultural and national memory, shaped their works out of a multitude of traditions and inheritances to which they remained admiring and indebted as well as sceptical.
If Romantics sometimes register the burden of the past, they equally express and find in it forms of license and freedom.
The influence of the Romantics, in turn, cast a spell over subsequent generations, who had to wrestle with a powerful artistic legacy.
Literary criticism, meanwhile, has long been embroiled in reevaluating Romanticism, and its continuing relevance to or place within the academy.
We invite contributions on any aspect of Romantic Retrospection in relation to the writing, culture, institutions, practices, and criticism of the Romantic period.
Topics that papers might address could include (but are not limited to):
2026 marks the centenary of the publication of the thirteen-book version of William Wordsworth’s The Prelude .
The poem, completed by the poet in 1805, was unearthed and edited by the University of Birmingham Professor, Ernest de Selincourt.
Its appearance in 1926 has shaped a century of Romantic studies.
The conference will feature an exhibition of de Selincourt’s papers from the University of Birmingham’s Cadbury Archives, which will also be made available online.
The conference will include an optional excursion to The Samuel Johnson Birthplace Museum and Bookshop, just north of Birmingham at Lichfield.
The conference invites both in person and online participation.
There will be a three-day in-person event at the University of Birmingham with a digital event the following week.
The in-person conference will not be streamed, but participants will be encouraged to upload recordings of their papers, which will be made available in a digital archive accessible to both in-person and online participants for a limited time.
We invite two kinds of proposal: for individual papers and for full sessions.
We are also happy to facilitate session calls.
Individual Papers: to submit a proposal for a 15-20-minute paper, please send the following information to BARS2026@contacts.bham.ac.uk .
Session Proposals : sessions may take the form of traditional 3-4 person panels, with papers of 15-20-minutes each, or a series of shorter contributions in the form of a roundtable.
To submit a proposal for a full session, please send the following information to BARS2026@contacts.bham.ac.uk .
Session Calls: if you would like us to help facilitate putting together a potential session by circulating details to others, please email us directly with a title and description (of 250 words) by Monday 29th September 2025 , specifying whether your proposal is for an in-person or an online session.
We will post accepted proposals along with your contact details on the conference website soon after; potential participants can then get in touch with you directly so that you can submit full details ahead of the conference deadline (Sunday 30th November).
The deadline for submissions for individual papers and full panels is Sunday 30th November 2025.
Delegates will be notified of acceptance in January 2026.
Further updates will be posted on this site in due course.
General enquiries may be directed to the conference email account: BARS2026@contacts.bham.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/prospectus:
Download a prospectus for an introduction to studying at the University of Birmingham.
A prospectus is a great way to learn more about us.
We're a university that prides itself on having all the space you need to study and reach your full potential.
In your prospectus, discover an overview of our facilities on campus, an introduction to the bustling and vibrant city of Birmingham and see our extensive list of courses with the entry requirements.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/contact/social-media-hub:
Get social with us and join in the conversation across our social media channels:
We welcome our community to comment, debate, and join in the conversation on our social media pages and we love hearing from you.
Our aim is to keep our social channels a safe and welcoming place for everyone to add their voice and opinions to.
It is a place to discuss the University of Birmingham, our news, research, events, and messages across our community.
We want to keep our channels a place for healthy, open discussion and everyone has a positive, informative and safe experience, so we have a few house rules.
We ask that comments:
We may remove messages and/or disable comments where function allows, report and/or block users on our channels who do not adhere to these rules or continually break them.
Anyone repeatedly using content or language which falls into the above categories will be blocked and/or reported to the associated social media platform.
We will not tolerate or respond to abusive messages.
The University of Birmingham is not responsible for comments or wall postings made by visitors to our pages and reserves the right, at its sole discretion, to screen and remove any content it deems inappropriate as per the above conditions.
The University does not necessarily review every item posted by community members or from other accounts where it is tagged or mentioned, but we encourage users to ‘report’ posts that they find offensive.
Yo u can find our WeChat channel via our QR code
We welcome our community to comment, debate, and join in the conversation on our social media channels.
Our aim is to keep these spaces a safe and welcoming place for everyone to add their voice and opinions to.
It is a place to discuss the University of Birmingham, our news, research, events, news and messages across our community.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/collaborate:
Our collaborations drive innovation and influence, enhance research and education and create real-life impact that shapes the world around us.
Our strategic partnership between the University of Birmingham and Siemens focusses on smart infrastructure, mobility, energy and health.
Our transnational academic partnership with University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign has been flourishing for a decade.
Our support and expertise is helping a talented team of biomedical entrepreneurs find their place in the market
Our cutting-edge facilities and research expertise are a natural habitat for innovators who are pushing boundaries
We are the top choice for the UK's major employers searching for graduate recruits, and there are all sorts of ways for you to connect with the next generation of leaders that pass through our doors.
Are you an artist, community or cultural enterprise?
We want to work with you.
On campus or in the city, we offer a wide range of venues and event experiences.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/collaborate/global-engagement/brazil-institute:
As a strategic region of importance, we are investing in Brazil to develop purposeful partnerships and relationships that lead to enhanced collaborative research with leading universities, institutions and private organisations.
The University of Birmingham Brazil Institute (UBBI) acts as the central hub of our engagement with Brazil, promoting academic cooperation, partnership and funding opportunities, and cultural initiatives.
For 2025, UBBI is delighted to launch Engage Amazonia 2025 , a multidisciplinary programme designed to build long-term collaborations between Birmingham and Amazonian researchers.
We invite Birmingham academics from all disciplines with an interest in the region to participate in the programme.
Find out more about our partnership with Brazil in our Birmingham Brazil Annual Report
Meet our UBBI affiliates and explore our extensive research collaborations across Brazil
Explore our opportunities for visiting fellows & early career researchers
Further information on research funding calls with UBBI
Explore our collaboration opportunities between Birmingham and Amazonian researchers.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/collaborate/global-engagement/china-institute:
The China Institute is a central hub for Chinese interests at the University of Birmingham.
Bringing together people, ideas, funding, research and academic excellence, we help create opportunities for those keen to discover what China has to offer, and play a key role in celebrating Chinese culture at the University.
Explore the China Institute and our strategic engagement in the region.
Meet the Key members of the China Institute
Explore the economic impact reports of our China Engagement

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/collaborate/global-engagement/europe-hub:
Europe will always be an essential and integral part of the University of Birmingham’s global activity and identity.
Bringing together colleagues from across the University, the Europe Hub supports collaboration with European partners; collates fresh perspectives and ideas; and enables research and education projects and programmes.
Explore European research calls and the support on offer to find partners and apply for funding.
Learn about our joint programmes and initiatives with European partners.
Discover our European partners and how you can get involved.
Find out more about the opportunities our memberships present for you.
Get in touch with the Europe Hub to access expert support, or join an upcoming event to activate your European engagement.
Find opportunities to connect with Birmingham researchers and explore internal funding calls to engage with European partners.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/collaborate/global-engagement/india-institute:
We’re bringing Birmingham and India closer together to deliver impactful research, create innovative education initiatives and extend our influence across the globe.
From vital cancer research to knowledge transfer on the future of clean-cold technologies, we’re empowering leading academic, industrial and government partners in India to influence policy and tackle global issues.
By forging new connections between Birmingham and India, we’ve created a supportive network for academics, research councils, institutions, government offices, commercial partners and all those interested in building transnational education partnerships with India.
The University’s relationship with India began in 1909 with the first cohort of Indian students attending the University to study for degrees in Mining and Commerce.
Since then, the University has provided education to many outstanding Indian alumni.
The India Institute is the focal point of the Birmingham-India relationship, increasing the visibility, impact and coherence of the University’s engagement in India.
Welcome Video for the University of Birmingham Institute.
The University of Birmingham will celebrate its 125th year in 2025.
Our research collaborations with government, businesses and leading institutions across India are providing answers to the global challenges of our age.
From addressing the challenges of urbanisation and developing cold chains, improving the detection of cancer in women and identifying the source of air pollution, our research collaborations are breaking new ground.
Studies show that globally, more die after surgery than from HIV, TB and malaria combined.
Our leading surgeons have been awarded £7 million by the National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) to establish a joint unit focused on driving surgical research in India and other low- and middle-income countries.
By undertaking collaborative research and engaging the local and global surgical community, our researchers are solving the critical need for safe, affordable surgical care worldwide.
University of Birmingham researcher Dr Sophie Hadfield-Hill has been awarded major funding from the Economic and Social Research Council’s (ESRC) Urban Transformations programme to to investigate India’s smart urban age.
This collaborative project, ‘Learning from small cities’, studies the dynamic transformation of three Indian cities and will help experts to understand and predict the challenges of India's rapid move towards an urban future.
Global experts call for new approach to tackle air pollution
As the first UK university to establish a Sikh Studies programme, we’re strengthening our longstanding engagement with the local and global Sikh community to mark a significant year for the Sikh faith, which celebrates the 550th Birth Anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev Ji and the 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi.
Led by our Sikh Studies expert Dr Jagbir Jhutti-Johal OBE , we’re building partnerships with faith-based organisations to widen the impact of our research and to raise public understanding of the Sikh faith.
Our leading Professor of Water Technology, Professor Philip Davies , is collaborating with key partners in India to deliver an innovative project addressing critical water shortages in many rural parts of the country.
'India H2O' is developing new technologies to make it possible to reuse water that is too contaminated to drink untreated and is maximising the impact of research to benefit rural communities across India.
Our energy experts have launched a major research initiative, Clean Cold and the Global Goals, which investigates how clean cooling could help to achieve almost all of the United Nations’ Global Goals.
Our researchers argue that the introducing clean cold to India’s food supply chain will develop infrastructure and double farmers’ incomes while reducing their impact on the environment.
We’re strengthening UK-India industry partnerships by supporting the Indian state government’s drive to advance the use of clean cold technology and help meet rising demand for cooling sustainably.
Clean cold and global goals
With air pollution levels up to 30 times greater than in the UK at times, India’s capital city Delhi has been rated as one of the most polluted cities in the world by the World Health Organization (WHO).
Leading researchers from the University of Birmingham are collaborating with the Indian Institute of Technology Delhi (IIT Delhi) to understand the causes, sources and effects of poor air quality in India and across the globe and tackle the associated health risks.
Cancer expert Professor Sudha Sundar is leading research into the factors causing the three most common cancers in women – breast, cervical and ovarian – in the Punjab region.
Our researchers at the University of Birmingham are collaborating with centres of excellence in India to investigate how ethnic diversity has an impact on the prevalence of these cancers and to and to improve early detection.
Heterogeneity of germline variants in high risk breast and ovarian cancer susceptibility genes in India
We’re building partnerships with leading Indian institutions to provide quality education to students.
Our focus on collaborative education is providing more innovative ways for Indian students to study in an international environment.
We’re working together with our partners to provide new opportunities for students to help them work towards their goals.
Through our Transnational Education (TNE) partnerships with elite institutions in India, we’re providing the opportunity for students to finish their studies at the University of Birmingham and gain a unique international study experience.
Find out more
We’re growing global intellectual networks through hosting Newton Bhabha PhD students from prestigious Indian institutions.
By sharing our expertise and research excellence, we’re equipping the brightest and best minds to solve global challenges facing the UK and India.
Led by our expert Dr Upen Patel , a team of dental students from the Birmingham School of Dentistry joined with Satya Samaj UK volunteers to set up an oral and dental health clinic in Rishikesh, India, for the second year running.
We’re supporting these student volunteers as they provide free dental care to approximately 500 underprivileged patients, including almost 200 children, many of whom had no access to dental care.
‘It was a memorable experience.
It was great fun to experience a comfortable new culture, meeting new people who were very warm and friendly, understanding a different way of living.
It was an awesome experience.’
Kanika Sehgal, Chitkara University, India
We’re engaging with the Indian student community here on our Edgbaston campus.
By supporting student society events and activities, we’re celebrating and showcasing Indian culture at the University of Birmingham.
Bharat Parivar, which means ‘Indian Family’, is a student society created to celebrate and showcase Indian culture to the student community at the University of Birmingham.
India Institute Annual Report 2022 (PDF Accessible)
India Institute Annual Report 2021 (PDF Accessible)
India Institute Annual Report 2020 (PDF)
India Institute Annual Report 2020 (Word Accessible)
India Institute Annual Report 2019 (PDF)

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/collaborate/global-engagement/north-america-partnerships:
As a key strategic region, we significantly invest in North America to support and encourage academic engagement.
We have built a strong network of faculty relationships with leading academic institutions, resulting in significant research outcomes and funding successes.
Our educational initiatives include new exchange partnerships, prestigious internships, and collaborative teaching arrangements.
At Birmingham, we have pursued a focused North American engagement strategy, particularly in Illinois with the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign , Chicago (our sister city), and McMaster University in Canada.
Our innovative approach integrates civic, academic, and cultural engagement to raise our profile and foster signature partnerships with world-class institutions.
The Sister City relationship with Chicago is rooted in shared characteristics, including our work with The Shakespeare Institute and the Chicago Shakespeare Theater.
Both Birmingham and Chicago, as "second cities" (though Chicago is the third-largest in the USA), have distinct identities, known for their industrial heritage and cultural contributions.
We continue to collaborate with North American institutions, partners, and politicians to ensure world-class opportunities for our students and researchers.
We also focus on sports diplomacy, which includes our Ivy League athletics exchange, with further information available here: Ivy League Exchange.
Further information on the Birmingham International Engagement Fund can be found at: Internal Funding Opportunities.
The University of Birmingham and McMaster University are delighted to launch the annual BIRMAC Project and Ideas Fund.
In October 2021 the University of Birmingham and McMaster University signed a formal agreement to create a framework for collaboration and partnership between the two institutions.
McMaster University and the University of Birmingham have historic similarities, shared interests and recognise that to achieve exceptional research outcomes and the best possible student experience, constant nurture and support is necessary and cannot be done in isolation.
To help support academic collaboration between our two globally-leading universities, we have established the Projects and Ideas Fund: a seed fund created with matching funding from each university designed to identify, establish and develop first-rate research projects and student outcomes.
The fund’s objective is to support new initiatives by providing bridge funding between ideas and the first grant, or academic initiative.
The funding is designed to enable individuals to identify complementary strengths, leverage synergy, and design new outstanding research and education projects and opportunities for academic excellence across all disciplines.
The funding will seed and enable the development of deep partnerships through joint initiatives, which for example could include (but is not limited to):
Applications open 20 January 2025.
Academics and professional services staff wishing to access funding must submit an application using the online application form.
Find an academic to support your project:
University of Birmingham
McMaster University
Please submit one application per project.
The deadline to submit your application is 31 March 2025 at 11:59pm EST/ 04.59am GMT.
The outcome of your application will be announced on or after 30 April 2025.
Full details can be found in the BIRMAC Project and Ideas Fund Application Guidance Document .
Should you wish to discuss the fund further please contact Mary Elliston at M.E.Elliston@bham.ac.uk
Details of the BRIDGE 2025 SEED Fund can be found here - Annual BRIDGE Seed Fund 2025 - University of Birmingham
Please visit - Global South Fellowship Program.
The Fulbright Commission was established in 1948 to foster mutual educational understanding between the US and the UK through academic exchange.
Today, the Fulbright Program operates globally with the assistance of binational commissions and foundations in 49 countries, and US embassies in more than 100 other countries.
The University of Birmingham is proud to participate in many of the available schemes that Fulbright has to offer.
Each academic year the University of Birmingham hosts a Fulbright Distinguished Chair, the most prestigious Fulbright award.
This generous six-month secondment enables a prominent US professor to be based at the University of Birmingham, with access to all the University’s research collections, and will provide an opportunity to undertake research and build links in the UK.
For further information regarding the Fulbright Distinguished Chair Award, please visit the Fulbright website .
Previous Recipients
University of California-Davis
University of Delaware
University of Illinois at   Urbana-Champaign
“Everyone should have a Fulbright experience.
The world would undoubtedly be a better and more tolerant place if they did.
My time in the UK transformed my professional and personal life.
I am deeply grateful for having had the opportunity.”
- Professor Donald Behringer, Fulbright US Scholar, 2015-16
The University also offers a Fulbright-University of Birmingham Scholar award annually, whereby a researcher based at a US institution may visit the University of Birmingham for a period of 3–9 months to conduct research in any subject.
For further information regarding the Fulbright Scholarships at the University of Birmingham, please see the Fulbright website.
We are also happy to host holders of Fulbright Scholar Awards (all disciplines) who wish to conduct research in the conducive environment of the University and its campus.
Alumni Spotlight
“I can't imagine a more supportive and professional environment than the one I had at the University of Birmingham's Department of Social Policy, Sociology and Criminology.
I have to believe this is exactly what Senator Fulbright envisioned when he imagined a way to create cultural and intellectual experiences between nations through universities."
- Dr Charles Gallagher, LaSalle University.
Fulbright US Scholar to the University of Birmingham, 2016-17
Marshall Scholarships finance young Americans of high ability to study for a degree in the United Kingdom.
Up to fifty Scholars are selected each year to study at graduate level at an UK institution in any field of study.
At the University of Birmingham we are committed to supporting and growing academic engagement with the US as one of our key strategic international territories.
We offer a range of fellowship opportunities for US students and faculty to come to the University of Birmingham and gain valuable transatlantic experience.
Please see our Postgraduate Funding database .
Find out more about our partnership with McMaster
Find out more about our partnership with Iliinois
See our partnership with the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign through BRIDGE
UoB student-athletes marked 63 years of Ivy League exchange by smashing records at UPenn.
Birmingham and Illinois are proudly recognised for connecting across borders
Find out what scholars from our existing partnerships are researching.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/collaborate/global-engagement/universitas-21:
Universitas 21 (U21) is a prestigious global network of research-intensive universities dedicated to fostering international collaboration and enhancing the quality of higher education worldwide.
By connecting member institutions, U21 facilitates the sharing of knowledge, ideas, and best practices, promoting a diverse and inclusive academic community.
"I can say with confidence that not only are we delighted to be part of its global network of research universities but also proud to be one of the founding members.
Since its inception, the University of Birmingham has always taken a leading role and we have continued to increase steadily our involvement for the benefit of our staff and students; encouraging increasing numbers of students to spend some time studying at U21 partner institutions, and enabling staff to develop their international perspective through involvement in U21 strategy meetings and events.”
The University of Birmingham is an active member of Universitas 21, leveraging this membership to enhance its global engagement and academic offerings.
Through U21, the University of Birmingham participates in various collaborative projects, research initiatives, and student exchange programmes that benefit both staff and students.
U21 offers numerous schemes to its member universities.
Student mobility programmes provide opportunities for students to study abroad at other member institutions, promoting cultural exchange and broadening educational experiences.
Researcher engagement includes collaborative research projects, workshops, and conferences that bring together researchers from different U21 universities to tackle global challenges.
The two main workshops are the Early Career and Mid-Career workshops.
Early Career Researcher Workshop | Universitas 21
U21 Mid-Career Researcher Programme: Reset, Re-imagine, Reframe | Universitas 21
There are many different opportunities for students including the Three Minute Thesis® competition.
The Three Minute Thesis® challenges doctoral candidates to present a compelling spoken presentation on their research topic and its significance in just three minutes.
U21 Three Minute Thesis Competition | Universitas 21
The RISE (Real Impact on Society and Environment) is U21’s international showcase of student achievement in sustainability and social innovation designed to accelerate the scale and impact of student-led projects by connecting them with a network of experts in academia and industry.
Alongside access to a global network of supporters, teams will have the chance of winning one of four prizes valued at over $2000 each.
RISE Showcase and Awards | Universitas 21
There is also the Universitas 21 Global Citizens program which is a three-week, online leadership development course and the U21 Sustainable Micro-internships programme.
U21 Global Citizens | Universitas 21
Sustainable Micro-internships | Universitas 21
“In my opinion, the fantastic range of opportunities for international travel and study is the best thing about being a student at the University of Birmingham.
In my time here, I’ve been sent to represent the university at a research conference in Tokyo and a Summer School in Sydney, as part of Birmingham's membership of the amazing Universitas 21 group.”
“In a busy academic career, there are only limited opportunities to take time away from your day-to-day activities to focus on a specific area of interest.
The U21 Staff Fellowships give you the time and the space to think, a network of good practice to explore, and the funding to make it happen!”
University of Melbourne
University of New South Wales Sydney
University of Queensland
University of Sydney
KU Leuven
Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile
Fudan University
Shanghai Jiao Tong University
University of Hong Kong
University of Delhi
Universitas Gadjah Mada
University College Dublin
Waseda University
Tecnológico de Monterrey
University of Auckland
National University of Singapore
University of Johannesburg
Korea University
Lund University
University of Zurich
University of Amsterdam
University of Edinburgh
University of Glasgow
University of Nottingham
University of California, Davis
University of Connecticut
University of Maryland

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/university/colleges/professional/external/birmingham-global:
In Birmingham Global we very much see our role as informing, enabling and implementing the international aspirations of the University and its academic community thus bringing tangible benefits to our students, colleagues, and campus here in Birmingham.
International Development and Mobility - overseeing international partnerships and collaborations; managing the University’s study abroad and exchange programmes; promoting and coordinating U21 activity.
International Strategy – developing the University’s international profile by directing the design and implementation of the University’s broader international strategy and the current strategic review of global engagement.
Director of Birmingham Global Ailsa Chambers Email: a.m.chambers@bham.ac.uk
Director of Global Relations & Research Andréa Edwards Email: A.C.Edwards@bham.ac.uk
Director of Global Relations & Education Luke Wales Email: L.Wales@bham.ac.uk
Head of Global Partnerships (Incoming Study Abroad) Claire Belkadi Email: C.Belkadi@bham.ac.uk
Head of Global Partnerships (Europe/ South America) Dr Erica Arthur Email: E.D.Arthur@bham.ac.uk
Head of Global Partnerships (North America/ Australia) Lindsay Avery Email: l.c.avery@bham.ac.uk
Head of Global Partnerships (East & South-East Asia) Wenwei Wu Email: w.wu@bham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/the-exchange:
Explore our exhibitions, join us for our family-friendly interactive workshops and see how we're working to tackle local and global challenges with collaboration and change.
Based in the historic old municipal bank located in Centenary Square in Birmingham City Centre, The Exchange is a place for communities to shape ideas and solutions together, to make our cities and regions better places to live, work and learn.
Monday to Saturday - 08:00 to 17:00
Wednesdays - 08:00 to 20:00 (starting 1 September 2025)
A month-long celebration of writing, reading, and all things books, with talks, workshops, and activities for all ages.
Supported by the National Heritage Lottery Fund, The Exchange is uncovering it's history with this special heritage project.
Public Programmes Student Panel at the University of Birmingham – where your voice can help shape the heartbeat of our events, activities, and community engagement efforts at The Exchange, the University’s vibrant city centre venue in Centenary Square.
Explore how AI affects your work, home, and health
The Exchange and Ikon, with support from Vivid Projects present 'We need 2 tlk', a new moving image installation by Midlands-based artist Exodus Crooks as part of AI FUTURES.
Find out how research is changing lives
Discover our past exhibitions online
Everything you need to know before your visit to The Exchange.
Get directions, opening times, parking, and accessibility information.
Our Cafe is the ideal place to meet, socialise and relax in the heart of the city.
The Exchange has an array of spectacular spaces for hire: the grand Assembly Room, for ceremonies and press conferences; The Vaults for parties and receptions; the board room for banqueting; and numerous meeting rooms.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/facilities/cadbury:
Home of the University of Birmingham's extensive Special Collections of rare books, manuscripts, archives, photographs and associated artefacts.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/cultural-attractions/university-collections:
Discover more than 10,000 objects and artworks, each with their own fascinating story to tell.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/about/college-of-arts-and-law:
In the College of Arts and Law we explore what it means to be human.
We champion the vital role of culture, history, ethics and law in tackling the world’s biggest problems through our interdisciplinary courses, research, industry partnerships and global collaborations.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/university/colleges/eps/index.aspx:
The College of Engineering and Physical Sciences (EPS) comprises seven academic Schools working across the frontiers of science and engineering in education, research and translating knowledge.
All subjects in EPS have improved their quartile ranking in the Research Excellence Framework 2021 .
Computer Science, Physics and Engineering are now firmly placed in the top ten in the UK for research.
More news from around the College of Engineering and Physical Sciences

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/university/colleges/les/index.aspx:
We are exploring the diversity and evolutionary challenges of life in all its forms.
Across the breadth of life and environmental sciences, we discover, apply and translate science, forging major advances in human and environmental health.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/university/colleges/mds/index.aspx:
Our world-leading academics are shaping the future of health and medicine through the provision of innovative education and outstanding research.
We are preparing the next generation for successful careers in healthcare.
Our interdisciplinary research teams are translating findings into clinical practice.
We are dedicated to improving quality of life, preventing premature deaths and reducing healthcare burden around the world.
About the College Contact the College
We offer world class teaching across a range of degree courses, delivered on campus, online and overseas.
From learning more about cancer to tackling COVID-19, we conduct research with the ultimate goal of improving human health.
Our experts are improving treatment and saving lives.
Discovery of DIAL syndrome could enable patients to have more personalised cancer care to reduce risk of chemotherapy toxicity
There are no results that match your search
Check out more events

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/university/colleges/socsci/index.aspx:
Social science is fundamental in shaping our understanding of the world around us, and how people experience their lives within it.
At the College of Social Sciences, our ambition is to address the most pressing, contested, and contentious questions, driving social change for a fairer and more sustainable world.
We have a collaborative relationship with the Academy of Social Sciences.
Championing the vital role social sciences play in education, government, and business, the Academy is the sector’s leading independent voice in the UK.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/schools/business/departments/accounting:
Our department is internationally recognised as a world-leading centre of interdisciplinary accounting and accountability research and education.
Our work is pivotal to Birmingham Business School’s mission to drive curiosity and thought leadership in responsible business.
We particularly focus on organisational and societal challenges regarding sustainable development, corporate reporting, performance measurement, and taxation policy.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/about/college-of-arts-and-law/african-studies-and-anthropology:
The Department of African Studies and Anthropology draws on its long-standing commitment to interdisciplinarity and regional expertise to deliver cutting-edge and world-leading research on cultural and social life.
For more than 60 years, DASA has brought together Africa-focussed researchers.
Founded in the 1960s as the Centre of West African Studies (CWAS), the department has evolved over the decades to become a leading anthropological research and teaching centre shaped by its interdisciplinary and Africanist roots.
The Department of African Studies and Anthropology now comprises anthropologists and historians, Africanists and non-Africanists, who foster a friendly and supportive community through a shared attentiveness to learning from local expertise and cognate disciplines.
Our research interests include oral histories, gender relations, economic life, migration, religion, activism, urban livelihoods and popular culture.
With over 60 years’ experience in supporting students from all over the world, including Africa, we value our diverse student body.
We offer a variety of degrees in social anthropology and African studies at both undergraduate and postgraduate level.
Our doctoral students join us from all over the world to produce pioneering new research in a broad range of regional, disciplinary and thematic areas.
If you are looking for consultations on cultural, social, political or legal matters, please contact us.
DASA office Department of African Studies and Anthropology Arts Building University of Birmingham Edgbaston Birmingham B15 2TT
Telephone +44(0)121 414 5128 Email dasaadmin@contacts.bham.ac.uk
Office opening hours
Monday-Friday 9:30 - 16:00 Wednesday 9:30 - 14:00
Enquiries managed by the Undergraduate Marketing and Student Recruitment team.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/research/applied-health:
We carry out world-leading research and provide distinctive education to improve human health and wellbeing.
Our four cross-cutting, multi-disciplinary research themes cover maternal and child health, the prevention and management of chronic diseases, global health challenges, and methodological innovations.
Discover how our experts are improving treatment and saving lives
For enquiries regarding the Department of Applied Health Sciences, please contact Jo Hine ( j.hine.1@bham.ac.uk ).

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/about/college-of-arts-and-law/art-history-curating-and-visual-studies:
The Department of Art History, Curating and Visual Studies is recognised internationally for both its high level of student satisfaction and the quality of its research.
Our teaching takes place in the Barber Institute of Fine Arts, one of Birmingham’s finest Art Deco buildings, and home to an excellent and representative collection of western art from the medieval to the modern period.
Our three research streams overlap and intersect.
Art History department in the UK in the Research Excellence Framework exercise 2021
Based on Grade Point Average (Times Higher Education)
for History of Art
The Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2023
History of Art department in the UK
Guardian University Guide, 2023
Department of Art History, Curating and Visual Studies The University of Birmingham Edgbaston Birmingham B15 2TT United Kingdom
Charlie Lockwood Telephone +44 (0)121 414 2218 Fax +44 (0)121 414 2727 Email ahcvsadministrator@contacts.bham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/schools/biomedical-sciences:
Welcome to the Department of Biomedical Sciences at the University of Birmingham, one of the UK’s leading centres for groundbreaking research and exceptional education.
As a part of a prestigious Russell Group university, we are at the forefront of addressing some of the world’s most pressing health challenges through innovative and impactful research.
Our department integrates world-leading research seamlessly with inspirational teaching, offering one of the best environments in the UK to study Biomedical Sciences.
Whether advancing medical knowledge or shaping future leaders in the sciences, our commitment to excellence ensures that we remain a hub of innovation, discovery, and education.
Biomedical Science has been ranked 1st in the Russell Group in the National Student Survey 2024 for ‘Student Voice’ and ‘Learning Opportunities
Biomedical Science has been ranked 5th in the Russell Group in the National Student Survey 2024 for ‘Teaching on my course’
MSci Biomedical has had a 94% satisfaction rate for the 2024 National Student Survey for 'Teaching on my course’
The Department of Biomedical Sciences is based at the Medical School.
Department of Biomedical Sciences College of Medicine and Health University of Birmingham Edgbaston Birmingham B15 2TT
Hannah Peachey Email: H.Peachey@bham.ac.uk
Please use our enquiry form for any queries.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/about/college-of-life-and-environmental-sciences/school-of-biosciences:
We discover, apply and translate science across the breadth of biosciences, deepening our understanding of the beauty, complexity and interdependence of the living world.
Our multi-disciplinary research themes
Explore the School of Biosciences through this video
School of Biosciences The University of Birmingham Birmingham B15 2TTUK
The School of Biosciences is Building R27 on the Edgbaston Campus map (PDF 397Kb)

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/schools/business:
At Birmingham Business School, we are setting new global standards in responsible business, one leader at a time.
With campuses in the UK and Dubai, an education portfolio in Singapore and online, and research spanning across the world, we are a truly global Business School.
At Birmingham Business School, we deliver world-class research and teaching that provides the insight, ambition and skills to shape sustainable business strategies.
We are consistently found in global ranking tables and are proud to hold triple-crown accreditation from leading bodies AMBA, EQUIS and AACSB.
Our mission is to deliver:

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/research/bctu:
Birmingham Clinical Trials Unit is a renowned clinical trials unit, covering almost every disease and condition.
For 25 years, we have been providing clinicians with scientific, technical and computing expertise to support every stage of their innovative research and influence medical treatment.
Our work on disease prevention, treatment and control leads to clinical practices that change lives.
This 3-day introductory course, available in both face to face and online formats, has been delivered by the Birmingham Centre for Clinical Trials for over 25 years and will provide you with an overview of the research process from idea and design to analysis and publication and is designed to combine theory with opportunities to apply knowledge to practice.
Find out more and apply now
For all BCTU enquiries please contact:
Birmingham Clinical Trials Unit Department of Applied Health Sciences Public Health Building College of Medicine and Health University of Birmingham Birmingham B15 2TT
Telephone: +44 (0)121 415 9100 Fax:+44 (0)121 415 9135/136 Email: bctu@contacts.bham.ac.uk
You can find us on the University of Birmingham Edgbaston Campus Map.
The majority of staff are located in the Public Health Building (Yellow 17), with the remainder in the Murray Learning Centre (Red 28).

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/research/centres-institutes/birmingham-energy-institute:
We are driving change in how we deliver, consume, and think about energy.
By bringing together interdisciplinary research from across the University of Birmingham and working with government, industry, and international partners, our research is solving societal issues and addressing challenges relating to energy poverty, the circular economy, transport systems, cooling, hydrogen, energy storage, and the decarbonisation of heat.
Birmingham Energy Institute (BEI) is developing and applying the technological innovation, original thinking and new working methods required to create sustainable energy solutions and support the regional, national and global transition to a zero-carbon energy system.
The global community is consuming more energy than ever.
As we run out of time to address climate change, the BEI is upscaling their innovative technology solutions for applications in Birmingham and globally.
A research focussed institute, we are driving change in the way we deliver, consume and think about energy.
Bringing together interdisciplinary research from across the University of Birmingham and working with government, industry and international partners our research is solving societal issues and addressing challenges relating to energy poverty, the circular economy, transport systems, cooling, hydrogen, energy storage and the decarbonisation of heat.
The Birmingham Centre for Energy Storage (BCES) brings together research expertise from across the University to identify and address key energy storage challenges and their solutions.
Nationally and internationally recognised for expertise in fuel cells, the Centre for Fuel Cells and Hydrogen Research focuses on research and development, applications and demonstrations of fuel cell and hydrogen systems and technologies.
Effective cooling is essential to preserve food and medicines.
It is key within sustainable urbanisation, it underpins economic growth, and provides a ladder out of rural poverty.
However, unmanaged growth in cooling, especially in emerging and fast-growing markets, represents one of the largest threats to climate goals, natural resources and energy resilience.
Meeting societal and technological needs for cooling and increasing demand in developed and developing economies without catastrophic environmental impact requires the development of sustainable and equitable ‘clean cooling’ energy systems and technologies.
The Centre for Sustainable Cooling (CSC) is a hub for academics, technical experts, policy makers, INGOs, local communities, and industry experts to come together to resolve heat-related challenges with sustainable cooling and cold chain solutions.
Strategic elements and critical materials are essential to modern society and are present in many different energy-efficient technologies.
Our expertise in science, economics, and law allows us to answer the challenges created by this need.
The Birmingham Centre for Strategic Elements & Critical Materials encompasses expertise from across the University of Birmingham and the Birmingham Energy Institute in biosciences, chemical engineering, chemistry, economics, law, materials science, physics and social science.
The world faces many challenging questions about our future energy supplies.
Where will our energy come from?
What energy vectors will we use to store and transport energy?
How will we use and consume energy in the future?
In answering these questions, we must consider global competition for scarce resources.
Furthermore, we need to consider the need to live within our environmental constraints.
The latest global goals for decarbonisation coming from COP21 will surely influence our future energy mix.
Closer to home, our attention is drawn to local environmental issues such as air quality and the impact of waste.
Solutions to our energy challenges are not only technical but also informed by business, economics, law, and policy.
The Birmingham Centre for Environmental & Energy Economics & Management complements the University of Birmingham’s expertise in energy technologies by providing a complementary economic, business, and social-science perspective on our global energy challenges.
The broad capabilities and expertise at the University of Birmingham combined with strong relationship with collaborators from academia and industry has produced numerous studies and policy documents addressing the challenges facing today’s energy system.
Nationally, the BEI is influencing and shaping policy on critical issues such as waste management, materials supply and decarbonisation of heat to shape the energy solutions of tomorrow.
Our policy commission reports present the needs for development, highlight the opportunities and introduce possible solutions to inform the decisions of policymakers.
Birmingham Energy Institute draws on broad capabilities and expertise and strong collaboratorial relationships with academia and industry, producing studies and policies addressing energy challenges
Our latest policy commission report, Pathways for Local Heat Delivery , examines all the components required to deliver a local heat solution and the barriers that need removing.
Chaired by Sir John Armitt and delivered by the University of Birmingham in partnership with Energy Research Accelerator, the Commission used the City of Birmingham as a case study to examine the following components: planning; finance; consumer engagement and the role of mandation and zoning; local authority expertise and capacity; and challenges presented by the local infrastructure (e.g., gas and electricity grid).
Through its partnership with Tyseley Energy Park (TEP) , the BEI is overcoming challenges related to energy poverty and decarbonising domestic heating, electricity grid constraints, poor air quality, and low and zero-carbon transport, fuels, and logistics.
It also establishes the area as a test site for piloting and scaling energy system solutions.
The Birmingham Energy Innovation Centre at TEP stimulates collaborative research and development projects demonstrating new and emerging technologies.
The Birmingham Energy Incubation Hub provides office and workshop space to support the growth of low-carbon energy businesses.
Through the BEI SME support programme, ATETA, companies can also access the world-leading research facilities of the University of Birmingham.
The BEI has partnered with TEP to deliver the Birmingham Energy Engineering Skills Programme.
Striving to shape the future of the Energy Revolution, the project provides funding for outreach activities that will raise awareness of new energy technologies, TEP, and its role in the region's transition to a zero-carbon economy in East Birmingham.
The BEI is part of the ERA consortium , which draws on the expertise and world-class facilities of the Midlands Innovation group of universities.
Together, the consortium works with the UK government, industry, and the higher education sector to undertake innovative research and demonstrate low-carbon technologies that help shape the future of the UK energy landscape.
The BEI is part of a learning community across the Midlands.
It works with students from the University of Birmingham to create opportunities to engage with academics, industry, and policymakers.
The BEI is also creating opportunities for students to work with researchers from the Energy Research Accelerator (ERA) to increase the supply of highly trained, skilled postgraduates across the spectrum of energy research.
The BEI is also working with the Birmingham Energy Society and other student groups on developing an energy outreach programme, industrial, civic, and policy engagement, networking activities, and placement opportunities.
View our Postgraduate Nuclear and Energy courses
The University of Birmingham is a co-collaborator in the Midlands Energy Graduate School (MEGS) , offering enhanced postgraduate student training.
As a doctoral researcher in energy at Birmingham you will have access to summer schools, seminars, study visits and conferences, and the opportunity to meet students from the other consortium universities - Nottingham and Loughborough.
Having membership to this network of energy postgraduates and researchers and access to the specialist modules offered by the universities gives you the chance to broaden your knowledge and horizons for the benefit of your research and your career.
If you are already a student at Birmingham and wish to join or register for a course, please contact MEGS: megs-administrator@nottingham.ac.uk , indicating your current position and, if appropriate, the contact details of your research supervisor.
Technology and policy offer key routes for delivering transformational change.
However, the capacity to deliver the change is missing without the creation of talent and skills.
The Birmingham Energy Institute has developed a range of educational programmes with a track record of delivering quality graduates to create a talent pipeline.
The University of Birmingham leads the UK’s Centre for Doctoral Training (CDT) in Hydrogen, Fuel Cells and their Applications.
Through a 4-year PhD programme, the CDT trains generations of scientists and engineers to address the multidisciplinary challenges involved in developing and applying hydrogen and fuel cell technologies.
For more information, please contact Mr John Hooper: hfc@contacts.bham.ac.uk
Birmingham is a partner in the EPSRC funded Industrial Doctoral Training Centre, hosted by the University of Nottingham, training EngD students in a multidisciplinary environment.
For more information please contact Dr Brian Connolly at: b.j.collolly@bham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/international/bia:
The Birmingham International Academy (BIA) combines the highest standards of one of Britain’s leading global universities with a fully integrated student experience.
The BIA provides the University's Foundation Pathways, Presessional English programmes for students preparing to study at the University and English support for students who are already at the University.
The department is accredited by the British Council for the teaching of English in the UK.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/research/centres-institutes/quantum-technologies:
The Birmingham Institute for Quantum Technologies will support academics to explore and facilitate opportunities in quantum technologies, including the creation, use and manufacture of quantum sensing and timing devices, building on over a decade of interdisciplinary collaboration across the University.
We are known across the world for our work on Quantum Sensing and Timing.
The creation of the Birmingham Institute for Quantum Technologies will allow us to broaden the engagement of researchers across the University and accelerate our ambition to make Quantum Technologies a reality for the benefit of society.
Professor of Quantum Sensing
Principal Investigator at the UK Quantum Technology Hub Sensors and Timing
Professor of Infrastructure Monitoring
Director of the National Buried Infrastructure Facility
Professor of Communication Electrodynamics
College Director of Research and Knowledge Transfer and Academic Lead of Midlands mm-Wave Measurement Facility
Professor of Quantum Science and Innovation
Head of Innovation, School of Physics and Astronomy
Quantum sensing, imaging and timing will deliver transformative advancements across multiple sectors,
including healthcare, infrastructure, transportation, environmental sustainability and security.
Enabling us to see below the ground, to detect potential hazards, and to assess the underground infrastructure before buildings works begin.
Compact quantum clocks will provide oscillators for high-end radar systems.
Future independent, resilient navigation with quantum sensor technology

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/about/college-of-arts-and-law/birmingham-law-school:
For almost a century Birmingham Law School has led the way in legal education and research.
Today, we continue to provide our students with innovative, challenging, and research-driven education.
We are a truly global, civic and diverse community reflected through our staff and students who have important impacts around the world through research, teaching and enterprise.
in the UK for research quality
Research Excellence Framework 2021
of our research activity is world-leading or internationally excellent
Law Schools in the world
Times Higher Education’s World University Rankings 2023
Centre for Employability, Professional Legal Education and Research
Themes, projects, impact and publications.
Birmingham Law School University of Birmingham Edgbaston Birmingham B15 2TT United Kingdom
Current student enquiries: laweducation@contacts.bham.ac.uk
Enquiries are managed by the Marketing and Student Recruitment team.
Undergraduate LLB: Enquiry form
Postgraduate Taught LLM: Enquiry form
Postgraduate Research: Enquiry form

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/schools/medical-school:
Birmingham Medical School became part of the University of Birmingham in 1900.
Our staff and students have immeasurably benefitted human health through their innovations in medical practice and research since this date.
Our students learn from leading role models in their respective fields of research and clinical practice.
Combining this with their early engagement with outstanding community-based learning, our students become the model professionals required for the future of medicine around the world.
Our staff shape the field of science medical education throughout the world with their expertise and passion for enabling students to excel in their chosen field.
Study on our five-year undergraduate MBChB Medicine and Surgery degree
Enhance your clinical skills on our Diploma or Masters Physician Associate course
Discover more about our results and the real-world impact of our research.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/research/cancer-genomics:
We combine our world-class discovery science and genomics expertise with on-site clinical trials and surgical units.
Our integrated approach empowers us to advance our understanding of the molecular basis of cancer, while also designing the next generation of cancer treatments and better surgical protocols to improve patient outcomes.
Our basic research covers cancer cell and stem cell biology, viral oncology (EBV and HPV) and genome biology.
Our research is defining the normal mechanisms of DNA replication and repair, in order to understand how it is deregulated in cancer cells.
We investigate the mechanisms by which cancer mutations deregulate the normal processes of cellular function and growth.
We are an interdisciplinary team of scientists passionate about the medical applications of bioinformatics and health data science.
The Department of Cancer and Genomic Sciences is based on the main University campus, with researchers working in the Birmingham Medical School, the Robert Aitken Building, and the Queen Elizabeth Hospital, Birmingham.
College of Medicine and Health University of Birmingham Edgbaston Birmingham B15 2TT
Tel: +44 (0)121 414 3344
Head of Department of Cancer and Genomic Sciences - Professor Mathew Coleman Deputy Head of Department - Professor Jo Parish Deputy Head of Department - Professor Malcolm Taylor Department Manager - Allison Lander

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/research/crctu:
As one of only seven trials units funded by Cancer Research UK, we design and deliver clinical trials across all phases, sizes and locations.
With our innovative design approach, we maximise outcomes from single studies or small patient groups, in cancer and beyond.
Cancer Research UK Clinical Trials Unit (CRCTU) Department of Cancer and Genomic Sciences University of Birmingham Edgbaston Birmingham B15 2TT
For general CRCTU enquiries please contact:
Tel: +44 (0)121 414 8040 Email: crctu-generalenquiries@trials.bham.ac.uk
If you would like to collaborate with CRCTU, please email newbusiness@trials.bham.ac.uk
A Collaboration Request form will need to be completed for all new proposals.
Please note that investigators will be asked to present their proposal to the CRCTU New Business Committee before any work on the project commences.
The main offices of the CRCTU are located in the Robert Aitken Institute in the Department of Cancer and Genomic Sciences, College of Medicine and Health.
The refurbishment of the Robert Aitken Institute benefited from a £1.8M investment by Advantage West Midlands, which is part of Birmingham Science City and from a donation of £120K from Children with Leukaemia.
The CRCTU also has offices in the Centre for Clinical Haematology at the Queen Elizabeth Hospital and at Birmingham City Hospital.
Instructions on how to find the University of Birmingham can be found at: http://www.birmingham.ac.uk/contact/directions/edgbaston-directions.aspx
The Robert Aitken Institute building is located on the Edgbaston Campus of the University, building B4 on the Edgbaston Campus Map.
The CRCTU Reception is located on the Queen Elizabeth Hospital drive (Mindelsohn Way).
Visitors are advised to approach from Vincent Drive and walk up the hospital drive.
The Reception is located on the left approximately 100m from the road.
Visitors are advised to park on the North East Car Park Multi Storey Floors 1-5 (access via Pritchatts Road).
Please note that this car park does not have a lift .
Charges are as follows Monday - Friday 08:00am - 18:00pm:
The CRCTU Haematology Office is located in the Centre for Clinical Haematology which is housed within the Queen Elizabeth Hospital Trust Headquarters building located on Mindelsohn Way (off Metchley Park Road).

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/research/cardiovascular-sciences:
Cardiovascular science is a pivotal area of modern medicine.
We are leaders in the cardiovascular field, including atrial fibrillation and heart failure, thrombosis and haemostasis and vascular biology.
The Department of Cardiovascular Sciences is based on the main University campus, with researchers working in the Birmingham Medical School, the Queen Elizabeth Hospital, Birmingham City Hospital and Heartlands Hospital Birmingham.
The Department of Cardiovascular Sciences College of Medicine and Health University of Birmingham Edgbaston Birmingham B15 2TT
Cheryl Needham, PA to Head of Department Tel: +44 (0)121 414 6914 Email: c.needham@bham.ac.uk/bicknellpa@contacts.bham.ac.uk
Main Switchboard: Tel: +44 (0)121 414 3344

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/about/college-of-engineering-and-physical-sciences/chemical-engineering:
We are creating an efficient, cleaner and more sustainable future for you.
We are ranked in the top 10 for Engineering research in the UK for GPA and 4* research (REF 2021).
Our research-intensive teaching gives students a learning experience that generates the most sought-after and transferable skills.
As Birmingham graduates, you will be the next generation of pioneering engineers solving global sustainability challenges.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/about/college-of-engineering-and-physical-sciences/chemistry:
The University of Birmingham is home to one of the most dynamic and best-equipped Chemistry departments in the UK.
Our state-of-the-art teaching laboratories are run by an innovative and award-winning teaching team .
In 2024, we opened the Molecular Sciences building which is the new home for Chemistry in Birmingham.
World-leading research laboratories are housed alongside purpose-built study spaces for undergraduate and postgraduate students providing state-of-the-art facilities for all of our Chemistry community.
The School of Chemistry has undertaken world-leading research for over a century and remains at the forefront of scientific discovery.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/about/college-of-engineering-and-physical-sciences/civil-engineering:
Civil Engineering is the key to many of the issues affecting our lives today.
Civil Engineers solve problems, design, build and maintain our living and working spaces.
You might design a new stadium, work on a local by-pass or railway line, assess a damaged structure, provide immediate and safe drinking water to a refugee camp, or manage a multi-million pound construction project.
We tackle the problems faced by society today: we aim to develop the knowledge and tools to build the communities of the future.
Many of our projects have already had a significant impact on society; the impact of others will be felt by generations to come.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/about/college-of-arts-and-law/classics-ancient-history-and-archaeology:
Classics, Ancient History and Archaeology at Birmingham is one of the few university departments in the UK that draws together Archaeology and the study of Greece, Rome and Egypt.
Top 10 for Classics and Ancient History in the Complete University Guide 2023.
Historical, textual and archaeological research.
Department of Classics, Ancient History and Archaeology University of Birmingham Edgbaston Birmingham, B15 2TT U.K.
Email: historycultures@contacts.bham.ac.uk Telephone: +44 (0)121 414 5128
Enquiry form
To contact one of our academic admissions tutors, please visit your chosen course page and submit an enquiry at the bottom of the page.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/facilities/clinical-immunology-services:
The University of Birmingham Clinical Immunology Services (CIS) offers an extensive range of tests for the immunological evaluation of patients, ensuring the highest quality of service with prompt and accurate results, supported by specialist medical and scientific expertise.
​ We are dedicated to training the next generation of academic and clinical scientists, shaping the future workforce.
As an ISO 15189 UKAS-accredited provider of immunodiagnostic and blood cancer services, we also engage in clinical trials and bespoke research projects.
​ Uniquely positioned within an academic institution, CIS leverages this advantage to deliver cutting-edge translational research focused on immunodeficiency and immunogenicity, blood cancer, and the development of novel immunodiagnostic tests.
​
We offer a range tests to facilitate the diagnosis of autoimmune and neuroimmunological disease, blood cancers, primary and secondary immunodeficiency, infections and allergy.
This section of our website also contains our Laboratory Handbook, describing our range of tests and their interpretation.
Pictures of immunofluorescence, flow cytometry profiles and cytology for blood cancers, flow cytometry for immune deficiency, electrophoresis and paraprotein analysis and other exciting content, relevant to FRCPath, STP and HSST examinations.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/about/college-of-engineering-and-physical-sciences/computer-science:
Breaking new ground in the theory and practice of computational systems and their applications, the School of Computer Science is a progressive, inclusive department, providing specialist teaching and conducting world-leading research in fundamental and applied computer science.
The Research Excellence Framework 2021 ranked us 3rd in the UK for GPA and for 4* research.
Our research areas include, artificial intelligence and robotics, theory of computation, security and privacy, computational life sciences and human-centred computing.
The demand for computer scientists is ever-growing in a modern world and we can equip you with the knowledge to succeed.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/schools/dentistry:
The School of Dentistry is a place for leading scientists, professionals and students who want to be involved in world-class research, or achieve undergraduate or postgraduate degrees through our popular research or taught programmes.
Enhanced verifiable CPD for dental professionals at every stage of their career.
Birmingham Dental Hospital and School of Dentistry 5 Mill Pool Way Birmingham B5 7EG For Sat Nav, the postcode is B5 7SA
Tel: (UK) 0121 466 5542
Tel: (UK) 0121 466 5000

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/drama:
We offer the highest quality of training in all aspects of the study and making of theatre.
From historical research and contemporary performance analysis, to the technique of the actor and imagination of the playwright, to the creative and technical skills of the lighting designer and stage manager.
We work in collaboration with professional directors, producers and actor-trainers to offer our students every opportunity to obtain the highest level of academic and professional achievement in their chosen paths of learning.
The Department of Drama and Theatre Arts has a wide-ranging research and teaching culture which combines historical and political perspectives with theoretical and practical expertise, particularly in actor-training, directing and contemporary performance-making.
Within the department we have developed research and teaching strengths in 20th and 21st Century European theatre, political and critical theory, and research-led creative practice.
Historical and archival research, performance criticism/analysis and practice-as-research.
Department of Drama and Theatre Arts The Old Library (SOVAC) 998 Bristol Road Selly Oak Birmingham B29 6LG
Tel : +44(0)121 414 5998 Email : drama@contacts.bham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/schools/business/departments/economics:
Every decision we make, as individuals and right up to the level of global business and government, is based on scarcity and choice.
The world has limited resources – and they’re becoming more limited every day.
As ‘responsible economists’ we must ensure those resources are used strategically and fairly to make people and society as a whole better off.
Economics at Birmingham has a proud history dating back to 1903, evolving through decades of innovation in technical and applied economics.
From early pioneers like Frank Hahn and Terence Gorman to modern scholars, the department has been at the forefront of rigorous, research-led teaching.
Now part of Birmingham Business School, Economics continues to uphold values of responsible business, combining academic excellence with a commitment to tackling real-world challenges through evidence-based, ethical approaches.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/about/college-of-engineering-and-physical-sciences/electronic-electrical-systems-engineering:
There is a great demand for trained engineers within the UK and throughout the world.
Armed with a good degree from a world-renowned university like Birmingham our graduates have the opportunity to get involved with exciting projects close to home or further away.
Research in Electronic, Electrical and Systems Engineering at the University of Birmingham addresses key challenges, problems and opportunities currently facing our civilisation, in power, communications, transport, healthcare and human-systems integration.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/about/college-of-engineering-and-physical-sciences/engineering:
The complexity and demands of a modern engineer require a multi-disciplinary approach.
The School of Engineering combines mechanical, electrical and civil engineering to address research and education needs for the 21st century.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/about/college-of-arts-and-law/english-literature:
Explore the pleasures of reading and studying literature in a community of outstanding scholars and students.
Our research and teaching spans the full range of literature from Old English to digital culture, and incorporates traditional and non-traditional areas of study.
Exploring texts and ideas that span seven centuries and thousands of literary works.
Department of English Literature Arts Building The University of Birmingham Edgbaston Birmingham B15 2TT United Kingdom
Telephone +44 (0)121 414 3364 Fax +44 (0)121 414 5668 Email english@bham.ac.uk
Head of Department: Rebecca Mitchell

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/edacs:
Welcome to the School of English, Drama and Creative Studies.
Our research and its impact, is world-leading, and we welcome scholars and students from across the world to study and work with us.
School of English, Drama and Creative Studies Arts Building University of Birmingham Edgbaston Birmingham B15 2TT UK

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/fcw:
Bringing together two dynamic and successful disciplines, we are committed to creative and critical practice in teaching and research.
Our staff include internationally renowned scholars and award-winning writers.
Employability is a key focus within the department and we enjoy excellent collaborative relationships with professional partners in film, television, theatre, literature and new media.
As well as studying texts from a variety of critical, theoretical and historical perspectives, our students make films, perform poetry, develop screenplays, write novels and create television programmes.
Their work can be found in theatres, in libraries, at festivals, in cinemas, on television screens, in newspapers, classrooms, online and in bookshops.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/schools/business/departments/finance:
The Department of Finance is committed to understanding and responding to some of the fundamental issues facing the world today by investigating the key challenges around responsible finance.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/research/centres-institutes/gravitational-wave-astronomy:
The direct observation of gravitational waves opens radically new opportunities for the study of compact objects and their behaviour.
Our group engages with all aspects of gravitational waves, forging new design detector concepts, as well as developing optical technologies
Publications by members of the Institute for Gravitational Wave Astronomy.
Staff and students of the Institute for Gravitational Wave Astronomy, University of Birmingham

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/research/centres-institutes/healthcare-technologies:
Researchers at the Healthcare Technologies Institute are developing new technologies to minimise the impact of scarring on skin and eyes.
Researchers at the Healthcare Technologies Institute are investigating rapid, real-time chemical and biological detection methods.
While prosthetics and implants are designed to match patients' geometries and native tissue, infection after installation is not uncommon.
Our research focuses on sourcing new methods for tissue regeneration.
The WMHTIA is focused on helping companies with the challenges of commercialising their products.
Our researchers are helping to increase life expectancy by finding new ways to combat antibiotic resistance to fight infections globally.
The Healthcare Technologies Institute is changing the landscape of healthcare.
Staff within the Healthcare Technologies Research Group
The Centre for Custom Medical Devices combines multidisciplinary expertise to explore additive manufacturing in the medical devices sector.
The Mendes Research Group combine and apply tools from nanochemistry, supramolecular chemistry, biochemistry and micro- and nanolithography.
The Conflict World Research Centre organisation
EPSRC-SFI Joint Centre for Doctoral Training in Engineered Tissues for Discovery, Industry and Medicine
We are striving to advance new technologies and treatments that encourage better tissue healing and rehabilitation tools.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/health-sciences:
Our long-established, research-led education programmes prepare students to excel in careers in frontline healthcare, including pharmacy, dentistry, nursing and midwifery.
We are enhancing health and wellbeing through leading applied research in public and global health challenges and maternal and child health, underpinned by the best methodological frameworks in data science, health economics, statistics, diagnostic test evaluation, and person-centred research.
The School of Health Sciences is spread across various university buildings.
Murray Learning Centre / Public Health Building University of Birmingham Edgbaston Birmingham B15 2TT UK
Head of Department: Professor Yemisi Takwoingi
Birmingham Clinical Trials Unit University of Birmingham Edgbaston Birmingham B15 2TT UK
Head of BCTU: Professor Katie Morris
Birmingham Dental Hospital and School of Dentistry 5 Mill Pool Way Birmingham B5 7EG
Head of Department - Dentistry: Professor Josette Camilleri
University of Birmingham Medical School Edgbaston Birmingham B15 2TT UK
Head of Department - Nursing and Midwifery: Professor Julie Taylor
Robert Aitken Building University of Birmingham Edgbaston Birmingham B15 2TY UK
Head of Department - Pharmacy: Professor Anthony Cox

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/schools/social-policy/departments/health-services-management-centre:
The Health Services Management Centre (HSMC) at the University of Birmingham is one of the UK's foremost centres for research, evaluation, education and professional development for health and social care organisations.
Our mission is to understand and influence the translation of policy and service innovation into practice.
We take an interdisciplinary approach and provide a unique boundary spanning role for bringing people, organisations, and communities together.
See our staff in Health Services Management Centre
Building on our work at the Edgbaston campus, our mission at the campus is to support health policy research and development, deliver excellent education and put policy into practice.
We are proactively engaging with local, regional, and international networks and communities of practice to support the launch of the Health Systems Research Centre and the Health Services Management Centre (Dubai)
Health Services Management Centre (HSMC) University of Birmingham Park House 40 Edgbaston Park Road Birmingham B15 2RT United Kingdom

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/history:
The Department of History covers a wide range of British, European and world history from the early medieval period to the present.
Whatever your interest – whether cultural, social, political, economic history – there is someone doing that kind of history in the department.
A wide range of research from the medieval to the modern.
School of History and Cultures Office Arts Building University of Birmingham Edgbaston Birmingham B15 2TT
Telephone +44 (0)121 414 5128 Email historycultures@contacts.bham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/historycultures:
The School of History and Cultures offers a unique range of undergraduate, postgraduate study and research opportunities.
It builds on the strengths of its constituent departments.
Our research
In May 2024, the School of History and Cultures was awarded the Athena Swan Bronze award.
As part of our award, we have committed to the principles of the Athena Swan charter, and we recognise that we join a global community with a shared goal of addressing gender inequalities and embedding inclusive cultures.
In determining our priorities and interventions, we commit to:
To learn more about the School’s Athena Swan Action Plan, please get in touch with Shirley Ye ( s.ye@bham.ac.uk )
School of History and Cultures Arts Building University of Birmingham Edgbaston Birmingham B15 2TT

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/immunology-immunotherapy:
We build on the longstanding tradition of research in immunology at the University, with a strong reputation for discovery science and the translation of our findings into the clinic for patients to benefit.
Translating the immune response to cancer into therapeutic opportunities.
Providing new insight into mechanisms that control immune system development and function.
Delivering bench to bedside research into inflammatory gastrointestinal and liver diseases.
An interface between basic, translational and clinical research groups.
Cutting edge research and clinical trials for patients.
Understanding the key mechanisms that deliver successful vaccines.
The Department of Immunology and Immunotherapy is based on the main University campus, with researchers working in the Birmingham Medical School and the Queen Elizabeth Hospital, Birmingham.
Department of Immunology and Immunotherapy College of Medicine and Health University of Birmingham Edgbaston Birmingham B15 2TT
Key contacts in the Department:

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/infection-inflammation-and-immunology:
Our world-leading research in microbes and infection, inflammation and ageing, and immunology and immunotherapy directly shapes and fosters our undergraduate and graduate programmes in Birmingham, Dubai and China.
By embedding our educational offer in our research groups, we equip the very best Biomedical Sciences graduates and post-graduates for the research discoveries of tomorrow.
The School of Infection, Inflammation and Immunology is based across several university buildings.
Professor Alan McNally
Head of the School of Infection, Inflammation and Immunology
Sheetal Patel
Head of Operations
Dr Claire Butler C.E.Butler@bham.ac.uk
Research Support Manager

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/inflammation-ageing:
Patients often have more than one chronic inflammatory condition.
By looking at them collectively we are transforming the way these chronic, debilitating and life-threatening conditions are studied, prevented and treated.
Our approach brings together world-leading medical and scientific experts in human ageing, trauma and major illnesses, working alongside patients, to better understand inflammation.
Birmingham Acute Care Research Centre has a shared mission to improve outcomes for patients seeking acute care.
We research inflammatory processes that drive human ageing and translate this to interventions to prevent age-related disease.
Neuroscience and Ophthalmology research - Department of Inflammation and Ageing
Link to Rheumatology Research Group website
The Department of Inflammation and Ageing is based at the Queen Elizabeth Hospital Birmingham.
General enquiries Department of Inflammation and Ageing College of Medicine and Health University of Birmingham Edgbaston Birmingham B15 2TT
PA - Rachel Targett Tel: +44 (0)121 371 3243 Email: r.k.targett@bham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/research/centres-institutes/interdisciplinary-data-science-and-ai:
The Institute for Data and AI is a nexus for collaborative research and education at the University of Birmingham.
The Institute for Data and AI is a collaborative research and education entity at University of Birmingham.
Staff in The Institute for Data and AI
Facilities within the Institute for Data and AI
The University of Birmingham is partnered with the Alan Turing Institute, the UK’s national institute for data science and AI.
Study opportunities within the Institute for Data and AI
Find out more about our Pump Prime funding and how to apply for it.
Watch talks, animations and explainers from our experts.
We would be delighted to discuss your requirements for research, consultancy, education or partnerships with the Institute for Data and AI.
idai@contacts.bham.ac.uk
University staff and PGR students can join the IDAI Teams page for up-to-date events, news and opportunities
Home to IDAI and the Birmingham Institute for Sustainability and Climate Action (BISCA) and our affiliated colleagues, Elm House is a collaborative space to encourage networking and shared ideas, located on Edgbaston Park next to the Business School.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/schools/government/departments/international-development:
We have over 50 years of experience in pioneering research, teaching, and policy advice on major global issues.
Join us to learn from top experts in international development and become part of our vibrant community of students and alumni from around the world.
in the UK for research in Development Studies (REF 2021)
in the UK for research which impacts on society (REF 2021)
of our research rated world-leading and internationally excellent (REF 2021)
Sign up to receive the latest news, research, events and opportunities from IDD

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/about/college-of-arts-and-law/languages-cultures-art-history-and-music:
The School of Languages, Cultures, Art History and Music is dedicated to study and research in the fundamentals of human creativity and expression: languages, images and music.
Interdisciplinary research streams
In November 2024, the School of Languages, Cultures, Art History and Music gained an Athena Swan Bronze award.
Athena Swan is a national charter, run by Advance HE, which seeks to promote gender equality in Higher Education.
The Athena Swan charter was originally established to advance the careers of academic women in STEMM subjects but has become more inclusive over time: it now applies to all disciplines, to all students and staff, and it is based on a broader understanding of gender equality, for example addressing the inclusion of trans people and, where appropriate, the underrepresentation of men.
As part of our award, we have committed to the UK Athena Swan Principles and have joined a wider community with a shared goal of addressing gender inequalities and embedding inclusive cultures.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/about/college-of-arts-and-law/liberal-arts-and-sciences:
Liberal Arts and Sciences bridges the gap between the Arts, Social Sciences, and Sciences, offering students a unique university experience.
A range of undergraduate and postgraduate study attracts students with the mental agility and adaptability to challenge complex problems.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/about/college-of-arts-and-law/linguistics-and-communication:
We are a world-leading centre of excellence for both teaching and research in English Language and Applied Linguistics.
We have a track record in teaching and an active research culture that emphasises excellent publications, productive collaboration within and beyond the University, and wide-ranging public engagement.
We conduct research into a wide range of areas of human language and communication all of which involve the technical study of language.
We have been at the forefront of investigations into language for decades.
Department of Linguistics and Communication Frankland Building The University of Birmingham Edgbaston Birmingham B15 2TT United Kingdom

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/schools/business/departments/management:
In pursuing excellence in our professional practices, the Department is dedicated to make it one of the best and welcoming places where management academics from different countries and backgrounds can thrive in a context of equality, diversity and inclusion.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/schools/business/departments/marketing:
Our world renowned research active staff are contributing to the wider field of Marketing and beyond through publications in top ranked journals, organising key events and conferences worldwide, obtaining funding from national and international research councils and grant schemes, and many holding positions on editorial boards of internationally recognised journals.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/about/college-of-engineering-and-physical-sciences/mathematics:
World-class research and a vibrant, global student community are at the heart of our School.
For over 100 years we have been teaching students in Birmingham who go on to a wide variety of careers.
Now, we also reach around the globe with a Joint Institute in China and teaching on the University's Dubai campus.
Our research is making fundamental advances in areas of theoretical mathematics such as graph theory, harmonic analysis and mathematical physics.
And it is changing lives by helping to tackle human trafficking, improving the diagnosis and treatment of epilepsy and reducing ocean noise pollution.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/about/college-of-engineering-and-physical-sciences/mechanical-engineering:
The department of Mechanical Engineering offers a world-class education that combines thorough analysis and creative design with hands-on discovery, pursuing societal benefits in sustainability, mobility, and human health.
Our graduates are the foundation of an evolving and demanding profession.
We are proud of our illustrious record in mechanical engineering research, we are ranked in the top 10 for Engineering research in the UK for GPA and 4* research (REF 2021).
We have special strengths in Advanced Manufacturing, Biomedical Engineering, Micro and Nanotechnology and Vehicle Technology.
Our expertise is in applying engineering science to solve problems of industrial and societal significance.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/medical-sciences:
We bring together world-leading clinical and discovery researchers and educators to tackle some of the biggest global health challenges - from cancer to cardiovascular disease, metabolic disorders and women’s health and fertility.
We complement our cutting-edge trial methodologies and systems modelling expertise with one of the UK’s highest ranking Medical Schools, to support the NHS and prepare the healthcare professionals of tomorrow.
The School of Medical Sciences is based is based across several University buildings.
Birmingham Medical School is based in the Medical School building.
For medicine admission enquiries, please email: medicineadmissions@contacts.bham.ac.uk
For all general education and educational administration enquiries, please email: mdsstudentservicesdesk@contacts.bham.ac.uk
Department of Cancer and Genomic Sciences is based on the main University campus, with researchers working in the Medical School, the Robert Aitken Building, and the Queen Elizabeth Hospital, Birmingham.
Department of Cancer and Genomic Sciences College of Medicine and Health University of Birmingham Edgbaston Birmingham B15 2TT
Department of Cardiovascular Sciences is based on the main University campus, with researchers working in the Medical School, the Queen Elizabeth Hospital, City Hospital and Heartlands Hospital Birmingham.
Department of Cardiovascular Sciences College of Medicine and Health University of Birmingham Edgbaston Birmingham B15 2TT
Cheryl Needham, PA to Director of Department Tel: +44 (0)121 414 6914 Email: c.needham@bham.ac.uk
For general CRCTU enquiries, please contact:
A Collaboration Request form will need to be completed for all new proposals, please visit this page for the form.
The Department of Metabolism and Systems Science is mainly located in the IBR Tower, Level 2, immediately adjacent to the West Wing of the Medical School Building, in immediate proximity to the Queen Elizabeth Hospital, the NIHR/Wellcome Clinical Research Facility, the Human Biomaterial Resource Centre and the Institute of Translational Medicine in the Heritage Building.
University of Birmingham IBR Tower, Level 2 College of Medicine and Health Edgbaston Birmingham B15 2TT
PA to Department Director - Christine Lloyd Email: imsr@contacts.bham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/schools/mds-graduate-school/index.aspx:
As a postgraduate student within the College of Medicine and Health Graduate School, you'll be immersed in a world of discovery and opportunity with access to a wide variety of academic programs in medical, pharmacy, health and dentistry education and research.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/research/metabolism-systems:
Our truly interdisciplinary team are exploring how hormones and cell or organ systems interactions influence everything from obesity, digestion, pregnancy and ageing through to endocrine cancer.
We translate exploratory science into new clinical practice, medical technologies and therapeutic interventions , whilst keeping sight of patient, healthcare professional and industry priorities.
Department of Metabolism and Systems Science University of Birmingham IBR Tower, Level 2 College of Medicine and Health Edgbaston Birmingham B15 2TT
PA to the Head of Department - Christine Lloyd Email: imsr@contacts.bham.ac.uk
Twitter: @UoB_MSS
Professor Davide Calebiro - Head of Department
Professor Chris McCabe - Director of Research and Professor of Molecular Endocrinology
Professor Shakila Thangaratinam - Professor of Maternal and Perinatal Health
Professor John Terry - Interdisciplinary Professorial Fellow
Mrs Amanda Knight - Operations Manager

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/about/college-of-medicine-and-health/microbes-infection-and-microbiomes:
The Department of Microbes, Infection and Microbiomes is home to world leading academics working across pathogen biology, microbial genomics, and human microbiome research with a clear emphasis of research with importance to human health.
The department co-hosts a theme in our NIHR BRC (Infections and Acute Care) and is home to the only MHRA approved Microbiome Treatment Centre in the UK, providing faecal microbiome transplants to patients with recalcitrant C.
difficile infections.
We also have one of the largest portfolios of UKRI funded Antimicrobial resistance projects in the UK, a vitally important research area in which we are world renowned.
We are integrated into the world renowned Institute of Microbiology and Infection .
At the heart of everything we do is an unwavering dedication to ground-breaking, fundamental microbiology research – something that has been integral to the University of Birmingham since its foundation more than a century ago.
Institute of Microbiology and Infection
The aim of the Institute of Microbiology and Infection (IMI) is to harness the power of fundamental microbiology research to solve global threats to humanity.
These include age-old diseases like Tuberculosis, newly emerging pathogens such as Zika and, most importantly, the enormous challenge of antimicrobial resistance.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/research/centres-institutes/microbiology-and-infection:
Doctoral Training Programme in Microbial Genomics for Health Protection
The Institute of Microbiology and Infection is based on the main University campus, with researchers working in the Medical School and the Biosciences building.
The Institute of Microbiology and Infection University of Birmingham Edgbaston Birmingham B15 2TT

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/about/college-of-arts-and-law/modern-languages:
In a world that needs greater understanding between peoples and cultures, Modern Languages at Birmingham will give you something to say.
Study of languages, discourses, and cultures challenges our understanding of the world.
Department of Modern Languages University of Birmingham Edgbaston Birmingham B15 2TT United Kingdom
Telephone +44 (0)121 414 5967
Secondary Schools Liaison Officer for Languages and Cultures: Dr Edward Boothroyd Email languages-schools-liaison@contacts.bham.ac.uk Telephone +44 (0)121 414 9185

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/about/college-of-arts-and-law/music:
The Department of Music is one of the most distinguished in the UK, with world-class research, teaching, and facilities.
It is at the forefront of developments in the practice and study of music, and has an illustrious history stretching back to 1905 when Edward Elgar was appointed the University's first Professor of Music.
Ms Sue Miles musicdepartment@contacts.bham.ac.uk
Please use our UG enquiry form
Panagiota (Penny) Mantouvalou musicpgt@contacts.bham.ac.uk
Please use our PG enquiry form
Music Department University of Birmingham Edgbaston, Birmingham B15 2TT United Kingdom

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/schools/nursing:
Whether nurses or midwives, our students are invaluable members of the frontline healthcare workforce.
We are proud to produce leading practitioners and researchers, renowned for their professionalism, commitment and excellent communication skills, who are fully equipped with the skills they need to rapidly progress in their chosen fields.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/schools/pharmacy:
Our taught programmes are underpinned by cutting edge research, allowing us to equip our students for a career on the front line of the healthcare system.
We arm you with the skills you need to become a modern pharmacist or pharmaceutical researcher.
College of Medicine and Health Edgbaston Birmingham B15 2TT
Dr Vivek Dhir Admissions Tutor For admission queries please use our enquiry form .
Email: gradschool@contacts.bham.ac.uk
View the interactive campus map

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/about/college-of-arts-and-law/philosophy:
Leading philosophical debates, contributing to the knowledge economy, and addressing global challenges from a philosophical perspective.
Excellence in all core areas of philosophy, with distinction in  specialty areas.
for undergraduate Philosophy
Department of Philosophy came top in the Research Excellence Framework exercise 2021 based on Grade Point Average
Times Higher Education
of students in work or further study within 15 months of the course
Graduate Outcomes Survey 2022
Department of Philosophy ERI Building University of Birmingham Edgbaston, Birmingham B15 2TT United Kingdom
Telephone +44 (0)121 41 43406 Email ptrschool@contacts.bham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/about/college-of-arts-and-law/philosophy-theology-and-religion:
The School of Philosophy, Theology and Religion offers a variety of forward-thinking undergraduate and postgraduate study opportunities.
We are home to a dynamic and friendly community of staff and students, pursuing original research on a wide range of topics.
Philosophy department came top in the Research Excellence Framework exercise 2021
Theology and Religion department came 3rd in the Research Excellence Framework exercise 2021
Based on research rated 4*
ERI Building University of Birmingham Edgbaston Birmingham, B15 2TT UK
Email ptrschool@contacts.bham.ac.uk Tel +44 (0)121 41 43406
School Administrator: Sharon Jesic Telephone +44(0) 121 41 46801 Email ptrschool@contacts.bham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/about/college-of-engineering-and-physical-sciences/physics-and-astronomy:
We are a leading physics department, excelling in both research and teaching.
In the Research Excellence Framework 2021, our physics research is ranked 4th in the UK for GPA and top for 4* research.
Our research spans topics of Particle and Nuclear Physics, Quantum Matter and Photonics and Astronomy and Experimental Gravity.
Our research informs a broad range of disciplines, including medical science and the treatment of diseases.
Our pioneering work enhances the equipment used in treating cancers and liver disease as well has enhancing positron imaging in both medical, physics and engineering arenas.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/schools/government/departments/political-science-international-studies:
We are one of the largest and most academically vibrant departments of Political Science and International Studies in the UK.
Our centres include the Institute for German and European Studies and the Centre for Russian, European and Eurasian Studies.
in the UK for research power in Politics and International Studies
(REF 2021)
in the UK for studying Politics
(Times University Rankings 2025)
in the UK for studying International Relations
(Guardian University Guide 2025)

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/about/college-of-life-and-environmental-sciences/school-of-psychology:
In the School of Psychology, we have an excellent reputation for the knowledge and skills we develop in our graduates, and for research that answers important questions, stimulates new ideas, and makes a difference to individuals, communities and societies.
The School of Psychology, conducts fundamental and applied research within our three research centres that benefits our discipline, individuals and societies.
School of Psychology University of Birmingham Edgbaston Birmingham B15 2TT UK

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/schools/government/departments/public-administration-and-policy/index.aspx:
We are a world-leading hub for collaboration and challenge in public administration and policy.
We produce research, teaching, knowledge exchange and impact in public administration and policy.
Our department operates as an interdisciplinary hub for co-production and engagement across diverse levels of governance and global contexts.
We offer a unique combination of local embeddedness and international diversity in the pursuit of innovative responses to sustainability challenges.
We bring together our unique interdisciplinary expertise across:
Join our lively and collaborative community of academics, public servants, students, and alumni from the UK and across the world.
Learn more about the Department of Public Administration and Policy

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/schools/social-policy:
Our shared purpose is to understand the world – but also to work collaboratively to change it for the better.
We carry out rigorous and relevant research that acts as a starting point for real-world change through our teaching, professional training, policy advice, and work with local communities.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/schools/social-policy/departments/social-policy-sociology-criminology:
We're a leading multi-disciplinary academic team committed to providing world-class research and innovative degree programmes.
We deliver research led teaching with 96% of publications by our academic staff rated as world-leading or internationally excellent in the latest Research Excellence Framework.
We are at the forefront of cutting edge social science research that informs and influences public debate.
Staff in the Department of Social Policy, Sociology and Criminology

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/schools/social-policy/departments/social-work-social-care:
We are a multi-disciplinary academic team committed to improving the wellbeing of individuals, families and communities, and addressing inequalities and discrimination.
We lead original research of social issues and positive models of support, quality learning throughout professional and practice careers, and international collaborations in the field of social work and social care.
Staff in the Department of Social Work and Social Care
Improving Adult Care Together is the centre for implementing evidence in adult social care

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/schools/business/departments/strategy-and-international-business:
We focus on processes of planning, strategy and decision-making in organizations, from small- to medium-sized entrepreneurial businesses to multinational companies.
This includes trade, investment and global networks that move goods, services, technology, people, capital, data, and knowledge across borders.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/about/college-of-arts-and-law/theology-and-religion:
The Department of Theology and Religion has an outstanding international reputation, spanning the formation and development of the foundational texts and manuscripts of Judaism, Christianity and Islam to their interpretation in feminist, ethical, theological, philosophical and environmental perspectives alongside specialisms in Sikhism, Jainism, interfaith engagement, and the study of lived religion and its impact on society.
It is at the interface of religion and society that teachers and researchers have made a wider impact and changed the way governments and public bodies nationally and internationally engage with faith communities.
Texts and manuscripts ; theology; Islamic studies; and lived religion.
Theology and Religion department in the UK in the Research Excellence Framework exercise 2021 based on research rated 4*
for Theology and Religious Studies
Guardian rankings 2023
for Theology
Department of Theology and Religion ERI Building University of Birmingham Edgbaston Birmingham B15 2TT United Kingdom
Email: ptrschool@contacts.bham.ac.uk Telephone: +44 (0)121 41 43406

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/university/services/retail/food-fellows:
Whether we’re sourcing, preparing or serving our food, we work to the highest standards and keep our three values in mind: authenticity, inclusivity and sustainability.
We’re proud to work at the University of Birmingham and show this in the care and attention we bring to providing stand-out experiences for everyone on campus.
Alan Walters Café will be single-use plastic-free this summer.
It’s Food Fellows’ response to the University community’s vote to reduce plastic on campus – and the trial will help the team see how customers respond to being asked to bring their own cups.
View outlet opening times
View our outlet map
Discover our core values, focusing on authenticity, inclusivity, and sustainability in food sourcing, preparation, and service.
Accessible version of the outlet map
The new Mediterranean-inspired restaurant which offers risotto, salads, pasta and pizza.
To book a table, or discuss event bookings, please contact us on: cuore.bookings@contacts.bham.ac.uk
View menu
Discover more about our food commitments, suppliers we use and the variety of food options available on campus.
All ideas are welcome and we actively encourage constructive comments and suggestions to continually improve the services we offer.
We will continue to seek out feedback from any part of our business, as well as from our guests.
Tell us about your experience
We know how tough it is for many of you with the rising cost of living.
That’s why the Food Fellows team has been busy cooking up new ways to help you enjoy the food and drink you love on campus, for less.
We’re making it easier for you to prepare your own food and drinks on campus with micro-markets, vending machines with in-built microwaves and hot taps.
You can now grab a sandwich, snack, and a drink for just £4.75 – and for a little extra you can upgrade to a hot panini.
Looking for a cheap meal?
You can buy hot pasta and a topping for just £3.95 at Penny’s Café and Gisbert Kapp.
Download the free Too Good to Go app and bag yourself a ‘Magic Bag’, full of food that would otherwise go to waste, at a great price.
Too Good to Go is now available for collection from nine outlets : The Exchange Café, Winterbourne Terrace Tearoom, Muirhead Café, Library Café, Costa at Sport & Fitness, Alan Walters Café, Costa in University Centre, Café 1902, and Med School Café.
If you’re in catered University accommodation, you can benefit from 10% off all food and drink (excluding alcohol) at Student Living Plus outlets.
You can now choose a small or big salad bowl at our deli counters, so you don’t need to buy more than you need.
Order buffets, cakes, treats and drinks on campus.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/libraries:
Our libraries are an important academic and research resource in the UK.
We hold over 1.5 million print and 898,000 online books, and more than 133,000 print and online journals.
Our staff provide advice, training and specialist support to help students and staff at all stages of their learning and research journey.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/community/university-campus/security:
Our job is to provide a safe and secure environment for students, staff and visitors and ensure that the University is an enjoyable place to study, work and visit.
Please let us know about anything that seems odd, out of place, unusual, out of the ordinary or makes you feel concerned.
You should never worry that it might turn out to be nothing.
Call Security on 0121 414 4444 , or call the police on 101 or 999 if it’s an emergency.
You can also call the anti-terrorist hotline on 0800 789 321 .
Students and staff can also download the SafeZone app which lets you report any concerns, check in when you’re working on campus alone, and alert Security.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/contact/directions/getting-here-edgbaston:
Most cross-country services to Birmingham arrive at New Street Station.
Up to six trains an hour depart for the University on the cross-city line (ten minutes to University station, final destination Bromsgrove or Redditch).
The centre of the main campus is a five-minute walk from University Station.
Numbers X61 and 63 travel from the Bus Mall, Moor Street Queensway, and from New Street Station, St Martin’s Queensway, to the Bristol Road, at the corner of Edgbaston Park Road.
The services all run frequently from the city centre.
Online bus timetables for X61 and 63 are available on the National Express West Midlands website .
There is a travel information office outside New Street Station, where you can obtain bus timetables and departure point information.
Maps can be found throughout the city centre indicating bus stop locations.
You can also access Network West Midlands' Live Travel Map for current rail and bus information.
There are frequent express coach services to Birmingham from London, Heathrow and Gatwick Airports, and many UK cities.
The long-distance coach station is in Digbeth in the city centre.
Digbeth coach station is a short walk from New Street train station.
Ask at the coach station for directions to New Street and then either catch the local train service to University station or catch the bus as described above.
There are taxi ranks at New Street Station and throughout the city centre.
The journey to the University takes about ten minutes.
Surrounded by the suburbs of Selly Oak, Edgbaston and Harborne, the campus is easily accessible by bicycle or on foot from any of these locations and as part of our commitment to sustainable living, we encourage the use of local cycle routes.
Cycle parking facilities are provided in numerous locations across campus including a 40 space compound at the Munrow Sports Centre.
The Munrow Sports Centre also provides free use of its shower and changing facilities.
The canal which runs next to the University of Birmingham is known as the Worcester and Birmingham Canal .
The new A38 cycle route is now open offering a safe, segregated route from the city centre right to the gates of the University.
For further details on cycling on the canal towpaths visit  our Bicycle Users Group website .
Visitor parking is available at North East Multi-storey Car Park (Pritchatts Road, B15 2SA).
There are five floors in total, however, the ground floor is reserved for Edgbaston Park Hotel guests only.
Should you wish to charge your electric car, there are two EV charging stations on the car park's roof level (charges apply).
Please note that this car park does not have a lift.
Parking charges apply Monday to Sunday, between 8am and 6pm.
This includes bank holidays and University Closed Days .
Parking after 6pm is free.
Charges start from £3.40 and are capped at £10 (as of October 2024) Monday to Friday.
If you park here at the weekend or on a bank holiday, you will be charged a flat day rate of £2.50.
Payments can be made through RingGo (location 15677) or via the payment machines on floors one to five.
If you require access to campus for business purposes, the department you're visiting may issue you with a daily visitor permit.
Please get in touch with your main contact to arrange this.
Please be advised that enforcement procedures are in place at all University car parks and that penalty notices may be issued to drivers that fail to comply with University Traffic Regulations.
Birmingham International Airport has direct flights from locations in the UK, as well as from the USA, Canada, Europe and the Middle East.
The journey by taxi from the airport to the University takes approximately half an hour.
Alternatively, Air-Rail Link provides a free, fast connection between the airport terminals and Birmingham International railway station.
Air-Rail Link operates every two minutes (journey time 90 seconds).
Birmingham International railway station has frequent services to New Street Station in the city centre (journey time around 15 minutes).
If you are arriving at London, there is a frequent train service from London Euston railway station to New Street Station (journey time around 1 hour 30 minutes).
University of Birmingham Edgbaston Birmingham B15 2TT UK

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/university/leadership/governance/policies-regs/freedom-of-speech:
The University of Birmingham has a responsibility to protect freedom of speech and academic freedom, and to protect the welfare of staff, students, and visitors.
To appropriately balance these responsibilities, procedures for how the University’s approach to freedom of speech operates in practice across the University’s activities, including events with visiting speakers, and in teaching and research settings are set out in the University’s Code of Practice.
This updated version of the Code of Practice was approved by University Council in October 2024.
If you are a student or a member of staff, you can find more information about Freedom of Speech on the University of Birmingham intranet page.
This includes guidance on when and how to seek approval for events or activities that need consideration under Freedom of Speech.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/university/leadership/governance/policies-regs/data-protection.aspx:
The University handles a substantial amount of data about people.
Personal information means any information which relates to a living, identifiable person.
It can include names, addresses, telephone numbers, email addresses etc but it is wider than that and includes any other information relating to that person or a combination of information which, if put together, means that the person can be identified.
It includes any expression of opinion about the individual
Everyone who processes personal data on behalf of the University must ensure that they comply with the University’s Data Protection Policy (Word 48KB) .
Failure to comply can result in serious consequences for members of staff, students and the University.
This webpage will explain your rights and help you have access to the personal information the University holds about you.
You have the following rights in relation to your personal data which is processed by the University:
For more information on exercising your rights email dataprotection@contacts.bham.ac.uk or write to:
The Information Compliance Manager
Legal Services
The University of Birmingham
Edgbaston
Birmingham
B15 2TT
An individual is only entitled to request access to their own personal data, and not to information relating to other people (unless the information is also about them or they are acting on behalf of someone).
Individuals may apply to the University for personal data that is being held about them by the University.
The simplest way to request your personal data can be made by completing our Subject Access Request Form online.
Alternatively, you can download the Word document version of the Subject Access Request form (Word 33KB) and attach evidence of your identity.
The form has been designed to assist you in formulating your request.
Requests and/or completed forms with relevant attachments can be emailed to: dataprotection@contacts.bham.ac.uk or posted to:
The Information Compliance Manager Legal Services The University of Birmingham Edgbaston Birmingham B15 2TT
Although this service is free of charge, a ‘reasonable fee’ may be charged in cases where a request is manifestly unfounded or excessive, particularly if it is repetitive.
A fee will also be charged for requests for further copies of the same information.
The fee will be based on the administrative cost of providing the information.
Once the University is certain that it understands what information you are asking for, the University will have one month to provide the information to you.
Please note that where requests are more complex, for instance where you are asking for details of email correspondence between several named individuals or covering a large time frame; this period may be extended by a further two months.
If this is the case, you will be informed within one month of the receipt of the request.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/privacy/alumni-and-supporters-privacy-notice:
Our alumni and supporters are extremely important to us.
We want to stay in touch with you and keep your personal data in accordance with your wishes.
This privacy notice explains how we use the personal data the University’s  Development and Alumni Relations department (“DARO”) collects from our alumni and supporters.
It supplements the page on our website ‘ Your Privacy: Data Protection – How the University Uses Your Data ’.
It is important that the personal information we hold about you is accurate and current.
Please keep your personal information updated during your relationship with us.
If you studied at the University, data collected by the University during your time as a student are transferred from your student record to the DARO database when you graduate.
This is explained on our website in the Student Privacy Notice .
The content of your student email account may be transferred to an alumni email account in M365 which is created for you upon your graduation.
You will therefore be provided with an alumni M365 account.
If, once you graduate, there are ongoing student procedures such as academic appeals, the University will continue to process data relevant to that procedure in accordance with the Student Privacy Notice .
If you are a supporter of or a volunteer at the University, we will hold the personal data provided by you during your interaction with us.
This is explained in the relevant privacy notices.
If you studied at the University, we process biographical, contact, and education details collected by the University during your time as a student.
If you are a supporter of the University, the data we process is that which you provide for example, if you sign up to our newsletters, register for an event or share your details with us following a visit to other parts of the University, such as Winterbourne House and Garden or the Barber Institute of Fine Arts.
We may also collect and hold personal information derived from publically available sources (either directly or through internet search functions).
These public sources may include LinkedIn, Twitter, Companies House and other business-related resources including company websites, The Queen’s Honours lists, Royal Mail National Change of Address service, reliable news and press reports, and rich lists.
Examples of categories of personal data which we may hold are:
When using video conferencing applications such as Zoom or Microsoft Teams, your name, user name, email address, your computer’s IP address, MAC address and device name may be collected.
The University will also keep records about your use of the IT facilities you use as an alumni user.
The majority of the personal data that we hold is the information that you have provided to the University or information which is in the public domain.
We only process data for specified purposes and if it is justified in accordance with data protection law.
In general terms, we process your personal data to improve your experience and engagement with the University as a supporter and/or member of our alumni community.
We also process personal data for the following purposes:
We may occasionally carry out wealth screening.
This involves using trusted third parties who review information which is in the public domain (for example, FTSE100 directorships, company directorships, property holdings, Forbes, rich lists, etc.) on our behalf to give an indication of the financial giving capacity of individuals.
We never use the data produced by this exercise as the sole basis for sending out communications; it is a starting point for further research we carry out about a person to identify if they may be interested in supporting the University, which includes considering any previous engagement with the University, their philanthropic interests and previous donations.
This enables us to identify and contact only those individuals whose interests we believe align with our charitable fundraising mission.
Video conferencing applications
When using video conferencing applications, such as Zoom and Microsoft Teams , personal data such as your IP address and device name may collected by the companies who own these applications in order to schedule and create a record of meetings, improve and tailor your experience when using these applications.
Where video conferencing applications are used to record meetings, personal data captured within the recording are stored within the cloud service owned by that company.
Where recording is taking place, you will be notified at the beginning of or as you enter the recording session.
Data held and used by the University are compliant with GDPR.
Personal data stored by a service provider within the cloud may be stored outside of the European Economic Area.
We consider the processing of your personal data for these purposes to be necessary:
In some circumstances (for example, if you are not an alumnus of the University, or if, because of a disability, we need to make reasonable adjustments for you at an event we are organising), we will need your consent to process your personal data.
In these cases, we will seek your consent which, if given, you will be able to withdraw at any time.
Within the University, your data is shared with only those University staff who need access for the purpose of delivering our alumni and supporter activities and within the University M365 tenancy.
Your personal data is held securely on the University’s DARO database, which is restricted to nominated university employees.
Your personal data is shared as is necessary, on a considered and confidential basis, with several external organisations which assist with our alumni and supporter activities.
These organisations act on our behalf in accordance with our instructions behalf for the purposes outlined above and do not process your data for any purpose over and above what we have asked them to do.
We make sure we have appropriate contracts in place with them.
Sometimes your personal data is processed by these organisations outside the European Economic Area (for example, because they use a cloud-based system with servers based outside the EEA), and if so, appropriate safeguards are in place to ensure the confidentiality and security of your personal data.
It is also sometimes necessary for us to share personal data with third parties as follows:
We ensure we have appropriate data sharing and/or processing agreements in place before sharing your personal data with any other data controllers.
We do not sell your personal data to third parties under any circumstances, or permit third parties to sell on the data we have shared with them.
We will retain most of your data indefinitely in support of your lifelong relationship with the University, or until there is no longer a legal basis for holding it, or you object to the use of your data for direct marketing purposes.
Details about your rights are set out on the website page ‘ Data Protection – How the University Uses Your Data ’.
This also explains how to ask any questions you may have about how your personal data is used, exercise any of your rights or complain about the way your data is being handled.
If you change your mind about receiving information about the University’s alumni and supporter services and activities, you should contact us using the contact details provided in all our emails to you.
This privacy notice is effective from 25 May 2018 and was last updated on the 14 February 2020.
It is reviewed when necessary and at least annually.
Any changes will be published here and you will be notified by email or as appropriate.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/privacy/event-attendee-privacy-notice:
This privacy notice provides information about how the University uses your personal information when you attend an event organised by the University of Birmingham.
This privacy notice explains how we use your data in relation to your attendance to an event at the University.
Occasionally you may be asked if you would like to stay in touch with us and consent for your personal details to be retained and used to communicate with you (in accordance with your stated preferences).
The processing of your personal data for this type of further communication is covered in our Mailing List Subscriber Privacy Notice .
The personal data we process will be:
The University will process your personal data for the following purposes:
Video conferencing
We ask for your consent to process your personal data for the purposes set out above, and you can withdraw your consent at any time, except as set out below.
When we use your data we do so on the basis that this is necessary:
We will only process your Special Category data (sensitive information about you, for example any allergies or other dietary requirements) with your explicit consent or if it is necessary:
Within the University, your data is shared only with those University departments and staff who need access for the processing purposes set out above.
We may share some of the information with external organisations providing services for the event you are attending, in particular we may share your information (including dietary requirements) with catering service if you are attending an event where catering is offered.
The information shared will only be used to provide the service required and will not be retained by these external organisations after the event is concluded.
The information you provide when you register for an event will be kept for 12 months after the event has occurred.
If you consent to stay in touch with us, essential information to communicate with you will be kept until you withdraw your consent or unsubscribe to specific communication as explained in the Mailing List Subscriber Privacy Notice .
In the case when information is shared with University of Birmingham Conference and Events team, to ensure the smooth delivery of an event, the information you provide will then be kept in line with the Privacy policy – University of Birmingham | Conferences & Events - for 7 years.
This webpage is effective from 25 May 2018.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/privacy/filming-and-photography-privacy-notice:
This privacy notice explains how we use your personal data contained within photographs and video recordings taken by the University.
Occasionally, photographs and recordings may be taken of attendees at University events.
The processing of personal data relating to attendees is covered in our Event attendee privacy notice .
What other personal data will be processed?
It is in the University's legitimate interest to process your personal data for the above purposes.
When taking close up photographs, recordings or conducting interviews with individuals or small groups of individuals, the University will seek your consent to process the personal for the purposes set out above.
You can withdraw you consent at any time.
Image data may be retained in perpetuity as historical and archival records of the University of Birmingham.
Where image data is determined to be not appropriate for these purposes, it will be securely destroyed.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/privacy/job-candidate-privacy-notice:
As part of its recruitment process for all categories of staff and workers, the University of Birmingham collects and processes personal data relating to job candidates and potential candidates.
This page provides information about how the University uses the personal data relating to applicants and candidates for jobs at the University.
Please keep your personal information updated during your working relationship with us.
The information set out here applies to the processing of your personal data by the University.
If another organisation is to be a ‘data controller’ of your personal data, for example, if you register with a third party recruitment agency, they will explain this when you apply or when you provide the data as well as how they will use your personal data.
If your application is successful and you are employed by the University, your data will be transferred to the University’s HR systems.
Our Staff Privacy Notice on our website explains how staff personal data is processed.
The University collects and processes a range of information about you.
This includes, as appropriate:
Some of the data about you that we need to process is classed as ‘special category’ or sensitive personal data.
We will ask you for consent to do this.
This data includes data about your ethnicity, sexual orientation, religious beliefs or health/disability data.
Health and/or disability data can include:
Criminal convictions:The University may hold and process data about criminal offences and convictions if it is appropriate given the nature of your role.
We will use information about criminal convictions and offences in the following ways:
We will only use information relating to criminal convictions where the law allows us to do so and in line with our Data Protection Policy.
Personal data relating to criminal convictions will be retained confidentially and securely and access to that data will be strictly controlled.
The University collects this information in a variety of ways.
For example, data might be contained in application forms, CVs or resumes, on-boarding forms, obtained from your passport or other identity documents, collected through interviews or other forms of assessment, including online tests or longlisting assessment from recruitment agencies.
In some cases, the University collects personal data about you from third parties, such as references supplied by former employers academics, health monitoring services (for example, for radiation exposure), and information from criminal records checks (see above).
Your personal data is created, stored and transmitted and processed securely in University recruitment systems, campaign HR files, in University management systems, offer and feedback spreadsheets, departmental management filing systems and in other IT systems (including the University’s email system) in a variety of paper and electronic formats, including databases.
The University will process your application data only for the purpose of processing that application.
We do not use it for any other purposes, except that if your application is successful and you are employed by the University, your data will be transferred to the University’s HR systems.
Information about how we process data about our employees is set out on our Staff Privacy Notice on our website.
We consider the processing of your personal data for these purposes to be necessary for:
We will only process your special category data with your explicit consent or if it is necessary:
If we require your consent for any specific use of your personal data, we will collect it at the appropriate time, explaining why we are collecting the data and how we will use it, and you can withdraw this at any time.
You can register, through the University recruitment system, to receive notification of future employment opportunities which may be of interest.
We will only send you updates if you have asked us to, and you are free to withdraw your consent at any time.
Within the University, your data is shared with only those University staff who need access for the purpose of dealing with your application and the recruitment exercise.
This includes members of the HR and recruitment team, occupational health and wellbeing teams where needed, interviewers and administrators involved in the recruitment process, managers in the area with a vacancy, finance teams, and, if access to the data is necessary for the performance of their roles, IT staff.
Your personal data is shared as is necessary, on a considered and confidential basis, with several external organisations which assist with the recruitment process.
These organisations act on our behalf in accordance with our instructions and do not process your data for any purpose over and above what we have asked them to do.
Sometimes your personal data is processed by these organisations outside the European Economic Area (for example, because they use a cloud-based system with servers based outside the EEA), and if so, we make sure that appropriate safeguards are in place to ensure the confidentiality and security of your personal data.
Your personal data is shared with a range of external people and organisations as is necessary for the purposes set out above and as permitted or required by law, including the following
Sometimes, we may have to send your personal data outside the European Economic Area (EEA) (for example, the post and or hiring managers are located outside the EEA, such as at the University’s campus in Dubai, or if your reference provider is located outside the EEA).
This is usually necessary to consider your application, and we make sure that appropriate safeguards are in place to ensure the confidentiality and security of your personal data.
If your application for employment is unsuccessful, the University will keep your data for 7 months after the end of the relevant recruitment process, after which your data will be securely deleted or destroyed.
If you ask the University to notify you of future job opportunities, the University will keep the data you provide us with for that purpose until you ask us to remove it.
If your application for employment is successful, personal data gathered during the recruitment process will be transferred to your personnel file and retained during your employment.
Information about how long staff data is retained is explained in the Staff Privacy Notice on the University’s website.
This webpage is effective from 14 May 2018.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/privacy/mailing-lists-privacy-notice:
This Privacy Notice provides information about how the University of Birmingham (the ‘University’) uses your personal information when you subscribe to receive communication from the University.
You have agreed to receive information or communications from the University, for example, about University events, projects or news.
When we asked you to agree to receive these communications, we explained what you were subscribing to and we directed you to this Privacy Notice which explains how we use your data.
The personal data we process is that which you provide to us.
Occasionally, we buy mailing lists from third parties.
When we use bought mailing lists, we always check that the lists are up to date and that you have given consent for your personal data to be shared.
If you consent to receive these communications, we will retain and use only the information which is necessary to communicate with you.
We will also keep records of the communications we send you and any contact between you and the University in relation to the communication or mailing list you have.
The communications we send you will be tailored to any preferences you have expressed.
The University will process your personal data to provide you with the communications you have subscribed to.
This includes purposes you have given third parties we buy your personal data from.
We will not use your data for any other purpose.
We process your personal information for the purposes above based on your consent.
You will be able to withdraw consent and unsubscribe to the communication you receive at any point by following the instruction provided on each communication we send you.
Alternatively, you can contact us at any time, and for more information on how to do this, visit our website page ' Data Protection – How the University Uses Your Data '.
Within the University, your data is only shared with those University departments and staff who need access for the processing purpose set out above.
Your details may be shared on a confidential and considered basis with external organisations which assist the University in delivering communications you have subscribed to.
These organisations act on our behalf in accordance with our instructions for the purposes outline above and do not process you data for any other purpose over and above what we have asked them to do.
Sometimes your data is processed outside the European Economic Area (e.g.
because they use a cloud-based system with servers based outside the EEA), and, if so, appropriate safeguards are in place to ensure the confidentiality and security of your personal data.
Except as we have explained above, we will not publish or disclose any personal data about you to other external enquirers or organisations unless you have asked us to do or have consented to it, or unless it is in your vital interests to do so (e.g.
in an emergency situation).
We will continue to keep your data until you withdraw your consent or unsubscribe from receiving a specific communication.
We will delete your details if we become aware that your contact details are out of date or incorrect.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/privacy/nursery-privacy-notice:
Birmingham Day Nurseries (‘the Nursery’) are part of the University of Birmingham.
This page provides information about how the University uses personal data of users of the Nursery.
This page explains how nursery users’ personal data is processed by the Nursery.
Some data relating to Nursery users is processed by other departments of the University and is not covered by the information on this page, for example the information which is provided for the purpose of the University’s Finance Office.
Personal information about the parent/carer and child/children is collected in our enquiry form.
This includes:
After the initial enquiry, parents/carers will provide additional personal information including:
We collect and keep a record of personal information about children during their attendance at the Nursery including:
In addition, the University will process financial information relating to the payment of fees.
Some of the information which is processed by the nursery is special category data of a sensitive nature.
We make sure that access to and the sharing of special category data are controlled very carefully.
The Nursery will process Nursery users’ personal data for the following purposes:
We ask for your consent to process some personal data.
If we do, we will collect it at the appropriate time, explaining why we are collecting the data and how we will use it, and this consent can be withdrawn this at any time.
In other cases, it is necessary to process personal data relating to parents/carers and to children in our care in order to:
We will only process special category data with explicit consent or if it is necessary:
Archiving purposes in the public interest, scientific or historical research purposes or statistical purposes.
Within the Nursery and the University, your data is shared with only those staff who need access for the purpose of delivering our services and facilities.
Personal data is shared with a range of external organisations as is necessary for the purposes set out above and as permitted or required by law, including the following:
Some personal data about children and parents/carers is routinely displayed within the Nursery, including health and medical information about children, where it can be viewed by those in the Nursery.
We only do so with the consent of parents/carers following discussions during induction so an informed decision can be taken by parents/carers.
Except as we have explained, we will not publish or disclose any personal data to other external enquirers or organisations unless you have asked us to do or have consented to it, or unless it is in yours or your child’s vital interests to do so (e.g.
Your personal data is shared as is necessary, on a considered and confidential basis, with several external organisations which assist with processing your information.
We do not sell personal data to any third parties and we do not provide personal data relating to Nursery users to direct marketing complies or other such organisations.
The Nursery has created a table which details paper retention periods which can be viewed below.
The general retention period for data collected and stored by the nursery will be six years after the child leaves the setting.
Some data which is held by the Nursery must be held in accordance with current OFSTED or Local Authority requirements meaning that it will be held securely for much longer periods of time.
Nursery Paper Retention Table - Updated May 2018
Document Type Related to Children
Time to be kept for
Person (s) Responsible for Disposing of Confidentially
Paper Application Form/ T&Cs/ Parental Consents
6 Years After Leaving Date 01/09 Onwards at Point of Induction
Management Team
Confirmation of Place Form
6 Years After Leaving Date
Change of Nursery Usage
Office Induction Paperwork Including Any Court Orders/ Care Plan/ Adoption Paperwork
01/09 Completed Copy to be Scanned into Alphabetised Folder then 6 Years
All About Me Document
Point of Renewal at Transition to New Room
Room Senior Practitioner
Existing Injury Form
6 Years/ 21 years for Serious Accident *
Incident Form
Confidentiality Form
6 Years/ 25 years if Safeguarding Concern
CR8/CR10 Forms
Accident Book
Medication Form
6 Years Unless Significant
Alert Card for Asthma/Allergy
Point of Renewal in New Room
Children’s Paper Registers
1 Year
Staff’s Paper Registers
21 Years
Entrance Signing In and Out
Nappy/ Toileting Chart
1 Month
Next Steps / Planning Sheet
Printed Cohort Trackers
Confidential Waste After Use
BECO/ SENDCO obs
Connect/ IConnect
Indefinitely with parent choice to anonymise
Extra-Curricular Lists Rooms/ Office
Termly
Room Senior Practitioner/
Termination Forms
Sun Cream Chart
Review April/ September
Monthly Billing - Office Copy
Staffing – Room Copy
1 week
Staffing – Office Copy
1 year
Parent Declaration EEE
Await info from BCC
*Serious Accident – Head Injuries/ Scalds/ Broken Limbs *All child
Documents to be filed with their application forms at point of leaving so that at 6 year point they will all be disposed of confidentiality at the same time.
Electronic records are currently stored on our online system indefinitely for archiving purposes.
This privacy notice is effective from 27 September 2018.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/privacy/outreach-privacy-notice:
The University of Birmingham works with schools and colleges to deliver outreach activities to learners who are under-represented in higher education and have the potential to progress.
This work is known as widening participation.
We aim to help young people to:
We do this by delivering a range of outreach activities such as University taster days, summer schools, masterclasses, study support and mentoring.
This privacy notice provides information about how the University uses the personal data we collect and process about you.
It supplements our webpage ‘ Your Privacy: Data Protection – How the University Uses Your Data ’.
We will process the personal data you or your school provides to us when either you or your school/college make an application for your participation within an outreach activity/programme.
This data will include some or all of the following:
If your school or college provides this information to us, we will assume that they have your consent to do so.
In addition to this, we may need to process some data about you that is classed as ‘special category’ or sensitive personal data.
This includes data about your ethnicity and health/disability data.
Ethnicity data is important, as it enables us to carry out our statutory obligations/conditions of funding as we need to ensure our outreach activities are targeted at learners who are under-represented in higher education.
We may also request data about your health or any disability you have which will be used to provide help or reasonable adjustments at events.
Access to, and the sharing of, your special category personal data are controlled very carefully.
Special category data is also used for research and statistical purposes, but not in a way which will involve making any decisions about you personally or putting measures in place which relate to you personally.
If you are accepted on to an outreach activity, we will monitor your engagement within the activities for the duration of the activity and evaluate the impact these activities have had in terms of your attainment, aspirations and where you go after school/college.
At key points in your educational career we may ask your school/college to provide us with information about you, such as your exam results and what qualifications you are studying and where, and education data from your Individual Learner Record (ILR) which is held by your college.
We may also ask the Higher Education Statistics Agency (HESA), University Central Admissions Service (UCAS), the Student Loans Company (SLC), and the National Pupil Database (NPD) to provide us with the following information from your ILR:
We may also monitor and track your outcomes from this information if you have not engaged in outreach activities.
This will allow us to compare your outcomes against outcomes of other learners that have engaged in outreach activities to support planning and help evidence which outreach activities are most effective.
We may ask HESA, UCAS, SLC and NPD and/or your school/college to provide data on your background characteristics (e.g.
from the school census), attainment and post-16 progression data (e.g.
did you stay on in sixth form/go to college/go to university).
We will process your personal data in order to deliver our outreach and widening participation activities and agenda which includes:
When you apply for an outreach programme/activity, we:
When we have collected data about you from third parties (see Obtaining Information About your from Third Parties), that data will be matched together with data we hold to enable us to establish the impact of our activities/programmes and report to our funders/make statutory returns (e.g.
the Office for Students).
This data is not used to make decisions about you, including whether you can participate in further activities.
We will use your data to prepare aggregated and anonymised evaluation reports to enable us to carry out future statistical analysis on the impact of outreach activities/programmes on learners from different socio-economic backgrounds or for historical or research purposes or to meet such reporting obligations as may be imposed on the University by relevant authorities, for example the Office for Students.
Processing of your personal data is carried because it is necessary:
We will only process special category data with your explicit consent or if it is necessary:
If your consent (or that of your parent/carer) is required for any specific use of your personal data, we will collect it at the appropriate time, explaining why we are collecting the data and how we will use it, and you can withdraw this at any time.
Sometimes your school/college will collect this before forwarding information about you to us.
Within the University, your data is shared with only those University staff who need access to it to deliver and support our outreach programmes and activities.
Your personal data is shared with a range of external organisations as is necessary for the purposes set out above and as permitted or required by law, including the following:
Your personal data is shared as is necessary, on a considered and confidential basis, with several external organisations which assist us with delivering our programmes and activities or who are commissioned to deliver outreach activities or conduct evaluation or research on our behalf.
We will not normally publish or disclose any personal data about you to other external enquirers or organisations unless you have asked us to do so or have consented to it, or unless it is in your vital interests to do so (e.g.
We will retain the personal data collected from you and your school/college during the application process, your subsequent engagement within outreach activities and data we collect to evaluate the impact of our outreach programmes until you reach the age of 25 or for 7 years, whichever comes latest.
Details about your rights are set out on the Data Protection – How the University Uses Your Data webpage.
This privacy notice is effective from 27 September 2018 and was last updated in June 2020.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/privacy/staff-privacy-notice:
This page provides information about how the University of Birmingham processes personal data relating its employees, staff, workers and contractors.
This notice applies to current and former employees, workers and contractors.
Staff in a wider sense are also covered by this notice, including honorary and emeritus staff as well as staff who are seconded into the University and others who work for the University in the capacity of a volunteer or intern.
The word “staff” on this page covers all these.
Applicants for jobs at the University are informed how their data will be used in relation to the application process and how, if they are successful, that data forms the basis of the staff record.
If another organisation is to be a ‘data controller’ of your personal data (for example, if you register for a benefit provided by another organisation), they will explain this when you apply or when you provide the data as well as how they will use your personal data.
The University processes a range of information about you.
These are:
Where appropriate, the University may have collected information about criminal convictions as part of the recruitment process or we may be notified of such information directly by you or a third party, such as the Police in the course of you working for us.
The University collects your personal information in a variety of ways.
For example, data is collected through application forms, CVs or resumes; on-boarding forms, from your passport or other identity documents such as your driving licence, from forms completed by you at the start of or during employment or engagement (such as benefit nomination forms), from correspondence with you, or through interviews, meetings or other assessments.
In some cases, the University collects personal data about you from third parties, such as references supplied by former employers or academics or health monitoring services (for example, for radiation exposure).
Your personal data is held both electronically and in paper format and is stored in a range of different places, including in your personnel file, in the University's HR management systems, spreadsheets, health and safety record systems, local College and departmental management filing systems and in other IT systems (including the University’s email system).
In addition to the core employment/engagement related processes referenced above, information relating to your employment/engagement and role at the University is shared between the core HR system and other key business systems that support the running and administration of the University.
These systems include:
The University will process your data for the following purposes:
Some special categories of personal data about health or medical conditions, are processed so the University can carry out its obligations and exercise its rights, and so you can carry out your obligations and exercise your rights under employment law (such as those in relation to staff with disabilities and for health and safety purposes).
For example, the University will use information about your physical or mental health or disability status to:
The legitimate interests of the University or external organisations (for example, to enable your access to external services).
Within the University, your data is shared with only those University staff who need access to deliver and support the purposes described above.
We ensure we have appropriate data sharing agreements in place before sharing your personal data with any other data controllers.
There may be occasions when the University will provide or ask for information from third parties with your consent, for example, relating to Occupational Health referrals, GP reports, specialist reports and other health-related interventions relating to your role.
Your personal data is shared as is necessary, on a considered and confidential basis, with several external organisations which assist the University with processing data, for example, with payroll, pension administration, benefits provision and administration and IT services.
We do not share your data with external organisations for marketing their products or services.
The University currently holds staff data indefinitely.
However, we are in the process of transferring staff records to a new system (New Core) which will include data retention principles, with different periods of retention for different types of data.
As soon as this is live, which is due to happen in 2019, we will update this page and include a link to the data retention schedule.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/privacy/student-applicant-privacy-notice:
This privacy notice provides information about how the University uses the personal data we collect and process when you make an application to study at the University of Birmingham.
If you enquired about studying at the University, you were told how the University would use your personal data to process your enquiry and we referred you to the Enquirer Privacy Notice on our website.
This referred to this Applicant Privacy Notice for details about how we would use your personal data if you apply to become a student at the University.
After you have applied, we process your data as set out on our website in both the Enquirer Privacy Notice and this Applicant Privacy Notice.
If you have submitted or are intending to submit your application through the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS) or another clearing house, that organisation will inform you of the basis upon which they share your personal data with us.
This page provides information about how we will use the personal data we received from that organisation.
If you have applied, or are intending to apply, directly to the University, this page explains how we will use the personal data you will provide, or have provided, to us directly.
Sometimes another organisation will also be a data controller of your personal data for example, if you are applying to study on a dual degree programme, a degree apprenticeship or other programme delivered in collaboration with, or on behalf of another organisation, or if you have applied to us for accommodation as we provide student details to private ‘Partner accommodation’ providers who form part of our Guarantee Scheme so they can allocate accommodation.
That organisation should explain this to you, as well as how and why it uses your data.
The data we process will be:
The School or department within the University in which you have applied to study may also keep records about your application, including:
In addition to this, the University may need to process some data about you that is classed as ‘special category’ or sensitive personal data.
We use this data to offer you relevant support or reasonable adjustments and for statistical, research and monitoring purposes.
If necessary, where there has been an outbreak of a pandemic, such as Covid-19, or some other incident which may affect the health or safety of the University community, as part of the University’s public task, the University may also collect data on which areas or buildings of the University campus you have recently accessed and when, for the purposes of managing the health and safety of the University community.
The data collected for this purpose will be your name, student ID number, telephone/email address so that if necessary, we can contact you in relation to NHS Test and Trace and to help prevent the spread of Covid-19.
This data will be kept and held securely for 21 days after which it will be deleted or destroyed.
We may also collect special category (e.g.
health) data as part of this duty and for reasons of public health, for example, if you have told us that you have tested positive for Covid-19.
Where it is necessary to collect special category data, such as health information, for this purpose we will only share this with government agencies, such as National Institute for Health Protection/Public Health England (or such other relevant government body) for the purposes of government initiatives like Test and Trace, in order to comply with our legal obligations.
In any other case we will ask for your express consent before passing this data to any other organisation.
Your personal data is created, stored and transmitted securely in a variety of paper and electronic formats, including databases.
Only those University staff who need access for the purpose of administering the admissions process and allocating accommodation will be able to access your personal data.
For certain courses, in order to assess your suitability to work with patients, children or other vulnerable people and your fitness to practise for entry into some regulated professions, it is necessary to process other special category data, such as data about your health or disability.
Criminal convictions: The University may hold and process data about criminal offences or convictions if you have disclosed this on your application or if it is appropriate given the nature of your programme (for example, if a Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) check is needed for your programme).
We will only use information relating to criminal convictions where the law allows us to do so and in line with our Data Protection Policy (301kb PDF) .
If you have disclosed on your application that you have a disability, our Student Support team will contact you to let you know how you can access the Learning Support, Disability and Mental Health services.
You will be provided with further details about how your data will be used for this purpose at the relevant time.
We also use the information you provide to compile statistics and conduct research in relation to enquirers, applicants and students for the purpose of planning, reviewing, managing and developing the University’s business, (but not to make any decisions about you).
We sometimes use ‘profiling’ software to help us make sure the information we send you is appropriate for you, but we do not use ‘profiling’ software to make any automated decisions about your application to the University.
If we require your consent for any specific use of your personal data, it will be collected at the appropriate time by us or another relevant organisation (for example, UCAS), explaining why we are collecting the data and how we will use it, and you can withdraw your consent at any time.
Within the University, your data is shared with only those University staff who need access for the admissions process, to allocate accommodation and to discuss any support needs you may have.
Your personal data is shared as is necessary, on a considered and confidential basis, with several external organisations which assist with the handling of enquiries and student applications and sending you information about studying here.
These organisations act on our behalf in accordance with our instructions for the purposes outlined above and do not process your data for any purpose over and above what we have asked them to do.
There may be other occasions when we may have to send your personal data outside the European Economic Area (for example, to share information relating to your application with an Overseas representative acting on your behalf, or if you are applying to study at a campus overseas, for example, in Dubai).
This is usually required as part of the steps necessary to enter into a contract with you or as part of your contractual obligations (or potential contractual obligations) with a third party, and again, we make sure that appropriate safeguards are in place to ensure the confidentiality and security of your personal data.
If your application to the University is successful, the information held in your core application record will form the basis of your core student record.
Details of how we use student data can be found in the Student Privacy Notice on the University website.
If you are admitted as a student of the University, we will retain the personal data collected during the admissions process for 10 years after the start of the academic year in which you were admitted to the University.
We do this so we can respond to any queries you or third parties may have about your application or studies, qualifications or student experience, to prepare references, to respond to any concerns or complaints and as part of our assessment of any future application you make for further studies at the University.
We are required by law to retain some data for longer, for example, if you require a Tier 4 student visa to undertake your studies, we will retain your information in order to meet the audit requirements of the Home Office
If your application is unsuccessful, or you decline an offer of a place at the University, we will retain your personal data for 3 years after the start of the academic year for which you applied.
We do this so we can respond to any queries you or third parties may have about your application, to respond to any concerns or complaints and as part of our assessment of any future application you make for further studies at the University.
If you defer an application from one academic year to the next the above schedules will apply from the start of the academic year to which your application was deferred.
Your core application record (see ‘What personal data will be processed?’ above) is retained indefinitely to carry out statistical analysis in relation to applicant groups and student population or for historical or research purposes or to meet such reporting obligations as may be imposed on the University by relevant authorities, for example the Office for Students.
Information held for these purposes will not be used to make decisions about you or to contact you with any marketing or other materials.
Where your personal data is collected for the purposes of the University’s management of the health and safety of the University community (if for example, you may have been in contact with someone who has tested positive for Covid-19 and you have recently been on the University campus), this data will only be kept as long as necessary for those purposes, usually 21 days.
This privacy notice is effective from 25 May 2018 and was last updated on 10 September 2020.
Any changes will be published here.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/privacy/student-enquirer-privacy-notice:
This privacy notice provides information about how the University uses your personal information in relation to your enquiry about studying at the University of Birmingham.
It supplements the information on our website ‘ Your Privacy: Data Protection – How the University Uses Your Data ’.
This privacy notice explains how we use your data in relation to the enquiry you have made about studying here.
If you decide to apply to study at the University, you will be directed to the Applicant Privacy Notice which will explain how your data will be processed during and after the application process.
However, we will still continue to process your data as an enquirer, and this privacy notice will continue to be relevant even after you have made an application.
Occasionally we may need to process data which is classed as ‘special category’ or sensitive personal data.
If you disclosed to us that you have a disability, our Student Support team will contact you to let you know how you can access the Learning Support, Disability and Mental Health services.
We sometimes use ‘profiling’ software to help us make sure the information we send you is appropriate for you, but we do not use ‘profiling’ software to make any automated decisions about you.
When we use your data to compile statistics and conduct research, we usually use anonymised data from which you cannot be identified, but where that is not possible, we do so on the basis that this is necessary;
We will only process your special category data (which is sensitive information about you) with your explicit consent or if it is necessary:
Within the University, your data is shared with only those University staff who need access for the processing purposes set out above.
Your personal data is shared as is necessary, on a considered and confidential basis, with several external organisations which assist the University with handling enquiries and student applications and with sending you information about studying here.
Sometimes your personal data is processed by these organisations outside the European Economic Area (e.g.
because they use a cloud-based system with servers based outside the EEA), and if so, appropriate safeguards are in place to ensure the confidentiality and security of your personal data.
If you do not apply to study with us, any data you provide to us as an enquirer is kept for 3 years after your indicated year of entry and is destroyed in the September of that year.
If you go on to make an application to the University of Birmingham, your enquiry data will be kept in line with our applicant privacy notice which you can see on our website.
We will also draw this to your attention when you apply.
If you change your mind about receiving information about the University of Birmingham, you should contact us using the contact details provided in all our emails to you.
This privacy notice is effective from 14 May 2018.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/privacy/student-privacy-notice:
This page provides information about how the University uses your personal data while you are a student at the University of Birmingham.
When you applied to become a student, you were told in the Applicant Privacy Notice how the University would use your personal data to process your application.
This referred you to this Student Privacy Notice which explains how we use your personal data while you are a student at the University.
In addition to the information set out here, when you use specific services and facilities offered by the University, you will be told about any other uses of your personal data and may be directed to a webpage or privacy notice for more detailed information (for example, if you engage with the Counselling & Wellbeing, Learning Support, Disability and Mental Health Services).
If, once you graduate, there are ongoing student procedures such as academic appeals, the University will continue to process data relevant to that procedure in accordance with the Student Privacy Policy.
After you graduate, our Development and Alumni Relations Office may process data about you, and details of how they process alumni data is explained in the Alumni Privacy Notice .
Sometimes another organisation will also be a data controller of your personal data (for example, if you are studying on a dual degree programme, a degree apprenticeship or other programme delivered in collaboration with, or on behalf of, another organisation).
That organisation should explain this to you as well as how it uses your data.
The details provided to us when you applied to the University form the basis of your core student record, which is the high-level record retained by Registry.
Your core student record also includes:
Your core record is generally that held by Registry on your central record but can include data held locally by your School or College.
Your core record includes:
The School or department in which you study will also keep local records about you which will not form part of your core record, including:
Library Services will also keep records about you, which again will not form part of your core record, including:
The University will also keep records about your use of the academic and non-academic facilities and services, including your use of IT Services and facilities, that we offer and processes and procedures with which you engage (for example, if you are a student representative, your engagement with online learning platforms provided by the University, or you raise a concern or complaint) or which you are subject to (such as misconduct proceedings).
We will usually ask you for consent to do this.
This data includes data about your ethnicity, sexual orientation, religious beliefs or health/disability data which we use to plan for and provide help or reasonable adjustments.
We also use this data to help us plan our courses and facilities, and we also use it for reporting and monitoring purposes.
The University will make sure that access to, and the sharing of, your special category personal data are controlled very carefully.
health) data as part of this duty and for reasons of public health, for example, if you have told us that you have tested positive for Covid-19, or to confirm a negative test for Covid-19 to ensure the safety of members of the University using facilities such as the Sports Centre.
Criminal convictions : The University may hold and process data about criminal offences and criminal convictions if you have disclosed this as part of the admissions process, or by completing the yearly online registration, or if it is appropriate, given the nature of your programme (for example, if a Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) check is needed for your programme).
To enable us to contact others in the event of an emergency (we will assume that you have obtained consent from those individuals before you supply their contact details to us).
We do not use your personal data to carry out any wholly automated decision-making that affects you.
Within the University, your data is shared with only those University staff who need access for the purpose of delivering our academic and non-academic services and facilities.
With your consent, we will share your data with the Multi-Faith Chaplaincy and with the University’s chaplains (who are not members of staff).
We will normally confirm details of the degree awarded to external enquirers or organisations, and at your request we will provide references to third parties
Your name and the type of degree awarded, including classification for those gaining a First, and Merit or Distinction for Taught postgraduate students, will be published in the relevant congregation programme.
This information may also be published in newspapers and will be made publicly available.
Your University email account will be included on the University general email list which is used for contacting you about University business and activities.
Sometimes, we may have to send your personal data outside the European Economic Area (for example, so you can take part in an exchange visit or so we can to report to an overseas funding provider, or if you are studying at a campus overseas, for example, in Dubai).
This is usually necessary to meet our contractual obligations with you, or your contractual obligations with a third party, and we make sure that appropriate safeguards are in place to ensure the confidentiality and security of your personal data.
After you leave the University, we will retain most personal data we hold about you for 7 years.
We do this so we can respond to any queries you or third parties may have about your studies, qualifications or student experience, to prepare references, to respond to any concerns or complaints and as part of our assessment of any future application you make for further studies at the University.
We are required by law to retain some data for longer, for example records of exposure to hazardous materials.
Some data is kept for less than 7 years including assessments or examination scripts which are retained for 5 years (unless you submit an appeal or you are subject to an examination irregularity investigation in relation to that script); we will tell you when data is kept for periods other than 7 years from the date you leave the University.
Your core record of your studies is retained indefinitely so that the details of your academic achievements can be confirmed.
The University will also use your data, together with data about other current and former students, to carry out statistical analysis in relation to its student population or for historical or research purposes (but not to make decisions about you).
The University is sometimes required to take part in surveys or research conducted by or on behalf of Government departments, executive agencies, non-departmental public bodies or Higher Education bodies relating to individuals who have graduated from or left the University.
If so, your contact details will be shared with the organisation carrying out the survey or research on behalf of the University.
This privacy notice is effective from 25 May 2018 and was last updated on the 13 July 2021.
Any changes will be published here and you will be notified by email, or as appropriate.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/privacy/website-privacy-notice:
This privacy notice provides information about how the University uses your personal information in relation to using our websites, www.birmingham.ac.uk , www.intranet.birmingham.ac.uk and subdomains.
This privacy policy outlines how the University of Birmingham collects, uses and protects information about you when you access the University’s website.
This includes content displayed on those pages, data collected via forms, cookies, web logs and analytic software.
Where data is being collected beyond the scope of this privacy notice, you will be alerted and the relevant pages will refer to their own privacy notice.
The website contains links to third-party websites that may be of interest to users.
We are not responsible for the content of these websites and have no control over any personal data collected on them.
We collect information about you when you visit our website, and when you interact with our pages.
We also collect information when you voluntarily complete contact forms, provide feedback and submit queries.
Any page requesting this personal information will provide details of how the information will be used and/or refer you to an appropriate privacy notice.
Cookies are text files containing small amounts of information, which are downloaded to your device when you visit a website - if your browser preferences allow it.
We make use of cookies and analytics on our site.
Cookie information includes:
For more information, please see our cookie policy .
Like almost all websites, we maintain log files on our web servers, which include your IP address and data relating to the requests you make on our website (for example: request size, date, and referrer).
These logs are held for diagnostic purposes and to improve and maintain the security and resilience of the site.
These files are only accessed by authorised members of staff, though they may be made available to the police on request.
The University is committed to ensuring the security of our website and any information you provide using the site.
The University has procedures in place to help protect against loss, misuse and alteration of information.
he University will process your personal data for the following purposes:
This data may include data about your ethnicity, or nationality which we use to identify appropriate webpages which may be of interest (e.g.
international fees) and we also use it for reporting and monitoring purposes.
Within the University, your data is shared only with those University staff who need access for the processing purposes identified.
Information may be shared with third parties who are under contract to act for us.
In those cases, we ensure that those contracts are appropriate.
Sometimes we will embed content in our pages that we don’t control or operate, such as social media with Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube.
When you interact with these elements, which are marked clearly, you’ve not interacted with our website but the service embedded.
Details of the lifespan of each cookie is listed on our cookie policy and you can delete these at any time.
We use Google Analytics cookies to hold information about your visit to our site and our data is kept for 38 months before and is destroyed after.
Data collected through contact forms, feedback and queries will be held for only the period for which that data is being processed, not exceeding 7 years, unless stated otherwise.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/privacy/zoom-meeting-privacy-notice:
This privacy notice provides information about how the University uses your personal information when you schedule or attend an online meeting organised by the University of Birmingham, using the Zoom Video conferencing tool
This privacy notice explains how we use your data in relation to your use of the Zoom Video Conferencing tool, whether scheduling or attending an online meeting or webinar.
Please also see the Zoom privacy policy and their statement on GDPR compliance .
Your IP and device name and OS is collected by the Zoom tool to better tailor the software - see their privacy policy for more information.
Please see Zoom's privacy policy for their commitment to not sharing / reselling customer data.
Data transfer outside the European Economic Area (EEA): Data held in the Zoom service, including recordings, is held in the United States.
"Zoom Video Communication, Inc.
participates in and has certified its compliance with the EU-U.S.
Privacy Shield Framework and the Swiss-U.S.
Privacy Shield.
Zoom is committed to subjecting all personal data received from EU member countries, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom, in reliance on the Privacy Shield Frameworks, to the Framework's applicable Principles.
To learn more about the Privacy Shield Frameworks, and to view our certification, visit the U.S.
Department of Commerce's Privacy Shield List, https://www.privacyshield.gov/list ".
The information will be retained for 12 months after you have last logged into the University of Birmingham Zoom service or immediately on discontinuation of the service, whichever is sooner.
Details about your rights are set out on the website page ‘ Your Privacy: Data Protection – How the University Uses Your Data ’.
This webpage is effective from 20 April 2020.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/legal/charity:
The University of Birmingham is an ‘exempt charity’ under the Charities Act 1993.
Almost all British universities have charitable status because their primary purposes of advancing education and research are deemed to deliver a public benefit.
This means the University can reclaim Gift Aid on donations, increasing their value by 25%, and that corporation tax does not have to be paid on profits made from research with a social impact.
Our tax-exempt Inland Revenues charities reference number is X7237.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/legal/website:
If you have any queries or concerns about privacy on the University of Birmingham website please contact us .
To the fullest extent permitted at law, the University of Birmingham is providing this website, its contents and its online payment facility on an "as is" basis and makes no (and expressly disclaims all) representations or warranties of any kind, express or implied, with respect to this website or the information, content, products or services included in this site including, without limitation, warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose.
In addition, the University of Birmingham does not represent or warrant that the information accessible via this web site is accurate, complete or current.
In no circumstances, to the fullest extent permitted at law, shall the University of Birmingham nor or any of its officers or employees be liable for any loss, additional costs or damage howsoever arising suffered as a result of any use of this web site or the information, content, or products.
All aspects of the University of Birmingham website design, text, graphics and all software compilations, underlying source code, software (including applets) and all other material on this website are copyright the University of Birmingham and its affiliates, or their content and technology providers.
The University of Birmingham grants permission for the browsing of material it has published on its website pages.
It also grants permission to electronically copy and to print in hard copy portions one copy only of any page of this material for personal reference only.
Copyright in all material on this website (unless otherwise indicated) is held by the University of Birmingham.
The express permission of the Copyright holder must be obtained for any use of this material other than for purposes permitted by law.
Permission is granted to electronically copy and to print in hard copy portions of the University of Birmingham online payment or online donation facility for the sole purpose of placing an order with the University of Birmingham.
The University of Birmingham website links to many third party information providers who are not affiliated with the University of Birmingham.
The University of Birmingham does not endorse any of these sites, nor the information or merchandise contained or offered by these sites.
The University of Birmingham has not taken any steps to confirm the accuracy or reliability of any of the information contained in such third parties' websites, and does not make any representations or warranties as to the security of any information (including, without limitation, personal information) you might be requested to give any third party.
You are strongly encouraged to make whatever investigation you feel necessary or appropriate before proceeding with any online or offline transaction with any of these third parties.
All aspects of these links including, without limitation, text, and graphics, and links, are provided on an "as is" basis with no warranties of any kind.
In no event shall the University be liable for any damages whatsoever, including, without limitation, costs of procurement of substitute goods or services, lost profits, lost data, or any direct, indirect, special, punitive, incidental, exemplary or consequential damages related to the use, inability to use, performance or non-performance of the information or merchandise offered by such third party sites, even if the University of Birmingham has been advised previously of the possibility of such losses or damages.
The University of Birmingham, is a registered trademark of the University of Birmingham.
Other product and company names mentioned on this website may be the trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective owners.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/accessibility/feedback:
We are committed to the ongoing process of making our campuses, services, and digital environments welcoming and more accessible for our students, staff, and visiting community members.
We are serious about our obligations and welcome ways to ensure everyone has access.
Where we haven’t got this quite right, you can report the issues you have found, and we will review and address these as quickly as we can.
Feedback collected through this form are sent to the appropriate contact person.
Responses to your feedback will be provided within 5 to 7 business days after the form is received.
Fields marked with an asterisk (*) need to be completed to allow the form to be submitted.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/about/leadership:
Effective leadership is a hallmark of the University of Birmingham.
Today, we have a global reputation as a rich and diverse institution known for inspirational thinking, financial stability, and strong local, national, and international partnerships.
Our heritage as the original ‘redbrick’ is combined with one of the most compelling and ambitious agendas in higher education.
The University has been transformed in recent years, characterised by major investments in academic staffing, investment of £1 billion in campus facilities, strong and improving outcomes for our students, annual growth in research performance, and bold new moves such as establishing the only university-run secondary school and sixth form in the country, and opening a new campus in Dubai.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/about/leadership/governance:
The University of Birmingham is an independent, chartered institution whose legal status derives from our Royal Charter granted in 1900.
The University is an exempt charity and is regulated by the Office for Students .
The Chancellor of the University is Sandie Okoro OBE.
The Chancellor is the ceremonial head of the University.
They preside at Degree Congregations and confers degrees of the University, and have an important ambassadorial role.
An advocate of the University, the Chancellor works to raise the University’s profile and advance its interests nationally and internationally.
The University Legislation consists of the Charter, Statutes, Ordinances, Regulations and Codes of Practice.
These documents set out how the University operates, including its status, powers, governing body and senior officers.
The University is committed to best practice in all aspects of corporate governance and reviews its Code of Practice on Corporate Governance on an annual basis.
The governing body of the University is the Council and is chaired by the Pro-Chancellor, Mervyn Walker .
Council consists of 24 lay, academic and student members, the majority of whom are lay members external to the University.
The members of the University Council are the charity trustees and are responsible for ensuring compliance with charity law.
The primary responsibilities of Council include approval of the mission and strategic vision of the University, monitoring and evaluating the performance of the University, oversight of systems of control and accountability, including financial and operational controls and risk assessment, and approval of the annual budget and accounts.
There are five Committees which report to Council:
The Senate is chaired by the Vice-Chancellor and consists of up to 60 members drawn from the leadership of the University, academic staff and the student community.
It is the principal academic body of the University and is responsible to the Council for regulating and directing the academic work of the University in teaching, examining and research and for award of all Degrees, Diplomas, Certificates and other academic distinctions of the University.
Senate oversees quality assurance and standards of the education provided by the University and provides an annual assurance report to Council on academic quality, standards and the student experience.
Council also considers a report from each meeting of Senate covering key aspects of teaching and learning, student experience and quality matters (e.g.
admissions, progression, degree classification, external examiners report, employability etc.).
There are three Committees which report to Senate:
The University Executive Board (UEB) is the senior leadership team of the University and a Committee of Council.
It is chaired by the Vice-Chancellor and Principal and its membership consists of the Provost and Vice-Principal, the Pro-Vice-Chancellors, the Heads of College, the Registrar and Secretary and Chief Operating Officer and the Chief Financial Officer.
It is responsible for the management of the University and normally meets weekly to steer the implementation of strategy and consider key issues.
Further information about the governance of the University is available in our Publication Scheme.
The Governance Support Team provides support for the governance of the University, including Council, Senate and UEB.
If you need any further information, please contact:
Colette McDonough Head of Governance
Paul Bowman Governance and Risk Officer
Chris Ellison Governance Officer
Hayley Brooks Governance Support Administrator

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/university/leadership/governance/publication-scheme/who-we-are-and-what-we-do:
Read about the history of the University
Find out about Birmingham today
The University is proud of its extensive links with universities and other institutions throughout the world.
Our collaborations take an array of different forms, ranging from student exchange and teaching partnerships to joint research on global issues.
Through our extensive network of international partnerships we offer opportunities for collaboration on many levels including supporting universities, governments and companies in the development of their staff and providing international experiences for students and staff.
Our academic staff research together with colleagues from every continent to address wide-ranging issues such as ensuring future energy demands can be met or to address global poverty.
The University has a long tradition of working in partnership with organizations in the public and private sector, for both collaborative research and the development and delivery of learning programmes.
Recent examples include the Midlands Energy Consortium and the Manufacturing Technology Centre (MTC) .
The University of Birmingham is proud to be a sub-regional partner for STEMNET , a national organisation funded by the Department for Business, Innovation, and Skills (BIS), which creates opportunities to inspire young people in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM).

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/university/leadership/governance/publication-scheme/what-we-spend-and-how-we-spend-it:
Extensive financial information is contained in our Annual Accounts which are published each year.
The Annual Accounts are available to download .
The Annual Accounts include the following:
Vice-Chancellor’s Report Treasurer’s Report Corporate Governance Responsibilities of the Council Report of the Auditor Statement of Principal Accounting Policies and Estimation Techniques Consolidated Income and Expenditure Account Balance Sheets Consolidated Cash Flow Statement Consolidated Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses Notes to the Accounts Five-Year Summary Accounts Financial Statistics
Information about the emoluments of the Vice-Chancellor and senior staff is included in the Annual Accounts .

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/university/leadership/governance/transparency-condition:
The Office for Students (OfS) requires the University to publish data showing attainment data in a prescribed format.
The University of Birmingham data is set out below.
The number of students who attained a particular undergraduate degree or other academic award, or a particular level of such an award, on completion of their course with us.
It also shows these numbers by reference to:
It is important to note that the data presented has not been contextualised or benchmarked by the Office for Students.
The detailed data is available to download in the Transparency Tables 2023 spreadsheet (Excel - 33Kb) .

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/university/equality/widening-participation/index.aspx:
Our Outreach department works with over 250 schools and 25,000 pupils each year to raise aspirations and encourage students to make educated decisions about their future in higher education.
The department delivers an extensive School visit programme of activities, working with students from year 6 to year 13.
Our long-standing Access to Birmingham (A2B) scheme continues to provide fair access for local students applying to the university.
The year 12 programme Routes to the Professions and our pre-16 Forward Thinking programme are also amongst our leading, most popular initiatives.
Our support extends beyond the West Midlands; our Contextual Offer scheme provides alternative offers for candidates across the UK who meet the requisite criteria.
The University of Birmingham has published an Access and Participation Plan (APP) with the Office for Students (OfS) that defines our commitment to widening participation and lists our progress objectives in supporting key under-represented groups in higher education.
We aim to improve access, provide equal opportunities and enable progress through higher education.
The 2025-26 to 2028-29 University of Birmingham Access and Participation Plan (PDF - 2.10Mb) is available to download and view.
Download and view a summary version of this plan (PDF - 288Kb) .
The APP replaces previous Access Agreements, which remain in force for students who started, or start, their university course before September 2020.
Previous Access Agreements, as well as our 2022-23 course fee information, are available to view using the following links:

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/university/leadership/governance/publication-scheme/what-our-priorities-are.aspx:
The University offers a range of services to business , whether they are large, multinational corporations or small businesses (SMEs).
Examples of services on offer include licensing and intellectual property, consultancy, Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs) and student internships and graduate recruitment.
The University has an award winning team of professionals who unite academia and business in bespoke and transformative collaborations.
Active since 2014, the team has strengthened the relationship between industry and our world leading researchers.
We have Business Engagement Partners focusing on everything from clinical trials and advanced manufacturing, through to business consultancy and cyber security.
We are committed to preparing students for the challenging economic landscape and creating graduates who will enrich business and industry.
We offer a range of opportunities for businesses to promote their graduate and undergraduate vacancies, meet with our highly skilled students and share their expertise.
The University is proud of its extensive links with universities and other institutions throughout the world .
Recent examples include the NHS Leadership Academy Programmes, the Birmingham Health Partners , and the High Temperature Research Centre (HTRC) .
In 2016 London Economics calculated the economic impact of the University on the city of Birmingham and the West Midlands region in 2014–15 (following a similar economic impact study in 2011–12).
The study shows that the University generates £3.5bn every year to the economy and supports 15,545 jobs in the West Midlands region, with almost one in 50 jobs in Birmingham depending upon the University.
A fee is charged for some categories of information, details of which can be found on the HESA website .
( External Website )

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/university/leadership/governance/publication-scheme/how-we-make-decisions.aspx:
There are two decision-making bodies in the University; these are the Council and Senate.
The Council is the University's supreme governing body, responsible for setting its strategic direction and policies, and for the University's finance and assets.
Senate is the highest academic body, responsible for the University's academic policies and for regulating academic work and standards.
You can find the Council Committee Structure and the terms of reference for these sub-committees on our Council pages .
You can find the Senate Committee Structure and the terms of reference for these Committees on our Senate pages.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/university/leadership/governance/publication-scheme/policies-and-procedures.aspx:
Academic and academic-related Codes of Practice, Policies and Guidance, arranged by category:
These are all available on our Intranet .

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/university/leadership/governance/publication-scheme/lists-and-registers.aspx:
The University holds the following:

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/university/leadership/governance/publication-scheme/services-we-offer.aspx:
University of Birmingham | Conferences and events offers a portfolio of high-quality services: conferences, events, meetings, celebrations, weddings, and bed and breakfast accommodation.
Our impressive venues include the grandeur of the Great Hall and the elegant Winterbourne House, set in seven acres of botanic gardens.
The Bramall’s Elgar Concert Hall offers a unique space for performances and product launches.
Conference Park provides flexible meeting spaces with free high-speed Wi-Fi, catering, and a variety of residential and day conference options.
The Edgbaston Park Hotel and Conference Centre brings you 185 4-star-standard bedrooms and extensive conference and meeting facilities, incorporating the sophisticated charm of Hornton Grange and Garth House alongside a strikingly modern silhouette.
Together, the original historic buildings and new contemporary spaces offer superb wedding venues for marriages, civil ceremonies and evening celebrations.
You can always expect value, quality and attentive service tailored to your needs.
The events team is waiting to help you choose the perfect location for you and your guests – get in touch today .
There are many people and organisations within the University that are able to provide support, help or advice.
This includes help with appeal submissions, advice about discipline investigations or examination irregularity allegations.
For further information and contact details, please see below:

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/applicants/offer-terms:
When your offer is made, it is stated as either conditional or unconditional.
There are certain requirements and processes for each offer and it is important to ensure you have followed the correct guidance for each.
If your offer refers to a different course from that for which you originally applied, this might be simply because you used an incorrect course code on your application or because you have since asked us to make the change: in either case, you will know we are acting in accordance with your wishes.
However, if neither of these cases applies to you, the change of course means that we are unable to make you an offer for your first choice of course but we are able to make you an offer for an alternative course.
We hope that you will still feel able to give this alternative offer your serious consideration.
If your offer provides that your offer is for deferred entry, this means that you must still satisfy the conditions of your offer by 31 August 2025 (or any earlier date specified in your offer) but if you are successful in meeting those conditions, or if your offer is unconditional, a place will be reserved for you beginning in September 2025.
You will be able to apply for accommodation during 2025-26, and registration information will be sent before you are due to start.
If you change your mind and wish to enter the University in September 2025, please contact us immediately but please note we may not be able to grant your request if all of the available places have already been offered to other candidates.
The UK Government has confirmed that subject to certain exceptions, students from the European Union will no longer be eligible for Home fee status.
Those exceptions are:
Guidance on the eligibility of EU Nationals for Home fee status can be found on the UKCISA website .
If your offer provides that your fee status is ‘Home’, this means that from the information you gave us in your UCAS form the University has classified you as a ‘Home’ student for the purposes of tuition fees.
Please refer to the funding section of our website for up-to-date information on student fee and support arrangements.
The University will review tuition fees each year.
If Parliament agrees on an increase in tuition fees, the University will increase fees for each year of study normally in line with these changes.
Student fees loans would also be expected to rise in line with any increase in the fee, to ensure that higher education remains affordable to all.
For full details of tuition fees, how to pay them, how loan repayments work and eligibility criteria for financial support, UK students should refer to our undergraduate fees and funding page.
If your offer provides that your fee status is ‘Overseas’, this means that from the information you gave us in your UCAS form the University has classified you as an ‘Overseas’ student for the purposes of tuition fees.
For Overseas students tuition fees are charged according to the type of programme studied.
Your tuition fee is stated in your offer and further information on international fees and funding can be found on our website.
The annual tuition fee remains the same throughout your programme of study – with the exception of clinical programmes.
You will need sufficient funds to enable you to pay your fees at the beginning of each year, and to pay for your living costs.
Medical and dental students should pay particular attention to the increase in fees between their pre-clinical and clinical years.
Instructions on how to pay your fees will be included with your registration information which will be sent to you once you become placed with us (from July 2025 onwards).
For the most up-to-date information on the availability of financial support for EU students, please visit: www.gov.uk/student-finance/eu-students .
If you do not agree with the University’s assessment of your fee status you may request this to be reviewed by contacting the Admissions Office.
You are strongly advised to do this before accepting your offer.
The start date provided in your offer is when formal teaching will begin for your chosen programme.
For most programmes this will be the start of term which is 29 September 2025.
This is preceded by Welcome Week which is held from 22 September 2025.
All new students are expected to attend Welcome Week and, if you accept our offer and are successful in gaining a place, you will be provided with more details when you are sent your registration information.
This will be sent once you become placed with us (from July 2025 onwards).
The point of entry provided in your offer indicates the year of study in which you will join the programme, normally Year 1.
If you decide to accept this offer, a contract will be formed between you and the University.
Your rights and obligations to the University and the University’s obligations to you arising under that contract are set out in the documents listed below, which form the terms and conditions of your student contract.
A summary of the key terms and conditions is set out below.
Your offer of a place to study at the University is based on the latest key information, which can be found on the relevant page of the Course Finder section of the website.
This includes the core modules for the programme and may include an indication of likely optional modules.
Information set out in the prospectus and on the University website is accurate at the date of publication.
However, changes to programmes, modules, University services and the content of the prospectus may be necessary, for example, to meet the requirements of an accrediting body or to keep courses contemporary by updating practices or areas of study.
Other circumstances outside the reasonable control of the University include unexpected lack of funding, industrial action, severe weather, fire, civil disorder, political unrest, government restrictions or serious concern about the transmission of serious illness making a course, or part thereof, unsafe to deliver.
Please read your offer, offer guide, and this document carefully for details of the tuition fees payable in each year of your programme.
Up-to-date information about tuition fees and funding is available on the Fees and Funding pages of our website where the University will publish, usually in September of each year, the tuition fees that it will charge for the next academic year.
You are advised to check the website for details of any increases in tuition fees in future years.
It is your responsibility to make sure your fees and all expenses relating to your programme are paid in full and on time.
The University’s requirements on the payment of fees can be found in Regulation 5.
All students will incur some expense as a result of being at university (for example, stationery, photocopying and printing).
Core recommended texts are usually available in the University library although students may wish to purchase their own personal copies.
Unless your offer says otherwise, the tuition fee quoted in your offer does not include any charges for residential accommodation, examination re-sits, extensions to the designated period of study, travelling expenses or any other miscellaneous expenses, which may be related to your programme of study (such as the cost of field trips).
Details of any other miscellaneous expenses you are likely to incur on your programme are indicated on the Course Finder section of our website.
Accommodation offered by the University of Birmingham
If you withdraw from your programme, you may still have to pay your tuition fees.
The policy on how withdrawal affects your fee liability is available on our fees pages.
This does not affect your statutory cancellation rights (see ‘Cancelling your acceptance’ below).
The tuition fees set out in your offer are based on the start date shown in your offer.
However, if you defer your entry, your tuition fees may be more than is stated in your offer, and you should contact the Admissions Office for more information.
If your entry is deferred, please note that the course and/or its modules, course requirements and University services and facilities as currently described in the prospectus or on our website may change for your chosen year of entry.
Please keep referring to the relevant page of the Course Finder section of the website where up to date information will be published as soon as it is available.
The University may permit, in certain circumstances and only if you hold an unconditional offer, you to defer your place for one year.
Please contact the Admissions Office to discuss your request.
If you do not pay your tuition fees in full or on time, the University may impose penalties which are set out in Regulation 5 .
As a result, you may not be allowed to progress on your programme or you may be expelled from the University.
If as part of your programme you spend time in another university, institution or organisation in the UK or abroad, the rules and regulations of that university, institution or organisation will apply to you while you are there.
This might mean that you are not able to complete your programme as planned.
After you have accepted your offer of a place, you can cancel your acceptance within the cancellation period without giving us any reason.
If you start your programme during the cancellation period, the University will charge you a reasonable sum for the programme provided.
You can cancel your acceptance by informing the University’s Admissions Office.
How to cancel your acceptance
If you accept an offer to study at the University, you must tell the University within 14 days of the date of your acceptance if you have a relevant, unspent criminal conviction so that the University may assess whether, and if so to what extent, this may affect the safety of the wider University community.
The University fully supports widening participation and disclosure of a relevant, unspent conviction to the University does not automatically mean that your offer will be cancelled.
Depending on the risks associated with the conviction, the University may:
The University will consider any conviction which you disclose to it in accordance with its Criminal Convictions Policy.
If you have a relevant, unspent conviction, but do not tell us within 14 days of accepting an offer, and it later comes to our attention that you should have done so, your offer/acceptance may be cancelled, you may become subject to disciplinary proceedings in line with Section 8 (Student Conduct) of the Regulations of University, and/or you may be withdrawn from your programme and from the University.
Please see the University’s Criminal Convictions Policy which includes information on how to disclose a relevant, unspent, conviction.
If your offer of a place is conditional on you obtaining a satisfactory Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) check, you are not required upon accepting your offer to disclose to the University any criminal conviction.
Rather the University will decide if any convictions or information revealed in the DBS check are incompatible with a place on the programme.
If they are, you will be notified and your offer will be withdrawn.
How the University processes your data in relation to criminal convictions
If you have a disability the University will seek to support you whenever possible and reasonable to do so.
If you have not yet disclosed that disability, we encourage you to do so at the earliest opportunity.
As individual students’ needs (even those with the same condition) can vary, it is important that you contact the Disability and Learning Support Service before you accept any offer of a place to find out what type of support is likely to be available to you and what information we need in order to arrange it.
If you choose not to tell us about your disability, provide this information with short notice before your course or examination/assessment start dates, or do not provide full information about it before or during your programme of study, we will do our best to help you but you might not be able to have access to the full range of support which might otherwise be available to you.
If you are applying for a Fitness to Practise programme, you may be asked to provide information about your health, undergo a health check, and provide evidence of immunisation.
Your offer of a place is conditional on such requirements being met.
You will also be required to sign a Code of Professional Conduct and Fitness to Practise as set out in your offer.
If you require a visa to study in the UK, or have time-limited leave to remain in the UK, you will need to obtain ATAS clearance to undertake studies leading to the award of a doctoral level or masters qualification (MEng or MSci) in certain subjects.
Where relevant this will be included as a condition of your offer and the information you need in order to apply for an ATAS certificate will be provided.
UK immigration law does not allow universities to register international students for an ATAS applicable course until the student has supplied the university with the relevant ATAS certificate.
The University will collect information about you from your application, when you register and during your studies and University life.
This will be used to create and maintain your student record, for your studies and student life, your health and safety and for the management of University business.
To find out how we will use any personal data you share with us, please read our privacy statements .
If you are an international student and need a visa to enable you to be in the UK to study, you will have to attend a Right to Study Check when you first arrive at the University.
If you do not attend this Right to Study Check or cannot provide conclusive proof that you have the correct visa or immigration permission, you will not be allowed to begin your programme of study and/or you may be withdrawn from your programme in accordance with the Code of Practice on Student Visa Requirements .
It is essential that you regularly read our emails (in the email account you used on your application to the University) and that you follow very carefully the instructions for arrival, collection of Biometric Residence Permits and Right to Study checks.
You must meet the attendance and attendance monitoring requirements; if you do not, the University may withdraw its sponsorship of your visa and can withdraw you from your course.
In other cases, the University will apply the Intellectual Property guidance .
You must be aware of the University’s Regulations and Codes of Practice relating to conduct, academic integrity and plagiarism, attendance and reasonable diligence.
The University can impose penalties if you do not follow these requirements, and in serious cases the University can suspend or expel you from the University.
The University provides a wide range of support for its students and can support you if non-academic matters are affecting your academic progress, for example as set out in the Codes of Practice on Extenuating Circumstances, Leave of Absence, Reasonable Adjustments, Appeals or Health, Wellbeing and Fitness to Study .
The University is committed to providing a high-quality educational experience, supported by a range of academic and administrative services and facilities.
The Code of Practice on Student Concerns and Complaints sets out a procedure for dealing with students’ complaints fairly, consistently and as quickly as possible.
Students who are dissatisfied with a decision relating to a complaint they have raised may be able to complain to the Office of the Independent Adjudicator (OIA) an independent body which reviews student complaints; more information about the OIA is available on its website at: www.oiahe.org.uk .
The Code of Practice on Admissions sets out the procedure for asking for a review of decisions made in the application and admissions process.
The University will not be liable to you and you will not be liable to the University for any failure or delay in performing obligations if the failure or delay is due to any significant cause beyond the University’s or your reasonable control, such as fire, flood or industrial dispute.
Your contract with the University is between you and the University and only these two parties can enforce it.
The Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act 1999 does not apply.
The contract between you and the University is governed by English law and is subject to any changes in the law which affect this contract.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/applicants/offer-terms-pg-direct-entry:
Important information about your offer
Your offer will be conditional if you have not yet completed a relevant qualification, we need verification of your qualifications or if you have to meet other non-academic entry requirements.
Your offer will state the qualification(s) you must complete and the results you must achieve, plus any non-academic requirements.
Unless an earlier date is specified in your offer, you must meet all conditions of your offer as follows:
Your offer will be unconditional if you have already met all the academic and non-academic requirements for entry.
You will not be required to meet further conditions, however you will still need to accept your offer and follow our steps on what to do next, applying for accommodation and preparation for your studies.
If your offer refers to a different course from that for which you originally applied, this might be simply because you selected an incorrect course option or because you have since asked us to make the change: in either case, you will know we are acting in accordance with your wishes.
However, if neither of these cases applies to you, the change of course means that we are unable to make you an offer for your first choice here.
If your offer provides that your fee status is ‘Home’, this means that from the information you gave us in your application form the University has classified you as a ‘Home’ student for the purposes of tuition fees.
The tuition fee for your first year of study is stated in your offer and further information on tuition fees can be found on our website by following the relevant link under ‘Fees and Funding Information’ below.
Instructions on how to pay your tuition fees will be included with your registration information which will be sent to you once you accept an offer which is or becomes unconditional (from July 2025 onwards).
For Postgraduate research programmes of more than one year’s duration the tuition fee for your first year of study is stated in your offer.
The annual University tuition fee level is set at UK Research Council rates and as such is subject to change for subsequent years of study.
Subject to confirmation by the UK Parliament we expect that Home tuition fees for September 2025 entry will be £9,250.
The University of Birmingham will charge the maximum approved tuition fee per year.
The fees for your first year of study are therefore expected to be £9,250 as stated in your offer.
We will communicate any change in the fees to you without delay should a decision from the government make this necessary.
If your offer provides that your fee status is ‘Overseas’, this means that from the information you gave us in your application form the University has classified you as an ‘Overseas’ student for the purposes of tuition fees.
Your tuition fee is stated in your offer and further information on fees can be found on our website by following the relevant link under ‘Fees and Funding Information’ below.
The annual tuition fee remains the same throughout your programme of study.
Instructions on how to pay your fees will be included with your registration information which will be sent to you once you accept an offer which is or becomes unconditional (from July 2025 onwards).
For up to date information on student fee and support arrangements including details of tuition fees, how to pay them, available loans and eligibility criteria for financial support please refer to the relevant funding section of our website:
Further information about your tuition fee liability and the payment of tuition fees is provided in the relevant information about your Student Contract which follows below.
For taught programmes, the start date provided in your offer is when formal teaching will begin for your chosen programme.
All new students are expected to attend this and, if you accept our offer and are successful in gaining a place, you will be provided with more details when you are sent your registration information.
This will be sent once you become Unconditionally Accepted (from July 2025 onwards).
For research programmes, the start date provided in your offer is the date agreed with your supervisory team for the commencement of your study.
Any changes to this date must be agreed with the relevant School or Department in liaison with the Admissions Office.
If you need to change your start date, please contact the Admissions Office in the first instance.
It is not normally possible to agree a retrospective start date.
For students joining an undergraduate programme following study at a partner institution the Year of Entry set out in your offer indicates the year of study in which you will join the programme; normally Year 2 or Year 3.
Your rights and obligations to the University and the University’s obligations to you arising under that contract are set out in the documents listed below (as relevant), which form the terms and conditions of your student contract:
Part A below is relevant to you if you offer relates to a programme delivered at our Edgbaston Campus or via Distance Learning.
Part B below is relevant to you if your offer relates to a programme delivered at our Dubai Campus.
The documents listed below will form the terms and conditions of your student contract:
A summary of the key terms and conditions is set out below:
Your offer of a place to study at the University is based on the latest key information, which can be found on relevant page of the Course Finder section of the website .
Your proposed thesis title and primary and secondary supervisors are stated in your offer.
Changes to the proposed thesis title and supervisory team may be needed because of circumstances outside the reasonable control of the University, such as a key member of staff leaving the University or being unable to undertake supervisory duties.
Up-to-date information about tuition fees and funding is available on the Fees and Funding pages of our website where (other than in relation to tuition fees payable by Home students for Postgraduate Research programmes) the University will publish, usually in September of each year, the tuition fees that it will charge for the next academic year.
As regards Postgraduate Research programmes, the University will publish, usually during the Spring of each year, the tuition fees that it will charge Home students for the following academic year.
The University’s requirements on the payment of fees can be found in Regulation 5 .
Core recommended texts are usually available in the University library, although students may wish to purchase their own personal copies.
Details of any other miscellaneous expenses you are likely to incur on your programme are indicated on the Course Finder section of our website .
The policy on how withdrawal affects your fee liability is available on our fees pages .
This does not affect your statutory cancellation rights (see ‘Cancelling you acceptance’ below).
However, if you defer your entry, your tuition fees may be more than is stated in your offer and you should contact the Admissions Office for more information.
You can cancel your acceptance by informing the University’s Admissions Office; details on how to do this are available on our website .
We reserve the right to charge a deposit for some programmes which may be non-refundable.
Details of the deposit will be included in your offer where appropriate.
The circumstances in which deposits are refundable are as follows:
Please note that, if you are eligible for a refund, requests must be submitted to the Admissions Office by no later than 31 October 2025.
If you have a relevant, unspent conviction, but do not tell us within 14 days of accepting an offer, and it later comes to our attention that you should have done so, your offer/acceptance may be cancelled, you may become subject to disciplinary proceedings in line with Section 8 (Student Conduct) of the Regulations of University , and/or you may be withdrawn from your programme and from the University.
The University’s Criminal Convictions Policy , and information on how to disclose a relevant, unspent conviction is provided on our website.
Please see our website for further information on how the University processes your data in relation to criminal convictions .
If you require a visa to study in the UK, or have time-limited leave to remain in the UK, you will need to obtain ATAS clearance to undertake studies leading to the award of a masters qualification (MEng or MSci) in certain subjects.
If you, with material input by the University’s academic staff or as part of a collective project, develop an invention, device, discovery, material, product, process, computer software or any other potentially valuable result or innovation, Regulations 3.15 and 5.4 will apply to you in the same way as they apply to members of staff.
The University provides a wide range of support for its students and can support you if non-academic matters are affecting your academic progress, for example as set out in the Codes of Practice on Extenuating Circumstances, Leave of Absence, Reasonable Adjustments, Appeals or Health, Wellbeing and Fitness to Study.
Students who are dissatisfied with a decision relating to a complaint they have raised may be able to complain to the Office of the Independent Adjudicator (OIA) an independent body which reviews student complaints; more information about the OIA is available on its website.
Your rights and obligations to the University and the University’s obligations to you arising under that contract are set out in the documents listed below, which form the terms and conditions of your student contract:
You must provide accurate and complete information in your application form.
If you do not, the University can withdraw the offer of a place or insist that you leave.
Applicants who are minors according to UAE law must have a guardian.
Both the applicant and their guardian will be required to enter into the contract for tuition, and the guardian may be required to act as a guarantor for the tuition fees.
Visit our website for further information.
However, if you defer your entry to a subsequent academic year, your tuition fees may be more than is stated in your offer for the year for which you initially applied .
This will be in line with the University’s annual review of fees for each course.
The fee applicable for the relevant academic year will be stated in the new offer which you will receive.
If you defer, the programme and/or its modules, programme requirements and University services and facilities as currently described in the prospectus or on our website may change for your chosen year of entry.
Please keep referring to the University’s website , where up-to-date information will be published as soon as it is available.
You can cancel your acceptance by informing the University’s Admissions Office by email or by writing to the Admissions Office, the University of Birmingham, Edgbaston, Birmingham B15 2TT.
However, changes to programmes, modules, University services and the content of the prospectus may be necessary, for example, to meet the requirements of an accrediting body or to keep programme contemporary by updating practices or areas of study.
Other circumstances outside the reasonable control of the University include unexpected lack of funding, industrial action, severe weather, fire, civil disorder, war, political unrest, government restrictions or serious concern about the transmission of serious illness making a course, or part thereof, unsafe to deliver.
If changes to your programme are made after you have accepted your offer, the University will try to give you early notification of those changes and, where necessary, minimise their impact by offering suitable alternative arrangements, helping you find an alternative programme or university or providing compensation where it believes there is a fair case to do so.
When you register online, you will be asked to indicate how your fees will be paid.
If you are paying your tuition fees yourself you must either pay the full amount at the beginning of the academic year or apply to pay by instalments.
If you withdraw from your programme of study at University you will still be required to pay your tuition fees.
However the date of your withdrawal (as reported to Taught Student Administration) and the type of programme will determine the amount of Tuition Fee that you will be charged.
Please visit our applicant pages for further information.
All students will incur some expense as a result of being at university (eg, stationery, photocopying etc); where specific additional costs will be incurred for a particular programme (eg, field trips), this will be indicated on the relevant web page for that programme.
A number of core recommended texts are available for borrowing in the University library, however students may wish to purchase their own personal copy.
Unless your offer says otherwise, the tuition fee quoted in your offer does not include any charges for residential accommodation, examination re-sits, extensions to the designated period of study or travelling expenses.
In addition there will be the cost of obtaining a visa and medical insurance .
This may include withholding any service for which you owe money (for example, if you do not pay library fines you may not be allowed to access the library or use some or all of its facilities) or taking legal action against you.
If, as part of your programme, you spend time in another university, institution or organisation in the UAE or abroad, the rules and regulations of that university, institution or organisation are likely to apply to you while you are there.
Some overseas institutions might impose academic sanctions, for example, they might refuse to release your marks, if you do not pay either tuition fees or any other fees or costs (such as accommodation fees) which you owe them.
Full details will be included in your offer where appropriate.
Please read the University’s Criminal Convictions Policy , and information on how to disclose a relevant, unspent conviction on our website.
Information on how the University processes your data in relation to criminal convictions can be found on our website.
Students are required to attend such lectures, tutorials, examinations and other activities as form part of their programme.
This includes the requirement to submit theses, dissertations and coursework on time.
Students must also be aware of and observe the University’s regulations and codes of practice relating to conduct, academic integrity, plagiarism, attendance and reasonable diligence.
Students are also required to adhere to and observe the Dubai International Academic City (DIAC) Shared Facility Policy Statement on Student Discipline, breach of which may have an impact on your studies.
If you need a visa to study, breach of this Policy Statement may result in the withdrawal of your visa.
If your visa is withdrawn, you will be required to leave Dubai, and this may mean you will be unable to complete your programme.
The University prides itself on being a diverse community.
Our commitment to equality and diversity and the elimination of discrimination is embodied in the University’s Charter and our aim is to ensure that the University remains an inclusive environment where equality of opportunity and tolerance for all are fostered and promoted.
If you have a disability, the University will seek to support you whenever possible and reasonable to do so.
As individual students’ needs (even those with the same condition) can vary, it is important that you contact the Disability and Learning Support Service before you accept any offer of a place to find out what type of support is likely to be available to you and what information we need to arrange it.
If you choose not to tell us about your disability, provide this information with short notice before your programme or examination/assessment start dates or do not provide full information about it before or during your programme, we will do our best to help you but you might not be able to have access to the full range of support which might otherwise be available to you.
The University is committed to the promotion of equality.
However, you should be aware that:
If you are a UAE citizen you will not require a visa.
All non-UAE national students are required to have a visa, and appropriate health insurance, for each year of their study in Dubai.
If you require a visa or immigration permission to study in the UAE, you will have to attend a Right to Study Check when you first arrive at the University.
If you do not attend this Right to Study Check or cannot provide conclusive proof that you have the correct visa or immigration permission, you will not be allowed to begin your programme and/or you may be withdrawn from your programme.
It is essential that you regularly read our emails (in the email account you used on your application to the University) and that you follow very carefully the instructions for arrival, and bring the documents stated in the email and right to Study checks.
Visit our website for further information about requirements in relation to visas and health insurance .
If you, in the course of your study or research, develop intellectual property including an invention, device, discovery, material, product, process, computer software or any other potentially valuable result or innovation with material input from the University’s academic staff or as part of a collective project, programme or research activity, you assign all rights in such intellectual property to the University; the procedures and arrangements for notification and exploitation will be the same as those for Staff in the University set out in Regulation 3.15, Patents and the Exploitation of Inventions.
The University will not make any claim to any intellectual property developed by you in circumstances other than those set out above.
Details of the University’s procedures and guidance involving sharing of revenue from exploitation are available from the Director of Research and Knowledge Transfer within each of the colleges, Alta Innovations Ltd or the Registrar and Secretary can be found on our website .
The Code of Practice on Student Concerns and Complaints sets out a procedure for dealing with students complaints fairly, consistently and as quickly as possible.
The University will collect information about you from the application and registration procedures, as part of your academic progress and university life and from carrying out Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) or equivalent checks or health checks (if necessary).
The University and the organisations we work with to deliver programmes will use this to support you on your programme, for the administration and management of the University, including statistical analysis and to contact you about University business.
Medical information disclosed to the University, including the University’s Wellbeing Officer will be treated as confidential.
Information arising from DBS checks or equivalents will be used only in accordance with the principles of the DBS code of practice.
Some information may be disclosed outside the University, for example, at your request, with your consent or in order to meet statutory obligations.
We may disclose information relating to your academic progress to your sponsor (if you have one).
The University and the Dubai International Academic City (DIAC) may share information about non-UAE students who require a visa to study to enable DIAC to process and manage visas.
They may also share information about students registered with the University in relation to allegations of, investigations into and findings of misconduct by either the University or DIAC.
We will also ask for emergency contact details, and by providing them, you confirm that these individuals have consented to the processing of their personal data by the University.
All information will be kept for a reasonable period in accordance with legal requirements and for administration purposes.
Please visit our website for further information.
If you have any questions, please contact the admissions tutor for your programme.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/university/leadership/governance/policies-regs/health-safety:
The University of Birmingham is committed to providing and maintaining a healthy and safe working environment for all its employees, students and any other people who may be affected by its activities.
Health and Safety Services has scientific and technical expertise provided by professionally qualified advisers.
Their role is to assist the University in the development and implementation of the University Health and Safety Policy and to provide expert advice.
The Service works closely with other departments in the University, in particular Occupational Health, and with external agencies.
See the University's Health and Safety policy (PDF - 2.2.Mb)
Health and Safety Services is based at 13 Pritchatts Road.
Health and Safety Services, The University of Birmingham, Edgbaston, Birmingham, B15 2TT
Email: healthandsafety@contacts.bham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/applicants/student-charter:
We aim to provide:
The Charter, jointly developed by students and staff, outlines the standards and core principles of our learning community.
* The University terms this ‘reasonable diligence’
** For students studying at the University's overseas campus the responsibilities of the Guild of Students will be undertaken through the appropriate local student representation system.
***In the case of PGR programmes
Student engagement is defined as the range of ways in which students are active participants in shaping their learning experience.
The University takes deliberate steps to engage all our students, individually and collectively, as partners in the assurance and enhancement of their educational experience.
The Student Charter is reviewed regularly by the University Education Committee, which includes representation from the Guild of Students.
If you have any comments, feedback or questions regarding the Student Charter please contact Student Services studentcharter@contacts.bham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/course-search:
Aerospace Engineering BEng - this undergraduate degree course is structured to give you a broad coverage of engineering disciplines appropriate to the current and future aerospace industry.
Aerospace Engineering MEng, this undergraduate degree course is structured to give you a broad coverage of engineering disciplines appropriate to the current and future aerospace industry.
During this undergraduate degree course you'll learn about core computer science concepts and develop a strong theoretical grounding in AI.
Artificial Intelligence and Computer Science BSc.
During this undergraduate degree course you'll learn about AI and have an opportunity to spend time in industry.
Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Computer Science with a Year in Industry BSc.
Our prestigious Arts and Sciences degree is designed for talented students who want to study a variety of subjects at degree level.
Course details for prospective students on our BA Ancient and Medieval History undergraduate degree programme at the University of Birmingham UK.
This undergraduate degree programme at the University of Birmingham covers the rise and development of ancient civilisations over several millennia.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/course-search:
Advance your practice through selection of modules designed to enhance your ability to take on roles in advanced practice.
This Advanced Computer Science Masters/MSc draws upon our international research reputation, it is designed to prepare students for a career in academic or industrial research in computer science.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/programme-factsheets/2016-course-information.aspx:
Our programme factsheets provide offer holders with a summary of their chosen programme of study.
To download a programme factsheet, search below or use our A>Z listing.
You can search by title or UCAS code.
The University continually looks for ways to improve the experience for our students.
From September 2020, the structure of the University’s academic teaching year will change so that a range of benefits can be provided to all of our taught students.
As a consequence, there have been changes to module structures on some programmes.
There have been no changes made to the content of these programmes.
Our programme factsheets were produced when each student cohort started at university, and so if you are returning to download your factsheet at a later date, they may not precisely reflect the compulsory modules that you will study from September 2020 onwards.
Factsheet Search A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Search for: Search

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/fees-funding:
Studying at university requires you to pay for your tuition and cover your living expenses.
However, financial support is available.
Learn more about the loans and grants available from the government and other providers for UK, EU and international students; plus the wide variety of scholarships available at the University.
Find out how we can support you with funding to complete your studies and enjoy university

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/fees-funding:
From cash payments to full tuition fee waivers, we are committed to alleviating financial barriers to support you in taking your next steps on our courses beginning in 2025.
We understand that continuing your education to postgraduate level is a
significant financial investment.
Explore our database to find a scholarship or funding opportunity that's right for you.
Meet academics and students on campus and find out what life is like at Birmingham.
We aim to provide you with information on all the associated costs so there are no surprises once you begin your course.
Information on tuition fees and other related costs will help you plan your finances from day one.
Financial advice and support for postgraduate students.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/applicants/student-protection-plan:
The Student Protection Plan is a document approved by the Office for Students (OfS) that every university is required to have.
It sets out what measures we have in place to protect you, as a student at the University of Birmingham, should a risk to the continuation of your studies arise, and details how we would communicate with you about this.
Our Plan has received student input and has been written in collaboration with the Guild of Students.
If you have any immediate views, concerns or feedback in relation to this Plan, please contact the Academic Registrar via the form below or speak to the Guild of Students .
Alternatively, if you have a complaint regarding this Plan you can raise the issue through the procedure detailed in the University’s Code of Practice on Student Concerns and Complaints.
Students dissatisfied with a decision relating to a complaint they have raised may be able to complain to the Office of the Independent Adjudicator (OIA) .

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/undergraduate/index.aspx:
Our high-quality teaching and supervision here at Birmingham will help you take your knowledge, skills and career to the next level.
Here, you'll be engaged, motivated and challenged, and become a part of our diverse and inclusive community.
Visit our campus on an undergraduate open day and discover why our students love to study here.
Study at the University most targeted by leading employers in 2024.
Gain the skills you need with careers support from Birmingham.
The Aston Webb building, where our graduation ceremonies take place in the Great Hall
Our famous clock tower is fondly known as 'Old Joe'
Our Main Library has a range of facilities to suit your learning style
Explore undergraduate student and alumni profiles profiles and blogs that dive into student life, our vibrant city and campus, and offer real tips and insights.
Immediately, I felt a sense of belonging and a need to study here.
Explore the many ways we work with pupils and school staff in local and national schools and colleges.
We support students from primary education to post-16 to promote the variety of pathways to university study.
Use our offer calculator to find out if you're likely to receive an offer to study with us.
Download or order a prospectus for an introduction to studying with us.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/postgraduate/courses/research/search.aspx:
Course information for prospective postgraduate students on our PhD/ in African Studies and Anthropology doctoral research degree programme.
Course information for prospective postgraduate students on our PhD/PhD by Distance Learning/MA by Research in African Studies  doctoral research degree.
Our Applied Educational and Child Psychology Doctorate at the University of Birmingham is designed to set you apart as a skilled educational psychologist.
Join the Applied Health Research PhD/MSc at the University of Birmingham.
Develop skills to tackle global health challenges and improve healthcare outcomes.
This Applied Mathematics Master of Research (MRes) programme involves both taught classes in Applied Mathematics and a substantial MRes thesis which accounts for almost two-thirds of the total degree.
The Applied Mathematics Research Group works on a wide variety of topics in a range of areas such as fluid mechanics, mathematical biology, financial mathematics and computational mathematics.
Course information for prospective postgraduate students on our PhD Arabic Studies at the University of Birmingham.
Course information for prospective postgraduate students on our PhD Archaeology doctoral research degree programme at the University of Birmingham
Advance your research with a PhD in Atmospheric Sciences and Air Pollution at the University of Birmingham.
Tackle global air quality challenges.
Apply now!

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/applicants/extenuating-circs:
We understand that during preparations for examinations, or other assessments, upon which an applicant is relying to meet conditions of entry they may encounter significant personal circumstances which impact on their performance, or even their ability to complete the assessments.
For the purposes of this policy extenuating circumstances are considered to be exceptional or unforeseen circumstances which are over and above the course of everyday experience.
Examples include (but are not limited to) bereavement involving someone very close to you, severe sudden illness or an abrupt change in circumstances which may affect exam/assessment performance.
Prolonged, chronic, or long-term health conditions are not normally considered as extenuating circumstances.
Applicants with chronic illness or disability should have received ongoing support within their educational establishment with reasonable adjustments put in place.
However, where the timing of a diagnosis, or marked deterioration mean that such adjustments were not possible this may constitute a basis for extenuating circumstances.
In addition, where there has been a demonstrable lack of appropriate provision, supported by independent evidence, this may also be considered as a basis for extenuating circumstances.
If you have experienced significant personal or health circumstances prior to, or on the day of, such assessments referred to above the University expects that, with the support of your exam centre or educational establishment, these circumstances should be reported to the relevant examining body for consideration.
This is often referred to as ‘special consideration’ by awarding bodies.
Where the awarding body’s processes for seeking such special consideration have been followed the University will not normally give further consideration to extenuating circumstances as these will already have been taken into account in the grades awarded.
However, in some circumstances such special consideration processes are unable to adjust the grades awarded such that they reflect performance that would reasonably have been expected had the circumstances not occurred.
In these cases the University will give consideration to a request to consider extenuating circumstances which is supported by appropriate evidence.
Procedural issues or inaccuracies in the marking of assessments or awarding of grades will not normally be considered as extenuating circumstances.
Any such procedural irregularities should be addressed with the appropriate awarding body with the support of your educational establishment/exam centre for resolution.
Please note that extenuating circumstances may not normally be considered in relation to meeting the minimum requirement for English Language proficiency for international students who require a Student Route visa to study.
This is due to the University’s requirement to abide by immigration regulations.
In considering extenuating circumstances the University will consider the effect of such circumstances on your qualifications and/or exam performance.
In particular, consideration will be given as to whether there is sufficient evidence to consider that you would have achieved the grades required for admission had these circumstances not occurred.
All requests for consideration of Extenuating Circumstances for applicants must be accompanied by independent third-party evidence.
Normally this will need to be in the form of evidence from your current or most recent educational establishment or exam centre confirming the existence of the circumstances and offering an assessment of the impact of these on your assessment outcomes.
Therefore, we are not able to consider supporting evidence from a friend or family member.
All such evidence must be legible and in English; where evidence is submitted in another language this must be accompanied by a certified translation.
Evidence from a doctor or medical professional will not normally be required as this does not usually assist the University in assessing the impact of the circumstances on performance in assessments; this is best provided by your current, or most recent, educational establishment.
Where ‘special consideration’, or other mitigation procedures, have been followed by the relevant Awarding Body evidence must be provided of the ongoing assessments which indicate that such processes have not adequately adjusted outcomes to reflect the impact of the circumstances.
These should be provided by your educational establishment and provide sufficient detail and evidence for an academic judgment to be made on the suitability of granting admission where the normal admission requirements have not been met.
Where such procedures have not been followed (i.e.
the circumstances were not reported to the awarding body for consideration) this must be confirmed by your educational institution or exam centre with reasons given as to why this was not possible.
If you have applied with results already received and you do not meet the normal requirement to be made an offer your application will be referred to the relevant Admissions Tutor for consideration as below.
If you have yet to receive your results the information provided, including the evidence, will be held on your application record.
Once your results are received, and if you have not met the conditions of your offer, this will be referred to the relevant Admissions Tutor for consideration.
The admissions tutor will consider both the results you have achieved and the supporting evidence provided to determine whether there is sufficient indication of suitability to admit to the course.
In reaching their decision they will take into account how near to meeting the requirement your grades are, any special consideration applied by your awarding body and the extent of the impact on your assessment performance outlined in the evidence provided.
Admissions tutors will also give consideration to whether the circumstances impacted only on performance in assessments/exams or whether these led to prerequisite learning being missed.
Where essential prior learning has been missed it may not be suitable to offer admission if this is required as important preparation to undertake the course.
The outcome of your application will be communicated via the normal means appropriate to the type of course you have applied for (UCAS or your applicant portal).
A request for consideration of extenuating circumstances does not guarantee that the University will make you an offer, or that your application will be successful if you do not meet the conditions of your offer.
If your application is unsuccessful you may seek a review of the decision making process as outlined in the Code of practice on the Admission Of Students .
Please note that the Code of Practice does not provide for a review of a decision on the basis that an applicant disagrees with the academic judgment made or where there is no evidence that the correct procedures have not been followed.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/applicants/paying-your-fees:
At Birmingham we recognise that students need flexibility when paying fees.
We provide a range of payment options to suit everyone.
You can either pay in full, or spread the cost over manageable instalments by Direct Debit.
Once you have completed Online Registration, you will receive an invoice confirming your tuition fees for the year, and the due date by which you need to pay or apply to pay in instalments by Direct Debit.
Pay by credit card or debit card
Pay by bank transfer
Single payments can be made for multiple years’ tuition fees, for example to benefit from advantageous exchange rates.
You can pay for tuition or accommodation fees by debit or credit card.
We accept Visa, MasterCard, and Maestro cards.
All card payments will be processed in Pounds Sterling (GBP).
Please read the section below for the terms and conditions of online payments and information on the reliability and security of paying your fee online.
Pay tuition or accommodation fees by credit or debit card
If you have received an online offer of accommodation , to accept your contract, you must make payment through your online accommodation account .
For more information and help, visit the Student fees webpage.
Flywire is our payment partner for processing online transactions.
Flywire manage the conversion rates for international payments – they guarantee the cheapest option available, with multiple payment methods to choose from, depending on where you’re making payment from.
For more details, visit Terms of Use | Flywire.
This site is secured using a Thawte SSL Web Server Certificate to offer you secure communications by encrypting all data to and from the site.
At the University of Birmingham we recognise that your personal privacy is a serious and important issue and we support the principle of protecting privacy on the Internet within the context of current UK Legislation .
You can pay tuition or accommodation fees by bank transfer, whether you’re a UK or international student.
If you’re an international student, you can make payment in your local or recognised currency, from your home bank account.
Pay for tuition or accommodation fees by bank transfer.
You can spread the cost of your tuition and accommodation fees over monthly or termly instalments.
You must have a UK bank account that enables Direct Debits for this.
The option to pay by Direct Debit instalment plan is only available between October and May and the monthly instalments cannot extend beyond May in each academic session.
If you have started your studies mid-way through the academic year then you will join the plan at the next available payment date and all plans will be calculated on the number of months or terms left before May.
For more information about Direct Debit payments, including payment schedules, how to change your bank account details, contact details and cancel your Direct Debit, visit our Pay fees by Direct Debit webpage.
You may not receive your schedule of payments (Advance Notification) until you have registered with the University for the current academic session.
You can still pay in instalments if Pounds Sterling (GBP) is not your home currency.
You will need to set this up with our Finance team.
To request this, raise a Student Payment Query on Finance Service Portal.
You’ll need to log in using your University credentials.
If the total of your tuition fee is greater than £9,585 and you’re not paying in full in the first term, a non-refundable interest charge will be applied.
The interest charge will not exceed 1% above the base rate of the Bank of England at the time of the instalment plan application.
This applies to instalments paid by Direct Debit as well.
Accommodation fee Direct Debit plans are not subject to interest charges.
You will be asked to enter the details of your sponsor as part of Online Registration.
We will then contact your sponsor for payment.
If you did not provide details of your sponsor as part of Online Registration, please send their full details to the Finance team by raising a Student Payment Query on the Finance Service Portal.
Once you have completed Online Registration, you will receive an invoice confirming your tuition fees for the year.
If you already entered the details of your sponsor on Online Registration you do not need to take any further action.
You will be asked to enter the details of your student loan, including the SSN number they have assigned you, as part of Online Registration.
We will await payment of your fees directly from the Student Loan Company.
Once you have completed Online Registration you will receive an invoice confirming your tuition fees for the year, however, if you have entered the details of your student loan on Online Registration you do not need to take any further action.
The University incurs additional administrative costs when collecting late payments.
If we fail to receive payment when requested, a default charge of £50 or 1.5% (whichever is greater) will be charged to cover these costs.
For further details on penalty of non-payment please refer to the Admissions and Registration regulations (PDF - 67KB) .
If you would like our Finance team to discuss details of your account with a parent, spouse, partner, friend, relative or other third party, the University is required under the Data Protection Act 1998, to obtain the written consent of the student.
Please complete the Authorisation Contact Details section in Online Registration.
Alternatively, complete our Authorisation Contact Details form and return it to the Finance team by raising a Student Payment Query on the Finance Service Portal.
We cannot discuss details of a student account with anyone except the student, until we’ve received written consent from the student.
If you need a receipt for payment made towards your tuition and or your accommodation fees for the current academic year, raise a Student Payment Query on the Finance Service Portal.
Find out about how to request a refund, and the different types of refunds you can get on our request a refund page.
Find out more about our tuition fee liability below.
For more information on student fees, please visit our student fees intranet pages.
For queries about payment of fees, receipts, refunds and more, contact Finance:
For queries about bursaries , visit Scholarships and stipends to find the relevant contact for your School or College.
For queries about Registration , contact Registry at tsa@contacts.bham.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/applicants/apcl:
If you would like credit from a previous award-bearing course to be taken into consideration for exemption from modules of a programme of study at the University of Birmingham, please complete this application form in full.
The Accreditation of Prior Learning, or APL, is a process by which this University (and many others) gives credit against learning achieved by an individual before entry to a programme of study at Birmingham.
Such prior learning may have been previously assessed and certificated by an education provider (for example, by another institution of Higher Education).
In which case recognition of this kind of learning is known as the Accreditation of Prior Certificated Learning or APCL.
It may also have been acquired outside the formal education and training systems (for example, through work experience) and would therefore be recognised by the process of Accreditation of Prior Experiential Learning or APEL.
The APL process does not apply to the assessment of your prior learning and/or experience for the purpose of entry to a programme of study, only to the assessment of your eligibility for entry with credit.
Whether your APL claim is based on prior certificated learning or prior experiential learning, it is important to realise that it is the achievement of learning, or the outcomes of that learning, that is being accredited rather than the activity of learning itself.
The scope of these guidelines is for Accreditation of Prior Certified Learning (APCL).
If you wish to make a claim for the Accreditation of Prior Experiential Learning (APEL) please contact the admissions office by email apl@contacts.bham.ac.uk
An APCL claim is only required in certain circumstances and should not be confused with other procedures within Admissions and Academic Services..
Please study the following list carefully to find out if APCL applies in your case.
If you are still unsure whether you need to make a claim you are welcome to contact the Admissions Manager with responsibility for APL for advice.
You do not need to make an APCL claim if
In all other circumstances you will need to make a claim for APCL.
Credit provides a means of quantifying learning outcomes achievable in a given number of notional hours and at a given level.
Learning outcomes are used to identify whether students have demonstrated through assessment the minimum level of learning required to pass a module and thus gain the required credit.
In this way previous learning can be identified which can be assessed and ‘credited’ against an award.
APCL is the process by which an applicant’s previously accrued credit is assessed to determine whether it can be used to gain exemption from modules of a programme of study at the University of Birmingham.
A module is a component of a course with its own approved aims and objectives and assessment methods.
Modules normally consist of 10 or 20 credits and are taken at specified levels (for example, a module might be worth 20 credits at Masters level).
Applicants are welcome to make a claim for exemption from a University of Birmingham module on the basis of previously accrued credit with a value greater than that module.
For example, an applicant could claim exemption from a Birmingham module worth 20 credits on the basis of a previously completed module worth 40 credits.
However please note that credit cannot be given for part of a module.
For example, it is not possible to request exemption from half of a 40 credit module on the basis of a previously completed module worth 20 credits.
In order to complete your APCL application form you will need to know the credit value and level of study of your previous qualification.
Below you will find a table showing the levels of study of some common awards.
For comparison purposes you will also find a separate table illustrating the credit requirements of a number of awards offered by the University of Birmingham.
If you unsure of the credit value and level of your prior qualification you are advised to contact the institution where your studies were completed for advice.
Further information about frameworks for Higher Education qualifications can also be found at QAA (Quality Assurance Agency for Higher Education) and Ofqual (Office of Qualifications and Examinations Regulation).
This table describes the level of study for common awards; it details the award and its corresponding level in the Framework for Higher Education Qualifications (FHEQ) Level of Study and the Regulated Qualifications Framework (RQF) Level of Study.
*A stage is the equivalent of 1 year's full-time study
A w a r d
F r a m e w o r k for Higher Education Qu a lifications (FHEQ) Level of Study
Regulated Qualifications Framework (RQF) Level of Study
University Certificate
Level C (Certificate)
Level 4
Cert HE
Stage 1 of a Bachelors Degree*
HNC
University Diploma
Level I (Intermediate)
Level 5
Dip HE
Foundation Degree
HND
Stage 2 of a Bachelors Degree*
Graduate Certificate
Level H (Honours)
Level 6
Graduate Diploma
Ad Cert
BPhil
Stage 3 of a Bachelors Degree*
BA
BEng
PG Cert
Level M (Masters)
Level 7
PG Dip
PGCE
MA
MEd
PhD/DPhil
Level D (Doctoral)
Level 8
This table describes the credit requirements of awards offered at the University of Birmingham; it details the qualification and the credits required for the award of that qualification.
U n i v er s i t y of Birmingham Qualification
C re d its Required for Award of Qu a lification
60 credits
120 credits
240 credits
Bachelors degrees (unless specified otherwise below)
360 credits
Bachelors degrees with an additional year in industry or year abroad
480 credits
Undergraduate Masters (MEng, MSci)
Undergraduate Masters with an additional year in industry or year abroad
600 credits
Taught Postgraduate degree (MA, MSc, MEd)
180 credits
MPhil (one-year programme)
MRes (one-year programme)
PhD
540 credits
The University is concerned to ensure that all students meet a required standard on its awards and that all students are treated equitably.
Where APCL is being sought for the award of academic credit the University must make certain that the learning derived from prior certificated study is equivalent to that of the learning that might otherwise have been achieved by following the full programme of study.
Consequently it must be satisfied that the evidence submitted in support of an APCL claim meets the following criteria:
Please note it is your responsibility to check that your previous studies were taken at the same level as (or higher than) the Birmingham qualification you wish to claim credit towards.
For example, if you are seeking to bring previously accrued credit into a BPhil you must ensure that your prior learning was taken at level H (Honours)/RQF Level 6 or above.
If your prior learning was taken at a lower level than the Birmingham award for which you are seeking exemption we will be unable to consider your claim for APCL.
The only exception to this would be if the University of Birmingham course you are seeking to transfer credit into contains a module (or modules) offered at a lower level than the overall qualification.
Under University regulations it is possible for a Masters degree and a Postgraduate Diploma to contain a maximum of 30 credits below Masters level; and for a Postgraduate Certificate to contact a maximum of 20 credits below Masters level.
In this case it would be possible to make an APCL claim for the module taken at a lower level on the basis of previous studies which were also taken at that same level.
Please note that it is not standard for University of Birmingham qualifications to contain module/s taken at a level lower than that of the overall award, and it is therefore your responsibility to check if this applies to the course you are seeking to import credit into before making an application for APCL on the basis of credit taken at a lower level.
You must also ensure that the credit value of your previous studies is equivalent to (or higher than) the module/s of the Birmingham qualification for which you are seeking exemption.
For example, since APL regulations permit exemption from whole modules only, previous studies with a value of 20 credits can only be used to make an APCL claim for a University of Birmingham module worth 20 credits or less.
The university does not award general credit and is only able to consider an applicant’s previous study for APCL if it closely matches the content of the University of Birmingham modules from which the applicant is seeking exemption.
In assessing an APCL claim the University will consider if the stated learning outcomes of the module/s from which the applicant is requesting exemption have been adequately met by his or her previous studies and will only award exemption from a module or modules of a University programme if this is the case.
If you are unsure if whether your previous studies are a close enough match to the Birmingham qualification towards which you are claiming credit you are welcome to contact the relevant admissions tutor for an informal discussion prior to making an application for APCL.
If your previous studies are more than five years old but you still wish to make a claim for APCL you should contact the admissions tutor of the University of Birmingham programme into which you wish to import credit prior to making an application.
He or she will be able to assess the currency of your prior learning and advise you if it is worth pursuing a claim.
If you are advised to do so you will be required to provide a statement of currency on your APCL application form.
However, recommendation to pursue an APCL claim on the basis of studies that are more than five years old does not guarantee that exemption will be granted.
The maximum amount of credit that can be imported into an award via APCL is two-thirds of the qualification.
For example, a maximum of 120 credits towards a 180 credit Masters degree.
This excludes any compulsory dissertation or thesis elements stated in the programme requirements for which exemption will not be granted.
Two-thirds is the upper limit and as such does not reflect the standard amount of credit awarded by the University.
If you wish to make a claim for the Accreditation of Prior Certificated Learning, please complete the form at the end of this page.
You must not make an application for APCL until after you have made an application for admission to the University of Birmingham course you wish to claim credit towards and at minimum are holding a Conditional Offer for that course.
For example, if you are requesting exemption from modules of a Masters course run at Birmingham you must make an application for admission to this Masters course via the Admissions Office, and be successful in gaining an offer of a place, before making an application for APCL.
If you are requesting exemption on the basis of previous studies completed at the University of Birmingham this means making a new application for admission to the course you wish to claim credit towards.
You should apply for APCL no less than one month prior to the commencement date of the University of Birmingham course you wish to claim credit towards.
For example, if the course is due to commence on 30 September the Admissions Manager should receive your application for APCL by 30 August.
If the course is studied part time over more than one year then you should make a claim for APCL up to one month prior to the commencement of each year of study.
Please note the following important information:
In order for your APCL claim to be considered you must ensure that you provide the supporting evidence requested in in the application form.
You will need to complete or upload with your application descriptions of any courses or modules completed outside the University of Birmingham.
For example, this documentation should provide information about the overall aims of your previously studied course, show the content of each module taken as part of the course and describe the methods of assessment used.
This is the kind of information that might be available in a course handbook or brochure.
It may also be available on the institution’s website.
If so, you are welcome to specify the web address where we can obtain this information.
Otherwise you should request the required documentation from your prior educational institution.
Failure to provide sufficient information about your previous study will result in a delay in processing your APCL claim.
You must also upload proof of the completion of any studies completed outside the University of Birmingham.
We require original or certified copies (that is, copies bearing an original certification stamp) of your university transcript and, if you were awarded a qualification, degree certificate.
If you do send original documents please note that we will be unable to return them to you by registered post unless you provide a pre-paid postage envelope.
Otherwise any original documents will be returned by First Class mail only.
Please refer to the Admission (verification) for acceptable means of verifying your qualifications.
If you have already provided verification of the previous studies you are seeking to transfer into a programme of study at Birmingham as part of your Postgraduate application then please indicate this in the checklist at the end of the application form.
If your previous studies were taken at the University of Birmingham you do not need to provide proof of completion unless we ask you to do so after assessing your application.
If your claim is on the basis of qualifications obtained more than 5 years ago, you will need to provide a statement explaining why you believe your prior learning is still current for the purpose of credit transfer.
You should describe ways in which you have kept your previous studies up-to-date, for example via work experience, and demonstrate how this subsequent learning relates to your studies.
Please ensure that you provide dates for any subsequent learning you are asking us to consider.
Please note, we may ask you to submit additional documentation in support of this statement at a later date.
As per our verification policy, you will also need to post certified copies or original documents to verify your previous studies to the Admissions Office at the address below – unless your previous studies were completed at the University of Birmingham, or you have already verified your previous study as part of the Undergraduate or Postgraduate application process.
If a decision is made to award you credit then no credit can be formally awarded unless and until you provide verification of your previous study.
Please email your supporting documents to apl@contacts.bham.ac.uk
Once we have received your application for APCL it will be checked to make sure that there is sufficient evidence to allow us to process your claim.
If the application form is incomplete, or you have failed to enclose adequate supporting documentation, we will contact you to let you know and your application will be put on hold until you have supplied the missing information or documentation.
Likewise if there are any queries about your previous studies to be resolved before processing your claim we will contact you for more information.
Your application will not be processed until such time as you have provided us with the required evidence.
In some circumstances it may also be necessary for us to contact your prior Educational Institution for information about your studies.
For example, we may need to ask them to provide more detailed evidence about course content than is available in a standard course syllabus.
Once we are happy that your application is complete, your application form will be sent to the relevant Department/School along with an APCL decision form.
The admissions tutor/APL contact will make an initial assessment of your application and determine if there is sufficient supporting evidence to enable him or her to make a decision.
if not we will contact you to request additional information.
The relevant admissions tutor will assess your APCL claim and inform the Admissions Office of the decision.
The Admissions Office will notify you of the Department’s decision in writing.
If your application for APCL is successful the letter will state the amount of credit to be awarded and the titles of any exempted modules.
These exempted modules will be entered into your student record as APL modules by staff within Academic Services.
The Admissions Office will copy the decision letter to colleagues in Taught Student Administration and the Finance Office so that your tuition fees can be adjusted accordingly.
Taught Student Administration will also email you details of your revised tuition fee liability.
If your application is unsuccessful reasons for the decision will be given in the decision letter.
Please note that if your APCL claim is successful we will be unable to send you a decision letter until such time as you are holding an Unconditional offer of a place on the University of Birmingham course you are claiming credit towards.
Due to the varied nature of APCL claims it is difficult to give a precise turnaround time for decisions.
However, as a guide you should expect to receive a decision on your application in approximately 4-6 weeks.
If you have not received a decision within that time you are welcome to contact the Admissions at apl@contacts.bham.ac.uk to check on the status of your application.
The University will not review an APL decision where the grounds for requesting are viewed as simply that the applicant disagrees with the academic judgement that has been applied, and where there is no evidence that the correct procedures have not been followed.
The University shall not be obliged to consider an appeal simply on the grounds that the applicant is unwilling to accept the original decision not to grant credit, and seeks to overturn that decision.
If your claim for APCL is unsuccessful you may only request a review of the decision on the basis of additional evidence that was unavailable at the time of the application.
For example, if you subsequently obtain additional documentation pertaining to you prior certificated study which supports your claim.
This request should be made in writing and addressed to the Admissions Manager with responsibility for APL at apl@contacts.bham.ac.uk
Please be aware that students wishing to use APCL credits towards their degree will not be eligible to apply for a Postgraduate loan for Masters study in the UK.
Please make sure that you complete the application form, including all relevant supporting documentation in full.
You must also provide evidence of qualifications, in line with our verification policy.
Failure to supply adequate evidence with your application will mean that we are unable to process your claim.
Please note that completion of this application does not guarantee that exemption will be granted.
The deadline for submitting an APCL application is no later than six weeks before the start date of your programme.
We cannot guarantee that applications received after this deadline will be processed in time for a credit to be awarded.
Please refer to the questions/ sections above before completing this form.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/about/leadership/governance/policies-and-regulations:
The University is governed by a number of policies and regulations relating to those who engage with it, both internally and externally.
Policies and documents relevant to external parties can be found within this section.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/forms/legal/foi:
The act gives two related rights -
A substantial amount of information about the University can be found by visiting the University homepage or by consulting our Publication Scheme .
If you are unsuccessful in locating the information you require, please make a formal request for information.
If you are unable to find the information you require from our website or publication scheme, a request can be made in writing, giving your name and address, and detailing the information requested, to:
If the Director of Legal Services was involved in responding to the request at the first stage, then the University’s Registrar and Secretary or nominee will be asked to investigate the matter.
The Director of Legal Services or the Registrar and Secretary as appropriate may, after having sought further information from the members of staff involved in dealing with the original request, seek to resolve the issue on the basis of the documentation submitted.
Where the Director of Legal Services or the Registrar and Secretary requires further clarification, they may decide to meet with the members of staff involved in dealing with the original request.
A full response to the complaint will normally be sent direct to the Complainant(s) within fifteen (15) working days, or in the case of a complex review, especially when the public interest test is involved, within thirty (30) working days.
If, having received this response, the Complainant(s) remains dissatisfied; they may make an appeal to the Information Commissioner at the address below.
Name (Given name and Family name) Address Telephone number Fax number Email Description of the information you require Please provide a description of the information you require from the University of Birmingham.
A clear and full description will help us to supply that information.
If your request relates to specific document(s), please provide any details of the document you may have (eg date of production, author etc) and its likely location (eg the relevant staff member, Office or School).
If you are uncertain as to how to describe the information you require, The Information Compliance Manager will be happy to provide you with advice and assistance, or direct you to others who can help (The Information Compliance Manager may be contacted as shown in Note (v) below): Description NB.
The University of Birmingham has the right to ask for clarification of any request for information where it does not prove possible to identify the information needed from the original description provided.
Format of information Where your request covers information that is already published by the University, we will provide you with directions on how to locate the appropriate information in its usual published format.
Otherwise, we can provide you with either: the opportunity to view the information by appointment with The Information Compliance Manager; or the information in "permanent" form (eg photocopies of the relevant information); or, where relevant, the information in digest form.
Please note below your preference for receipt of information: Format Notes (i) Where the University already publishes the information requested, you will be directed to the relevant public resource.
(ii) Though there is no limit to the scope of the information you may request, please note that the University may have the right to refuse vexatious requests (under the terms of Section 14 of the Freedom of Information Act 2000), to obscure or suppress information that relates to other third parties (under the terms of Principles 1, 6 and 7 of the Data Protection Act 1998) and to not disclose information that is covered by relevant exemptions allowed by the Freedom of Information Act 2000.
If your request is refused, a full explanation will be provided along with details of the relevant appeal process.
(iii) In cases where the University holds only some of the information requested, we will respond as fully as we can.
Should we need to redirect an enquiry to some other public body you will be informed of this immediately.
(iv) Should the University require the payment of a fee for the recovery and/or supply of the information, you will be notified of the sum involved.
If you do not remit the fee within 3 months of the date of the notification, your request for the information will be deemed to have lapsed, and the University will not supply you with that information.
(v) Address for correspondence: Information Compliance Manager, Legal Services, University of Birmingham, Edgbaston, Birmingham.
B15 2TT Submit

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/university/leadership/governance/legislation:
It consists of the Charter, Statutes, Ordinances and Regulations and Codes of Practice.
The Charter lays down the core tenets of the governance of the University: its establishment and legal status, its objects and powers, its governing body and key institutional officers.
Amendments to the Charter have to be approved by the Privy Council.
Download a full version of the University Charter (PDF - 38KB) .
The Statutes set out the legal framework for the exercise of the University's powers.
They prescribe the composition, business and powers of the Council and Senate as well as other provisions in connection with the governance of the University and the promotion of the objects of the Charter.
Amendments to the Statutes also have to be approved by the Privy Council.
Download a full version of the University Statutes (PDF - 259KB) .
The Ordinances provide more detail on the exercise of powers than in the Statutes.
They distribute the authority of Council to committees and to executive officers, and control use of that authority.
They contain provisions regarding the Senate, the University Executive Board, and College Boards, and establish the main elements of the University's organisational structure.
Ordinances may be amended or augmented by the University Council.
Download a full version of the University Ordinances (PDF - 531KB) .
The individual Ordinances are:
The Regulations contain principles and standards designed to control or govern conduct or provide direction at a more detailed level than Ordinances.
The University has the right to make changes each year which bind all members of the University, including students.
Sections 1-4 and section 9 may be amended or augmented by the Council.
Authority to amend or augment sections 5-8 (the academic and student-related Regulations) has been delegated to the Senate.
The Regulations are cohort-specific and pertain to all students commencing their studies since 2016-17.
Supplementing the Regulations, there are a number of academic and academic-related Codes of Practice and other policies and guidance documents.
Visit the Codes of Practice page for a full list.
Like the Regulations, the Codes of Practice are cohort-specific and pertain to all students commencing their studies since 2016-17.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/university/leadership/governance/council:
The Council is the University's supreme governing body, responsible for the approval of the mission and strategic vision of the University; monitoring institutional performance against plans and approved KPIs; control of assets; finances, estates and long-term business plans; annual budgets and accounts; oversight of HR policy and employment matters; the appointment of the Vice-Chancellor; ensuring that control and accountability systems for all matters are in place and monitored, including risk assessment and conflict of interest procedures.
The Council annually adopts a Code of Practice on Corporate Governance and Related Procedural Matters which sets out the Council's primary responsibilities and provides a foundation for the work of Council and its committees.
The Council has 24 members, two-thirds of who are independent 'lay' members (neither employees nor students of the University).
The remainder are academic staff and students.
The Chair of the Council, the Pro-Chancellor, is elected from amongst the lay members.
Mervyn Walker is the current Pro-Chancellor.
The membership of the Council for 2024/25 is:
Lee Sanders - Registrar and Secretary
The powers of the Council are set out in the Charter and Statutes of the University .
The primary responsibilities of Council in the CUC Code can be summarised as:
To approve the mission and strategic vision of the University, long-term academic and business plans and key performance indicators, and to ensure that these meet the interests of stakeholders.
To ensure that processes are in place to monitor and evaluate the performance and effectiveness of the University against the plans and approved key performance indicators, which should be - where possible and appropriate - benchmarked against other comparable institutions.
To ensure the establishment and monitoring of systems of control and accountability, including financial and operational controls and risk assessment, and procedures for handling internal grievances and for managing conflicts of interest.
To delegate authority to the Vice-Chancellor and Principal, as head of the University, for the academic, corporate, financial, estate and human resource management of the University and to keep under regular review how such management functions are undertaken by and under the authority of the Vice-Chancellor and Principal.
To safeguard the good name and values of the University.
To be the employing authority for all staff in the University and to be responsible for regular review of its human resources strategy.
To be the principal financial and business authority of the University, to ensure that proper books of account are kept, to approve the annual budget and financial statements, and to have overall responsibility for the University's assets, property and estate.
To be the University's legal authority and, as such, to ensure that systems are in place for meeting all the University's legal obligations, including those arising from contracts and other legal commitments made in the institution's name.
To receive assurance that adequate provision has been made for the general welfare of students.
The four Committees of Council are:
Further information about Committees can be obtained by contacting be contacting the Secretary for the Committee.
The Secretary's contact details can be found on the individual web page for each Committee.
The Council currently has five business meetings during each academic year.
The minutes of meetings are published retrospectively.
Please see the links below for minutes of meetings held 2024/25
10th October 2024
27th November 2024
5th February 2025
Please see the links below for minutes of meetings held 2023/24
11 October 2023
29 November 2023
7 February 2024
24 April 2024
26 June 2024
Please see the links below for minutes of meetings held 2022/23
5 October 2022
30 November 2022
1 February 2023
20 April 2023
28 June 2023
Please see the links below for minutes of meetings held 2021/22
29 September 2021
24 November 2021
2 February 2022
5 April 2022
29 June 2022
Any queries relating to the Council should be directed to:
Colette McDonough
Head of Governance
E-mail: c.mcdonough@bham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/university/leadership/governance/council/accounts:
The University's continued financial strength has positioned it to face the challenges that will emerge over the coming years.
The University Annual Accounts are available to download as PDF documents.
The maintenance and integrity of the University of Birmingham website is the responsibility of the governing body of the university; the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/accommodation/contact-us:
Whatever your query, we're here to help or point you in the right direction.
Whether you’re curious about life at Birmingham, looking for some help with your application, or just have a general accommodation-related question, we’re here for you.
You can get in touch through the Student Living Helpdesk or by calling us on +44 (0)121 512 2158 .
Phone lines are open Monday to Friday 10am - 4pm.
You can also visit us in our Student Living Hub on the Ground Floor of University Centre .
We’re open Monday to Friday, 10am - 4pm.
While our office is closed on bank holidays and University closed days , our village site teams are on hand to support you.
Has one of our team members been particularly helpful?
Has your Customer Service Manager gone above and beyond to help you feel at home?
Let us know by filling in our can contact us via Service Now .
We’ll ensure your nominated person receives the recognition they deserve.
If you’re not satisfied with your accommodation, please talk to your Customer Service Manager within one month of the relevant incident.
They should be able to resolve any issues informally and locally.
If you remain dissatisfied, you can raise a formal complaint using online accommodation feedback and complaints form .
You need to submit this within a month of the attempted resolution and include evidence of the attempts made to resolve your issue informally.
If you’re living with one of our partners and something doesn’t meet your expectations, please raise your concern with your site’s reception team members, who will attempt to resolve the issue as quickly as possible.
If you remain dissatisfied, you can submit a formal complain to them in writing, including as much evidence as possible.
Please visit the Host , Unite Students , or Homes for Students website for more information about the procedure and who to contact.
In compliance with Data Protection Law, the University is unable to divulge information relating to your account to a third party unless we are in possession of your signed consent with a completed Third Party Disclosure Form .
For more information about how the University might use your data, please visit our privacy pages.
Join our ever growing community to stay up to date on all of the upcoming events, tips for living with us, useful information and much more.
Each month you will receive a monthly newsletter from us keeping you in the know of all of the things going on in your halls.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/university/colleges/professional/external/admissions:
The University's Admissions Office is at the heart of putting the University's mission into practice by admitting those applicants who will be best able to benefit from an education here.
The Admissions Office manages a fair, transparent and consistent admissions process to undergraduate and postgraduate programmes, providing advice and support to prospective students and academic departments.
Working with the wider University community, national agencies and the government on a wide range of admissions-related issues, the Admissions Office ensures compliance with University regulations and relevant government legislation.
If you have any queries regarding the admissions process at the University, please follow one of the options below:
If you need to contact us about your application, please use the enquiry form below:
If you do not receive a response immediately, please be assured that we will respond to your query and you do not need to resubmit.
Director of Admissions Nick Hull
Head of Undergraduate Admissions Joanna Labudek-Meakin
Head of Postgraduate Admissions Natalie Taylor
Head of Admissions Operations Nic Ranford
Head of Contact Team Adam Meakin

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/graduation:
Degree Congregations at the University of Birmingham date back to 1901 and are normally held in the Great Hall at the heart of campus.
Attended by nearly 30,000 graduates and guests each year, these events are the highlight of the University calendar and represent for many students the conclusion of their studies at Birmingham.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/international:
Birmingham is a truly global university producing world-leading research.
We benefit from mutual partnerships with a wide range of international institutions and host a large international community of researchers and students.
Pro-Vice-Chancellor (International)
“At Birmingham, we are proud to be amongst the world’s top 100 universities; a forward-thinking institution with civic roots, national eminence and global reach.
From our world-leading research and vibrant international student and staff community to the breadth and depth of our international engagement, Birmingham is a global university in every sense.”
Find out about our offices and collaborative research with partners across the world.
Learn more about studying at the University of Birmingham and how you can apply.
Learn more about options to study at Birmingham or study at our partner institutions.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/collaborate/enterprise:
We help Birmingham researchers turn their ideas into new services, products and enterprises that meet real-world needs.
The ventures we create deliver practical solutions that meet modern challenges, and deliver a healthier, fairer, more secure, and sustainable world.
These ventures also boost growth, attract investment, and create jobs and opportunities.
Our start-ups and spin-outs boost growth, attract investment, and create jobs and opportunities.
These ventures bring products and services to market that are based on decades of research, and their innovations originate from the type of unrestricted search, and blue-sky thinking that can only take place in a University environment.
Comprehensive business incubation and support services, tailored to empower innovators across all sectors
Premier office and lab space for research-driven companies, world-class facilities and cutting-edge technologies
Our innovative researchers deliver practical solutions to global challenges
The go-to support service for Birmingham academics carrying out consultancy and commercial services engagements with external partners
Head of Academic Commercial Services
Do you want to be part of a dynamic team at a prestigious organisation, helping us to create commercial impact?
We're looking for a talented individual with proven experience to lead our Academic Commercial Services (ACS) team and be the University’s ‘expert’ in all aspects of academic consultancy.
Applications now open for 2026

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/dubai/study:
Now is the time.
Whether you're applying for foundation, undergraduate, or postgraduate study, you'll benefit from the same high academic standards and teaching quality as our UK campus, in Dubai — one of the world’s most innovative and connected cities.
Be ready for the world.
Together, we will build your academic journey to align with your personal aspirations.
Kickstart your career and experience student life in Dubai with our undergraduate and integrated foundation degree programmes.
Whether you're already employed, changing careers, or are yet to enter the job market, prepare to go further with our wide range of postgraduate degree programmes.
We attract the best and brightest students from across the globe.
Inspired by the historic Aston Webb buildings in Birmingham, our Dubai campus visually fuses the history and stature of our Edgbaston campus with the heritage, tradition and beauty of Arabic culture and architecture.
Dubai is renowned for its low crime, cleanliness, high standard of living, international cuisine, and year-round sunshine.
With iconic buildings overlooking stunning parkland, our Dubai campus provides an inspiring setting for learning.
With advanced infrastructure and transportation, the city provides convenient access to global destinations.
From kayaking in mangroves to dune bashing at sunset, there’s something for everyone, all of the time.
Join us on campus or online.
Our teaching goes beyond the classroom, giving you the skills, confidence, and experience to thrive in a competitive global job market.
Our Careers Network is here to guide you every step of the way.
From exploring career options to preparing for interviews and finding the right role for you.
We know that learning doesn't stop when you leave the lecture theatre.
Studying at the University of Birmingham Dubai should be an enriching experience that takes in all aspects of life – social and cultural as well as educational.
Find the perfect place to call home during your studies.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/dubai/study/postgraduate/subjects/business-and-finance-courses/accounting-and-finance-msc:
Invest in a global career and reshape the future with our MSc Accounting and Finance degree.
The world of accounting and finance is ever-changing, with practice constantly evolving to deal with the major challenges the world is facing.
Our programme will strengthen your existing knowledge, develop your skillset in accounting and finance, and prepare you for a successful global career.
Access our online prospectus and be the first to receive updates on our courses, scholarships, events, and admissions.
This course will run over 12 months in a full-time-mode or 24 months in a part-time mode.
Our MSc Accounting and Finance programme is designed to produce specialists equipped with the intellectual, analytical, communication, and ethical proficiencies essential for a distinguished career in accounting and finance.
This course will develop your understanding of the principal theories and empirical research that form the foundation of accounting and finance.
You will also master a variety of methodologies to address and resolve real-world challenges.
Additionally, you will acquire a suite of transferable skills, including critical analysis, effective communication, and teamwork, which are invaluable for your professional success.
The course will provide you with the skills, knowledge and opportunities to excel a career in the accounting, financial services and related sectors of the economy.
Triple Crown accreditation from the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB), the Association of MBAs (AMBA) and the European Quality Improvement System (EQUIS).
most targeted university of top UK employers
(High Fliers Research 2024).
Our Accounting and Finance Masters degree includes a wide variety of learning and teaching:
Any optional module information listed for this programme is intended to be indicative, and the availability of optional modules may vary from year to year.
Where a module is no longer available we will let you know as soon as we can and help you to make other choices.
The course comprises of 180 credits, taught through a series of 20 credit modules and a 60 credit Dissertation.
or postgraduate diploma from a UK university (or overseas equivalent) in Accounting or Accounting and Finance.
If your degree is not in Accounting or Accounting and Finance, you must have passed a minimum of four modules in the Accounting and Finance subject areas.
These must include ONE module in Financial Reporting/Financial Accounting and ONE module in Finance/Financial Management in the final two years of your degree programme.
Full-time (September 2025) per year
Part-time (September 2025) per year
Choosing to study with the University of Birmingham Dubai is an exciting decision and you may have many questions on what to do next.
Find out more on our 'How to Apply' page.
Graduates will leave university perfectly placed to take up key accounting and financial positions or managerial and consultancy roles in the private and the public sector.
Fantastic career opportunities are available at leading accountancy firms, financial institutions and multinational corporations.
This course is also beneficial to entrepreneurs that want to have a solid knowledge of finance and its applications.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/dubai/study/postgraduate/subjects/engineering-courses/advanced-engineering-management-msc:
Become a leader in global engineering with our Advanced Engineering Management course.
Our programme will boost your career potential, opening up a world of possibilities in senior and specialist roles.
Step up into an engineering management position with our advanced training.
You’ll develop expertise in project, systems and operations management.
The programme brought relevance to the best industry practices—or rather, the best engineering practices.
The curriculum was based on the faculty's research rather than just a traditional taught module, making the learning process more engaging and result oriented.
This research-driven approach enhanced the practicality of the coursework, allowing for a deeper understanding of real-world applications and innovative problem-solving strategies.
Join our 12-month full-time advanced course, comprising of lectures, tutorials, seminars, and an individual research project.
This course can also be taken on a part-time basis over two years.
This term begins with a focus on establishing a solid foundation in business management.
You'll cover key topics like strategy, innovation, marketing, organisational behaviour, and financial management.
Teaching is delivered by leading academics from Birmingham Business School, with research-led content stemming from the school's expertise and reputation to provide a high-quality learning experience to students.
In the spring term, you'll choose a pathway, building on the key management concepts covered in the previous term.
Teaching is delivered by academics from the School of Engineering, who bring a wealth of research experience and industrial links to the practical applications you'll explore.
During the summer, you'll investigate and develop a contemporary Engineering Management topic through a 60-credit research project.
You will gain exposure to current and future trends in your field, while developing thorough knowledge and critical analysis skills for Engineering.
Explore essential business management concepts and advanced engineering methods.
From systems engineering and operations management to finance and management information systems, you’ll build in-depth knowledge.
You’ll also have the opportunity to specialise in areas of interest.
Taught by experts in engineering and from the internationally renowned Birmingham Business School, you’ll benefit from our established links with industry to build your networks.
Birmingham is ranked 76th in the QS World University Rankings 2026, maintaining our position in the top 100 universities globally and placing us 11th amongst UK universities.
We have strong links with industry which allows you to build your networks
Our MSc builds on foundational business management modules, followed by specialised practical applications, followed by a summer research project.
We offer a combination of evening and weekend classes which are designed to accommodate working professionals and those who choose to study full-time.
Our draft timetable for full-time students is designed to deliver teaching on weekday evenings from 18:00-21:00 and on Saturday from 09:00-16:00.
Each module is block taught over 2 weeks.
Part-time students will study during these hours as per the number of modules they choose to study.
This programme is a 1 year full time taught masters degree (180 credits) consisting of 120 credits of taught modules and a 60 credit summer project.
The dissertation is completed under the direction of a project supervisor which will give you the opportunity to work one-to-one with a leading expert in their field.
Select one 20-credit module from the following examples of options:
Programme Director
Dr Seyed Ghaffar is Head of Engineering at the University of Birmingham Dubai, working on 3D printing, low-carbon concrete, and sustainable materials.
Associate Professor of Rail Transportation Engineering
Profile of Dr Melody Sameni, Associate Professor at the University of Birmingham Dubai, leading MSc Railway Systems and researching rail innovation.
Lecturer in Project Management Best Practice
Staff profile for Dr Richard J Davies
in Engineering, Physical Sciences, Maths or Technology based subjects from a recognised institution.
Applicants with a 2:2 Honours degree in the above disciplines alongside relevant work experience will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
Follow the steps below to help guide you through the process.
With a Masters in Advanced Engineering Management, you can pursue various roles that combine engineering expertise with management skills.
Some potential career options are Engineering Manager, Project Manager, Operations Manager, Product Development Manager, Consultant, Technical Director and Quality Assurance Manager.
You can expect to find roles across industries such as manufacturing, construction, energy, aerospace, automotive, and technology

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/dubai/study/postgraduate/subjects/computer-science-courses/artificial-intelligence-and-machine-learning-msc:
Take your career to new heights in the rapidly evolving domain of artificial intelligence and machine learning.
As rapid advances change our world, get prepared for a range of exciting global roles.
Discover what the current state of artificial intelligence and machine learning techniques can accomplish and get ready for a range of in-demand careers.
With your mathematical background, our course will open up a world of opportunity in roles such as machine learning engineer, research scientist, quantitative/data analyst, computer vision engineer or tech consultant.
Our MSc is a 12-month full-time advanced course, comprising of lectures, tutorials, labs, presentations and project work.
The course can also be taken on a part-time basis over two years.
During the autumn term you'll builds a solid foundation in AI and Machine Learning, covering key mathematical concepts such as linear algebra, neural networks, and advanced models including CNNs and GANs.
You'll cover core algorithms like logistic regression and SVMs, along with model validation techniques.
In the spring term you'll explore data visualisation and computer vision, comparing classical image processing methods with deep learning approaches.
Our programme also covers the latest AI and ML research, preparing you to tackle complex challenges across diverse domains.
You will undertake a research-focsed AI and machine learning project where they tackle advanced problems in areas like image processing, NLP, computer vision, or large-scale data analysis.
Their focus is on advancing AI technology through innovative research, applying their MSc knowledge to solve complex challenges.
The project aims to contribute to the field, potentially leading to academic publications or open-source contributions, and concludes with a final report and presentation.
You’ll learn about the advanced principles of AI and ML, and how machines can perceive, explore and understand the world around us.
Deepen your understanding of mathematical tools and how they’re used for machine intelligence tasks.
Based at our new, technology enhanced 'smart' campus in Dubai, you'll also have a global experience working with world-leading researchers in Birmingham.
A leading UK university in Dubai for postgraduate students in computer science.
Benefit from our careers service and global community.
Teaching is delivered by research-active AI experts.
You'll  undertake a 60-credit AI and Machine Learning project (with interdisciplinary or industry-based project options),  demonstrating professional competence and application of learned material,
Our draft timetable for full-time students is designed to deliver teaching on one or two evenings from 18:00-21:00 and on Saturday from 09:00-17:00 (day varies per module).
Each module is block taught over 11 weeks in Semester 1 and 12 weeks in Semester 2.
This programme is a 1 year full time (2 years part time) taught master's degree (180 credits) consisting of 120 credits of taught modules and a 60 credit project.
Optional modules
60 credits chosen from:
Profile for Dr Muhammad Usman Ilyas, Computer Science, University of Birmingham Dubai
in a numerate discipline (Computer Science, Mathematics, Physics, Engineering, Economics, or another programme with substantial Mathematics content).
You can expect to enter a variety of roles such as Machine Learning Engineer, AI Developer, Research Scientist, Technology Consultant, Computer Vision Engineer and Data Scientist.
You may also decide to pursue a career in academia, engaging in teaching, research, or technology development.
Given the growing demand for AI and Machine Learning expertise, your career prospects are strong, with excellent opportunities to secure employment in this dynamic field.
Benefit from the prestige of a degree from a leading World Class University, making you attractive to companies in the engineering, finance, consultancy and commerce sectors worldwide.
You could go on to work for global companies such as Google, Microsoft, Apple, IBM, Goldman Sachs, HSBC, Sony or Samsung.
Dubai is an exciting global city with a rapidly developing economy, actively embracing digitisation and artificial intelligence for various sectors.
With your Data Science degree, you can work for companies such as RTA, Deloitte, Dubai Airports, Noon and DEWA.
MSc / PGDip

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/dubai/study/postgraduate/subjects/computer-science-courses/artificial-intelligence-phd:
While pursuing excellence in research and education, we also aim to optimise our positive impact on society - examples include collaborations with industry partners and governmental entities, commercialisation activities and an extensive wider participation programme.
Whether you seek to work in academia, industry or government, this PhD in AI empowers you with the theoretical and/or applied knowledge and skills in the most demanded areas of Artificial Intelligence to succeed in your career.
Below is an indicative idea of what you could spend your time on, but your research may be different to this and will be discussed in advance with your supervisor.
You will work with your supervisors to define the structure of your project, take the research methods and any other trainings, start to review the scientific literature and set out the scope of work that you will undertake.
Opportunities to work with colleagues at the University of Birmingham, other universities and from the industry may be involved, depending on the nature of the project that you plan.
At this point you will be working on delivering the project, collection and analysis of data, producing new information and potentially writing scientific papers with your supervisors and other collaborative partners.
Towards the end of your project you will be focussed on writing your thesis and delivering associated scientific papers.
Extending this period of writing may be possible.
Our work is regularly presented in international conferences and journals, indicating the high standards we achieve in research.
At the University of Birmingham Dubai (UoBD), we work closely in small teams of researchers in close collaboration with our research teams at the home campus within a broad and lively research culture.
This combination means you get the necessary focus, while keeping an eye on the bigger picture in which your work is placed.
You will be trained in research skills, empowering you to conduct your own research around periodic meetings with the support of your supervisors and thesis groups.
Assessments will be periodically conducted by the Research Students Monitoring Group.
The first step is to find your supervisor.
You can also find a supervisor based at our campus in Edgbaston.
Key research areas in the School of Computer Science Dubai include:
in Artificial Intelligence, Computer Science, or a closely related degree.
You will need to submit a research proposal.
For our postgraduate programmes, the Chancellor's Academic Merit Scholarship will be based on your bachelor's (or equivalent) grades.
The scholarship is applied to the full tuition fee of the programme regardless of whether it is full-time or part-time.
Percentage Grading System
(We understand that this system varies from country to country and therefore we consider each percentage assessment on a case-by-case basis)
To make an initial enquiry for this programme please contact Kashif Rajpoot .
Before you apply for this programme you will need to discuss your research with your supervisor.
If you have a question about our admissions process, including how to apply, your offer and how to track your application, please visit our admissions portal .
If you are made an offer then you will need an Academic Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS) certificate from the UK Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office before the University can issue you with an unconditional offer.
We recommend that you apply for your ATAS certificate as soon as you receive an offer from us.
Whether you propose your own research line or you adhere to an ongoing research, our PhD in Artificial Intelligence will shape you as a researcher affording you the independent, critical and creative mindset.
You will acquire the theoretical and experimental skills associated with the scientific method necessary to reveal scientific truth.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/dubai/study/undergraduate/subjects/computer-science-courses/artificial-intelligence-and-computer-science-bsc:
Lead the way as AI revolutionises our world.
Our BSc Artificial Intelligence and Computer Science course will prepare you for a tech career in the digital future.
From app developer to robotics engineering, study with us and you’ll open up a world of opportunities.
Artificial intelligence is all around us and you could step into many different roles including in the tech, finance or medical sectors.
This programme is also accredited by the British Computer Society (for 5 years, valid until August 2028).
We are proud to offer the same high-quality curriculum and teaching of our Computer Science programmes on our Dubai campus.
We will equip you with the fundamentals of computer science, whilst also providing plenty of optional modules to allow you to specialise in the area that interests you.
Our BSc is a full-time, 3-year course featuring lectures, labs, and tutorials.
Academic support is available throughout your degree.
The course structure includes hands-on learning and comprehensive academic guidance.
This year begins with a focus on establishing a solid foundation in AI fundamentals.
You'll cover key topics such as logic, game-playing techniques, and AI algorithms, alongside core computer science principles and Java programming.
Teaching is delivered through practical experiments and group work, enhancing your understanding of intelligent robotics and preparing you for future employment opportunities.
Year two focuses on enabling technologies, systems-level programming, networks, cybersecurity, operating systems, and machine learning mathematics.
Your programming skills will expand with C and functional programming, and you’ll work on a large team project applying software engineering skills to a real-life problem.
Year three offers advanced AI-specific modules like machine learning, computer vision, and Neural Computation.
You'll spend one-third of your time on a final degree project, applying your AI skills to develop software or conduct major research.
Optional modules allow for further specialisation in areas such as advanced networking, human-computer interaction, Mobile & Ubiquitous Computing and security of real-world systems.
Blending computing and scientific skills you’ll learn the fundamentals then dive into more specialist AI topics.
Explore algorithms, computer science and intelligent robotics and learn about programming and machine learning.
Study at our new, technology enhanced ‘smart’ campus and benefit from a truly global experience.
You’ll be taught jointly by Dubai based and UK academics, and have the chance to work alongside students at our Birmingham campus.
Use our links to industry and an exciting career awaits.
Opportunity to spend a year at our UK campus
Exceptional supportive learning environment
Our course offers holistic learning opportunities, fostering a deep understanding of subjects through independent assessments and collaborative group work.
Each module is assessed on its own, with some using continuous assessment and others being entirely coursework-based.
You’ll face various assessment methods like exams, written assignments, presentations, computer tests, exercises, and project reports.
Feedback is crucial for your learning and success.
We provide it through written comments on your work, class feedback sessions, and discussions with your tutor.
You can choose to spend your second year studying at our picturesque campus in Birmingham, UK (subject to academic attainment).
This programme is a 3-year full time taught BSc's degree (360 credits) consisting of 320 credits of taught modules and a 40 credit project.
Select 80 credits from the following example options:
Academic profile of Dr Ahmad Ibrahim, Associate Professor in Computer Science
Head of Subject Group - Computer Science (Dubai)
Academic profile of Dr Mian M Hamayun, Associate Professor in Computer Science
Deputy Head of School of Computer Science (for Dubai)
Academic profile of Dr Kashif Rajpoot, Programme Director in Computer Science
Profile for Dr Ruchit Agrawal, Computer Science, University of Birmingham Dubai
Profile for Dr Fawad Hussain, Computer Science, University of Birmingham Dubai
Profile for Dr.
Akila Subasinghe, Computer Science, University of Birmingham Dubai
A*AA - ABB A Level Mathematics grade A.
If you are taking any reformed A levels, which include Biology, Chemistry and Physics taught from 2015, you must pass the practical element.
General Studies or Critical Thinking not accepted.
6,6,6 - 6,5,5 at Higher Level to include 6 in Mathematics with a minimum of 32 points overall.
We charge an annual tuition fee (per year of study).
The tuition fee will also be payable in subsequent years of your programme.
To apply for an undergraduate programme, you will need to submit your application and supporting documents online.
You'll graduate with a versatile skill set, opening doors to careers in artificial intelligence, computer science, and beyond.
Potential roles span academia, industry, research, and commercial organisations, where you'll apply your analytical and problem-solving abilities.
A degree from our prestigious university prepares you for top companies in engineering, finance, consultancy, and commerce, with graduates working at Microsoft, Google, Apple, Goldman Sachs, IBM, Siemens, and JP Morgan.
A University of Birmingham degree showcases your success in a demanding academic environment, with employers valuing your skills, diversity, and teamwork
Dubai is an exciting global city with a rapidly developing economy, actively embracing digitisation and artificial intelligence for various sectors
With your degree, you can work for companies such as RTA, Deloitte, Dubai Airports, Noon and DEWA
The skills that I am gaining; the course does not just teach knowledge, it trains us in certain skills which can be applied outside of the course, for example many students develop software that has been published, gained them an internship or enhanced their CVs

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/dubai/study/undergraduate/subjects/computer-science-courses/artificial-intelligence-and-computer-science-with-foundation-bsc:
Our four year BSc Artificial Intelligence and Computer Science with Integrated Foundation Year will prepare you to thrive in the digital future, combining computer science fundamentals with specialised AI expertise.
This course will run over 4 years full-time with an integrated foundation year, comprising of lectures, labs, tutorials and academic support available throughout your degree.
The Foundation Year will equip you with essential knowledge in mathematics, calculus, statistics and data analysis, computer programming, and academic English, preparing you for undergraduate study.
Successful completion ensures progression to the Artificial Intelligence and Computer Science BSc programme, requiring at least 100 credits, a minimum of 55% in Academic English, and 60% in Mathematics and Computer Science modules, with dedicated support and transition into university life.
Year Two focuses on enabling technologies, systems-level programming, networks, cybersecurity, operating systems, and machine learning mathematics.
Year Three offers advanced AI-specific modules like machine learning, computer vision, and Neural Computation.
Begin with the fundamentals and get the support you need to achieve success.
Blending computing and scientific you'll learn foundational knowledge then dive into more specialist AI topics.
Accredited by the United Arab Emirates Ministry of Education and British Computer Society
Select one of the following modules.
This is determined by your level of English at entry.
Choose one of the following modules:
Core modules:
BBB - BCC to include Maths
5,5,4 at Higher Level to include Maths with 24 overall with no subject requirements.
The above fee applies to the Foundation Year only.
Subsequent year's annual tuition fee for the programme will be AED 151,418/year for September 2025/January 2026 entry.
A degree from pur prestigious university prepares you for top companies in engineering, finance, consultancy, and commerce, with graduates working at Microsoft, Google, Apple, Goldman Sachs, IBM, Siemens, and JP Morgan.
"The skills that I am gaining; the course does not just teach knowledge, it trains us in certain skills which can be applied outside of the course, for example many students develop software that has been published, gained them an internship or enhanced their CVs"
MEng

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/dubai/study/postgraduate/subjects/computer-science-courses/artificial-intelligence-and-computer-science-msc:
Embrace your interest in technology and prepare to shape the future of AI and Computer Science.
If you haven’t studied computing, our course will open the door to careers in this rapidly evolving field.
From programming skills and data management to algorithm analysis and machine learning techniques, you’ll learn the in-demand skills.
Our MSc is a 12-month full-time conversion course, comprising of lectures, tutorials, labs, presentations and project work.
The PGDip is awarded after 120 credits.
During your first term of this course, you'll develop a strong foundation in programming, AI, and computer systems.
You'll build essential skills in Object-Oriented Programming (OOP), delve into AI and Machine Learning fundamentals, and gain a deep understanding of computer systems, including low-level HW/SW, Operating Systems and Networking.
You'll enhance your AI programming skills using Python and explore data structures, algorithms, and database management.
Our programme also covers cutting-edge AI topics such as image analysis and machine learning applications, equipping you for complex challenges in AI and computer science.
In term 3 you'll undertake an AI and computer science project and solve a complex problem using AI techniques and computer science principles under the guidance of your supervisor.
You'll design, implement, and test solutions, enhancing technical skills and problem-solving abilities.
The project concludes with a final report and presentation of your findings.
Whether you're changing career or your area of study, our programme lets non-computing graduates make the transition very quickly.
You’ll develop an in-depth understanding of the fundamental and core principles of artificial intelligence and computer science.
You can then apply that knowledge to real-world problems in an individual project.
Based at our new, technology enhanced 'smart' campus, you'll also have a global experience.
You'll work alongside students in the UK and learn from academics from Birmingham as well as on the Dubai campus.
We are ranked in the top 100 (QS World University Rankings 2025)
A leading UK university in Dubai for postgraduate studies in computer science
Teaching combines lectures, labs, and projects guided by research-focused academics.
During the conversion MSc project you'll demonstrate your competence as a computing professional and apply your learned skills effectively.
All work will be assessed via exams, coursework, presentations, and a dissertation.
(or equivalent) in any subject other than computing.
Our course will provide you with the  specialised training needed  for a diverse range of careers in academia, industry, and research.
You'll gain the technical and transferable skills needed to analyse complex problems, design innovative solutions, and critically evaluate outcomes.
You can expect to find work in the engineering, finance, consultancy, and commerce sectors, including companies such as Microsoft, Google, Apple, IBM, HSBC and JP Morgan.
Benefit from the prestige of a degree from a leading World Class University, making you attractive to companies worldwide.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/dubai/study/undergraduate/subjects/media-and-marketing-courses/digital-media-and-communications-ba:
Balance classroom-based study and practical, hands-on creative learning to get you graduation-ready for roles in sectors as varied as advocacy, the creative arts, journalism, media, marketing, publishing and many more.
Our BA is a full-time, 3-year course featuring lectures, seminars and workshops.
Our modules are designed to provide you with the essential skills needed to boost your employability and achieve your professional goals.
This programme is accredited by the United Arab Emirates Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research.
Immerse yourself in the ways in which we communicate, on- and offline, and explore the use of media and digital technologies in different cultures and contexts.
Our programme offers project leadership, globalised media and cross-cultural awareness so you can transfer expertise across sectors and countries.
Develop your professional practice alongside academic study, and graduate with skills in research, professional communication, media and content creation.
for English Language and Literature
QS World Rankings 2024
Get a head start in the graduate market with our work based placements and employability focused modules
Become part of a diverse community of staff and students from around the world
Benefit from the growing media, cultural and creative sector in Dubai and Abu Dhabi with a placement with one of our local partner organisations in the heritage, social enterprise, or creative arts sector.
Learn with academics from the UK and Dubai in small classes and personalised one-to-one sessions with your tutor.
By graduation you will have the transferable skills needed to succeed in the rapidly growing creative sector, including media, journalism and marketing.
You will enjoy a diverse learning experience, including lectures, small group tutorials, workshops, presentations, independent study and peer group learning.
For all assessments there will be a formative element where you can develop ideas and arguments for feedback before completing the module’s summative elements.
Although contact hours vary significantly from week to week depending on the modules that you are studying, you can expect an average of 12 hours of taught contact time per week in each year of your BA Digital Media and Communications degree.
This may include lectures, seminars, workshops, group discussions and presentations.
Outside of these times, staff are also available for individual meetings and informal supervisions.
Assessments - you will be assessed in a variety of ways to help you transition to a new style of learning.
Feedback - you will receive feedback on each assessment within three weeks, so you can learn from each assignment.
You will also be given feedback on any exams that you take.
If you should fail an exam, we will ensure that particularly detailed feedback is provided to help you prepare for future exams.
Begin your journey by studying the fundamentals of digital media and communication.
Master your understanding of the subject and explore its key principles in modules such as writing for money, global media, media in the workplace, and data skills for the digital world.
In your final year you will delve into advanced modules in marketing communications, podcasting, business discourse and professional skills.
You’ll also have the opportunity to undertake independent research as part of your digital media and communications project.
AAB
6,6,5  at Higher Level with a minimum of 32 points overall.
We prefer applications from students offering at least one A level in an essay-based subject from our list of preferred subjects:
Ancient History; Anthropology; Archaeology; Art & Design (all pathways); Business Studies; Classical Civilisation; Classics; Drama; Economics; English Language; English Language and Literature; English Literature; Environmental Science; Environmental Studies; Film; Geography; Government and Politics; Health and Social Care; History; History of Art; Law; Media Studies; Music; Performance; Philosophy; Politics; Psychology; Religious Studies; Social Care; Social Policy; Sociology; and Theatre Studies.
Students without a preferred subject may be invited to submit a 1000 word admissions essay
The teaching, assessments, employability modules and work placements throughout our BA Digital Media and Communications undergraduate degree will prepare you for the world of work.
You’ll develop the capacity to think critically about a range of topics, argue, defend and advocate for your positions in presentations and written work and respond creatively to real-world tasks.
You’ll have the optional opportunity to study on a number of challenge-based modules, responding to live briefs from local, national and international partners, as well as spending time on placement with one of our local partner organisations in the creative arts, heritage, or social enterprise sector.
The University of Birmingham is the top choice for the UK's major employers searching for graduate recruits, according to The Graduate Market 2024 report .
Our Careers Network are here to offer you tailored, expert advice on your career plans and support you with finding and applying for jobs, internships and further study.
There are hundreds of events to help you meet potential employers and learn more about the breadth of opportunities and career sectors available to you.
Support will be offered to you covering the whole job application process, including CVs, LinkedIn, application forms, interviews and assessment centres.
You can also email our experienced Careers Advisors and College Teams to review your applications or answer any careers related question, alongside our on campus and online 1:1 appointments.
The University is the top choice for the UK's major employers searching for graduate recruits.
The Graduate Market in 2024, High Fliers report.
Receive one-to-one careers advice, including guidance on your job applications, writing your CV and improving your interview technique.
Meet employers face-to-face at on-campus recruitment fairs and employer presentations.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/dubai/study/undergraduate/subjects/media-and-marketing-courses/digital-media-and-communications-with-foundation-ba:
Unlock your creativity with our BA Digital Media and Communications with Integrated Foundation year.
The course is delivered full-time over 4-years, including an integrated foundation year, featuring lectures, seminars and workshops.
Get a head start in the graduate market with our work-based placements and employability focused modules
The Foundation Year will equip you with essential knowledge in Global Environmental Issues, Business and the Market, Law and Legal Skills, and academic English, preparing you for undergraduate study.
Be immersed in the university environment where you will receive dedicated support.
Successful completion of at least 100 credits, with a minimum of 60% in Academic English, and 60% overall in your modules, will ensure progression to the BA Digital Media and Communications programme.
Master your understanding of the subject and explore its key principles in modules ranging from global media to writing for money.
CC
4,4  at Higher Level with a minimum of 28 points overall.
Number of A levels required: 2
January 2025 start (Foundation Year only)

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/dubai/study/undergraduate/subjects/law-courses/bachelor-commercial-law:
Focus on the legal rules, principles and concepts of the core branches of English and UAE Law, with a particular focus on commercial transactions.
Explore the legal issues that cross international jurisdictions, that move between common and civil law.
Our undergraduate law degree has a commercial focus, where modules cover core elements of English Law, but also adopt a broader perspective, examining law in a wide international and commercial context.
English law underpins many contracts and transactions across the world, including the UAE.
Our programme delves into the legal rules, principles and concepts of the core branches of English and UAE Law, with a particular focus on commercial transactions.
Law School in the World (THE 2024 Rankings)
Get a head start in the graduate market through pro bono activities, mooting and work experience.
Focus on the key areas of English, UAE and international law that are most relevant to commercial legal practice in UAE and the GCC region.
Study at the University of Birmingham Dubai and learn from world-class experts—authors of key works and leaders with global teaching and research experience from the UK and Dubai.
By graduation you will have the legal and transferable skills needed to succeed in different legal jurisdictions, as well as other careers in Business, Education and Government.
You will enjoy a diverse learning experience, including lectures, interactive seminars, workshops, presentations, independent study and peer group learning.
For all assessments there will be a formative (practice) element where you can develop ideas and arguments for feedback before completing the module’s summative (final) assessment.
Your degree is designed to help you achieve 120 credits per year, which equals about 40 hours of learning each week.
This includes lectures, seminars, workshops, independent study, revision, and assessments.
You’ll be assessed in different ways to suit each module.
At the start of a module, you’ll be told how and when you’ll be assessed.
Methods will vary but may include coursework (e.g., essays), group or individual presentations and projects, exams, reports or computer-based assignments.
Feedback: You will receive timely feedback on each assessment, so you can learn from it and improve your performance in future assessments.
Our BCL is a full-time, 3-year course featuring lectures, seminars and independent study across a wide range of areas of law.
Our modules are designed to provide you with the essential legal skills needed to equip you for a career in the legal sector and beyond.
Begin your journey in commercial law with an international focus.
Blend the fundamentals of common and civil law through modules such as English Legal System, UAE and GCC legal systems and Legal & Commercial Solutions and Ethics, alongside modules focusing on Criminal Law & Regulation, Public Law, and Contract Law.
Build and develop your understanding further by exploring key legal principles through modules such as Commercial Law, Property  Law, Tort, Civil and Islamic Law, International Dispute Resolution, European Union and International Trade Law.
Advance in your final year by delving into a wide range of specialist optional modules of particular relevance to international commercial legal practice, giving you flexibility to tailor your degree to your personal and future career interests.
These modules include Banking & Islamic Finance, DIFC Civil Procedure, International Arbitration, Construction Law, Law & Technology, Energy Law, Intellectual Property Law and Labour Law.
Students must choose 100 credits from the following list – three modules in Semester 1 and two modules in Semester 2
ABB
6,5,5  at Higher Level with a minimum of 32 points overall.
Develop real-world legal skills through activities linked to law, careers, and professional development with our BCL Bachelor of Commercial Law.
Our teaching and legal careers support services are designed to help you stand out in a competitive global jobs market.
Through our expert Careers Network and hundreds of events, you'll find connections and support with finding and applying for jobs, internships and further study.
From reviewing CVs and LinkedIn profiles, to support with application forms and interviews, and much more, our experienced Careers Advisors are available to you to answer any careers related questions via email or 1:1 appointments.
CEPLER is Birmingham Law School's in-house specialist in employability and legal education.
Enhance your employability through a variety of online and face to face activities with Birmingham Law School CEPLER in Dubai.
Recent activities delivered by CEPLER in Dubai include:
The BCL will prepare you for a wide range of different careers, although we envisage that many students will be looking to work in the legal sector in Dubai or internationally.
In terms of legal careers in Dubai:

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/news/2025/university-of-birmingham-ranks-among-worlds-best-universities:
Six subjects in Top 50 of latest QS World University Rankings by Subject with a further 20 study areas in the top 100.
University of Birmingham ranks among world’s best universities
The University of Birmingham ranks amongst the best performing research-intensive universities in the world – with six areas placing in the Top 50 of the latest QS World University Rankings by Subject .
A further 20 subjects are in the top 100, with disciplines ranging from Medicine to Performing Arts and Chemical Engineering to Sociology (which improved by 24 places to 76th).
Life Sciences & Medicine, and Arts & Humanities are also in the top 75.
Dentistry , English , Theology , Anatomy & Physiology, and Linguistics all place in the Top 50, whilst Sport maintains its place in the top 10 globally (8).
As the University of Birmingham celebrates its 125th anniversary this year, our students continue to benefit from an outstanding research-intensive education that develops the knowledge, skills and attributes sought after by employers and delivers great career prospects for our graduates.
Birmingham has a reputation for providing a world-class sports training environment, not only for its own international student-athletes, but also for hosting international athletes ahead of world sporting events.
The University of Birmingham will see athletes battling it out for spots at the 2025 World Athletics Championships in Tokyo, as this season’s British World 10,000m trials will now be held at the University’s athletics track on June 14.
The University also provided competition venues for squash and hockey during the Birmingham 2022 Commonwealth Games.
In 1946, Birmingham became the first UK university to offer a degree in Sport &Exercise Sciences, extending the original focus on Physical Education.
Today, as the 125th anniversary of the university is celebrated, the School of Sport, Exercise and Rehabilitation Sciences offers a range of study options at undergraduate, Masters and PhD level.
Professor Deborah Longworth, Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Education) at the University of Birmingham commented: “As the University of Birmingham celebrates its 125th anniversary this year, our students continue to benefit from an outstanding research-intensive education that develops the knowledge, skills and attributes sought after by employers and delivers great career prospects for our graduates.
“With 26 subject areas in the top 100 – six of which are in the top 50, with sports-related subjects in the top 10 – the rankings recognise Birmingham as a place for leading scientists, professionals and students who want to be involved in world-class research and achieve a degree that will enhance professional opportunities around the world.”
Birmingham was revealed as the UK university most targeted by the country’s leading graduate employers, according to ‘The Graduate Market in 2024’.
This survey of almost 1,600 universities world-wide underscores Birmingham’ s reputation as a destination of choice for those wishing to secure a top-flight career in many areas.
The QS World University Rankings are the most used global rankings and are a measure of a university’s global reputation.
This year’s QS World University Rankings by Subject cover 60 academic disciplines, in each of which more than 1,500 universities are assessed.
If the institution offers the subject and produces enough research papers, it will be given a score.
From these scores, a ranking table is produced to display anything from the leading 50 to the leading 500 institutions by subject.
The rankings are compiled using indicators selected to assess institutions’ international reputation in each subject area, plus research impact.
The University of Birmingham sits amongst the best-performing research-intensive universities in the world, sustaining increases in the QS World University Rankings 2024 to rank at 80, and also climbing in the 2025 THE World University Rankings to sit at 93rd globally.
The latest THE placing reflects the University’s sustained improvement over the last seven years - moving steadily upwards from 141st in the 2018 THE World University Rankings.
One of the measures in the QS Rankings is the IRN (International Research Network) Rank.
The University of Birmingham is ranked 31st - its strongest performing area, demonstrating excellent international research connectivity and collaboration.
This indicates very effective global research partnerships and networks.
Birmingham also continues to perform strongly in the 2025 QS World University Rankings for Sustainability.
Now ranked 38th globally, the University of Birmingham has maintained its position at 14th in the UK, demonstrating its commitment to ensuring its research, education and operations make major contributions to the UN Sustainable Development Goals and to the UK’s 2050 Net Zero target.
The QS World University Rankings measures a university’s global reputation and is the most used international league table.
Marking universities with a score out of 100, the Sustainability category demonstrates which institutions are leading the way in social responsibility and environmental sustainability.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/staff/profiles/english/longworth-deborah.aspx:
Department of English Literature Professor of English Literature Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Education)
As PVC Education, Deborah is a member of University Executive Board, and supports the Vice-Chancellor in setting and implementing University strategy, with a specific strategic remit for excellence and innovation in teaching and learning.
She provides academic leadership across the education portfolio, working closely with colleagues across the five Colleges, and with our Professional Services teams, to ensure the excellence of teaching quality and standards, and of student academic experience.
She has particular interests in the interrelation of curriculum and co-curricular activity to support the development students’ knowledge, skills and attributes; in student community and belonging; in transition and progress support; and in transforming assessment and feedback.
Deborah studied at the Universities of Reading (BA, MA) and London (PhD, and joined the University of Birmingham in 1998 as a lecturer in English Literature.
She held the role of Head of Department in English Literature from 2016 to 2021, when she became Deputy-Pro-Vice-Chancellor for Student Experience.
She moved into her current role in August 2022.
I teach nineteenth and twentieth-century literature at undergraduate and postgraduate level.
I offer final year undergraduate options modules in The Modernist Novel and Remembering World War One .
At postgraduate level I teach and supervise in the period 1880-1940, with particular specialisms in modernism and women's writing.
At postgraduate level I have specialist teaching and supervisory expertise in late nineteenth and early twentieth-century literature.
I welcome applications for study in the following areas: Literary modernism The city and urban theory Women’s writing (particularly of the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries; Virginia Woolf, Dorothy Richardson, Djuna Barnes, Katherine Mansfield, May Sinclair, Edith Sitwell) The nineteenth and/or early twentieth-century novel
Find out more - our PhD English Literature page has information about doctoral research at the University of Birmingham.
My research focuses on English literature from 1880-1940, with a specific focus on gender and modernism and the modernist novel.
The monograph developed from my doctoral thesis, Streetwalking the Metropolis , was published by Oxford University Press in 2000 and is frequently included in the reading lists for both undergraduate and postgraduate courses on modernism, women’s writing and urban literature in both the UK and the United States.
I have also produced studies of the American writer Djuna Barnes (Writers and their Works Series: Northcote House) and a study guide targeted at final-year and taught postgraduate students, Theorists of the Modernist Novel: James Joyce, Dorothy Richardson and Virginia Woolf (Routledge).
Recent articles include a discussion of metaphysics and the influence of Ralph Waldo Emerson in Dorothy Richardson’s Pilgrimage , and a study of the New York modernist magazine Rogue .
My recent research and current monograph focuses on the work of Edith, Osbert and Sacheverell Sitwell.
In 2008 I received a Harry Ransom Mellon Fellowship and AHRC research leave grant for study on the Sitwells.
During the past year I have presented research papers on the Sitwells to the Universities of Glasgow and Edinburgh, the Northern Modernisms Seminar, and to the 2010 Modernist Studies Association conference in the United States.
I am one of the founding members of the British Association of Modernist Studies , an organization designed to provide a research network for individuals and groups working in modernist studies in all relevant disciplines across Britain.
BAMS aims to facilitate connections with modernists abroad, and to support and develop education and training in modernist studies, particularly for postgraduates.
I am also co-founder and editor, along with Andrzej Gasiorek (Birmingham) and Michael Moses (Duke University), of the journal Modernist Cultures , the only British journal specifically dedicated to the study of modernism.
I have organized several international conferences and symposia in the field of modernist studies.
Gasiorek, A , Brooker, P , Longworth, D & Thacker, A (eds) 2010, The Oxford Handbook of Modernisms .
Oxford University Press.
Longworth, D 2006, Theorists of the Modernist Novel: James Joyce, Dorothy Richardson and Virginia Woolf .
Routledge.
Longworth, D 2009, ' Subject, Object, and the Nature of Reality: Metaphysics in Dorothy Richardson's Deadlock ', Pilgrimages: The Journal of Dorothy Richardson Studies , vol.
n/ a, no.
2, pp.
7-38.
< http://dorothyrichardson.org/ PJDRS/ Issue2/ Contents.html >
Longworth, D 2005, ' What a lark!
What a plungs!': Introducing Modernism ', Women: a cultural review , vol.
16, no.
246-9.
https://doi.org/ 10.1080/ 09574040500156552
Longworth, D 2019, The gender of decadence: Paris-Lesbos from the Fin de Siècle to the Interwar Era .
in J Desmarais & D Weir (eds), Decadence and Literature.
Cambridge Cultural Concepts, vol.
1, Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, pp.
362-378.
https://doi.org/ doi.org/ 10.1017/ 9781108550826.023
Longworth, D 2016, Perpetual Motion: Speed, Spectacle and Cycle Racing .
in D Bradshaw, L Marcus & R Roach (eds), Moving Modernisms: Motion, Technology and Modernity.
Longworth, D 2016, The Sitwells and Sitwellism: An Ornamental Modernism .
in A Pero & G Phillips (eds), The Many Façades of Edith Sitwell.
The University Press of Florida, Gainesville.
Longworth, D 2012, The Avant-Garde in the Village .
in P Brooker & A Thacker (eds), The Oxford Critical and Cultural History of Modernist Magazines: Volume II: North America 1894-1960.
vol.
2, Oxford University Press, pp.
465-482.
< http://ukcatalogue.oup.com/ product/ 9780199545810.do#.UGsEe5jA9v4 >
Longworth, D 2010, Gendering the Modernist Text .
in P Brooker, A Gasiorek, D Longworth & A Thacker (eds), The Oxford Handbook of Modernisms.
Oxford Handbooks of Literature, Oxford University Press, Oxford, pp.
156-177.
< http://ukcatalogue.oup.com/ product/ 9780199545445.do#.UGvtjZjA9v4 >
Longworth, D 2010, Remembrance/ Reconstruction: Autobiography and the Men of 1914 .
in MJK Walsh (ed.), London, Modernism and 1914.
Cambridge University Press, pp.
196-213.
Longworth, D 2009, Remember Scarborough: The Sitwells on the Sands .
in L Feigel & A Harris (eds), Modernism on Sea.
Peter Lang, pp.
71-84.
https://doi.org/ 10.3726/ 978-3-0353-0270-7
Longworth, D & Schiach, M 2007, Djuna Barnes: Melancholic Modernism .
in The Cambridge Companion to the Modernist Novel.
Longworth, D , Cunningham, G & Barner, S 2007, There's more space within than withoug.
Agoraphobia and the Bildungsroman in Dorothy Richardson's "Pilgrimage" .
in London Eyes: Reflections in Text and Image.
Longworth, D , Harrison, S, Pile, S & Thrift, N 2004, Drift .
in Patterned Ground.
Boxall, P & Longworth, D 2004, 'Fortunata and Jacinta', 'The Portrait of a Lady', 'The Ambassadors', 'The Wings of the Dove', 'The Golden Bowl', 'Quartet' .
in 1001 Novels.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/dubai/study/new-students/preparation:
To confirm your place, you must log into the application system to accept your offer and pay your deposit .
Have you met your entry requirements?
If you have a conditional offer, ensure you have uploaded all your documents to the Application Portal.
Look out for emails from our admissions team, who will be in touch if you need to provide any further details
All students must complete online registration at the start of each academic year.
All new applicants will receive their login details for online registration within 7-10 working days once an Unconditional Accept (UA) has been issued.
You will be asked to confirm your personal details, programme details, and other important information.
You must complete online registration to access your student email address, virtual learning environment and the intranet.
Once you have accepted your offer, you will be able to receive any scholarships awarded to you.
If you need to discuss your scholarships with anyone, please contact our admissions team via phone or by submitting an enquiry on our contact us page.
Do not forget to pay your fees.
You can pay your fees at the start of the academic year or using a termly instalment plan.
For further information, review our University payment details .
If you require a visa, you can apply once you have an Unconditional Offer that you have accepted and you have completed the online registration process.
Understanding your typical expenses while studying in Dubai is crucial so that you can plan your finances.
Consider the cost of living in Dubai as a student to make informed decisions, such as what accommodation you choose.
Finding somewhere to live is an exciting part of moving to a new city.
The University of Birmingham Dubai is situated in Dubai International Academic City.
The University is situated close to several student accommodation providers, which offer special rates to University of Birmingham Dubai students.
Many students also choose to live in private rented accommodation.
Please note that you will need to have obtained your visa and Emirates ID card before you can take on a private tenancy.
We recommend that students arrive the weekend before Welcome Week.
Before starting your studies, take some time to understand how to access healthcare in Dubai, including disclosing any disabilities, ensuring you have the necessary health insurance and knowing how to access a doctor, pharmacy and other healthcare services.
Once you have booked your accommodation, you can book your flight to Dubai if you are relocating to study with us.
Dubai is serviced by 2 airports: Dubai International Airport and Al Maktoum International Airport.
All our student accommodation partners provide airport pick-up to bring you straight from the airport to your accommodation.
Please contact them with your flight details once booked.
Start planning what you will need to bring with you for studying and living in Dubai.
We have put together some suggestions to help you consider what you might need.
Once you’ve completed all your pre-arrival administration it is time to have some fun and plan your Welcome Week timetable.
Our Welcome Week will be made up of social events, skills development events, and your programme induction.
It is a great opportunity to learn more about your programme, the University, and make friends!
Don't forget to follow us on Instagram to get a feel for student life at the University and start sharing your journey: #MyUoBDubai #UoBDubai #StudyDubai #MyUoBD
@unibirminghamdubai @uobdubai_studentexperience

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/dubai/study/new-students/welcome:
Get involved with the University's community.
Here you'll find all the information you need to help you settle in, make new friends, and get ready for your studies.
Plan your Welcome Week timetable around your programme inductions and student events.
Welcome Week is dedicated to ensuring you become well-acquainted with the university and student life.
During this period, you will receive your student card, be introduced to our student services, receive guidance on your academic timetable and much more.
Read more about your first steps and what to expect.
University encompasses more than just your studies.
Our Students’ Association is dedicated to addressing all your student needs, from organising events to advocating for positive changes on campus.
We encourage you to explore the social clubs, attend a sports taster event, and participate in trips throughout Welcome Week.
Find out the term dates, UAE public holidays, and events for the upcoming academic year at the University of Birmingham Dubai.
This brief online Canvas course is designed to equip you with all the information you need to transition into your studies.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/dubai/study/new-students/preparation/registration:
Find out essential information to help you complete the process.
Online registration is the process for confirming that you will be studying at the University of Birmingham and by which you agree to abide by the University's regulations.
It is an essential step in becoming a student at the University, so you must complete it as soon as possible when asked.
You will be required to confirm your personal details, your programme details and other important information.
You will need to have completed online registration before you can begin your programme of study, and to ensure you can access services such as your student email address and the University's virtual learning environment.
Online registration is accessed via the button below.
You will need to login using your student username and password.
This is sometimes called your ADF login.
If you are a new student, you will receive your username and password in the email asking you to complete online registration.
Login using your University username (not your email) and password.
When you have received your password, you can change it to something more memorable using the Password Manager .
If you have any problems with your login or password, please contact the IT Service Desk .
Online Registration will be unavailable due to essential campus network maintenance between 9.30am and 10.30am (UAE times) on Tuesday 2 September.
You will need to complete online registration ahead of starting your programme in September.
You will receive an email from the University asking you to complete online registration within 7-10 working days once an unconditional accept (UA) has been issued.
You should complete online registration as soon as possible when asked to do so.
When you complete online registration, you will be asked to agree to the declaration.
You should make sure you have read and understood the declaration before agreeing to it.
You can read the declaration of registration below for the current academic year.
You will be required to agree to the declaration to complete your registration.
Read the following declaration carefully.
You cannot become a registered student of the University until you have read and ticked to confirm that you agree to the declaration.
The declaration statement provides links to the web pages for the University Charter, Statutes, Ordinances , Regulations and Codes of Practice (including the Conditions of us of Computing and Network Facilities ) of the University, the DIAC Code of Conduct (PDF, 537 KB) , and to any changes made for the academic year , so that you can view these in full before agreeing to the declaration.
As part of online registration, I have checked and amended where required my Personal Details, Addresses, Emergency Contact Details, Programme Details, Further Details and Data Sharing Agreements and Financial Sponsor Details.
I declare that the information that I have given as part of Online Registration is true and complete.
Where there is a ‘prefer not to say’ or ‘information refused’ option, I confirm that by providing an answer I am consenting to you processing that data.
I have also read, understood and promise to obey the University Charter, Statutes, Regulations and Codes of Practice (including the Conditions of use of Computing and Network Facilities and the Data Protection Policy), the DIAC Code of Conduct and any changes made for the academic year, paying particular attention to the regulations on Attendance and Reasonable Diligence, Conduct and Fitness to Practise.
I understand that my registration is not complete until the University is satisfied that the documents I have provided demonstrate that I have the right to study at the University of Birmingham Dubai.
I also promise to respect the University’s values and uphold the University's good name to the best of my ability, both while as a student, and if admitted to a degree, as a graduate.
I acknowledge that the University will collect, store, use, share and process my personal data obtained as part of Online Registration and other personal data obtained from me or other sources as explained as part of Online Registration and in the student privacy notice.
If you are having difficulty with completing online registration, our student help pages on the Intranet offer answers to a huge range of frequently asked questions.
You can also contact the online registration helpline by phoning +971 442 80500 between 09:00-17:00 (GST) or by submitting an enquiry via the form on our contact us page.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/dubai/study/student-experience/careers-employability:
Studying for your degree is the first step in developing your future career.
We believe university should prepare you for life after graduation, giving you both the academic and work skills employers are looking for.
Discover how our global rankings, strong industry connections, and dedicated careers network can help you gain real-world experience and become a highly employable graduate.
The Careers Network Dubai is part of the University of Birmingham’s award-winning careers service, providing dedicated careers support from experienced professionals.
On-campus, you will have access to both a Careers Advice and Guidance Manager and an Employer Engagement Manager, as well as full access to our UK team online.
Benefit from a wide range of dedicated careers support, including:
Be ready for work.
Our careers service offers a wide range of opportunities for you to gain experience and develop your employability skills well before graduation.
We partner with leading employers in the region to get you ahead in the workplace.
Our networking opportunities include skills development workshops, careers fairs, company visits and more informal ‘drop-in’ sessions where you can meet employers and hear what they’re looking for.
Here in Dubai, we have a wide network of global employers, including:
Developing entrepreneurial skills is key to growing your career or starting a business.
The B-Enterprising team and Dubai Careers Network are here to help maximise your potential and seize the opportunities around you.
Access our key online careers resources:

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/dubai/study/student-experience/dubai-life:
Top global destination for the third consecutive year.
Tripadvisor Travellers’ Choice Awards 2024
Third safest city in the world after Abu Dhabi and Ajman.
Numbeo 2025
Dubai is known for its outstanding safety and quality of life.
With modern amenities, excellent healthcare, and a reliable public transport system, the city provides a comfortable and secure living environment.
Dubai is ranked the third safest city in the world, following the other UAE cities of Abu Dhabi and Ajman (Numbeo 2025), offering parents peace of mind.
Additionally, the Global Power City Index (GPCI) Report 2024 has awarded Dubai the title of the cleanest city in the world for the fifth consecutive year.
As a major business hub, Dubai offers numerous opportunities for internships and employment.
The city’s thriving economy and strategic location make it ideal for developing the skills, experience, and qualifications employers seek.
Expand your network and connect with people from every corner of the globe.
Home to people from over 200 nationalities, Dubai is a melting pot of cultures.
Meet and learn from people with diverse backgrounds and perspectives.
Immerse yourself in an international community of traditions, languages, and cuisines, enriching your university experience and broadening your horizons.
We know how important it is to have a life outside your studies.
Rest assured, no matter what you're in the mood for, there's always something exciting happening in Dubai.
Whether you’re looking for something to do between lectures or plans for the weekend, you’ll find countless adventures on your doorstep.
Get ready for a student experience like no other.
The UAE boasts a thriving arts scene, from independent galleries to the Louvre Abu Dhabi.
Explore the Jameel Arts Centre and Alserkal Avenue, home to the only Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) arthouse cinema, Cinema Akil.
Alserkal Avenue also hosts the yearly Quoz Arts Fest, featuring pop-ups, workshops, and festivals celebrating its home-grown creative scene.
Publications like What's On and Time Out Dubai offer great tips on the best things to do in the city.
Dubai is a foodie’s paradise, offering everything from world-class, Michelin-starred restaurants to authentic street food.
Embrace the flavours and ingredients of traditional Emirati cuisine, which showcases a delightful fusion of spices and culinary influences.
Whether you crave celebrity chef-curated tasting menus or local street food, Dubai has it all.
Immerse yourself in Dubai's rich history and culture by exploring its many museums, historic districts, and cultural landmarks.
Visit the Dubai Museum in Al Fahidi Fort, the oldest existing building in the city, to learn about Dubai's transformation from a small fishing village to a global metropolis.
Wander through the Al Fahidi Historical Neighbourhood with its traditional wind-tower architecture, and explore the bustling souks of Deira.
Beyond Dubai, visit the cultural capital of Sharjah, known for its museums and art galleries, and Al Ain, a UNESCO World Heritage Site in Abu Dhabi.
Dubai is a hub for international sporting events and activities, from F1 races to international golf tournaments and cricket matches.
Unique events like camel racing and polo provide a taste of traditional Emirati sports.
For those who prefer participating, there are countless sports to get involved in, from marathons and cycling challenges to diving, paddleboarding, kayaking, and trekking.
Padel, a fast-growing sport similar to tennis and squash, is also popular, with numerous courts available across the city.
The Dubai Fitness Challenge, held annually, encourages residents and visitors to engage in 30 minutes of activity for 30 days, promoting a healthy and active lifestyle.
Dubai attracts top artists from around the world, ensuring a year-round calendar of exciting performances.
Enjoy live music at venues like the Coca-Cola Arena and the Dubai Opera House.
Whether you enjoy pop, rock, jazz, or classical music, whatever your tastes there is something here to suit you.
Adjacent to the Burj Khalifa, the world's tallest building, the Dubai Mall is the largest shopping mall in the world and over 1,200 stores, hosting major fashion brands, and iconic attractions like the Dubai Fountain and Aquarium.
Alongside over 40 state-of-the-art malls packed with global brands, Dubai is filled with traditional souks and vibrant markets.
For a traditional experience, you can explore the Gold Souk in Deira or the Souk Madinat in Jumeirah.
The city comes alive after dark with a late-night coffee shop culture, cafes stay open late, perfect for night owls looing for a cosy place to study, unwind, or a lively spot to socialise.
I love Dubai!
I think it is a very safe city.
I enjoy activities such as running half-marathons, mountain climbing and going to the beach at the weekend.
The flag of the United Arab Emirates is rich in symbolism and meaning, reflecting the values and aspirations of the country.
Each colour on the flag has a special meaning:

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/dubai/study/student-services:
Learn about the student services here to support and help you during your time at the University of Birmingham Dubai.
The University offers student transport services to and from campus during term-time.
Learn about associated fees, bus coverage, and registration.
Your gateway to access digital services starts here.
Access online registration, virtual learning, library resources and IT service desk.
Find answers to a huge range of questions.
Head to the Student Hub on campus or alternatively get in touch with us.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/dubai/study/student-experience/go-global:
Go Global is the University’s international mobility programme.
It offers students at our Dubai campus the chance to study, work, research, or volunteer abroad.
Whether you're looking for a short-term or long-term opportunity, our Go Global team is here to support you.
These experiences are about more than just travel; they're about personal and academic growth, improving your employability, and becoming a true Global Citizen.
We offer a wide range of short-term opportunities for you to experience alongside your studies.
Ranging anywhere between 4 and 12 weeks these include places at summer schools at our partner universities, international internships, as well as other exciting work and volunteering experiences!
Last year, our Dubai students went to:
Being a part of the global exchange at Nanyang Technological University, Singapore was one of the best experiences of my life.
The city, the people, and the memories I made were unforgettable.
Studying abroad at one of the top universities in the world was truly special.
It was a summer of learning, adventure, and personal growth like never before—truly an experience I would love to repeat.
Experience diverse cultures and broaden your perspectives.
Challenge yourself and push your boundaries.
Explore new parts of the world and see world-famous landmarks.
Develop valuable skills to enhance your employability.
Create lasting memories and friendships.
Undergraduate students on eligible programmes* at our Dubai campus can apply to spend their second year on exchange at our Edgbaston campus in the UK.
There’s no need to decide this before you apply to our Dubai campus.
Our leafy green Edgbaston campus is just minutes from the hustle and bustle of Birmingham, the UK’s vibrant second city.
With a welcoming international community, you'll meet new friends from around the world, enriching your cultural and academic experience.
Students enjoy an excellent learning environment in an exciting cosmopolitan city.
The Edgbaston campus boasts fantastic facilities, including a state-of-the-art academic library, a world-class sports centre, and beautiful redbrick buildings set in picturesque surroundings.
*Students on the following programmes are not currently eligible to apply for the Dubai to UK Exchange Year programme as these programmes are not offered by the University’s Edgbaston campus:
"Living in student accommodation for the first time was a big change, but helped me gain independence.
Working as a research assistant at the Center for Human Brain Health enhanced my practical skills in modern neuroscience research."
Vaishnavi, BSc Psychology student
"The exchange year has boosted my confidence and independence.
I've met amazing people, explored new places, and had the privilege of studying on this beautiful campus."
Zainab, BSc Economics student
Fill out our enquiry form and select the 'Student Programme Administration' department.
My year in the UK has been a journey of growth and independence.
I've explored new cities, met people from around the world, and learned to take care of myself.
The free language courses, like Russian, French, Italian, Japanese, and Spanish, have expanded my knowledge and connected me with different cultures.
This experience has truly boosted my confidence and independence.
Studying or working abroad during your degree has many benefits.
Here’s why you should consider it:
** UUKi (2025) Gone International: New Generation
"Living in a new country pushed me out of my comfort zone, helping me grow and become more independent.
I'm thankful for this opportunity and the University's support.
My advice: don't be afraid to try new things; the best experiences come from embracing new opportunities!"
Dana, BSc Psychology student
"Studying in Edgbaston has been great.
I've enjoyed meeting people, exploring new places, and experiencing the cold weather, especially the snow!
Taking in my surroundings on campus and visiting other UK cities have been highlights"
Maryam, BSc Psychology student
Enroll on the Go Global Canvas course to discover your options and apply!

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/dubai/study/student-experience/students-association:
Our Students’ Association is dedicated to addressing your needs, organising events, and advocating for positive change.
Join societies, groups, sports clubs, and events to enrich your university experience.
You'll find numerous opportunities to develop your skills, engage in university life, and prepare for your future.
Beyond the curriculum, you can participate in sports, community volunteering, arts, and culture.
Whether you're joining a sports team or connecting with like-minded individuals in a club, you'll have plenty of chances to socialise, network, and enjoy your time with us.
Whether you're already living in Dubai or moving countries and living away from your family for the first time, you'll be an integral part of our Birmingham Dubai community.
Can’t find what you’re looking for?
Speak to the Student Experience team about setting up a new club during Welcome Week.
Visit our University of Birmingham Dubai Students' Association website for further information on our groups and sports clubs .
Our campus is located next to DIAC Park, a large outdoor space with various sports facilities, changing rooms, and observatory points.
Here, you can enjoy walks, runs, cycling, or simply relax outdoors.
DIAC Park also includes basketball and volleyball courts, five-a-side football pitches, tennis courts, and Padel tennis courts.
We've also partnered with local gyms and fitness studios to offer discounted student rates.
We run regular practices on and off campus for our sports teams, which are open to all students.
Sign up for clubs and societies at our Fresher’s Fair.
Get involved in team sports and make friends for life.
Experience the buzz of UoBD Fest.
Find your voice with the Speech and Debate Society.
Lights, camera, action!
Explore the Film Club and more.
Everyone is really friendly, if I ever need anything the Student Services team are always willing to help with a smile.
The community is really close knit and it’s really easy to meet people, socialise and make new friends.
It’s really fun to hang out in the Student Association room between classes and play foosball!”
As a student in Dubai, you can have your say through our Students’ Association.
Students are at the heart of everything we do, so we love to hear from them on our future plans for our campus.
In our yearly student elections, you can vote for the person who best represents you.
Meanwhile, our Student Leaders programme helps a voluntary team of Student Representatives provide feedback to academic staff.
Working with the Student Guild in the UK, you can also set up student clubs or groups, or organise trips and extracurricular activities.
All great ways to meet people and try something new.
Our Dubai Student Leaders for the 2024-25 academic year.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/dubai/study/accommodation:
Every student has different needs when settling into life on campus.
So whether you prefer to live in student accommodation or commute from your home, our student support teams can help with every step.
You’ll find a range of safe, modern places to live near campus in Dubai International Academic City.
Dedicated student accommodation typically includes ensuite rooms in shared apartments, either single or double occupancy.
Usually, they also offer facilities such as gyms and social spaces, with basic costs of Wi-Fi and utilities included in the fee.
They also offer shuttle transport services at key times to our campus.
The cost will depend on your lifestyle.
Most of the time, you’ll need to pay a deposit of rent in advance.
This is on top of your monthly rental budget, so you’ll need some extra initial funds to secure your tenancy.
To learn more, explore our accommodation pages and contact the providers directly.
The accommodation suggested by the University was genuinely the best option as it is a community of students from different universities and provides extra amenities that private apartments would not have, which made it easier to adapt to a new environment.
The UAE’s second city, your second home.
Find answers to common questions for prospective students applying to our Dubai campus.
As an international student, it’s quite easy to make new friends.
The environment in Dubai is very welcoming, in my accommodation it was easy given we have use of study rooms, the amphitheatre, indoor cinema, always social events taking place and I could live my authentic student life.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/dubai/study/visit-us/open-day:
Our Open Days are the perfect opportunity to explore our undergraduate and postgraduate programmes and learn about the admissions process, visas, transport, student services, and our award-winning careers support.
Hear first-hand from current students and staff about studying and living in Dubai.
Our next Open Day is: Saturday 13 September 11:00 - 15:00
Event sessions and timings will be released shortly before the Open Day.
Please note that these events are in-person on campus in Dubai.
If you're looking to join us online, register for one of our Online Open Days .

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/dubai/study/visit-us/online-open-day:
Our Online Open Days are the perfect opportunity to explore our undergraduate and postgraduate programmes and learn about the admissions process, visas, transport, student services, and our award-winning careers support.
It's also a great opportunity to ask any questions you may have during our Q&A session.
Our next Online Open Day is: Tuesday 16 September 15:00 - 17:00
This event will be hosted on Zoom, further details will be shared following booking.
Please note that these events are online.
If you're looking to visit us in person in Dubai, register for one of our on-campus Open Days .

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/dubai/events/2025/bbs-pg-open-evening:
Birmingham Business School
Discover our diverse portfolio of postgraduate Business programmes taught at the Birmingham Business School.
Birmingham Business School's world-class research and teaching provides the insights, ambitions and skills to shape better, simpler and more responsible business strategies.
With the aim of promoting curiosity and thought leadership for responsible businesses, our postgraduate taught programmes are designed to provide highly valued skills and experiences, giving our students the edge in their business career.
Join us for an engaging evening full of conversations and opportunities to discover our suite of postgraduate degree programmes offered by the Birmingham Business School.
The Postgraduate Open Evening provides a unique opportunity to learn directly from our expert academics as they introduce the full range of postgraduate programmes, including the newly launched MSc Sustainable Innovation and Entrepreneurship , which aims to equip you with the skills to drive sustainability through responsible business practice.
During the event, our academic staff will discuss programme content, structure, and the practical skills gained through postgraduate study.
You will also have the opportunity to learn about the full range of student support services, including scholarships, funding guidance, and personalised career development through the University's dedicated Careers Network.
Don’t miss this opportunity to ask questions, explore your options and interact first hand with our professors.
We are delighted to host an inspiring conversation featuring Dr Nahla Abdulla Alhaj Hassan Fadhlani , Projects Advisor in the Policy and Studies Department at the Ministry of Human Resources & Emiratisation (MOHRE), and Ms Prachee Passi , MSc Marketing graduate from the University of Birmingham Dubai.
Together, they will explore the theme: Shaping Responsible Leaders: The Value of a Postgraduate Qualification in the Middle East
Gain a clear understanding of our postgraduate programmes, explore scholarship opportunities, connect with expert faculty and current students, and discover how Birmingham Business School Dubai can support your journey toward a meaningful and global career in business
This event is free to attend, and will take place at the University of Birmingham Dubai campus.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/dubai/about/contact/maps-directions:
The University of Birmingham Dubai campus is located in Dubai International Academic City (DIAC), Dubai, United Arab Emirates.
University of Birmingham Dubai Dubai International Academic City PO Box 341799 Dubai UAE
Our campus is approximately 20-30 minutes from Dubai International Airport (DXB) and Downtown Dubai, and 1 hour 15 minutes from Abu Dhabi International Airport (AUH), depending on traffic.
We offer 550 parking spaces managed by the Campus Services team.
Students require a parking access card to use these facilities.
You can reach the campus by bus (routes 366 and 320) or taxi.
Currently, the metro does not extend to the DIAC zone.
For more information, visit the RTA website (opens in new tab) or call their 24/7 call centre toll-free at 8009090 .

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/dubai/work-with-us/index.aspx:
Our Dubai campus offers unique opportunities for both Academic and Professional staff.
Join a prestigious institution with global recognition.
As a member of the Russell Group, the University of Birmingham boasts a well-established international reputation for teaching and research excellence.
Over the next decade, our ambition is to establish Birmingham among the top 50 of the world’s leading universities, grow the Dubai campus to around 4,500 students studying a full range of programmes, and establish an active research programme.
We are committed to fostering a culture that offers opportunities for all to thrive.
Our staff are essential to our continued success.
Promoting equality, diversity, and inclusion is central to our mission and vision.
It's embedded in our six core pillars, values, and ambition for the future, which are set out in our Strategic Framework (opens in a new tab) .
I am incredibly proud to work at the University.
We have a diverse student and staff body, who are welcoming and friendly, giving our campus a true community feel.
As a global top 100 university, we are all challenged daily to continuously stretch ourselves to create an environment where we can all be successful and achieve our best.
Opening in 2017, our Phase 1 site marked us as the first global top 100 and Russell Group University in Dubai.
With the completion of Phase 2 in 2022, we now occupy a prominent position at the heart of Dubai International Academic City (DIAC), the world's largest free zone for education.
The University of Birmingham is committed to treating all members of its community fairly, equally and with dignity and respect.
These are our global values and are underpinned by our Charter of Incorporation.
Whilst we are sensitive to differences in law, societies and cultures, we expect all members of our community, wherever they are based, to adhere to our values in their interactions with each other.
Our Dubai campus is a dynamic and diverse workplace where you can collaborate with talented colleagues from around the world.
Our cutting-edge technologies support impactful work.
Living in Dubai offers a rich array of cultural, recreational, and social activities, promoting a balanced lifestyle for our employees.
We offer competitive pay and benefits to attract and retain top talent.
Your total annual salary is based on an indicative split of 60% basic salary and 40% allowances (including housing, and transport), plus private medical insurance for you and up to 3 Dependants (meaning spouse and/or partner and children under the age of 18 who reside with the Employee in the United Arab Emirates and are sponsored for the UAE Residency visa purposes by the Employee).
In addition, you will receive a flight benefit capped at a rate determined by the University to contribute to the cost of an annual return economy flight ticket from Dubai to the point of origin, all as defined by the University, for you and up to 3 dependents (who reside with the Employee in the United Arab Emirates and are sponsored by the employee for the UAE Residency visa purposes).
The University will offer a competitive remuneration package (pay and benefits) for all staff working in Dubai.
Details will be based on a standard framework that is currently being finalised and will be available soon.
Depending on the situation, some key elements of the current proposed package are outlined below, and full details will be confirmed prior to any formal offer of employment being made.
As the first member of staff to join our Dubai campus from within the UAE, I have had the privilege to witness the growth of our exceptionally talented diverse staff and student community.
Ensuring that we are inclusive and respectful has enabled us to be truly collaborative and it is through maintaining an innovative approach, that we enable our staff to flourish and reach their potential.
For me personally, I have been presented with many brilliant opportunities that have challenged me to think creatively and critically and develop my knowledge and skills whilst at all times ensuring that the students' learning is at the centre of every decision we make.
Birmingham is a remarkable place to work and I shall always be proud of being a founding member of the Dubai campus.
Discover the history behind the University of Birmingham's state-of-the-art campus in Dubai International Academic City.
Elevate your organisation's knowledge and resources by leveraging the world-class expertise of a 125-year-old global top 100 university, right here in Dubai.
Recruit from one of the UK's top universities.
Explore engagement opportunities with high-performing students and graduates from the University of Birmingham Dubai.
Find essential HR information for current University of Birmingham Dubai staff.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/dubai/study/fees-and-funding/scholarships.aspx:
To ensure we recognise students who will flourish at the University, a range of prestigious scholarships are available.
Our scholarships benefit all new students at our Dubai campus, across all levels of study (foundation, undergraduate, and postgraduate) and study patterns (part time or full time).
The financial rewards are carried forward throughout all years of study*, including our student exchange year in the UK.
*Unless your final or master’s year of study is in the UK; BSc Biomedical Science, MSci Biomedical Science, MEng Mechanical Engineering, MEng Computer Science and Software Engineering.
Additionally, the scholarship does not apply to the final year (second year) of our MSc Mental Health (Clinical) programme.
Scholarship awards are based on predicted grades and are subject to the accuracy of results provided in the application form.
This milestone anniversary marks a legacy of driving change and shaping society since Queen Victoria granted our Royal Charter in 1900.
The 125 Scholarship celebrates 125 years of impact by supporting 125 high-achieving future-focused individuals joining us in September 2025 to secure a global top 100 university education.
The prestigious scholarship covers 50% of tuition fees and is awarded to outstanding students who exhibit the highest standards of academic excellence.
This is an exclusive award, offered on an invitation-only basis.
Students will be shortlisted based on their predicted grades, and the scholarship will be confirmed on the final grades.
To be considered for the 125 Scholarship, you must have applied for your course by:
Postgraduate: 5 August 2025
Undergraduate: 20 August 2025
Students who have been successful in securing the 125 Scholarship will be contacted to confirm their award on:
Postgraduate: 22 August 2025
Undergraduate: 29 August 2025
The Chancellor's Academic Merit Scholarship is based on predicted grades.
The scholarship will apply to all years of study including our student exchange year in the UK, unless your final and/or master's year of study is in the UK; BSc Biomedical Science, MSci Biomedical Science, MEng Mechanical Engineering, MEng Computer Science and Software Engineering.
Unless you apply for the MSc Mental Health programme where it will be applicable to Year 1 only.
This is stand-alone and cannot be combined.
Curriculum
Student g rade
Scholarship r eward
A Levels
BBB
30% scholarship
BBC
20% scholarship
BCC
10% scholarship
AS Levels
AAA
American High School GPA
3.7 GPA
3.5 GPA
3.0 GPA
Al Thaneweya
95% grades
90% grades
85% grades
A*AA
15% scholarship
IB
HL 7,6,6
HL 6,6,6
HL 6,6,5
HL 6,5,5
CBSE
Above 90%
Above 85%
Above 80%
Above 75%
Classification Grading System
1st Class
2:1 Upper second class
2:2 Lower second class
GPA Grading System (out of 4)
3 GPA
2.8 GPA
From 75% - 80%
From 70% - 74%
The Jinan University – University of Birmingham Joint Institute Scholarship is an exclusive scholarship offered to students graduating from the Jinan University – University of Birmingham Joint Institute (JBJI) in Guangzhou.
These scholarships for postgraduate programmes at the University of Birmingham Dubai range from 20% to 30% across all years of study depending on academic performance:
Our 20% Alumni Connections Scholarship applies to all years of study and is awarded to alumni and their family members (parents, siblings, or spouses).
A copy of the alum's University of Birmingham degree certificate is required and only eligible for family members of students who have successfully completed the programme from Dubai or Edgbaston.
Our 30% Corporate Scholarship applies to all years of study and is reserved for our key partners (Dubai Police, Al Futtaim Education, RTA).
You must provide evidence by producing an employee card.
I am absolutely delighted to have been awarded the Chancellor’s Scholarship as I embark on this new career path which will enable me to give a little back to future generations.
To be able to do this through a global top 100 and elite UK Russell Group university here in Dubai is, indeed, a wonderful opportunity that I am very much looking forward to.
Scholarships are automatically reviewed and awarded after a prospective applicant receives and accepts a Conditional Offer from the University of Birmingham Dubai and satisfies their deposit payment condition of 5,000 AED.
A separate scholarship application is not required.
All offers are reviewed for scholarship eligibility, subject to the completion of the deposit payment.
Scholarships apply to all years of study including our student exchange year in the UK, unless your final and/or master's year of study is in the UK; BSc Biomedical Science, MSci Biomedical Science, MEng Mechanical Engineering, MEng Computer Science and Software Engineering.
Visit our frequently asked questions for detailed information on the application process, admission requirements, and other key aspects for entry at our Dubai campus.
If you have any unanswered questions about University of Birmingham Dubai scholarships, get in touch.
We are here to help you navigate the process and provide the information you need to apply.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/dubai/about:
Founded as the UK’s first civic University, the original ‘redbrick', we have evolved into a leading global institution, spanning international offices, our Birmingham campus, and now the first global top 100 British university to open a campus in Dubai.
Provost, Professor Yusra Mouzughi, welcomes you to the University.
Located in the heart of Academic City, our new state-of-the-art Dubai campus reflects the rich history of our UK campus.
It visually fuses the history and stature of our Edgbaston campus with all the heritage, tradition, and beauty of Arabic culture and architecture.
Home to up to 3,000 students, it’s also a meeting place for Birmingham alumni in the region and a business engagement hub for the local community.
Contact key departments within the University of Birmingham Dubai.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/dubai/international:
Be part of our international community at the University of Birmingham, with over 10,000 students from approximately 150 countries.
Choose from over 70 undergraduate, postgraduate and integrated foundation programmes
Discover what it's like to study at a global top 100 British university in Dubai
Join our online Open Days and ask us about funding, accommodation and entry requirements

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/dubai/research:
The University of Birmingham Dubai seeks to become a leading research-oriented campus among higher education institutions in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region.
We aim to develop a research culture that incorporates the values, expectations, and activities of our community.
In the last decade, the University of Birmingham have made substantial progress in the quality, ambition, and impact of our research.
We will build on this platform as we continue to increase the delivery of Research that Matters: research with outcomes that are important to other people, organisations, and academic fields, and are widely disseminated to achieve lasting, transformative impact in the world.
Read  about Research that Matters in our 2030 Strategic Framework
To address major issues of healthy societies and policy towards wellbeing
To address climate challenges such as food and water security, and the future of mobility, as well as related financial issues and processes
To explore the many practical applications of AI and data science, and the related policy and regulatory challenges
In 2023, the UN Climate Change Conference (COP28) took place at Expo City Dubai.
A total of almost 86,000 participants attended the conference, making it comfortably the largest COP in history.
Our COP28 engagement and impact report highlights the programme of activity we hosted - showcasing the tremendous research we are leading to help tackle the climate crisis.
Dr Rasha Bayoumi , Head of Research at the University of Birmingham Dubai, has been appointed co-chair of the UAE Universities Climate Network (UCN) .
In this role, she will lead efforts to advance climate action regionally and internationally, while promoting sustainability across the UAE’s academic sector.
Read the report
Find upcoming research seminars, workshops, and panel discussions
Find research from academics based at our Dubai campus
Join forces with our researchers to work on your organisation's specific research and development needs
Discover our research institutes and groups based at our Birmingham campus

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/dubai/departments:
The University of Birmingham has been challenging and developing great minds for more than a century.
Characterised by a tradition of innovation, research at the University has broken new ground, pushed forward the boundaries of knowledge and made an impact on people’s lives.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/facilities/cadbury/birmingham-quran-mingana-collection/birmingham-quran:
The Birmingham Qur’an manuscript is one of the earliest surviving fragments of the Qur’an and one of only a handful of early manuscripts of the Qur’an in the world to have been radiocarbon dated.
It is part of the Mingana Collection of 3000 Middle Eastern manuscripts, cared for by the Cadbury Research Library at the University of Birmingham, UK.
The Birmingham Qur’an Manuscript contains parts of surahs 18-20 of the Islamic holy book, written on parchment in an early form of Arabic script known as Hijazi.
The Birmingham Qur'an: Its Journey from the Islamic Heartlands .
Free, four-week online course, open to all, through FutureLearn.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/facilities/cadbury/birmingham-quran-mingana-collection/mingana-collection:
The Mingana Collection consists of over 3000 Middle Eastern manuscripts in over twenty languages, including Arabic, Syriac, Ethiopic, Georgian, Hebrew, Samaritan and Armenian.
The oldest item in the collection dates back to 2500 BCE.
This unique and rich collection was acquired during the 1920s by Alphonse Mingana, funded by Edward Cadbury.
The Birmingham Qur'an manuscript is part of the Collection.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/research/arc/bear/bluebear:
BlueBEAR is the University supercomputer, for high performance computing (HPC) and high throughput computing (HTC).
BlueBEAR employs some of the latest technology to deliver fast and efficient processing capacity for researchers while minimizing energy consumption by using direct, on-chip, water cooling.
The service is free at the point of use to all researchers at the University - the standard available resources are listed here .
There are two steps to gaining access to BlueBEAR:
Once you are a member of a suitable BEAR project and have an active BEAR Linux account, then the Accessing BlueBEAR page provides information on accessing BlueBEAR.
The BEAR Applications website details the extensive catalogue of applications available on BlueBEAR and how to access it.
These applications include a range of compilers, libraries and software development tools are provided to allow for users write their own code to run on the system.
To request the installation of a new application, or an update to an existing one, please open a Request New BEAR Software ticket.
For commercial applications we may provide a limited number of licences so that they are available to all users of the service.
If guaranteed availability is required, for example for a long-term or time-critical project, then we recommend that users purchase their own licences for use on this system.
Every six months we start a new version of our BEAR Applications (" bear-apps "), which is a default set of tools and libraries that are used as the basis for all the applications we install on the BEAR systems (BlueBEAR, BEARCloud VMs and CaStLeS VMs).
For more details and information about how long applications and operating systems are supported please see BEAR Application Versions .
The BEAR Portal provides web-based access to a range of BlueBEAR services, such as JupyterLab, RStudio, and  GUI applications.
It also provides access for submitting BlueBEAR compute jobs.
The BEAR Portal is only available from on-campus or through using the University Remote Access Service.
All storage on BlueBEAR is provided through the Research Data Store (RDS).
User home directories are restricted to 20GB; active research data should be stored in a project on the RDS.
If you have questions or are struggling, then please see the Contact Us for information on requesting help or support.
The IT Services status page will include information on known operational issues with BlueBEAR.
This also includes any scheduled maintenance or downtime.
Finally, we would like to ask for your support in continuing to justify the investment in HPC by acknowledging use of BlueBEAR in your publications.
A possible form of words can be found here along with a form to notify us of publication which will allow us to further publicize your research in conjunction with the BlueBEAR service.
Users are reminded that they must adhere to the Campus Conditions of Use, Data Protection legislation and the University of Birmingham's Security Policy.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/research/centres-institutes/culture-forward:
We are bringing the University, the City, and Birmingham’s cultural organisations into closer and more creative collaborations.
We would be delighted to hear from anyone keen to get involved.
For more information, please contact the Culture Forward team ( cultureforward@contacts.bham.ac.uk ).

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/facilities/cadbury/visiting:
We welcome all visitors to the Cadbury Research Library and look forward to assisting you with your research.
If you are a University of Birmingham student or current staff member, you do not usually need to book.
Simply arrive during our opening hours, see below, and bring your current University of Birmingham identity card.*
If you are external to the University of Birmingham, please see the booking details below.
* If you are a University of Birmingham student or staff member , you do not usually need to pre-book.
However, some collections are held in off-site storage so please book as outlined above if you wish to view materials from our Quaker collections, the Monumental Brass Society, or the Papers of Professor M.
R.
G.
Conzen.
The search room is open Monday to Friday 10.00 to 17.00, with lunch closure 13.00 to 13.30.
Last requests for ordering archives and rare books is 16.00.
Outside of these hours our staff are supporting the research community by:
We are closed on Bank Holidays and University of Birmingham closed days .
You are welcome to bring a hand-held camera (e.g.
a mobile phone camera) to take images of material for personal use (subject to copyright).
Tripods for cameras may not be used in the search room.
If images are required for anything other than private study, please contact our Imaging service .
If material you are consulting is on microfilm or online, you are welcome to copy pages relevant to your research onto your own memory stick.
If you would like to discuss options for delivering teaching at the University of Birmingham using the special collections, please email the CRL team.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/staff/profiles/cancer-genomic/haber-marc.aspx:
Department of Cancer and Genomic Sciences Associate Professor Director of the Health Data Science Programme in Dubai
Marc Haber is an Associate Professor at the Department of Cancer and Genomic Sciences and leads the Health Data Science Programme at the Dubai Campus.
He also directs the Human Genome Diversity group which investigates genetic variation in humans to understand why disease incidence and progression differ among populations.
The group prioritizes populations that have been historically underrepresented in genetic research, with the objective of discerning how their unique genomic history has impacted their current disease prevalence.
Marc’s expertise lies in the field of population genetics and bioinformatics.
He uses large-scale sequencing data derived from both contemporary and ancient populations to gain insights into the historical events that have shaped the human genome.
His research encompasses the exploration of human migration patterns, dispersion across the globe, admixing, adaptation to diverse environments, and the implications of these events on human traits and diseases.
PhD in Biomedicine, Universitat Pompeu Fabra Barcelona BSc and MSc in Molecular Biology, Lebanese American University
Marc earned his PhD from the Institute of Evolutionary Biology at Pompeu Fabra University in Barcelona, under the guidance of David Comas.
His research focused on unraveling the genetic diversity among various ethnic groups from Afghanistan, the Middle East, and North Africa.
He worked to explain the formation of these diverse ethnic groups and the influence of factors such as culture, geography, and historical events on their genetic makeup.
Following his PhD, Marc joined the Human Evolution team at the Wellcome Sanger Institute in Cambridge under the mentorship of Chris Tyler-Smith.
His research involved an approach that combined the analysis of both modern and ancient DNA to interpret the genetic diversity observed in present-day Africans and Middle Easterners.
Additionally, he conducted studies on the genetic traits of isolated populations from Europe, as well as ethnolinguistic groups in the Caucasus and the Himalayas.
In 2019, Marc took the role of Group Leader at the Institute of Cancer and Genomic Sciences at the University of Birmingham.
He established the Human Genome Diversity Group, which is dedicated to investigating the ancestry, traits, and diseases of ethnic groups that have not been sufficiently represented in past genetic research.
In 2022, Marc founded and is currently directing the Health Data Science programme at the Dubai campus.
This programme aims to disseminate cutting-edge technology, knowledge, and computational skills to individuals who are either currently engaged in or aspire to work in the biomedical sector.
Marc and colleagues have developed a Masters programme that is rooted in their own research.
The programme is designed to provide students with proficiency in Health Data Science, Genomics, and AI/Machine Learning.
The aim is to prepare students to make significant contributions in the field of precision medicine.
Read about the programme here: Health Data Science MSc
Graduate students with strong computational skills who are interested in pursuing their MSc thesis in the group, as well as students who have secured funding and are interested in joining the group to pursue a PhD, are invited to send their CV and their topic of interest to m.haber@bham.ac.uk
Every human can trace their lineage back to a shared ancestral population that first appeared in Africa approximately 200,000 to 300,000 years ago.
Since then, populations have begun to differentiate, and genetic differences have emerged.
Some of these differences stem from the migration of a few thousand individuals out of Africa around 60,000 years ago - who went on to populate the entire globe, carrying only a small fraction of the genetic diversity found in Africa.
Today, the degree of genetic variation in humans is remarkably low when compared to other species.
However, these subtle differences among human populations - resulting from genetic drift, admixture, and natural selection - hold significant evolutionary and medical implications.
Our group is dedicated to investigating these variations in population genetics.
The group uses a cross-disciplinary approach, integrating genetics and bioinformatics with health data, historical records, and archaeological findings.
This leads to a deeper understanding of the evolutionary trajectories of diverse populations and assists in pinpointing the factors that contribute to variations in disease susceptibility among different groups.
Our work featured on the covers of Molecular Biology and Evolution and Cell:
Martiniano, R et al.
Ancient genomes illuminate Eastern Arabian population history and adaptation against malaria.
Cell Genomics 4, 3 (2024).
Zidane, M.
et al.
Genetic factors for differentiated thyroid cancer in French Polynesia: new candidate loci.
Precision Clinical Medicine, pbad015 (2023).
Pawar, H.
Ghost admixture in eastern gorillas.
Nature ecology & evolution 7, 1503-1514 (2023).
Elliott, K.
S.
Fine-scale genetic structure in the United Arab Emirates reflects endogamous and consanguineous culture, population history, and geography.
Molecular biology and evolution 39, msac039 (2022).
Sahakyan, H.
Origin and diffusion of human Y chromosome haplogroup J1-M267.
Scientific reports 11, 6659 (2021).
Almarri, M.* and Haber, M.* et al.
The genomic history of the Middle East.
Cell 184, 4612-4625.
e4614 (2021).
Haber, M.
A genetic history of the Near East from an aDNA time course sampling eight points in the past 4,000 years.
The American Journal of Human Genetics 107, 149-157 (2020).
Insight into the genomic history of the Near East from whole-genome sequences and genotypes of Yemenis.
Biorxiv , 749341 (2019).
A rare deep-rooting D0 African Y-chromosomal haplogroup and its implications for the expansion of modern humans out of Africa.
Genetics 212, 1421-1428 (2019).
A transient pulse of genetic admixture from the crusaders in the near east identified from ancient genome sequences.
The American Journal of Human Genetics 104, 977-984 (2019).
Gurdasani, D.
Uganda genome resource enables insights into population history and genomic discovery in Africa.
Cell 179, 984-1002.
e1036 (2019).
Adlam, D.
Association of the PHACTR1/EDN1 genetic locus with spontaneous coronary artery dissection.
Journal of the American College of Cardiology 73, 58-66 (2019).
Scheib, C.
L.
Ancient human parallel lineages within North America contributed to a coastal expansion.
Science 360, 1024-1027 (2018).
Response to Giem.
The American Journal of Human Genetics 102, 331 (2018).
Arciero, E.
Demographic history and genetic adaptation in the Himalayan region inferred from genome-wide SNP genotypes of 49 populations.
Molecular biology and evolution 35, 1916-1933 (2018).
Xue, Y.* Mezzavilla, M.* and Haber M.* et al.
Enrichment of low-frequency functional variants revealed by whole-genome sequencing of multiple isolated European populations.
Nature communications 8, 15927 (2017).
Platt, D.
E.
Mapping post-glacial expansions: the peopling of Southwest Asia.
Scientific reports 7, 1-10 (2017).
Continuity and admixture in the last five millennia of Levantine history from ancient Canaanite and present-day Lebanese genome sequences.
The American Journal of Human Genetics 101, 274-282 (2017).
Caffeine impact on metabolic syndrome components is modulated by a CYP1A2 variant.
Annals of nutrition and metabolism 68, 1-11 (2016).
Ancient DNA and the rewriting of human history: be sparing with Occam’s razor.
Genome biology 17, 1-8 (2016).
Genetic evidence for an origin of the Armenians from Bronze Age mixing of multiple populations.
European Journal of Human Genetics 24, 931-936 (2016).
Chad genetic diversity reveals an African history marked by multiple Holocene Eurasian migrations.
The American Journal of Human Genetics 99, 1316-1324 (2016).
Ayub, Q.
Response to Hellenthal et al.
The American Journal of Human Genetics 98, 398 (2016).
Ayub, Q., Haber, M.
& Tyler-Smith, C.
Evolutionary and population genetics in forensic science.
Handbook of Forensic Genetics: Biodiversity and Heredity in Civil and Criminal Investigation, 33-60 (2016).
Circulating lipid levels and risk of coronary artery disease in a large group of patients undergoing coronary angiography.
Journal of thrombosis and thrombolysis 39, 15-22 (2015).
Pagani, L.
Tracing the route of modern humans out of Africa by using 225 human genome sequences from Ethiopians and Egyptians.
The American Journal of Human Genetics 96, 986-991 (2015).
Milane, A.
Association of coronary artery disease and chronic kidney disease in Lebanese population.
International Journal of Clinical and Experimental Medicine 8, 15866 (2015).
Merhi, M.
Impact of inflammation, gene variants, and cigarette smoking on coronary artery disease risk.
Inflammation Research 64, 415-422 (2015).
Balanovsky, O.
Deep phylogenetic analysis of haplogroup G1 provides estimates of SNP and STR mutation rates on the human Y-chromosome and reveals migrations of Iranic speakers.
PLoS One 10, e0122968 (2015).
The Kalash genetic isolate: ancient divergence, drift, and selection.
The American Journal of Human Genetics 96, 775-783 (2015).
ArunKumar, G.
Genome-wide signatures of male-mediated migration shaping the Indian gene pool.
Journal of human genetics 60, 493-499 (2015).
Nikpay, M et al.
A comprehensive 1000 Genomes–based genome-wide association meta-analysis of coronary artery disease.
Nature genetics 47, 1121-1130 (2015).
Hovhannisyan, A.
Different waves and directions of Neolithic migrations in the Armenian Highland.
Investigative genetics 5, 1-11 (2014).
Ghassibe-Sabbagh, M.
T2DM GWAS in the Lebanese population confirms the role of TCF7L2 and CDKAL1 in disease susceptibility.
Scientific reports 4, 7351 (2014).
Multivariate epidemiologic analysis of type 2 diabetes mellitus risks in the Lebanese population.
Diabetology & Metabolic Syndrome 6, 1-12 (2014).
Elhaik, E.
Geographic population structure analysis of worldwide human populations infers their biogeographical origins.
Nature communications 5, 3513 (2014).
Genome-wide diversity in the levant reveals recent structuring by culture.
PLoS genetics 9, e1003316 (2013).
Fadhlaoui-Zid, K.* and Haber, M.* et al.
Genome-wide and paternal diversity reveal a recent origin of human populations in North Africa.
PLoS One 8, e80293 (2013).
Badro, D.
Y-chromosome and mtDNA genetics reveal significant contrasts in affinities of modern Middle Eastern populations with European and African populations.
PloS one 8, e54616 (2013).
Melé, M.
Recombination gives a new insight in the effective population size and the history of the old world human populations.
Molecular biology and evolution 29, 25-30 (2012).
Hager, J.
Genome-wide association study in a Lebanese cohort confirms PHACTR1 as a major determinant of coronary artery stenosis.
PloS one 7, e38663 (2012).
mtDNA lineages reveal coronary artery disease‐associated structures in the Lebanese population.
Annals of human genetics 76, 1-8 (2012).
Afghanistan's ethnic groups share a Y-chromosomal heritage structured by historical events.
PloS one 7, e34288 (2012).
Genetic and environmental influences on total plasma homocysteine and its role in coronary artery disease risk.
Atherosclerosis 222, 180-186 (2012).
Population differentiation of southern Indian male lineages correlates with agricultural expansions predating the caste system.
PLoS One 7, e50269 (2012).
Saade, S.
Large scale association analysis identifies three susceptibility loci for coronary artery disease.
PloS one 6, e29427 (2011).
Y-chromosome R-M343 African lineages and sickle cell disease reveal structured assimilation in Lebanon.
Journal of human genetics 56, 29-33 (2011).
Influences of history, geography, and religion on genetic structure: the Maronites in Lebanon.
European Journal of Human Genetics 19, 334-340 (2011).
Parallel evolution of genes and languages in the Caucasus region.
Molecular biology and evolution 28, 2905-2920 (2011).
A new method to reconstruct recombination events at a genomic scale.
PLoS computational biology 6, e1001010 (2010).
Haber, M., et al.
Leishmania major: interleukin-13 increases the infection-induced hyperalgesia and the levels of interleukin-1beta and interleukin-12 in rats.
Experimental Parasitology 121, 224-229 (2009).
El‐Sibai, M.
Geographical Structure of the Y‐chromosomal Genetic Landscape of the Levant: A coastal‐inland contrast.
Annals of human genetics 73, 568-581 (2009).
Zalloua, P.
Identifying genetic traces of historical expansions: Phoenician footprints in the Mediterranean.
The American Journal of Human Genetics 83, 633-642 (2008).

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/postgraduate/courses/combined/med/functional-genome-biology.aspx:
Annual tuition fee for 2023/24: UK: £10,980 International: £26,040
More details for fees and funding .
Programme suspension This programme is currently suspended and not accepting applications.
Please continue to check our website for the latest information.
Genome biology is the biological science of the 21st century and has the potential to transform medicine.
It is powerfully informative about how DNA and genomes are organised and controlled.
An understanding of its core principles and how it responds to stresses and interventions is a requirement for future research leaders.
This programme places you at the centre of world-leading expertise to provide a unique training experience, offering cutting-edge taught and research training in all aspects of genome biology.
As a research Masters degree, it prepares you for the next stage in a research career.
Its delivery focuses on substantial hands-on, real world training to give you the employability skills you will need for PhD and industry positions.
Molecular mechanisms are at the basis of physiology, development, diseases and infections, and are key to the development of novel treatments for diseases.
The programme will allow you to develop an understanding of the fundamental aspects of genome regulation, repair and replication.
You will gain bioinformatics/computer-based skills that use the latest omic technologies to analyse large and complex datasets, along with lab-based interventional approaches using new technologies.
You will also develop a deep knowledge and understanding of genome biology analysis and experimentation, and how this links to addressing biomedical questions.
This will be complemented by a wide range of practical laboratory skills and hands-on experience of cutting-edge techniques, as well as transferable skills of time and project management, teamwork and scientific communication.
This module aims to consider critical aspects of how genomes, particularly the human genome, are organised, regulated, maintained and copied.
This module will go into the detail required to understand and study how a genome functions as a physical, dynamic package of information and the vulnerabilities that it is prone to.
We will introduce students to a variety of experimental model systems and techniques used in cutting edge genome research being carried out by researchers at the University.
Finally, we will encourage critical assessment of published literature and creative thinking around experimental design in genome biology.
This module will build on previous learning anticipated from students’ BSc-level learning.
This module aims to develop an understanding of how bioinformatics is at the core of modern biomedical science.
It will deliver a practical grounding in how computing, maths and statistics underpin the modern analytical approaches of “Big Data” generated using 'omic technologies.
The module underpins and complements the other taught modules in the programme and will provide both understanding and practical skills to students to enable them to use appropriate bioinformatics tools in their research projects, while also facilitating effective communication with bioinformaticians.
This module aims to explore how functional genome biology informs advances in biomedicine.
The module will deliver a firm grounding in the way that modern analytical approaches of Big Data generated using cutting edge ‘omic technologies have influenced advances in our understanding of human disease and its management.
It will consider ‘omic technologies that can capture genetic, epigenetic, and expression changes in different biological sample types in the lab and clinic and the computational approaches utilised to process and analyse the generated data.
It will also explore the types of patient cohorts and samples needed to generate the most fruitful data sets and examine how ‘omic data provides novel means to manage specific diseases risk, progression, and treatments.
This module provides students with an opportunity to take the knowledge acquired during the taught elements of the course in ‘Introduction to Bioinformatics’, ‘Genome approaches’ and ‘Genome Dynamics’ to develop their research skills in laboratories that use functional genomic approaches to address fundamental questions in genome biology.
Therefore, projects will have both ‘wet’ lab and ‘dry’ lab elements to ensure that the students acquire a broad range of experimental skills relevant to the study of genome biology.
To cater for individual student needs, exclusively ‘wet’ lab and ‘dry’ lab projects will also be offered.
Projects will typically be offered in the areas of cancer genetics, developmental genetics, DNA damage, replication and segregation, translational biology, and drug development, all of which are research strengths at UoB, and all utilise omic technologies and informatics approaches for large dataset analyses.
UK: £10,980 International: £26,040
Postgraduate Loans for Masters students As a UK resident you can apply for a government loan for postgraduate Masters study.
This is a contribution towards the costs of study and whether the loan is used towards fees, maintenance or other costs will be at the discretion of the student.
Find out more about the Postgraduate Loan
As a UK resident you can apply for a government loan for postgraduate Masters study.
International students can often gain funding through overseas research scholarships, Commonwealth scholarships or their home government.
Visit our website for information about scholarships for international students .
For information about all Home and International funding opportunities please visit the Postgraduate Funding Database.
A 2:1 Honours degree in biomedical science, biological sciences or biochemistry.
Applicants who do not meet this requirement but who have relevant experience, may be considered.
Please get in touch with us to discuss your suitability prior to applying.
International students Academic requirements We accept a range of international qualifications - use the dropdown box below to select your country and see the equivalencies to the above UK requirements.
English language requirements IELTS 6.5 with no less than 6.0 in any band.
If you are made an offer of a place to study and you do not already meet the language requirement, you have the option to enrol on our English for Academic Purposes Presessional Course .
If you successfully complete this, you will be able to fulfil the language requirement without needing to take a further qualification.
IELTS 6.5 with no less than 6.0 in any band TOEFL: 88 overall with no less than 21 in Reading, 20 in Listening, 22 in Speaking and 21 in Writing Pearson Test of English (PTE) including online: PTE Academic 67 with no less than 64 in all four skills Cambridge English (exams taken from 2015): Advanced – minimum overall score of 176, with no less than 169 in any component
We accept a range of international qualifications - use the dropdown box below to select your country and see the equivalencies to the above UK requirements.
IELTS 6.5 with no less than 6.0 in any band.
For entry to a PhD programme, any of the following Masters equivalent programmes with a minimum grade of 8/10 will be considered: - Kandidat i Shkencave (Candidate of Sciences) - Certifikate Specializimi (Specialisation Certificate) - Diplomë e Nivelit të Dytë (Second Level (University) Diploma) - Master i Arteve të Bukura (Master of Fine Arts) - Master i Nivelit të Dytë (Second Level Master's degree ) - Master i Nivelit të Parë (First level Master's degree) - Master Shkencave (Master of Science)
Applicants for postgraduate research programmes should hold a Bachelors degree and a Masters degree, with a GPA of 14/20 from a recognised institution to be considered.
Applicants with lower grades than this may be considered on an individual basis.
Entry requirements for applicants with qualifications from Argentina Holders of the Licenciado or an equivalent professional title from a recognised Argentinian university, with a promedio of at least 7.5, may be considered for entry to a postgraduate degree programme.
Applicants for PhD degrees will normally have a Maestria or equivalent
Holders of the Licenciado or an equivalent professional title from a recognised Argentinian university, with a promedio of at least 7.5, may be considered for entry to a postgraduate degree programme.
Applicants who hold a Masters degree will be considered for admission to PhD study.
Holders of a good four-year Diplomstudium/Magister or a Masters degree from a recognised university with a minimum overall grade of 2.5 will be considered for entry to postgraduate research programmes.
Entry requirements for applicants with qualifications from Azerbaijan Students with a good 5-year Specialist Diploma or 4-year Bachelor degree from a recognised higher education institution in Azerbaijan, with a minimum GPA of 4/5 or 80% will be considered for entry to postgraduate taught programmes at the University of Birmingham.
For postgraduate research programmes applicants should have a good 5-year Specialist Diploma (completed after 1991), with a minimum grade point average of 4/5 or 80%, from a recognised higher education institution or a Masters or “Magistr Diplomu” or “Kandidat Nauk” from a recognised higher education institution in Azerbaijan.
Students with a good 5-year Specialist Diploma or 4-year Bachelor degree from a recognised higher education institution in Azerbaijan, with a minimum GPA of 4/5 or 80% will be considered for entry to postgraduate taught programmes at the University of Birmingham.
Applicants for postgraduate research programmes should hold a Bachelors degree and a Masters degree, with a GPA of 3.0/4.0 or 75% from a recognised institution to be considered.
Applicants for postgraduate research programmes should hold a Bachelors degree and will usually be required to have completed a Masters degree, with a CGPA of 3.0-3.3/4.0 or higher for 2:1 equivalency from a recognised institution to be considered for entry.
Entry requirements for applicants with qualifications from Botswana Students who hold a Masters degree from the University of Botswana with a minimum GPA of 3.0/4.0 or 3.5/5.0 (70%/B/'very good') will be considered for Postgraduate Diplomas and Masters degrees.
Please note 4-year bachelor degrees from the University of Botswana are considered equivalent to a Diploma of Higher Education.
5-year bachelor degrees from the University of Botswana are considered equivalent to a British Bachelor (Ordinary) degree.
Students who have completed a Masters degree from a recognised institution will be considered for PhD study.
Students who hold a Masters degree from the University of Botswana with a minimum GPA of 3.0/4.0 or 3.5/5.0 (70%/B/'very good') will be considered for Postgraduate Diplomas and Masters degrees.
Entry requirements for applicants with qualifications from Brazil A Licenciatura or Bacharelado degree from a recognised Brazilian university: A grade of 7.5/10 for entry to programmes with a 2:1 requirement A grade of 6.5/10for entry to programmes with a 2:2 requirement
A Licenciatura or Bacharelado degree from a recognised Brazilian university:
Entry requirements for applicants with qualifications from Brunei Holders of a good Bachelors degree with honours (4 to 6 years) from a recognised university with a upper second class grade or higher will be considered for entry to taught postgraduate programmes.
Holders of a good Masters degree from a recognised university will be considered for entry to postgraduate research programmes.
Holders of a good Bachelors degree with honours (4 to 6 years) from a recognised university with a upper second class grade or higher will be considered for entry to taught postgraduate programmes.
Holders of a good post-2001 Masters degree from a recognised university will be considered for entry to postgraduate research programmes.
Entry requirements for applicants with qualifications from Cameroon Students with a minimum average of 14 out of 20 (or 70%) on a 4-year Licence, Bachelor degree or Diplôme d'Etudes Superieures de Commerce (DESC) or Diplôme d'Ingénieur or a Maîtrise will be considered for Postgraduate Diplomas and Masters degrees.
Students with a minimum average of 14 out of 20 (or 70%) on a 4-year Licence, Bachelor degree or Diplôme d'Etudes Superieures de Commerce (DESC) or Diplôme d'Ingénieur or a Maîtrise will be considered for Postgraduate Diplomas and Masters degrees.
Entry requirements for applicants with qualifications from Canada Holders of a bachelor degree with honours from a recognised Canadian university may be considered for entry to a postgraduate degree programme.
A GPA of 3.0/4, 7.0/9 or 75% is usually equivalent to a UK 2.1.
Holders of a bachelor degree with honours from a recognised Canadian university may be considered for entry to a postgraduate degree programme.
Entry requirements for applicants with qualifications from Chile Holders of the Licenciado or equivalent Professional Title from a recognised Chilean university will be considered for Postgraduate Diplomas and Masters degrees.
Applicants for PhD study will preferably hold a Magister degree or equivalent.
Holders of the Licenciado or equivalent Professional Title from a recognised Chilean university will be considered for Postgraduate Diplomas and Masters degrees.
Entry requirements for applicants with qualifications from China Students with a bachelor’s degree (4 years minimum) may be considered for entry to a postgraduate degree programme.
However please note that we will only consider students who meet the entry guidance below.
Please note: for the subject areas below we use the Shanghai Ranking 2023 (full table) , Shanghai Ranking 2024 (full table) and Shanghai Ranking of Chinese Art Universities 2024 需要具备学士学位（4年制）的申请人可申请研究生课程。请根据所申请的课程查看相应的入学要求。 请注意，中国院校名单参考 软科中国大学排名2023（总榜） ， 软科中国大学排名2024（总榜） ，以及 软科中国艺术类高校名单2024 。 Business School (excluding MBA) and School of Computer Science programmes 商学院 （ MBA除外） 及计算机学院硕士 课程入学要求 Group 1 一类大学 Grade requirement 均分要求75% Project 985 Universities 39所 “985工程” 院校 Group 2 二类大学 grade requirement 均分要求80% Universities ranked in the top 100 in the Shanghai Ranking 2023 (full table) or 2024 (full table) 软科中国大学排名2023（总榜）或软科中国大学排名2024（总榜）排名前100的大学 Universities in the ‘Project 211’ (excluding the ones in Project 985) 非‘985工程’的其他 ‘211工程’ 院校 We will also consider the 2 additional universities below: 以及以下两所大学： University of Chinese Academy of Sciences 中国科学院大学 University of Chinese Academy of Social Sciences 中国社会科学院大学 Group 3 三类大学 grade requirement 均分要求85% Universities ranked in the top 101 to 200 in the Shanghai Ranking 2023 (full table) or 2024 (full table) 软科中国大学排名2023（总榜）或 软科中国大学排名2024（总榜）101-200位的大学 Group 4四类大学* grade requirement 均分要求87% Universities ranked in the top 201 to 300 in the Shanghai Ranking 2023 (full table) or 2024 (full table) 软科中国大学排名2023（总榜）或 软科中国大学排名2024（总榜）201-300位的大学 * Applicants from Group 4 institutions are only considered for the following 7 programmes 来自第四类院校的申请人仅限于申请以下7个课程： MSc Financial Management MSc Investments MSc Financial Technology MSc Economics MSc Financial Economics MSc Money, Banking and Finance MSc Computer Science All other programmes (including MBA) 所有其他 硕士课程（包括 MBA）入学要求 Group 1 一类大学 Grade requirement 均分要求73% Project 985 Universities 39所 “985工程” 院校 Group 2 二类大学 grade requirement 均分要求78% Universities ranked in the top 200 in the Shanghai Ranking 2023 (full table) or 2024 (full table) 软科中国大学排名2023（总榜）或软科中国大学排名2024（总榜）排名前200的大学 Universities in the ‘Project 211’ (excluding the ones in Project 985) 非‘985工程’的其他 ‘211工程’ 院校 Universities ranked in the top 11 in the Shanghai Ranking of Chinese Art Universities 2024 软科中国艺术类高校名单2024排名前11的艺术类院校 We will also consider the 2 additional universities below: 以及以下两所大学： University of Chinese Academy of Sciences 中国科学院大学 University of Chinese Academy of Social Sciences 中国社会科学院大学 Group 3 三类大学 grade requirement 均分要求85% Universities ranked in the top 201 to 500 in the Shanghai Ranking 2023 (full table) or 2024 (full table) 软科中国大学排名2023（总榜）或2024（总榜）201- 500位的大学 Universities ranked in the top 12-30 in the Shanghai Ranking of Chinese Art Universities 2024 软科中国艺术类高校名单2024排名前12-30位的艺术类院校 Group 4 四类大学 We will consider students from these institutions ONLY on a case-by-case basis with minimum 85% if you have a relevant degree and very excellent grades in relevant subjects and/or relevant work experience.
来自四类大学的申请人均分要求最低85%，并同时具有出色学术背景，优异的专业成绩，以及（或）相关的工作经验，将酌情考虑。 Universities ranked 501+ in the Shanghai Ranking 2023 (full table) or 2024 (full table) 软科中国大学排名2023（总榜）或2024（总榜）501位以后的大学 Universities ranked in 31-35 in the Shanghai Ranking of Chinese Art Universities 2024 软科中国艺术类高校名单2024排名31-35位的艺术类院校 Please contact the China Recruitment Team for any questions on the above entry requirements.
如果您对录取要求有疑问，请联系伯明翰大学中国办公室 china@contacts.bham.ac.uk
Students with a bachelor’s degree (4 years minimum) may be considered for entry to a postgraduate degree programme.
Please note: for the subject areas below we use the Shanghai Ranking 2023 (full table) , Shanghai Ranking 2024 (full table) and Shanghai Ranking of Chinese Art Universities 2024
需要具备学士学位（4年制）的申请人可申请研究生课程。请根据所申请的课程查看相应的入学要求。 请注意，中国院校名单参考 软科中国大学排名2023（总榜） ， 软科中国大学排名2024（总榜） ，以及 软科中国艺术类高校名单2024 。
Business School (excluding MBA) and School of Computer Science programmes 商学院 （ MBA除外） 及计算机学院硕士 课程入学要求
Group 1 一类大学
Grade requirement
均分要求75%
39所 “985工程” 院校
Group 2 二类大学
grade requirement
均分要求80%
软科中国大学排名2023（总榜）或软科中国大学排名2024（总榜）排名前100的大学
非‘985工程’的其他 ‘211工程’ 院校
以及以下两所大学：
University of Chinese Academy of Sciences 中国科学院大学 University of Chinese Academy of Social Sciences 中国社会科学院大学
Group 3 三类大学
均分要求85%
软科中国大学排名2023（总榜）或 软科中国大学排名2024（总榜）101-200位的大学
Group 4四类大学*
均分要求87%
软科中国大学排名2023（总榜）或 软科中国大学排名2024（总榜）201-300位的大学
* Applicants from Group 4 institutions are only considered for the following 7 programmes
来自第四类院校的申请人仅限于申请以下7个课程：
All other programmes (including MBA) 所有其他 硕士课程（包括 MBA）入学要求
均分要求73%
均分要求78%
软科中国大学排名2023（总榜）或软科中国大学排名2024（总榜）排名前200的大学
软科中国艺术类高校名单2024排名前11的艺术类院校
软科中国大学排名2023（总榜）或2024（总榜）201- 500位的大学
软科中国艺术类高校名单2024排名前12-30位的艺术类院校
Group 4 四类大学
We will consider students from these institutions ONLY on a case-by-case basis with minimum 85% if you have a relevant degree and very excellent grades in relevant subjects and/or relevant work experience.
来自四类大学的申请人均分要求最低85%，并同时具有出色学术背景，优异的专业成绩，以及（或）相关的工作经验，将酌情考虑。
软科中国大学排名2023（总榜）或2024（总榜）501位以后的大学
软科中国艺术类高校名单2024排名31-35位的艺术类院校
Please contact the China Recruitment Team for any questions on the above entry requirements.
Entry requirements for applicants with qualifications from Colombia Holders of the Licenciado/Professional Title from a recognised Colombian university will be considered for our Postgraduate Diploma and Masters degrees.
Applicants for PhD degrees will normally have a Maestria or equivalent.
Holders of the Licenciado/Professional Title from a recognised Colombian university will be considered for our Postgraduate Diploma and Masters degrees.
Entry requirements for applicants with qualifications from Costa Rica Holders of a good bachelor degree with honours (4 to 6 years) from a recognised university with a upper second class grade or higher will be considered for entry to taught postgraduate programmes.
Holders of a good bachelor degree with honours (4 to 6 years) from a recognised university with a upper second class grade or higher will be considered for entry to taught postgraduate programmes.
Holders of a good Bacclaureus (Bachelors) from a recognised Croatian Higher Education institution with a minimum overall grade of 4.0 out of 5.0, vrlo dobar ‘very good’, or a Masters degree, will be considered for entry to postgraduate research programmes.
Entry requirements for applicants with qualifications from Cuba Holders of a Bachelors degree(from the University of the West Indies or the University of Technology) may be considered for entry to a postgraduate degree programme.
A Class II Upper Division degree is usually equivalent to a UK 2.1.
For further details on particular institutions please refer to the list below.
Applicants for PhD level study will preferably hold a Masters degree or Mphil from the University of the West Indies.
Holders of a Bachelors degree(from the University of the West Indies or the University of Technology) may be considered for entry to a postgraduate degree programme.
Applicants for postgraduate research programmes should hold a good Bachelors degree from a recognised institution with a minimum overall grade of 6.5 out of 10, or a GPA of 3 out of 4, and will usually be required to have completed a good Masters degree to be considered for entry to postgraduate research programmes.
Holders of a good Bakalár from a recognised Czech Higher Education institution with a minimum overall grade of 1.5, B, velmi dobre ‘very good’ (post-2004) or 2, velmi dobre ‘good’ (pre-2004), or a good post-2002 Magistr (Masters), will be considered for entry to postgraduate research programmes.
Entry requirements for applicants with qualifications from Denmark Applicants for postgraduate research programmes should hold a good Bachelors degree from a recognised institution with a minimum overall grade of 7-10 out of 12 (or 8 out of 13) or higher for 2:1 equivalence and will usually be required to have completed a good Masters/ Magisterkonfereus/Magister Artium degree to be considered for entry to postgraduate research programmes.
Applicants for postgraduate research programmes should hold a good Bachelors degree from a recognised institution with a minimum overall grade of 7-10 out of 12 (or 8 out of 13) or higher for 2:1 equivalence and will usually be required to have completed a good Masters/ Magisterkonfereus/Magister Artium degree to be considered for entry to postgraduate research programmes.
Entry requirements for applicants with qualifications from Ecuador Holders of the Licenciado or an equivalent professional title from a recognised Ecuadorian university may be considered for entry to a postgraduate degree programme.
Grades of 70% or higher can be considered as UK 2.1 equivalent.
Applicants for PhD level study will preferably hold a Magister/Masterado or equivalent qualification, but holders of the Licenciado with excellent grades can be considered.
Holders of the Licenciado or an equivalent professional title from a recognised Ecuadorian university may be considered for entry to a postgraduate degree programme.
Entry requirements for applicants with qualifications from Egypt Applicants for postgraduate research programmes should hold a Bachelors degree and a Masters degree, with a GPA of 3.0/4.0 or 75% from a recognised institution.
Applicants for postgraduate research programmes should hold a Bachelors degree and a Masters degree, with a GPA of 3.0/4.0 or 75% from a recognised institution.
Entry requirements for applicants with qualifications from Estonia Holders of a good Bakalaurusekraad from a recognised university with a minimum overall grade of 4/5 or B, or a good one- or two-year Magistrikraad from a recognised university, will be considered for entry to postgraduate research programmes.
Holders of a good Bakalaurusekraad from a recognised university with a minimum overall grade of 4/5 or B, or a good one- or two-year Magistrikraad from a recognised university, will be considered for entry to postgraduate research programmes.
Entry requirements for applicants with qualifications from Ethiopia Students who hold a Masters degree with very good grades (grade B, 3.5/4 GPA or 85%) will be considered for Postgraduate Diplomas and Masters degrees.
Students who hold a Masters degree with very good grades (grade B, 3.5/4 GPA or 85%) will be considered for Postgraduate Diplomas and Masters degrees.
Entry requirements for applicants with qualifications from Finland Holders of a good Kandidaatti / Kandidat (old system), a professional title such as Ekonomi, Diplomi-insinööri, Arkkitehti, Lisensiaatti (in Medicine, Dentistry and Vetinary Medicine), or a Maisteri / Magister (new system), Lisensiaatti / Licenciat, Oikeustieteen Kandidaatti / Juris Kandidat (new system) or Proviisori / Provisor from a recognised Finnish Higher Education institution, with a minimum overall grade of 2/3 or 4/5, will be considered for entry to postgraduate research programmes.
Holders of a good Kandidaatti / Kandidat (old system), a professional title such as Ekonomi, Diplomi-insinööri, Arkkitehti, Lisensiaatti (in Medicine, Dentistry and Vetinary Medicine), or a Maisteri / Magister (new system), Lisensiaatti / Licenciat, Oikeustieteen Kandidaatti / Juris Kandidat (new system) or Proviisori / Provisor from a recognised Finnish Higher Education institution, with a minimum overall grade of 2/3 or 4/5, will be considered for entry to postgraduate research programmes.
Entry requirements for applicants with qualifications from France Applicants for postgraduate research programmes should hold a should hold a Bachelors degree and will usually be required to have completed a Masters/Maîtrise with a minimum overall grade of 13 out of 20, or a Magistère / Diplôme d'Etudes Approfondies / Diplôme d'Etudes Supérieures Specialisées / Mastère Specialis, from a recognised French university or Grande École to be considered for entry.
Applicants for postgraduate research programmes should hold a should hold a Bachelors degree and will usually be required to have completed a Masters/Maîtrise with a minimum overall grade of 13 out of 20, or a Magistère / Diplôme d'Etudes Approfondies / Diplôme d'Etudes Supérieures Specialisées / Mastère Specialis, from a recognised French university or Grande École to be considered for entry.
Entry requirements for applicants with qualifications from Georgia The following qualifications may be considered for entry to a Masters programme: Bachelor degree - Transliteration: Bakalavris Khariskhi Diploma in Dentistry / Medicine / Veterinary Medicine) Certified Specialist - Transliteration: Diplomirebuli Spezialisti (when studied for 4 years) (awarded between 2005 and 2010) Specialist Diploma - Transliteration: Umaghlesi Ganatlebis Diplomi (last awarded in 2005) For qualifications awarded 2005 onwards, a B or 81-90/100 can be considered equivalent to a 2.1, and a C or 71-80/100 can be considered equivalent to a 2.1.
For qualifications awarded before 2005 on a grading scheme out of 5, the following equivalencies may be considered: 2.1 = 4.5 - 4.9, and 2.2 = 4.0 – 4.49
The following qualifications may be considered for entry to a Masters programme: Bachelor degree - Transliteration: Bakalavris Khariskhi Diploma in Dentistry / Medicine / Veterinary Medicine) Certified Specialist - Transliteration: Diplomirebuli Spezialisti (when studied for 4 years) (awarded between 2005 and 2010) Specialist Diploma - Transliteration: Umaghlesi Ganatlebis Diplomi (last awarded in 2005) For qualifications awarded 2005 onwards, a B or 81-90/100 can be considered equivalent to a 2.1, and a C or 71-80/100 can be considered equivalent to a 2.1.
Entry requirements for applicants with qualifications from Germany Holders of a Magister Artium, a Diplom or an Erstes Staatsexamen from a recognised university with a minimum overall grade of 2.5, or a good two-year Lizentiat / Aufbaustudium / Zweites Staatsexamen or a Masters degree from a recognised university, will be considered for entry to postgraduate research programmes.
Holders of a Magister Artium, a Diplom or an Erstes Staatsexamen from a recognised university with a minimum overall grade of 2.5, or a good two-year Lizentiat / Aufbaustudium / Zweites Staatsexamen or a Masters degree from a recognised university, will be considered for entry to postgraduate research programmes.
Entry requirements for applicants with qualifications from Ghana Students who hold a Bachelor degree from a recognised institution will be considered for Postgraduate Diplomas and Masters degrees.
Most taught Masters programmes require a minimum of an upper second class degree (2.1) with a minimum GPA of at least 3.0/4.0 or 3.5/5.0 Students who have completed a Masters degree from a recognised institution will be considered for PhD study.
Students who hold a Bachelor degree from a recognised institution will be considered for Postgraduate Diplomas and Masters degrees.
Entry requirements for applicants with qualifications from Greece Applicants for postgraduate research programmes should hold a good four-year Ptychio (Bachelor degree) with a minimum overall grade of 6.5 out of 10, from a recognised Greek university (AEI), and will usually be required to have completed a good Metaptychiako Diploma Eidikefsis (Masters degree) from a recognised institution to be considered for entry.
Applicants for postgraduate research programmes should hold a good four-year Ptychio (Bachelor degree) with a minimum overall grade of 6.5 out of 10, from a recognised Greek university (AEI), and will usually be required to have completed a good Metaptychiako Diploma Eidikefsis (Masters degree) from a recognised institution to be considered for entry.
Entry requirements for applicants with qualifications from Guatemala 4-year Licenciado is deemed equivalent to a UK bachelors degree.
A score of 75 or higher from Universidad de San Carlos de Guatemala (USAC) can be considered comparable to a UK 2.1, 60 is comparable to a UK 2.2.
Private universities have a higher pass mark, so 80 or higher should be considered comparable to a UK 2.1, 70 is comparable to a UK 2.2 Students who have completed a Masters degree from a recognised institution will be considered for PhD study.
4-year Licenciado is deemed equivalent to a UK bachelors degree.
Private universities have a higher pass mark, so 80 or higher should be considered comparable to a UK 2.1, 70 is comparable to a UK 2.2
Entry requirements for applicants with qualifications from Hong Kong The Hong Kong Bachelor degree is considered comparable to British Bachelor degree standard.
Students with bachelor degrees awarded by universities in Hong Kong may be considered for entry to one of our postgraduate degree programmes.
Students with Masters degrees may be considered for PhD study.
The Hong Kong Bachelor degree is considered comparable to British Bachelor degree standard.
Entry requirements for applicants with qualifications from Hungary Holders of a good Alapfokozat / Alapképzés or Egyetemi Oklevel from a recognised university with a minimum overall grade of 3.5, or a good Mesterfokozat (Masters degree) or Egyetemi Doktor (university doctorate), will be considered for entry to postgraduate research programmes.
Holders of a good Alapfokozat / Alapképzés or Egyetemi Oklevel from a recognised university with a minimum overall grade of 3.5, or a good Mesterfokozat (Masters degree) or Egyetemi Doktor (university doctorate), will be considered for entry to postgraduate research programmes.
Entry requirements for applicants with qualifications from India Applicants for postgraduate research programmes should hold a Bachelors degree and will usually be required to have completed a Masters degree, with a 60% or higher for 2:1 equivalency from a recognised institution to be considered for entry.
Applicants for postgraduate research programmes should hold a Bachelors degree and will usually be required to have completed a Masters degree, with a 60% or higher for 2:1 equivalency from a recognised institution to be considered for entry.
Entry requirements for applicants with qualifications from Indonesia Holders of the 4 year Sarjana (S1) from a recognised Indonesian institution will be considered for postgraduate study.
Entry requirements vary with a minimum requirement of a GPA of 2.8.
Holders of the 4 year Sarjana (S1) from a recognised Indonesian institution will be considered for postgraduate study.
Entry requirements for applicants with qualifications from Iran Applicants for postgraduate research programmes should hold a Bachelors degree and a Masters degree, with a score of 14/20 or 70% from a recognised institution to be considered.
Applicants for postgraduate research programmes should hold a Bachelors degree and a Masters degree, with a score of 14/20 or 70% from a recognised institution to be considered.
Entry requirements for applicants with qualifications from Israel Applicants for postgraduate research programmes should hold a Bachelors degree and a Masters degree, with a GPA of 3.0/4.0 or 75% from a recognised institution to be considered.
Applicants for postgraduate research programmes should hold a Bachelors degree and will usually be required to have completed a Masters degree from a recognised institution, with 100 out of 110 or higher for 2:1 equivalency from a recognised institution to be considered for entry.
Entry requirements for applicants with qualifications from Ivory Coast Students who hold the Maitrise, Diplome d'Etude Approfondies, Diplome d'Etude Superieures or Diplome d'Etude Superieures Specialisees will be considered for Postgraduate Diplomas and Masters degrees (14-15/20 or Bien from a well ranked institution is considered comparable to a UK 2.1, while a score of 12-13/20 or Assez Bien is considered comparable to a UK 2.2).
Students who hold the Maitrise, Diplome d'Etude Approfondies, Diplome d'Etude Superieures or Diplome d'Etude Superieures Specialisees will be considered for Postgraduate Diplomas and Masters degrees (14-15/20 or Bien from a well ranked institution is considered comparable to a UK 2.1, while a score of 12-13/20 or Assez Bien is considered comparable to a UK 2.2).
Entry requirements for applicants with qualifications from Jamaica Holders of a Bachelors degree(from the University of the West Indies or the University of Technology) may be considered for entry to a postgraduate degree programme.
Entry requirements for applicants with qualifications from Japan Students with a Bachelor degree from a recognised university in Japan will be considered for entry to a postgraduate Masters degree provided they achieve a sufficiently high overall score in their first (Bachelor) degree.
A GPA of 3.0/4.0 or a B average from a good Japanese university is usually considered equivalent to a UK 2:1.
Students with a Masters degree from a recognised university in Japan will be considered for PhD study.
A high overall grade will be necessary to be considered.
Students with a Bachelor degree from a recognised university in Japan will be considered for entry to a postgraduate Masters degree provided they achieve a sufficiently high overall score in their first (Bachelor) degree.
Students who have completed their Specialist Diploma Мамаң дипломы/Диплом специалиста) or "Magistr" (Магистр дипломы/Диплом магистра) degree (completed after 1991) from a recognised higher education institution, with a minimum GPA of 2.67/4.00 for courses requiring a UK lower second and 3.00/4.00 for courses requiring a UK upper second class degree, will be considered for entry to postgraduate Masters degrees and, occasionally, directly for PhD degrees.
Holders of a Bachelor "Bakalavr" degree (Бакалавр дипломы/Диплом бакалавра) from a recognised higher education institution, with a minimum GPA of  2.67/4.00 for courses requiring a UK lower second and 3.00/4.00 for courses requiring a UK upper second class degree, may also be considered for entry to taught postgraduate programmes.
Most taught Masters programmes require a minimum of an upper second class degree (2.1) with a minimum GPA of at least 3.0/4.0 or 3.5/50 Students who have completed a Masters degree from a recognised institution will be considered for PhD study.
Most taught Masters programmes require a minimum of an upper second class degree (2.1) with a minimum GPA of at least 3.0/4.0 or 3.5/50
Holders of a good Postgraduate Diploma (professional programme) from a recognised university or institution of Higher Education, with a minimum overall grade of 7.5 out of 10, or a post-2000 Magistrs, will be considered for entry to postgraduate research programmes.
Applicants for postgraduate research programmes should hold a Bachelors degree and a Masters degree, with a score of 16/20 or 80% from a recognised institution to be considered.
Holders of a Bachelors degree from a recognised university in Libya will be considered for postgraduate study.
Holders of a Bachelors degree will normally be expected to have achieved score of 70% for 2:1 equivalency or 65% for 2:2 equivalency.
Alternatively students will require a minimum of 3.0/4.0 or BB to be considered.
Holders of a good pre-2001 Magistras from a recognised university with a minimum overall grade of 8 out of 10, or a good post-2001 Magistras, will be considered for entry to postgraduate research programmes
Holders of a good Bachelors degree from a recognised Luxembourgish Higher Education institution with a minimum overall grade of 16 out of 20, or a Diplôme d'Études Supérieures Spécialisées (comparable to a UK PGDip) or Masters degree from a recognised Luxembourgish Higher Education institution will be considered for entry to postgraduate research programmes.
Students who hold a Masters degree will be considered for Postgraduate Diplomas and Masters degrees (70-74% or A or Marginal Distinction from a well ranked institution is considered comparable to a UK 2.1, while a score of 60-69% or B or Bare Distinction/Credit is considered comparable to a UK 2.2).
Holders of a Bachelors degree from a recognised Malaysian institution (usually achieved with the equivalent of a second class upper or a grade point average minimum of 3.0) will be considered for postgraduate study at Diploma or Masters level.
Holders of a good Bachelors degree from the University of Malta with a minimum grade of 2:1 (Hons), and/or a Masters degree, will be considered for entry to postgraduate research programmes.
Students who hold a Bachelor degree (Honours) from a recognised institution (including the University of Mauritius) will be considered for Postgraduate Diplomas and Masters degrees.
Most taught Masters programmes require a minimum of an upper second class degree (2:1).
Students who hold the Licenciado/Professional Titulo from a recognised Mexican university with a promedio of at least 8 will be considered for Postgraduate Diplomas and Masters degrees.
Students who have completed a Maestria from a recognised institution will be considered for PhD study.
Applicants for postgraduate research programmes should hold a Bachelors degree, licence or Maîtrise and a Masters degree, with a score of 14/20 or 70% from a recognised institution to be considered.
Students with a good four year honours degree from a recognised university will be considered for postgraduate study at the University of Birmingham.
PhD applications will be considered on an individual basis.
Applicants for postgraduate research programmes should hold a Bachelors degree and will usually be required to have completed a Masters degree, with 60-74% or higher for 2:1 equivalency from a recognised institution to be considered for entry.
Holders of a good Doctoraal from a recognised Dutch university with a minimum overall grade of 7 out of 10, and/or a good Masters degree, will be considered for entry to postgraduate research programmes.
Students who hold a Bachelor degree (minimum 4 years and/or level 400) from a recognised institution will be considered for Postgraduate Diplomas and Masters degrees.
Most taught Masters programmes require a minimum of an upper second class degree (2.1) with a minimum GPA of at least 3.0/4.0 or 3.5/5.0
Applicants for postgraduate research programmes should hold a good Bachelors degree from a recognised institution with a minimum GPA of B/Very Good or 1.6-2.5 for a 2.1 equivalency, and will usually be required to have completed a good Masters, Mastergrad, Magister.
Artium, Sivilingeniør, Candidatus realium or Candidatus philologiae degree to be considered for entry to postgraduate research programmes.
Applicants for postgraduate research programmes should hold a Bachelors degree and will usually be required to have completed a Masters degree, with a CGPA of 3.0/4 or higher for 2:1 equivalency from a recognised institution to be considered for entry.
Holders of a Bachelors degree from a recognised university in the Palestinian Territories will be considered for postgraduate study.
Holders of Bachelors degree will normally be expected to have achieved a GPA of 3/4 or 80% for 2:1 equivalency or a GPA of 2.5/4 or 70% for 2:2 equivalency.
Holders of the Título de Licenciado /Título de (4-6 years) or an equivalent professional title from a recognised Paraguayan university may be considered for entry to a postgraduate degree programme.
Grades of 4/5 or higher can be considered as UK 2.1 equivalent.
The Título Intermedio is a 2-3 year degree and is equivalent to a HNC, it is not suitable for postgraduate entry but holders of this award could be considered for second year undergraduate entry or pre-Masters.
Applicants for PhD level study will preferably hold a Título de Maestría / Magister or equivalent qualification, but holders of the Título/Grado de Licenciado/a with excellent grades can be considered.
Holders of the Bachiller, Licenciado, or Título Profesional with at least 13/20 may be considered as UK 2.1 equivalent.
Applicants for PhD level study will preferably hold a Título de Maestría or equivalent qualification.
Holders of a good pre-2001 Magister from a recognised Polish university with a minimum overall grade of 4 out of 5, dobry ‘good’, and/or a good Swiadectwo Ukonczenia Studiów Podyplomowych (Certificate of Postgraduate Study) or post-2001 Magister from a recognised Polish university with a minimum overall grade of 4.5/4+ out of 5, dobry plus 'better than good', will be considered for entry to postgraduate research programmes.
Holders of a good Licenciado from a recognised university, or a Diploma de Estudos Superiores Especializados (DESE) from a recognised Polytechnic Institution, with a minimum overall grade of 16 out of 20, and/or a good Mestrado / Mestre (Masters) from a recognised university, will be considered for entry to postgraduate research programmes.
Applicants for postgraduate research programmes should hold a good Bachelors degree from a recognised Romanian Higher Education institution with a minimum overall grade of 8 out of 10, and will usually be required to have completed a Masters degree/Diploma de Master/Diploma de Studii Academice Postuniversitare (Postgraduate Diploma - Academic Studies) or Diploma de Studii Postuniversitare de Specializare (Postgraduate Diploma - Specialised Studies) to be considered for entry.
Holders of a good Диплом Специалиста (Specialist Diploma) or Диплом Магистра (Magistr) degree from recognised universities in Russia (minimum GPA of 4.0) will be considered for entry to taught postgraduate programmes/PhD study.
Students who hold a 4-year Bachelor degree with at least 16/20 or 70% will be considered for Postgraduate Diplomas and Masters degrees.
Students who hold a Maitrise, Diplome d'Etude Approfondies,Diplome d'Etude Superieures or Diplome d'Etude Superieures Specialisees will be considered for Postgraduate Diplomas and Masters degrees.
A score of 14-15/20 or Bien from a well ranked institution is considered comparable to a UK 2.1, while a score of 12-13/20 or Assez Bien is considered comparable to a UK 2.2 Students who have completed a Masters degree from a recognised institution will be considered for PhD study.
A score of 14-15/20 or Bien from a well ranked institution is considered comparable to a UK 2.1, while a score of 12-13/20 or Assez Bien is considered comparable to a UK 2.2
Students who hold a Bachelor (Honours) degree from a recognised institution with a minimum GPA of 3.0/4.0 or 3.5/5.0 (or a score of 60-69% or B+) from a well ranked institution will be considered for most our Postgraduate Diplomas and Masters degrees with a 2:1 requirement.
Students holding a good Bachelors Honours degree will be considered for postgraduate study at Diploma or Masters level.
Holders of a good three-year Bakalár or pre-2002 Magister from a recognised Slovakian Higher Education institution with a minimum overall grade of 1.5, B, Vel’mi dobrý ‘very good’, and/or a good Inžinier or a post-2002 Magister from a recognised Slovakian Higher Education institution will be considered for entry to postgraduate research programmes.
Holders of a good Diploma o pridobljeni univerzitetni izobrazbi (Bachelors degree), Diplomant (Professionally oriented first degree), Univerzitetni diplomant (Academically oriented first degree) or Visoko Obrazovanja (until 1999) from a recognised Slovenian Higher Education institution with a minimum overall grade of 8.0 out of 10, and/or a good Diploma specializacija (Postgraduate Diploma) or Magister (Masters) will be considered for entry to postgraduate research programmes.
Students who hold a Bachelor Honours degree (also known as Baccalaureus Honores / Baccalaureus Cum Honoribus) from a recognised institution will be considered for Postgraduate Diplomas and Masters degrees.
Most Masters programmes will require a second class upper (70%) or a distinction (75%).
Holders of a Masters degree will be considered for entry to postgraduate research programmes.
Entry requirements for applicants with qualifications from South Korea Holders of a Bachelor degree from a recognised South Korean institution (usually with the equivalent of a second class upper or a grade point average 3.0/4.0 or 3.2/4.5) will be considered for Masters programmes.
Holders of a good Masters degree from a recognised institution will be considered for PhD study on an individual basis.
Holders of a Bachelor degree from a recognised South Korean institution (usually with the equivalent of a second class upper or a grade point average 3.0/4.0 or 3.2/4.5) will be considered for Masters programmes.
Applicants for postgraduate research programmes should hold a Bachelors degree and will usually be required to have completed a Masters degree, with 7 out of 10 or higher for 2:1 equivalency from a recognised institution to be considered for entry.
Applicants for postgraduate research programmes should hold a Bachelors degree and will usually be required to have completed a Masters degree, with 60-74% or a CGPA 3.30/4.0 or higher for 2:1 equivalency from a recognised institution to be considered for entry.
Holders of a good Kandidatexamen (Bachelors degree) or Yrkesexamen (Professional Bachelors degree) from a recognised Swedish Higher Education institution with the majority of subjects with a grade of VG (Val godkänd), and/or a good Magisterexamen (Masters degree), International Masters degree or Licentiatexamen (comparable to a UK Mphil), will be considered for entry to postgraduate research programmes.
Holders of a good "PostGraduate Certificate" or "PostGraduate Diploma" or a Masters degree from a recognised Swiss higher education institution (with a minimum GPA of 5/6 or 8/10 or 2/5 (gut-bien-bene/good) for a 2.1 equivalence) may be considered for entry to postgraduate research programmes.
Applicants for postgraduate research programmes should hold a Bachelors degree and a Masters degree, with a GPA of 3.0/4.0, 3.5/5 or 75% from a recognised institution to be considered.
Holders of a good Bachelor degree (from 75% to 85% depending upon the university in Taiwan) from a recognised institution will be considered for postgraduate Masters study.
Holders of a good Masters degree from a recognised institution will be considered for PhD study.
Most taught Masters programmes require a minimum of an upper second class degree (2.1) Students who have completed a Masters degree from a recognised institution will be considered for PhD study.
Holders of a good Masters degree from a recognised institution will be considered for entry to our postgraduate research programmes.
Holders of a good Masters degree or Mphil from a recognised university will be considered for entry to postgraduate research programmes.
Students with a Bachelors degree from the following universities may be considered for entry to postgraduate programmes: Ateneo de Manila University - Quezon City De La Salle University - Manila University of Santo Tomas University of the Philippines - Diliman Students from all other institutions with a Bachelors and a Masters degree or relevant work experience may be considered for postgraduate programmes.
Grading Schemes 1-5 where 1 is the highest 2.1 = 1.75 2.2 = 2.25 Out of 4.0 where 4 is the highest 2.1 = 3.0 2.2 = 2.5 Letter grades and percentages 2.1 = B / 3.00 / 83% 2.2 = C+ / 2.5 / 77% Holders of a postdoctoral qualification from a recognised institution will be considered for PhD study.
Students may be considered for PhD study if they have a Masters from one of the above listed universities.
Students with a Bachelors degree from the following universities may be considered for entry to postgraduate programmes:
Students from all other institutions with a Bachelors and a Masters degree or relevant work experience may be considered for postgraduate programmes.
Grading Schemes
1-5 where 1 is the highest 2.1 = 1.75 2.2 = 2.25
Out of 4.0 where 4 is the highest 2.1 = 3.0 2.2 = 2.5
Letter grades and percentages 2.1 = B / 3.00 / 83% 2.2 = C+ / 2.5 / 77%
Holders of a postdoctoral qualification from a recognised institution will be considered for PhD study.
Holders of a Lisans Diplomasi with a minimum grade point average (GPA) of 3.0/4.0 from a recognised university will be considered for postgraduate study at Diploma or Masters level.
Holders of a Yuksek Diplomasi from a recognised university will be considered for PhD study.
Most Masters programmes will require a second class upper (2.1) or GPA of 3.5/5.0 Students who have completed a Masters degree from a recognised institution will be considered for PhD study.
Most Masters programmes will require a second class upper (2.1) or GPA of 3.5/5.0
Applicants for postgraduate research programmes should hold a good Bachelors degree / Диплом бакалавра (Dyplom Bakalavra), Диплом спеціаліста (Specialist Diploma) or a Dyplom Magistra from a recognised Ukrainian higher education institution with a minimum GPA of 4.0/5.0, 3.5/4, 8/12 or 80% or higher for 2:1 equivalence and will usually be required to have completed a good Masters degree to be considered for entry to postgraduate research programmes.
The University will consider students who hold an Honours degree from a recognised institution in the USA with a GPA of: 2.8 GPA (on a 4.0 scale) for entry to programmes with a 2:2 requirement 3.2 GPA (on a 4.0 scale) for entry to programmes with a 2:1 requirement Please note that some subjects which are studied at postgraduate level in the USA, eg.
Medicine and Law, are traditionally studied at undergraduate level in the UK.
The University will consider students who hold an Honours degree from a recognised institution in the USA with a GPA of:
Please note that some subjects which are studied at postgraduate level in the USA, eg.
Holders of the Magistr Diplomi (Master's degree) or Diplomi (Specialist Diploma), awarded by prestigious universities, who have attained high grades in their studies will be considered for postgraduate study.
Holders of the Fanlari Nomzodi (Candidate of Science), where appropriate, will be considered for PhD study.
Holders of the Licenciatura/Título or an equivalent professional title from a recognised Venezuelan university may be considered for entry to a postgraduate degree programme.
Scales of 1-5, 1-10 and 1-20 are used, an overall score of 70% or equivalent can be considered equivalent to a UK 2.1.
Applicants for PhD level study will preferably hold a Maestria or equivalent qualification Students who have completed a Masters degree from a recognised institution will be considered for PhD study.
Applicants for PhD level study will preferably hold a Maestria or equivalent qualification
Holders of a Bachelors degree from a recognised Vietnamese institution (usually achieved with the equivalent of a second class upper or a grade point average minimum GPA of 7.0 and above) will be considered for postgraduate study at Diploma or Masters level.
Holders of a Masters degree (thac si) will be considered for entry to PhD programmes.
Students who hold a Masters degree with a minimum GPA of 3.5/5.0 or a mark of 2.0/2.5 (A) will be considered for Postgraduate Diplomas and Masters degrees.
Students who hold a good Bachelor Honours degree will be considered for Postgraduate Diplomas and Masters degrees.
As a student at the University of Birmingham, you will learn from world-leading academics and researchers, as well as from your peers.
From the outset you will be encouraged to become an independent and self-motivated learner.
We want you to be challenged and will encourage you to think for yourself.
You will also benefit from personal and welfare tutors to support both your studies and your wellbeing.
Modules are assessed through essays, assignments, exams, oral presentations and computer based problem-solving.
The course is aimed at developing students into biomedical scientists with an interdisciplinary profile.
With this wide range of skills, graduates of the programme will be well suited to careers in academic genomic research, and in the pharmaceutical and data science fields.
This may include roles in oncology, genome editing, the drug development pipeline, tissue engineering and in clinical laboratories.
University Careers Network Preparation for your career should be one of the first things you think about as you start university.
Whether you have a clear idea of where your future aspirations lie or want to consider the broad range of opportunities available once you have a Birmingham degree, our Careers Network can help you achieve your goal.
Our unique careers guidance service is tailored to your academic subject area, offering a specialised team (in each of the five academic colleges) who can give you expert advice.
Our team source exclusive work experience opportunities to help you stand out amongst the competition, with mentoring, global internships and placements available to you.
Once you have a career in your sights, one-to-one support with CVs and job applications will help give you the edge.
If you make the most of the wide range of services you will be able to develop your career from the moment you arrive.
Preparation for your career should be one of the first things you think about as you start university.
pgt-marketing@contacts.bham.ac.uk
Discover answers to your questions with our FAQs

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/short-courses/medicine-and-health/genomics-in-cancer-pathology:
Gain an insight in the molecular mechanisms entailed in cancer development, look at research approaches to anti-cancer drug design and development and how genomic information can be integrated into cancer screening programmes in this packed five day course.
The aim of this microcredential is to equip the student with knowledge and understanding of the molecular mechanisms involved in cancer development.
This will include the ways in which interrogation of a person’s own genome and the genome of neoplastic cells can facilitate the diagnosis and personalised treatment of cancer.
This microcredential covers the molecular mechanisms that underlie cancer development, growth and metastasis, and the differences between different cancers.
It will explore the different molecular and cellular actions of anti-cancer treatments, the genomic factors affecting response and resistance to treatment, and the research approaches to anti-cancer drug design and development.
Broad situations which confer a high cancer risk to a person and/or to other members of the same family will be discussed in the context of how genomic information may be integrated into cancer screening programmes, and the impact this may have on the patient and their family.
This module will also prepare students to interrogate the cancer data sets from the 100,000 Genomes Project if relevant for their research project.
On campus teaching will take place on 5 days: Monday 4th - Wednesday 6th November and Thursday 14th - Friday 15th November 2024.
15 credits
Lecturer in Cancer and Genomic Sciences
Dr Andrew Bell, Lecturer in Cancer and Genomic Sciences and MSc Genomic Medicine Programme Lead, Department of Cancer and Genomic Sciences, College of Medicine and Health, University of Birmingham
Leukaemia & Lymphoma Research Bennett Fellow
Staff profile for Maarten Hoogenkamp, Leukaemia & Lymphoma Research Bennett Fellow, Department of Cancer and Genomic Sciences, College of Medicine and Health, University of Birmingham
You should have a good honours degree in a life sciences subject, although we will consider applicants with alternative qualifications and professional experience within the health service or other relevant background.
You should either take An Introduction to Human Genetics and Genomics and Omics Techniques and their Application to Genomic Medicine first, or be able to show you have equivalent knowledge and understanding to enable you to benefit from this microcredential.
Please contact the Programme Administrator for further information at genomics@contacts.bham.ac.uk
Home microcredential fee
You can study this course as a microcredential.
Please note this microcredential is available for home applicants only.
Please note the deadline for submitting an application:
Please note that once registered for the microcredential you cannot swap for the non-credit short course version.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/subjects/medicine-courses/genomic-medicine-msc:
Discover how greater understanding of the human genome and rapid advances in genomic technologies are transforming personalised medicine!
Our Genomic Medicine Masters programme will provide you with a multi-disciplinary perspective on the applications of genomics in clinical practice and medical research.
Gain access to the 'Introduction to Genomic Medicine and Pathway to Scientific Training Programme' and other CPD courses - available for potential applicants free of charge.
As genomics becomes embedded within mainstream NHS care, it's important for healthcare professionals and research scientists like you to understand its relevance.
Learn how genomics is increasingly being used to inform the diagnosis, treatment and management of patients with cancer, inherited genetic disorders and infectious diseases.
This is a rapidly developing field, and I believe the future of curing many diseases including cancer will use personalised medicine as the mainstream therapy.
By continuing to research the genetics of many diseases, genomic medicine will change how the world works by developing new and effective medicine.
The programme offers full-time and part-time studies with Postgraduate Masters, Diploma and Certificate options.
While the exact content may change, here’s what you can expect to study each term based on a full time Masters course.
In term one, you'll focus on the basic concepts of human genomics, the technologies for generating genome-wide data and the bioinformatic tools that are required for its analysis.
Using real life case studies, you'll learn how to interrogate genomic data to identify and investigate the pathogenicity of genetic variants.
In term two, you'll learn how to apply genomic approaches to the clinical management of patients, including diagnosis, stratification and treatment selection in areas such as cancer and inherited conditions.
In term three, you'll undertake a research project on an area related to genomic medicine.
Our Genomic Medicine programme is taught by leading clinicians and scientists from the University of Birmingham, Birmingham Women’s and Children's Hospitals, University Hospital Birmingham and the West Midlands Regional Genetics Laboratory.
Many of our teaching staff have made major contributions to the pioneering 100,000 Genomes Project and have the expertise to ensure that the course content remains clinically relevant and up-to-date.
in the world for Life Sciences and Medicine
QS World Rankings, 2025
NHS England accredited programme
Learn from world-leading academics and researchers
The University of Birmingham is accredited by NHS England to offer genomic medicine training through the Genomics Education Programme.
This programme is specifically designed to follow a curriculum set by Health Education England, equipping NHS healthcare professionals with the latest advancements in genomics.
Additionally, it's an incredible opportunity for non-NHS students to dive into the fascinating world of medical research and its groundbreaking genomic applications.
The course includes a combination of lectures, workshops, case studies and computer practicals supplemented with online lectures and pre-recorded material.
You’ll learn from world-leading academics and researchers at a top 100 UK university.
From the outset we’ll encourage you to become an independent and self-motivated learner.
This course consists of eight taught modules and a research project.
The research project can be either a three-month research project worth 60 credits or a 30-credit literature-based dissertation combined with two additional taught modules.
The programme comprises of 120 credits of taught material plus a 60 credit research project, or a 30 credit literature based dissertation combined with 30 credits of additional taught modules.
Please contact your department for information about which academic year each module can be taken in.
The Programme is structured such that each student is required to complete 3 Mandatory Core 15 credit modules plus a Research project, which may be 60 or 30 credits.
Students must also select three from four Elective Core modules.
In addition, they can choose from a number of Optional Modules to tailor the course to their own interests/specialty.
When a 30-credit research module is selected there will be a requirement to choose additional optional modules in order to achieve 180 credits for the award of a Master’s.
Under exceptional circumstances a student can request to take a core or compulsory module at a different HEE-approved Preferred Provider of the MSc in Genomic Medicine.
In such cases, if approved, the fee will be reduced by £1000 per module and the student will take the responsibility to pay the other university the relevant fee.
Students taking the 60 credit Research Project should choose ONE or TWO of the following optional modules (to give 180 credits in total).Students taking the 30 credit Research Project MUST take Professional and Research Skills (01 30763), plus TWO or THREE of the following optional modules (to give 180 credits in total).
4: OPTION Where other HEE-approved Preferred Providers of the MSc in Genomic Medicine offer optional (15-credit) modules for their MSc in Genomic Medicine on subjects that do not correspond to modules offered at the University of Birmingham, credit gained on such modules will be accepted towards the MSc, PGDip or PGCert, in place of taking the equivalent credit value of optional modules offered at the University of Birmingham.
In such cases the fee will be reduced by £1000 per module and the student will take the responsibility to pay the other university the relevant fee.
Additionally, if a student requests (e.g.
because of unforeseen change of circumstances) transferring his/her credits gained at the University of Birmingham MSc Genomic Medicine programme towards other HEE-approved Preferred Provider of the MSc in Genomic Medicine it will be made possible.
You should have, or expect to obtain, a 2:1 Honours degree in Biomedical Science, Genetics, Medicine or a related subject.
We encourage applications from NHS staff at all levels of training and will take into account relevant work based experience.
We’ll consider applicants with alternative academic qualifications on the basis of professional qualifications and relevant work experience within the NHS.
MSc (full-time): £12,000
MSc (part-time): £6,000 (per year)
PG Diploma (full-time): £8,000
PG Diploma (part-time): £4,000 (per year)
PG Certificate (full-time): £4,000
PG Certificate (part-time): £4,000 (per year)
MSc (full-time): £30,370
The NHS Genomics Education Programme offers funding on a modular basis, initially covering 1-4 modules, with the potential for additional funding for the full Masters degree.
Funding covers course fees only and is limited to NHS healthcare professionals working in England on a permanent contract from the full range of professional backgrounds (such as medicine, nursing, healthcare scientists and technologists).
Please note funding can only be allocated to those who are post registration professionals.
If you have any questions related to funding applications, please contact the Programme Lead, Dr Andrew Bell, or visit the Genomics Education Programme website.
Our MSc in Genomic Medicine enhances career opportunities for healthcare professionals, particularly those working within the NHS.
It’s also valuable for individuals working in or aspiring to work in other healthcare systems.
Our graduates have secured employment or PhD positions in the growing fields of genomics, bioinformatics, and other medical research and development areas, both in academia and the pharmaceutical industry.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/subjects/medicine-courses/cancer-and-genomic-sciences-phd:
Our extensive research programme unites scientists and clinicians, equipping you with the essential skills needed to contribute to both discovery and translational research in the areas of: cancer, genome biology, rare diseases, bioinformatics and health data science.
The programme will provide training in the latest technologies within a highly collaborative environment enabling you to develop your own research project and contribute towards cutting-edge research that will facilitate your development and progression as a scientist.
Doing a PhD in Cancer & Genomic Sciences has completely changed my life.
I love being a part of such a diverse and vibrant community.
The facilities are excellent and the science has been fun and challenging.
All staff and students have provided me with endless support and have pushed me to achieve my fullest potential.
I even had the opportunity to present my research at an international conference in Portugal which I never would have seen myself doing!
Applications are accepted all year round and there is flexibility on the start date with the largest intake in October.
Following completion of your minimum period of study, the student normally transfers to a thesis awaited status (maximum 12 months).
To successfully progress into the next year you'll need to pass an Annual Progress Review (APR).
As part of the APR you'll be required to submit a progress review form plus a project report based on the first year of research.
You'll be asked to review your Development Needs Analysis form to identify important areas for development.
The APR meeting will take place with two academics, one of which will be an expert in your area of research.
You'll be required to submit a progress review form plus a project report based on one thesis chapter, and also be asked to review their Development Needs Analysis form.
For continuity, the APR meeting will take place with the same two academics who reviewed year one progress.
Full-time students will be required to submit a progress review form and a thesis plan for discussion with the PGR Lead.
Part-time students will be required to submit a progress review form every academic year and attend an APR every other year.
To be awarded a PhD, you must submit your final thesis and defend it at an oral examination (viva), which is assessed according to University Regulations.
Studying in the Department of Cancer and Genomic Sciences means joining a vibrant community of 100 postgraduate research students covering a diverse range of topics including:
for Medicine in the UK
Complete University Guide, 2024
The Department of Cancer and Genomic Sciences holds an annual Festival of Research for its PGR students.
The Festival is an opportunity for you to communicate your work and participate in scientific discussion in an informal, friendly environment with your peers and find out about the work being performed in the Department.
Prizes are awarded to the best presentations for conference attendance.
Our PGR students are core to the research effort within the Department and are integrated fully into all academic facets of the Department.
As such our students contribute towards collaborative research projects, the internal/external seminar programme, as well as Departmental away days and management.
As a postgraduate research student, we'll support your development in a variety of ways:
The Department of Cancer and Genomic Sciences offers a diverse range of research areas in the following themes.
The study of gene regulation and epigenetics interfaces with cancer cell and stem cell biology, viral oncology (EBV and HPV), development and genome biology.
Both functional genomics and high throughput methods are used to determine how genetic abnormalities unravel the complex regulatory networks that underlie cancer and normal development.
At the same time, gene regulatory mechanisms that control the normal development and differentiation of stem cells are investigated.
This research focuses on defining the normal mechanisms of DNA replication and repair, with the aim of understanding how it is deregulated in cancer cells.
Maintaining the integrity of our DNA is central to preventing and treating cancer.
Mutations in genes that control cell growth can initiate cancer whereas mutations in genes that repair DNA can lead to further mutations in other genes that promote cancer.
We're investigating the mechanisms by which cancer mutations deregulate the normal processes of cellular function and growth.
We use genome-wide profiling to screen different classes of cancer, such as colorectal cancer, for potential mutations and biomarkers.
We study how cancer evolves, and are developing better molecular and cellular cancer models for designing and testing new therapies.
We're a multidisciplinary group with diverse expertise, backgrounds and skills ranging from biology, genetics, medicine, health informatics, clinical bioinformatics, genetic epidemiology, public health, epidemiology, computational biology, to data science, computer science, engineering, Artificial Intelligence, machine learning, big data, statistics and mathematics collaborating to address important questions in medical sciences.
Academic surgeons at the University of Birmingham promote a wide range of research including clinical trials and cohort studies aimed at improving healthcare both locally and worldwide.
They're also involved with global surgical training.
Many of our postgraduate research students continue in academia as Research Fellows/Postdoctoral Researchers both within the UK and internationally, or pursue other scientific-related disciplines, such as research scientists in the pharmaceutical industry, scientists in the NHS, clinical trial coordinators, medical writing and publishing.
Employers include Universities and Research Institutions, NHS Trusts, Pharma and Biotech companies (including AstraZeneca, Covance, Binding Site, Immunocore, Johnson and Johnson), Medical Communications agencies (e.g.
Fishawack, Insight Medical Writing).

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/dubai/study/postgraduate/subjects/health-sciences-courses/global-health-system-leadership-msc:
Develop and lead sustainable health systems with the MSc Global Health System Leadership.
Hone the skills to drive healthcare innovation, policy, and practice on a global scale.
The MSc Global Health System Leadership course empowers leaders to build resilient healthcare systems, equipping them with the skills and global perspective needed to drive innovation, influence policy, and create sustainable, equitable healthcare solutions worldwide.
In the first semester, you’ll gain a comprehensive understanding of global health systems and policies, learning to critically analyse and evaluate them across various settings.
You’ll develop leadership and management skills and create health system strengthening interventions using implementation science.
The programme is taught by experienced academics from the School of Social Policy, ensuring a research-led learning experience.
In the second semester, you will develop a Systematic understanding of the basic principles and theories of strategic planning, global health economics and emergency preparedness, response, and resilience (EPR&R).
Teaching is delivered by academics, who bring extensive research experience and industrial links to the practical applications to develop a health strategy resource mobilisation plan and a Health EPR&R plan to advance the UHC and SDG agenda.
During the summer, you will investigate a contemporary health system policy and leadership topic through a 60-credit research project, gaining exposure to current and future trends in your field and developing critical analysis skills.
The MSc Global Health System Leadership addresses the urgent need for resilient health systems in an era of global challenges.
Tailored for aspiring leaders, professionals, and policymakers, this programme equips you with the expertise to drive innovation and sustainability in healthcare.
Focusing on universal health coverage and sustainable development goals, the course offers a unique blend of modules in global health systems, leadership, and emergency preparedness.
You’ll gain the critical skills needed to tackle complex health challenges, particularly in vulnerable regions, ensuring health systems can withstand future shocks and secure long-term sustainability.
Taught by experienced academics and healthcare industry experts
Navigate complex challenges in climate change and global healthy security
Top Targeted University of top UK Employers
High Fliers 2024
The field of global health is crucial in addressing significant health challenges worldwide.
As a leader in this domain, you will develop the skills to influence health policies and practices on a global scale.
You might oversee healthcare projects, manage health services in diverse settings, or engage with international health organisations to implement impactful changes.
On this programme, you will study 120 credits of taught modules, exploring the foundations of your subject.
Our draft timetable for full-time students is designed to deliver teaching on weekday evenings from 18:00-21:00 and on weekends Saturday and Sunday from 09:00-17:00.
Each module is block taught over two weeks.
Part-time students will study during these hours as per the three modules they choose per semester.
The MSc Global Health System Leadership programme consists of 180 credits, covering core modules in global health systems, leadership, and emergency preparedness.
The programme is designed to equip you with the critical skills needed to address complex health challenges across diverse global contexts.
Our standard requirements
Choosing to study with the University of Birmingham Dubai is an exciting decision and you may have many questions on what to do next, for further information view our How to Apply page.
The MSc Global Health System Leadership programme equips you with the essential skills to excel in leadership, management, and policy roles within global health systems.
Designed for aspiring health system and policy experts, the course prepares you to become a responsible leader, capable of problem-solving and supporting multidisciplinary teams in addressing complex healthcare challenges.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/dubai/departments/health-management:
Health Services Management Centre (HSMC) at the University of Birmingham is one of the foremost UK centres of research, education, and development for health and social care organisations.
Recently launched in Dubai, the HSMC continues the legacy of the civic contribution it provides through management and leadership education for local, national, and international practitioners, policy makers, and students.
Founded in 1972 in the UK, HSMC has expanded to Dubai, committed to delivering quality education and research that informs health policy and addresses critical health system and workforce challenges in the eastern Mediterranean region.
Read about our expertise
HSMC’s research-informed and industry-focused degree programmes equip the health and care workforce with essential leadership and management skills to drive positive change.
Explore our degree programmes
HSMC is driving national impact through its collaboration with the Dubai Health Authority (DHA), facilitating the effective implementation of health system growth across the UAE and the wider region.
Learn about our work with the DHA
Research and Evaluation
health sciences and management courses
Msc global health system leadership
speak to our academic lead

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/dubai/research/health-systems-research-centre:
The Health Systems Research Centre will support health policy research and development, deliver excellent education and put policy into practice.
The centre is proactively engaging with local, regional, and international networks and communities of practice to support the launch of HSRC Dubai with the following aims:
With a planned launch in April 2024 our preparatory work will be engaging in priority setting exercises with relevant local and regional stakeholders to better understand the health system challenges and research needs of these respective groups.
The centre will also seek to establish collaborative links with other Universities and complement other partnerships between developed at the Dubai campus.
To support the launch of the centre, we will also be hosting events and research symposia that will invite academics and practitioners to contribute to a vision of ‘health systems’ excellence.
For further details about our Health Systems Research Centre please contact our HSMC Dubai Lead Dr Ayat Abu Agla ( a.s.y.abu-agla@bham.ac.uk ) or HSMC Director Dr Ross Millar ( r.millar@bham.ac.uk )

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/staff/profiles/social-policy/millar-ross.aspx:
Health Services Management Centre Director of the Health Services Management Centre (HSMC) Professor of Health Organisation and Management
Ross is the Director of the Health Services Management Centre (HSMC).
He is also a Professor of Health Organisation and Management.
Ross is a passionate about improving health systems and organisations.
Through education, research, and development, he is also committed to supporting and developing a healthy and engaged workforce.
Professional qualifications:
Ross is the Director of HSMC and a Reader in Health Organisation.
Since joining HSMC in 2008, Ross has developed research interests in the areas of improving quality and safety, the development of inter-organisational collaboration, and the adoption of organisational innovation such as social enterprise.
What unites these interests is a passion for understanding and developing health and care organisations.
His methodological interests are primarily qualitative in capturing  different workforce perspectives using interviews and observations.
Ross also has an interest in Realist synthesis and evaluation.
Ross has published widely across these research areas and takes a particular interest in connecting these experiences to different theories of public policy, organisation studies, and sociology.
Ross has wide ranging teaching interests.
He works across a range postgraduate modules in relation to quality and safety, organisational performance, digital health, and innovation and improvement.
Between 2015 and 2019, Ross was the Director of Learning and Teaching at HSMC and more recently has been the Programme Director for the Health and Care System Leadership Apprenticeship.
MSc Health Policy and Management & MSc Health and Care System Leadership
MSc Global Health System Leadership & MA Global Public Policy
Ross is interested in PhD supervision across the following research areas: Quality improvement Safety Inter-organisational collaboration Governance He specialises in the use of qualitative research methods.
Ross has worked on a range of research and development projects which have been funded by the British Academy, Department of Health Policy Research Programme, NIHR Health Service and Delivery programme, the Health Foundation, and the Academic Health Science Network.
Recent projects have included:
Ross draws on a variety of theories and ideas from public policy, organisation studies, and sociology to make sense of these developments.
His methodological interests are primarily qualitative drawing on interviews and observations.
He also has an interest in Realist synthesis and evaluation.
Ross is interested in any PhD proposals connected to these areas.
Tingle, J , Milo, C, Msiska , G & Millar, R (eds) 2023, Research Handbook on Patient Safety and the Law .
Research Handbooks in Health and Medical Law series, Edward Elgar.
https://doi.org/ 10.4337/ 9781802207064
Millar, R , Abu-Agla, A & Badr, E 2025, ' Building capacity and capability for science diplomacy: challenges in decolonizing the curriculum for Global Health System Leadership ', Frontiers in public health , vol.
13, 1441351.
https://doi.org/ 10.3389/ fpubh.2025.1441351
Artaman, A, Bekele, HT & Millar, R 2025, ' Strengthening global health education in the UAE: assessing the current landscape and future directions ', Frontiers in public health , vol.
13, 1584880.
https://doi.org/ 10.3389/ fpubh.2025.1584880
Samarasinghe, BSW , Millar, R & Exworthy, M 2024, ' Bridging the divide?
Why the integration of standardisation and individualisation of care remains paramount during turbulent times ', BMJ Leader .
https://doi.org/ 10.1136/ leader-2023-000920
Bian, D, Xiao, Y, Song, K, Dong, M , Millar, R , Shi, C, Li, G & Li, L 2023, ' Determinants Influencing the Adoption of Internet Health Care Technology Among Chinese Health Care Professionals: Extension of the Value-Based Adoption Model With Burnout Theory ', Journal of Medical Internet Research , vol.
25, e37671.
https://doi.org/ 10.2196/ 37671
Millar, R , Aunger, JA , Rafferty, AM, Greenhalgh, J , Mannion, R , McLeod, H & Faulks, D 2023, ' Towards achieving interorganisational collaboration between health-care providers: a realist evidence synthesis ', Health and Social Care Delivery Research , vol.
1-130.
https://doi.org/ 10.3310/ KPLT1423
Aunger, JA , Millar, R , Rafferty, AM & Mannion, R 2022, ' Collaboration over competition?
Regulatory reform and inter-organisational relations in the NHS amidst the COVID-19 pandemic: a qualitative study ', BMC Health Services Research , vol.
22, no.
1, 640.
https://doi.org/ 10.1186/ s12913-022-08059-2
Parkinson, S, Bousfield, J , Millar, R , George, J & Marjanovic, S 2022, ' Communicating research evidence to boards in health and care organisations: a scoping study ', Rand health quarterly , vol.
9, no.
3, 25.
< https://www.rand.org/ pubs/ periodicals/ health-quarterly/ issues/ v9/ n3/ 25.html >
Aunger, JA , Millar, R , Rafferty, AM , Mannion, R , Greenhalgh, J, Faulks, D & McLeod, H 2022, ' How, when, and why do inter-organisational collaborations in healthcare work?
A realist evaluation ', PLoS ONE , vol.
4, e0266899.
https://doi.org/ 10.1371/ journal.pone.0266899
Powell, M , Blenkinsopp, J, Davies, H , Mannion, R , Millar, R , McHale, J & Snowden, N 2022, ' The case of the disappearing whistleblower: an analysis of National Health Service inquiries ', Public Money & Management , vol.
42, no.
59-69.
https://doi.org/ 10.1080/ 09540962.2021.1892959
Millar, R 2023, Patient safety and the law: a thematic review and assessment of future options .
in J Tingle, C Milo, G Msiska & R Millar (eds), Research Handbook on Patient Safety and the Law.
Research Handbooks in Health and Medical Law series, Edward Elgar, pp.
369-376.
https://doi.org/ 10.4337/ 9781802207064.000027
Millar, R , Waring, J & Lalani, M 2023, Quality and the NHS: Fair-Weather Friends or a Long-Standing Relationship?
in M Exworthy, R Mannion & M Powell (eds), The NHS at 75: The State of UK Health Policy.
Bristol University Press, pp.
136-156.
< https://policy.bristoluniversitypress.co.uk/ the-nhs-at-75 >
Millar, R , Williams, C, Morgan, S & Agble, R 2022, ' Realising population health: how can collaboration between NHS providers meet the challenges ahead?
', British Journal of Healthcare Management , vol.
29, no.
12.
https://doi.org/ 10.12968/ bjhc.2022.0111
Poh, G, Poh, A , Millar, R , Newman, J & Mepham, AM 2025, ' 'From birthing to dreaming': Introducing the Orange Aboriginal Medical Service (OAMS) as a benchmark for rural integrated care ', Innovation and Emerging Technologies , vol.
12, 2530006.
https://doi.org/ 10.1142/ S2737599425300065
Aunger, JA , Millar, R & Greenhalgh, J 2023, ' Modelling lifecycles of inter-organizational collaborations in healthcare: a systematic review and best-fit framework synthesis ', Journal of Health, Organization and Management , vol.
4/ 5, pp.
409-442.
https://doi.org/ 10.1108/ JHOM-01-2022-0025

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/dubai/departments/education/action-research-network:
Supporting research in schools and building a community of practice.
Action Research is research conducted in a school by those who work in that school to develop, monitor, assess and reflect on their practice in order to improve an aspect of activity within the school.
Action research can drive and develop transformative improvement on any activity – from specific curriculum implementation to broader pedagogy and even school leadership.
A Networked Community of Practice is a group of schools networked together, each working on improving their school by establishing a local community of practice with a shared vision or goal – in this case to develop action research in the school – and who learn together, embark on the activity together, and support each other in the process.
The University of Birmingham Dubai will connect the network, supporting each school-based Community of Practice to conduct action research within each school by holding regular workshops.
All staff who participate in the action research cycle in the school will be invited to the Action Research Conference at the University of Birmingham Dubai to present and showcase their work.
Sign up here to join the Action Research Network

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/dubai/study/postgraduate/subjects/education-courses:
Learn how to lead educational change and create inclusive communities.
Our School of Education has a range of full-time and part-time programmes to help you to progress in your career.
As a renowned centre of excellence for teaching and research, we cover a wide range of areas in educational practice and policy.
Our philosophy, pedagogy and programmes are rooted in research and the values of social justice.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/staff/profiles/dubai/anderson-philip.aspx:
Dubai Campus Assistant Professor MA (Education) Learning and Teaching and MA (Education) Leadership Lead
A former secondary school teacher and head of department, Phil has a rich background in creativity and the arts, and brings a blend of practical academic insight to the field of education.
He has published journal articles on the topic of technology in education, and his main research interest is music education.
Phil is currently completing his PhD at the University of Durham on Primary teacher confidence in delivering classroom music
Orcid
PGCertHE, Middlesex University Dubai, 2021 MA Applied Professional Studies in Education, Sheffield University, 2018 PGCE (Secondary Music), University of East London, 2012 BA Communication Studies, Sheffield Hallam University, 2001
A multi-instrumentalist, and former professional musician, Phil Anderson trained to become a secondary music teacher at the University of East London in 2012.
After three years of teaching in the borough of Hackney, Phil left for a position in Dubai, becoming a departmental head at a local through school.
After completing his master’s in education at the University of Sheffield, Phil moved into the Higher Education sector in 2019, becoming a lecturer in Education and Early Childhood Studies at Middlesex University Dubai.
He quickly moved up, becoming the Assistant Campus Programme Co-ordinator for Undergraduate Education, and lead for the Masters Dissertation Programme.
Phil began his PhD in Primary teacher musical confidence in 2020, a lifelong interest from when he used to volunteer at the school where his mother was a teacher.
His ongoing interests are in the role of creativity and arts learning in the classroom, as well as technology adoption.
Phil started working at the University of Birmingham Dubai in 2023.
He is an active member of the research committee at the University of Birmingham Dubai and is a Fellow of the Higher Education Academy.
Learning, Teaching and Research Leadership for School Improvement Education Research: Action Research Masters Dissertation Module
Primary teacher confidence in delivering music in the classroom.
Gender and Racial bias in generative AI imagery
Technology adoption in Higher Education
The use of bite-sized videos to supplement classroom learning
Anderson, P 2025, ' Enhancing educators' instructional resources: addressing representation in generative AI imagery in the United Arab Emirates ', Education in Practice , vol.
6, no.
27-40.
< https://bham.sharepoint.com/ sites/ aseddev/ Shared%20Documents/ EiP%20Journal%20Vol%206.1/ 04_Anderson_EIP_6.1%20Spring%202025.pdf?csf=1&web=1&e=k9RFTk >
Barber, LD & Anderson, P 2025, ' Understanding first-year university student information seeking through the theory of planned behaviour: A transnational perspective ', The Journal of Academic Librarianship , vol.
51, no.
5, 103096.
https://doi.org/ 10.1016/ j.acalib.2025.103096
Puthiya, R , Anderson, P , Fonseca, C & Hyland, L 2023, ' Technology adoption in a hybrid learning environment: An action research study among university faculty in the UAE ', Interactive Learning Environments .
https://doi.org/ 10.1080/ 10494820.2023.2290020
Anderson, PJ , England, DE & Barber, LD 2022, ' Preservice Teacher Perceptions of the Online Teaching and Learning Environment during COVID-19 Lockdown in the UAE ', Education Sciences , vol.
12, 911.
https://doi.org/ 10.3390/ educsci12120911

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/staff/profiles/dubai/Benson-Sarah.aspx:
Dubai Campus Associate Professor and Programme lead for Inclusion and Special Education Needs
Sarah Benson is an Associate Professor in inclusion and disabilities in the Department of Disability, Inclusion and Special Needs.
She is the programme lead for the Inclusion and Special Education Needs PGCert and Masters’ in the UK and Dubai.
Benson has published articles and book chapters on inclusive policy in the Middle East.
Her interests lie in not only inclusive policy, but new teacher development and creating opportunities for students with disabilities.
She has also spent time writing and researching inclusive science curriculum for primary grade students.
PhD in Special Education, University of Virginia, 2020 MA in International Education, The George Washington University, 2010 BA in English and Special Education, James Madison University, 2002
Sarah Benson earned her Bachelors’ in English and Special Education from James Madison University in 2002, going on to teach students with significant emotional and behaviour disorders before leaving for the Middle East the first time.
As a Peace Corps Volunteer from 2004-06 she studied Arabic language and culture, while providing training to Jordanian special education teachers.
Upon her return to the United States, Sarah completed a Masters’ degree in International Education at The George Washington University, at the same time she was employed as a teacher, coach and mentor in one of the largest school districts in the United States.
In 2013 Sarah was chosen as a Fulbright Scholar, and travelled to Norway where she spent a year working with Norwegian teachers and students to develop inclusive practices.
She was inspired during this year to begin working towards her doctoral degree.
At the University of Virginia she was a part of a team that procured a $1.5 million grant from the National Science Foundation for research and development of inclusive science curriculum, served as the President of the Curry School of Education and Human Development, and partnered on research projects into the refugee experience.
She completed her dissertation entitled, A Comparative Case Study of Jordanian Inclusive Policies and Practices and successfully defended in May 2020.
Current modules: Cross-cultural issues in special education needs and disabilities
Inclusion: Individual and group differences
Evaluation and policy analysis for inclusive education
Currently supervising PhD candidates
PI: ESRC-GCRF Bhutan Inclusive Employment and Social Participation Project
Co-I Disability Under Siege Network
Co-I Teacher’s Perception of Autism in Ras Al-Khaimah
Member of the Council for Exceptional Children (US) Member of Comparative International Education Society (International)
Benson, SK & Alborno, N 2024, ' Inclusive Teaching Online: Lessons Learned ', International Journal of Disability, Development and Education .
https://doi.org/ 10.1080/ 1034912X.2024.2358841
Benson, SK 2023, ' Contextualizing inclusion policy: views from Jordanian special education teachers ', Educational Research for Policy and Practice .
https://doi.org/ 10.1007/ s10671-023-09344-5
Benson, S , Therrien, W, Doabler, C & Lovette, G 2022, ' Rubrics: useful beyond assessments ', Science and Children , vol.
59, no.
5, pp.
52-56.
< https://www.proquest.com/ scholarly-journals/ rubrics-useful-beyond-assessments/ docview/ 2665176723/ se-2 >
Doabler, CT, Therrien, WJ, Longhi, MA, Roberts, G, Hess, KE, Maddox, SA, Uy, J, Lovette, GE, Fall, A, Kimmel, GL , Benson, S , Vanuitert, VJ, Emily wilson, S, Powell, SR, Sampson, V & Toprac, P 2021, ' Efficacy of a second grade science program: increasing science outcomes for all students ', Remedial and Special Education , vol.
3, pp.
140-154.
https://doi.org/ 10.1177/ 0741932521989091
Benson, S 2020, ' The evolution of Jordanian inclusive education policy and practice ', Forum for International Research in Education , vol.
https://doi.org/ 10.32865/ fire202061177
Benson, S , Therrien, W, Hughes, CH & Morris, J 2017, ' Explicit instruction and next generation science standards aligned classrooms: A fit or a split?
', Learning Disabilities Research & Practice , vol.
32, no.
149-154.
https://doi.org/ 10.1111/ ldrp.12137
Benson, S , Hughes, CH, Morris, J & Therrien, W 2017, ' Explicit instruction: Historical and contemporary contexts ', Learning Disabilities Research & Practice , vol.
140-148.
https://doi.org/ 10.1111/ ldrp.12142
Benson, S 2021, Into the mesa: A case study of Jordanian inclusion policy .
in M Schuelka & S Carrington (eds), Global Directions in Inclusive Education: Conceptualizations, Practices, and Methodologies for the 21st Century.
1st edn, Routledge, London, pp.
255-275.
https://doi.org/ 10.4324/ 9781003091950-18
Perepa, P & Benson, S 2024, Mapping teachers' preparedness to teach and support children on the autism spectrum in Ras Al Khaimah .
Sheikh Saud Bin Saqr Al Qasimi Foundation for Policy and Research, Ras Al Khaimah.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/dubai/study/postgraduate/subjects/education-courses/postgraduate-certificate-in-education-international:
Through reflection and collaboration on global perspectives, the PGCEi programme tackles critical issues with education systems through an impactful action research project, deepening your expertise and driving educational change.
The course helps you build a strong knowledge of emerging issues in education, along with the chance to pursue further academic study and professional development.
Here is a short overview of what you can expect during this course.
In the first semester, students explore the foundations of education, curriculum design, and social justice.
This module provides a critical understanding of curriculum development across diverse educational settings, emphasising flexible approaches to address global educational needs.
Students examine learning criteria, contextual factors, and propose curriculum modifications to enhance educational outcomes.
The second semester builds on Semester 1 with two key modules.
The first focuses on pedagogy, learning theories, and assessment practices, encouraging critical evaluation and refinement of teaching approaches.
The second introduces educational research methods, particularly action research, empowering students to become teacher-researchers and apply their insights through a small-scale research project.
Find out more about our Education programmes every Wednesday afternoon from 4:30-5:30 PM.
Learn about how to enter the teaching profession, how to move into leadership or inclusion through our Masters' and Postgraduate Certificates.
Just join online to speak to our faculty.
The PGCEi at the University of Birmingham Dubai is a 60-credit, part-time programme designed for educators who want to explore fundamental education issues through a global lens.
Combining weekly face-to-face classes with blended and asynchronous activities, this course delves into curriculum, pedagogy, and assessment, while integrating sustainable practices, social justice, and digital pedagogies.
With a focus on internationalisation, the programme culminates in an action research project, empowering you to apply your learning to real-world educational challenges and drive meaningful change.
Gain a globally recognised teaching certificate  that's accredited by a top 100 UK University
Build your expertise as a teaching professional while studying in the UAE
Build high-demand skills aligned with UK and UAE standards, enhancing career prospects with employers.
Already in education but want to gain your PGCE?
Enhance your educational practice part-time alongside work with a PGCEi from the University of Birmingham Dubai.
The course empowers you to become a critically reflective education practitioner by allowing you to collaborate with global peers and expert academics, enhancing your teaching practice through diverse perspectives.
Engage in a research-informed community where you’ll conduct meaningful research and enquiry, developing your expertise in learning theories, pedagogy, and curriculum design.
This programme equips you with the skills to innovate and improve educational practices in a global context.
Teaching is led through a blend of evening classes and monthly Saturday sessions, accommodating working professionals while focusing on curriculum design, pedagogy, assessment, and action research.
Assessment on the programme involves a variety of methods, including critical evaluations of curriculum design, reflective analysis of pedagogy and assessment practices, and the development of a small-scale action research project.
These assessments are designed to integrate theory with practical application, allowing you to demonstrate your expertise in educational research, learning theories, and innovative teaching strategies.
The programme consists of 60 credits over one year on a part-time basis, covering three core modules, each worth 20 credits, focusing on curriculum design, pedagogy, and action research.
The following modules must be taken:
Or a recognised equivalent qualification and this will be a condition of any offer where the degree has not already been awarded.
To be considered by the University of Birmingham Dubai, you will need to meet our entry requirements.
This is a professional learning programme which requires students to have prior and current experience of working within an educational context.
All applicants must have:
per year, September 2025
The PGCEi from the University of Birmingham Dubai is ideal for educators seeking to deepen their theoretical understanding and enhance their professional practice while continuing their current roles.
The programme provides a solid foundation in both established and emerging educational issues, with a strong emphasis on connecting research to practice.
Graduates are well-prepared to pursue further academic study, such as an MA, or to explore accreditation routes like QTS, broadening their career opportunities in education.
Number 1 targeted University by top employers in 2023-24 according to the Graduate market in 2024 High Fliers Report
Be in high demand with employers, building a wide range of professional skills linked to UK and UAE standards.
At Birmingham Dubai, our aim is to make sure that success in your studies leads you on to a fulfilling career.
Whatever you plan to do after your degree, the Careers Network information, advice and guidance service offers support to help you identify your options, develop your skills and gain access to opportunities that propel you towards your career goal.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/dubai/study/postgraduate/subjects/education-courses/pgce-primary:
The full-time Primary PGCE with iQTS at the University of Birmingham Dubai stands as the UAE’s only fully in-person iQTS Initial Teacher Training (ITT) programme fully aligned with English Teacher standards, accredited by the DfE.
With two comprehensive teaching placements provided in two different schools, our PGCE programme equips aspiring educators with the skills and experience needed to confidently teach children aged 5–11 across the breadth of the Primary Curriculum.
This intensive, one-year programme not only prepares you to join the teaching profession but also fosters the development of reflective, research-informed practitioners who are committed to creating transformative learning experiences within the classroom.
The PGCE with iQTS at the University of Birmingham Dubai offers a unique blend of research-led education and practical classroom experience, tailored to the needs of aspiring primary educators.
You'll receive expert guidance from experienced academics and senior teachers, ensuring you develop the critical skills and confidence needed to excel in the classroom.
With a focus on subject knowledge in core areas and hands-on school placements, this programme prepares you to meet and exceed UK teaching standards, positioning you for a successful career in education both locally and internationally.
Our programme stands out as the only in-person ITT programme in the UAE aligned with UK Teacher Standards.
Backed by the University’s long-standing reputation for excellence in teacher training, this programme offers dedicated personalised support from expert faculty and senior teachers in schools.
Developed in collaboration with the UK Department of Education, it prepares you to exceed teaching standards at an outstanding level, ensuring you are fully equipped to enter the global teaching profession with confidence.
Gain a globally recognised teaching certificate  that's accredited by a top 100 UK University.
Develop as a teaching professional while studying in the UAE.
Build high-demand skills aligned with DfE English teaching standards and UAE standards, enhancing career prospects with employers.
Teaching on this programme is delivered through a blend of university-based sessions and extensive school placements, offering both face-to-face and practical teaching experiences.
Assessment includes a combination of academic assignments, competency evaluations across iQTS Teachers' Standards, and practical teaching placements, ensuring well-rounded teacher development.
During two full-time school placements, you will apply what you have learned whilst continuing to develop your practice through team teaching, supported solo teaching and observing experienced teachers.
Your school-based mentors and University link tutors will facilitate the development of your teaching pedagogy and subject knowledge throughout your placements.
As the course progresses, you will develop increasing confidence and expertise in selecting from a repertoire of learning activities that are supported by appropriate use of resources and technology.
The 60-credit programme consists of three 20-credit modules, including a Teaching Experience module, supported by 120 days of assessed school placements across partner schools.
To apply for the PGCE Primary with iQTS (5-11) programme you must submit evidence of:
We accept Equivalency tests from A Star Equivalency and Equivalency Testing (please email uobdsoeadmissions@bham.ac.uk with your application number for a discounted rate).
All shortlisted candidates who meet the criteria will be invited to an interview and assessment day.
As part of the admissions process you will need to provide the following information on your application form.
Your personal statement should outline your previous academic achievements and experience of working with children.
It should include details of any schools you are already working in or schools you are associated with.
You should also include details of what you to gain from the course and how it will help you develop as a teacher (approximately 500 - 700 words).
You need to supply evidence or transcripts of your Bachelor’s degree at a minimum of a 2.2 or equivalent.
You will also need to provide evidence that you achieved 6.5 (6.0 in each subject) in your IELTS test if your bachelors degree is not in the medium of English.
Evidence is required of a grade 4/C GCSE (or equivalent High School certificate) in a Science, Mathematics and English.
Two references will be required one academic and one professional.
Your professional reference should preferably be someone who can comment on your suitability for working with children.
The references should be on official letterhead when possible.
All references should provide supporting evidence in relation to the personal statement, your suitability for the course and confirm your suitability to work with children in the Primary Phase ( please download and utilise this form - Word doc).
You will need to approach your referees to ensure that you are able to provide current contact details.
Following a review of the above, successful applicants will be shortlisted for a 30-minute panel interview to assess their suitability for the programme and motivation to teach.
During this interview, both the University faculty and school partners will be present.
It is therefore imperative that you include all necessary documents prior to submission.
If successful at the interview, a conditional offer will be granted.
There are a number of conditions attached to your offer of a place to study an ITE programme.
All applicants are required to meet Safeguarding and other suitability conditions, set out below.
Due to the extensive safeguarding and suitability checks associated with a Department for Education regulated programme, after your interview you will be required to provide evidence of the following before September of the academic year you are enrolling in.
All Dubai ITE applicants are required to complete an online Fitness to Teach Health Assessment form, which is deemed satisfactory by a University-nominated Occupational Health team.
Should you decide to accept your offer with us you will be sent further details by email on how to complete this.
All Dubai ITE applicants are required to complete a Suitability Declaration so that their suitability to teach can be assessed by the University.
Please ensure that you complete and submit the suitability declaration form as soon as possible and well in advance of the programme start date.
Complete the suitability for teaching form
All iQTS offers are contingent upon receiving a satisfactory ICPC certificate (if the candidate has ever lived and/or worked in the UK), Dubai Police check (within 3 months of placement start) as well as police clearance certificates from domicile country and/or any country of residence (of a period of 3 months or more) in the previous 5-year period.
All ITE applicants are required to have a Prohibition Order check.
Applicants are not required to take any action as the University will carry out the checks via the Teaching Regulations Agency’s Teacher Services.
If your offer is conditional upon providing evidence of academic achievement, you will need to make sure that you use an acceptable means of verifying your qualifications.
You should upload your certificates/transcripts via your University of Birmingham applicant portal.
Read our guidance on verification of documents
All ITE programmes are subject to the University’s fitness to practise regulations.
You will be expected to sign a programme specific code of conduct when you register upon your course.
Read the Code of Professional Conduct and Fitness to Practise
All ITE applicants are required to provide a form of photographic identification, such as a passport or driving licence.
Please upload a scanned copy of your photographic ID via your University of Birmingham applicant portal, and also share a copy of this ID at the interview.
Term dates will be in line with the University of Birmingham Dubai timetable.
Holidays may not be taken during term time.
Please note that school half terms are not holiday weeks.
It is also not advisable to book holidays very close to the end to the end of the academic year.
The PGCE Primary with iQTS will run on an irregular academic year calendar and requires students to commence their studies up to three weeks prior to the University of Birmingham Dubai timetable.
Students can expect to commence their course in September and will complete in June of the academic year they have applied for and enrolled in.
Disability can mean different things for different people.
It may include you, even if you don’t consider yourself to be disabled.
If you have study support needs related to a physical or health condition, neurodiversity, mental health difficulties or specific learning disabilities, we are here to help you.
If you would like to find out more about what we offer, please see our University of Birmingham Dubai wellbeing support .
2025-26
Find out more on our How to Apply page.
Whether you're starting your teacher training or building on existing experience, this programme equips you with a UK government-backed qualification, recognised internationally and in England.
Graduates are well-prepared to succeed in diverse educational settings, with a strong emphasis on communication, problem-solving, and cultural awareness, making them highly sought after by employers worldwide.
Number 1 targeted University by top employers in 2023-24 according to the Graduate market in 2024 High Fliers Report.
Be in high demand with employers, building a wide range of professional skills linked to DfE English teaching standards and UAE standards.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/dubai/study/postgraduate/subjects/education-courses/education-learning-and-teaching-ma:
Advance your career in the vast and growing field of education with our MA in Education (Learning and Teaching).
Designed for educators wanting to deepen their pedagogical knowledge, develop specialised skills, or explore new areas within education, the programme builds competencies in evidence-based practice and educational innovation.
The course shapes and empowers educators with advanced teaching strategies and research skills, enabling them to innovate in the classroom, enhance student outcomes, and become a leader in education.
Graduates emerge equipped for diverse careers including school leadership positions, educational consultancy, curriculum development, instructional design, assessment creation, and specialised teaching roles across K-12, higher education, and corporate learning environments.
In the first semester, you'll apply research to enhance your teaching practice by identifying an area for development and selecting an appropriate research method, such as action research.
With your tutor's guidance, you'll critically evaluate strategies to make lasting improvements in student learning.
In the second semester, you'll focus on curriculum design and implementation within your specialist subject.
By critically examining a chosen aspect of curriculum development, you'll deepen your academic skills and reflect on how your research impacts teaching and learning.
In the third semester, you'll explore your role in school improvement through collaboration and mentoring.
You'll critically analyse your contributions within a school team, developing strategies to enhance your professional practice and support sustainable school development.
This programme is a flexible and research-driven programme designed for those with an existing teacher certification, currently employed in education wanting to elevate their study themes relevant to learning and teaching at master’s level.
This part-time programme combines modern pedagogy with practical application, allowing you to enhance your professional practice through research-driven insights and innovative strategies.
Immerse yourself in a diverse, international community and learn from leading academics while balancing your professional commitments.
The programme's flexible structure and focus on critical analysis prepare you to make a meaningful impact in diverse educational contexts, both locally and globally.
Gain a globally recognised teaching certificate that's accredited by a top 100 UK University
Develop as a teaching professional while studying in the UAE
Drive meaningful change in any educational setting as a transformative educator
The MA in Education (Learning and Teaching) is designed for practising educators seeking to enhance their teaching practice through research-driven insights and innovative strategies.
This part-time programme combines modern pedagogy with practical application, allowing you to refine your approach in the classroom.
The programme’s flexible structure and focus on critical analysis prepare you to make a meaningful impact in diverse educational contexts, both locally and globally.
Teaching is led by expert academics and school leaders, delivered through a combination of evening classes and monthly Saturday meetings, designed to accommodate working professionals.
The programme consists of 120 credits of study over two years on a part-time basis, including a 60 credit Master's Dissertation.
You will also need to take an optional module:
A degree (equivalent to a UK Bachelors Degree of 2:2 or above) or a recognised equivalent qualification and this will be a condition of any offer where the degree has not already been awarded.
60 postgraduate credits of prior learning or certification.
All applicants must be working in an educational setting for the duration of the programme.
Two references, of which one must be academic (e.g.
previous university tutor) and one professional, that confirms your current role in an educational setting and evidences your motivation and ability to study.
A Personal Statement (minimum 500 - 700 words) on your motivation for and commitment to this programme of study as well as information about your leadership experience in an educational context.
You should refer to any leadership programmes you have attended, any Master’s level credits already awarded, any mentoring experience you have gained and/or your involvement in school projects that demonstrate your knowledge and understanding of leadership in an educational context.
The MA Education (Learning and Teaching) from the University of Birmingham Dubai equips you with the skills and knowledge to excel in a range of educational careers.
Whether advancing in teaching, leadership, or pursuing a PhD, this qualification is highly valued by employers for its focus on research-driven practice, critical analysis, and practical application.
You'll stand out for your problem-solving abilities, teamwork, and cultural awareness in diverse educational settings.
Number 1 targeted University by top employers in 2023-24
Graduate market in 2024 High Fliers Report

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/subjects/teacher-education-courses/educational-leadership-ma:
This distinctive, evidence-focused Educational Leadership Masters course builds on National Professional Qualifications to develop capacity for leadership and expert practice in schools.
It is designed for those aiming to make a difference through leadership that is focused on learning and school improvement.
Whether you're an experienced practitioner, a determined policymaker, or a curious researcher, we'll give you the tools to put your learning into practice in the real world.
With a thorough grounding in key educational leadership theories, policies, and practices, we'll prepare you to lead change in your institution.
This course will run over 28 months in a part-time mode.
If you are interested in the UK Government Apprenticeship Levy funded, please refer to the Educational Leadership Level 7 Apprenticeship PGDip
Our Education Leadership Masters degree goes beyond theoretical learning and research.
We focus on critical analysis and evidence-based learning, enabling new and aspiring education leaders to deliver change in their institutions.
On the course you will:
in the UK for Education research
Our programme access our extensive partnerships with schools in the community
One of the largest research-led Education schools in the UK
Tutors continue to research in their field and are committed to introducing you to what intrigues them from across the world of Education.
The blended learning format includes a combination of distance learning and face-to-face seminars.
The assessment, consists of a combination of academic and school focused assignments and a dissertation, all designed to be tailored by you for your own subject specialism, phase and professional interests.
The programme comprises three 20 credit modules, followed by a 60 credit dissertation.
60 credits of learning are accredited by APEL on entry to the programme
The first module is taken in the Spring term of year 1.
The second and third modules are taken in the Autumn and Spring terms of year 2.
The dissertation is taken in years 2 and 3.
This is a ‘fast track’ professional learning programme which requires students to have prior experience and understanding of educational leadership.
All applicants are required to:
We recognise that the knowledge and skills required for educational leadership are varied and educational leadership experience and learning comes in many forms.
We are accepting the NASENCo award as an NPQ equivalent as standard.
Examples of other relevant qualifications and programmes include the leadership pathways and programmes offered by SSAT and by the former National College.
You may have completed a series of shorter courses or received ‘in-house’ training.
We also are considering experiential learning and any achievements, experiences or duties which demonstrate the applicant has met the NPQ standards and has experience and understanding of senior leadership practice.
In all cases, prior learning is assessed against the MA Programme aims and the NPQSL standards to ensure that you have the experience and understanding of education and senior leadership required to benefit from this Masters degree in Educational Leadership.
Students who have not studied in English must pass a recognised English test.
For more information on what proof you will need, visit our International Postgraduate requirements page
Fee to be confirmed - please check back later in the year for fee confirmation.
You can view the 2025 fees by selecting the year in the dropdown at the top of the page.
Please note that this programme has now closed for January 2025 entry.
Our course will equip you for an exciting range of careers in education leadership and institutional management.
You will be in an ideal position to transform the future improvement and overall performance of your school, having learnt to use research and evidence to develop new, and in some cases challenge, educational practices.
With a strong focus on connecting research to practice, this course also enables ambitious researchers to pursue further study on a PhD programme.
in the UK by leading graduate employers (High Fliers 2024)
Wide-ranging, dedicated support from the University Careers Network

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/dubai/study/postgraduate/subjects/education-courses/education-inclusion-and-special-educational-needs-ma:
Transform lives through inclusive education.
Our MA Education (Inclusion and Special Educational Needs) equips you with the expertise to create supportive learning environments, making a real difference in diverse educational settings.
The programme dives deep into the foundations of disability studies and inclusion, equipping you with the advanced skills and knowledge to lead in inclusive education, ensuring you can advocate for and implement effective strategies that benefit all learners.
Here is a short overview of what you can expect during this course (The PGCert is for one year and the MA for 3 years).
During this year, students study inclusion from cultural policy and disability specific lens.
Both MA and PGCert students learn together during in-person seminars.
MA students will engage with experts from our UK campus through our virtual learning environment, Canvas and online lectures.
Monthly tutorials are held in Dubai to contextualise and further develp understanding.
In the final year of the MA, students undertake a research project under the supervision of a subject specialist.
In addition, students come together regularly to learn the basics of research design and data collection.
The MA/PGCert in Inclusion and Special Educational Needs at the University of Birmingham Dubai is strongly committed to supporting the UAE’s inclusive mission.
Our programme blends pioneering research with practical application, focusing on the development of inclusive education leaders.
Ideal for global citizens in the UAE who live, work, and navigate multiple cultures, the course offers a global perspective on inclusion while being rooted in the region's values.
With guidance from expert faculty and strong industry links, you’ll gain the skills to drive change and ensure every learner’s success across diverse contexts.
The PGCert in Inclusion and Special Educational Needs (ISEN) is a flexible, year-long, part-time course taught at the MA level.
It provides essential theoretical and practical knowledge in disability, inclusion, and special education.
Progressing to the MA Education, you’ll build on foundational modules, selecting specialist areas of interest in your second year.
This unique course allows you to tailor your learning experience while mastering whole school inclusion, culminating in a Master’s dissertation that showcases your expertise.
Become part of a close-knit, multinational community through flexible evening classes, online lectures, and intensive weekend sessions, tailored for working professionals.
Choose from a variety of assessment options, including school improvement plans, policy evaluations, and academic writing assignments.
The MA programme comprises 120 credits of taught material, while the PGCert comprises 60 credits.
Modules are delivered through a combination of evening classes, online lectures, and weekend sessions, followed by a 60-credit Master’s Dissertation.
You are required to take an additional 60 credits (3 - 20 credit modules) from a specific practice based pathway.
For example, students may take modules from the following programmes: Autism (Children), SEBD, LLD.
Current Dubai offerings below:
PG Certificate Education (Inclusion and Special Educational Needs) Part-time.
You should have a degree (equivalent to a UK Bachelors Degree of at least 2:2 or above) or a recognised equivalent qualification and this will be a condition of any offer where the degree has not already been awarded.
If English is not your first language you may need to demonstrate proficiency in English through the completion of an academic level IELTS or equivalent.
You should achieve a score of 6.5 overall with a minimum of 6 across all four areas of reading, writing, listening and speaking.
We recommend our applicants be working in an educational setting however those who are working in non-profit organisations or within governmental organisations associated with the support of persons with disabilities will benefit.
To be considered by the University of Birmingham you will also need to meet our general entry requirements:
A degree (equivalent to a UK Bachelors Degree of at least 2:2 or above) or a recognised equivalent qualification and this will be a condition of any offer where the degree has not already been awarded.
A Personal Statement (minimum 500 - 700 words) on your motivation for and commitment to wanting to complete this programme of study as well as information about your educational context.
The MA/PGCert in Inclusion and Special Educational Needs at the University of Birmingham Dubai opens diverse career pathways in education, policy, and leadership.
Graduates are well-equipped to take on roles such as inclusion coordinators, special education consultants, and policy advisors.
The course’s global perspective and flexible learning options also empower you to apply your expertise in various cultural contexts, both in the UAE and internationally.
targeted University by top employers in 2023-24

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/staff/profiles/cancer-genomic/acharjee-animesh.aspx:
Department of Cancer and Genomic Sciences Associate Professor Deputy Programme Director, MSc in Health Data Science (Dubai) EDI Lead, Department of Cancer and Genomic Sciences
Animesh Acharjee is an Associate Professor of Integrative Analytics and AI (Health Data Science) and Deputy Programme Director, MSc in Health Data Science (Dubai) in the Department of Cancer and Genomic Sciences .
Please see Integrative analytics and AI team website for detail information.
PhD in Omics data analysis, Wageningen University, The Netherlands MSc in Bioinformatics, IBAB, Bangalore, India BTech in Electrical Engineering, NERIST, India
Acharjee did his undergraduate degree in Electrical Engineering from North Eastern Regional Institute of Technology ( NERIST ), Itanagar, India and Masters in Bioinformatics from Institute of Bioinformatics and Applied Biotechnology , Bangalore , India.
After his Masters, he earned his PhD from Wageningen University , The Netherlands, on applied machine learning and data analysis.
After his PhD he moved to Lyon, France, for his post-doctoral study with Synergie Lyon Cancer Centre as a Biostatistician where he extensively worked on big data analytics, cloud computing.
After his post-doctoral study he was offered a scientist position with BASF Cropdesign, Belgium.
Before joining University of Birmingham and Queen Elizabeth Hospital he was working with University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK focusing on metabolic driven diseases like Obesity, T2-diabetis using high throughput metabolomics, lipidomics technologies.
His research interests includes integrative data analytics, predictive biomarker discovery, bioinformatics methods for diagnostics and network biology.
Throughout his career, he was offered many fellowships from British Council, Dutch Government and Newton fellowships.
He has published many papers in the international journals and actively collaborate with many Universities, for example Harvard University and University of Cambridge.
So far, he has published 83 papers, and his h index is 25 based on google scholar.
Integrative Multimodal Data Analytics Health Data Fundamentals MRes - Cancer Science Genome Medicine Clinical Bioinformatics Foundation Year-2 (FY-2)
Acharjee applies novel approaches to the diverse multi omics data e.g.
genetics, transcriptomics, proteomics, metabolomics, single cell transcriptomics to integrate them and identify novel therapeutic mechanisms and/or disease mechanisms.
The data sets used in those studies are often public (ex: TCGA, GEO etc) or stakeholders’ experimental data.
To perform an integration, Dr.
Acharjee often uses machine learning/AI methods derived from multiple experiments across many diseases.
Some of the examples of integration are here: microbiome and inflammatory markers in infant cohort (Wood and Acharjee et al., Allergy, 2021); microbiome, metabolome and single cell sequence data in the colon cancer cohort (Bisht et al.,  Int J Mol Sci.
2021; Quraishi and Acharjee et al., J Crohns Colitis, 2020) and multiple metabolomics data sets integration (Acharjee et al., BMC Bioinformatics, 2016).
Unlike previous portfolio, this aspect considers single omics or clinical data including variety of machine learning methods.
Some examples include identification of the markers from cytokine profiling data (Bravo-Merodio and Acharjee et al., Sci Data.
2019), diagnostic marker from miRNA  (Di Pietro et al, Br J Sports Med.
2021);  metabolomics biomarker identification (Ament et al., Transl Stroke Res., 2021; Acharjee et al., Metabolomics, 2018).
Acharjee is also interested to develop new bioinformatics tools /workflows that can be useful for the clinician or biologist.
Some of the examples are: Microbiome analysis workflow (Bisht and Acharjee et al., Comput Biol Med, 2021), statistical power calculations online tool (Acharjee et al., BMC Medical Genomics, 2020), automatic feature selection form high dimensional omics data sets (Bravo-Merodio et al.,  J Transl Med.
2019).
Legend: * Sharing first or second authorship;  # Corresponding authorship
Integrative analytics
Radhakrishnan, S.
K., Nath, D., Russ, D., Merodio, L.
B., Lad, P., Daisi, F.
K., & Acharjee, A#.
(2025).
Machine learning-based identification of proteomic markers in colorectal cancer using UK Biobank data .
Frontiers in oncology, 14 , 1505675.
https://doi.org/10.3389/fonc.2024.1505675
Hodgkiss R, Acharjee A#.
Unravelling metabolite-microbiome interactions in inflammatory bowel disease through AI and interaction-based modelling .
Biochim Biophys Acta Mol Basis Dis.
2024 Dec 9;1871(3):167618.
doi: 10.1016/j.bbadis.2024.167618.
PMID: 39662756.
Karamitopoulou E, Wenning AS, Acharjee A , Aeschbacher P, Marinoni I, Zlobec I, Gloor B, Perren A.
Spatial heterogeneity of immune regulators drives dynamic changes of local immune responses, affecting disease outcomes in pancreatic cancer .
Clin Cancer Res.
2024 Jul 15.
doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-24-0368.
Epub ahead of print.
PMID: 39007872.
Onwuka S, Bravo-Merodio L, Gkoutos GV, Acharjee A#.
Explainable AI-prioritized plasma and fecal metabolites in inflammatory bowel disease and their dietary associations.
iScience.
2024 Jun 17;27(7):110298.
doi: 10.1016/j.isci.2024.110298.
PMID: 39040076
Diagnostics
Vermeer, E., Jagt, J.
Z., Lap, E.
M., Struys, E.
A., Budding, A.
E., Verhoeven-Duif, N.
M., Bosma, M., van Limbergen, J.
E., Koot, B.
P., de Jonge, R., Benninga, M.
A., Acharjee, A#., de Boer, N.
K.
H., & de Meij, T.
Fecal gut microbiota and amino acids as noninvasive diagnostic biomarkers of Pediatric inflammatory bowel disease .
Gut microbes, 17 (1), 2517828.
https://doi.org/10.1080/19490976.2025.2517828
Smyth J, Godet J, Choudhary A, Das A, Gkoutos GV, Acharjee A# .
Microbiome-Based Colon Cancer Patient Stratification and Survival Analysis .
Cancer Med.
2024 Nov;13(22):e70434.
doi: 10.1002/cam4.70434.
PMID: 39569620
Sadozai H*, Acharjee A* ,# , Kayani HZ, Gruber T, Gorczynski RM, Burke B.
High hypoxia status in pancreatic cancer is associated with multiple hallmarks of an immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment.
Front Immunol.
2024 Mar 6;15:1360629.
doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2024.1360629.
PMID: 38510243
Data analytics methods and workflow development
Cusworth S, Gkoutos GV, Acharjee A# .
A novel generative adversarial network modelling for the class imbalance problem in high dimensional omics data.
BMC Med Inform Decis Mak.
2024 Mar 28;24(1):90.
doi: 10.1186/s12911-024-02487-2.
PMID: 38549123
For other papers, please refer to GoogleScholar .

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/subjects/biosciences-courses/biochemistry-bsc:
Master Biology, Chemistry, and Medicine with our Royal Society of Biology-accredited Biochemistry BSc degree.
Combining hands-on training with essential skills, we ensure you excel in your career.
Our specialist degree labels highlights your expertise, shaping you into a versatile professional and propel you forward with a degree that meets top employer demands.
For me, the real highlight has been the opportunity to learn from and directly engage with the academic staff here, all of whom are true experts in their fields.
The knowledge they impart to us is always up to date and often backed up by their own research.
Join our three-year programme comprising of core (compulsory) and optional modules.
Dive into biochemistry's full spectrum, from organism physiology to molecular reactions and enzyme dynamics.
The pivotal Chemistry module is a cornerstone of this exploration.
Master core biochemistry modules and select two electives to tailor your expertise in your second year.
Core studies include Proteins and Enzymes, Membranes and Metabolism, and Molecular Biology with elective offer options like Medical Biosciences, Genetics, and Microbiology, empowering you to shape your future in biochemistry.
In your final year, lead your own research project, and gain independence as a biochemist.
Enhance analytical skills through a core module and select from diverse electives to deepen your expertise.
Choose from practical, literature review, or education-focused project options, each weighing heavily and building key skills for your career.
in the UK
Our Biochemistry programmes offer you the unique chance to shape your academic journey and future career.
By reflecting on the modules you’ve studied, you can choose a specialised pathway in your final year, highlighting your expertise and passion.
These pathways are designed to set you apart, opening doors to exciting opportunities and propelling you toward the next stage of your career.
The following labels may be added to our Biochemistry degree programmes:
At Birmingham, our course integrates ground breaking research with dynamic teaching, offering a range of tailored options to align with your career goals and passions.
Innovative Lectures : Experience interactive, recorded lectures with instant polling and 'flipped' classroom techniques for deep, engaging learning.
Explore topics through problem-solving and group discussions, enhanced by active online participation
Hands-On Practical Classes : Dive into 3-hour lab sessions, working at your own pace with direct guidance from researchers.
Develop vital skills and gain real-world experience, crucial for future research careers.
Research-Driven Teaching : Benefit from cutting-edge research that informs your studies, including live projects and past experiments.
Engage with world-leading biochemists and apply research findings in practical settings.
Advanced Facilities : Utilize our award-winning virtual lab-casting and state-of-the-art labs for hands-on training.
Access high-tech resources during your final-year project to hone your skills and expertise."
At the University of Birmingham, we’re committed to your success with comprehensive support tailored to your needs.
Here’s how we ensure you thrive:
Biochemistry uses a variety of methods to assess student performance, including exams, essays and dissertations.
This programme, accredited by the Royal Society of Biology, offers you a robust academic foundation in biology, paired with essential skills that employers demand.
We ensure you're not only equipped with knowledge, but also with the experience and expertise that will make you an outstanding candidate in the competitive job market.
Each academic year consists of 120 credits, typically divided into 20-credit modules.
The final year includes a 40-credit research project, providing an opportunity to engage deeply with a specialized area of your interest.
The following must be taken
Students, whose first language is not English and require additional support, will be enrolled on the LC Academic Communication Skills for Biosciences module and will also take LC Essentials of Cell Biology & Physiology in place of LC Cell Biology & Physiology listed above.
Choose 40 credits from the following:
Choose 40 credits from the following project modules:
Choose 60 credits from the following:
Specialist Genetics Modules
Specialist Microbiology and Infection Modules
Optional modules that contribute to EITHER the Genetics or Microbiology and Infection specialisms
General Optional Modules
Admission tutor for Biosciences
Dr Mike Tomlinson's research focuses on tetraspanin membrane proteins as potential therapeutic targets for major human diseases such as cancer, cardiovascular and inflammatory diseases.
AAB To include Chemistry + 1 from Maths / Further Maths / Statistics / Biology / Physics
6,6,5 + 1 from Maths: Analysis and Approaches / Maths: Applications and Interpretation/ Statistics / Biology / Physics  at Higher Level with a minimum of 32 points overall
BTEC Extended Diploma, Diploma and Extended Certificate are accepted, but subjects are considered on a case-by-case basis.
Please contact us for further guidance
Typical offer: AAB
AAB including Chemistry + 1 from Maths / Further Maths / Statistics / Biology / Physics
We do not accept General Studies, Critical Thinking, Citizenship Studies, Applied Science, Communication and Culture, Critical Studies, Global Perspectives, Science in Society and World Development.
BTEC Extended Diploma, Diploma and Extended Certificate are accepted but subjects are considered on a case-by-case basis.
Applicants who take the Extended Project Qualification (EPQ) and meet our offer criteria will be made the typical offer for the programme, plus an alternative offer, which will be one grade lower plus a grade A in the EPQ.
Deferring admission is usually not a problem, but please inform the School or central Admissions.
The university has a neutral attitude to gap years.
You can still apply in advance for deferred entry and would be advised to do so.
BBB including Chemistry + 1 from Maths / Further Maths / Statistics / Biology / Physics
ABB including Chemistry + 1 from Maths / Further Maths / Statistics / Biology / Physics
Our graduates are highly regarded among employers in the UK, as evidenced by the fact that we’re the UK university most targeted by top graduate employers (High Fliers ‘Graduate Market in 2024’ report).
Our courses are committed to your future career, and university is just the start.
I would definitely say that the highlights of university come from my placement year where I was able to independently carry out a research project then present it at a national research conference.
The Graduate Market in 2024, High Fliers report
Our graduates are celebrated for their expertise and versatility, excelling in fields like biotechnology, pharmaceuticals, and environmental science.
As UK's most targeted University by the country's leading graduate employers, you’ll have access to exceptional career support and be in high demand across research, industry, and more.
Whether you aim for advanced degrees or exciting career paths, your future will be vibrant and full of possibilities.
The Binding Site University of Birmingham GSK Elpida Therapeutics Thermo Fisher Scientific King's College London UK Health Security Agency Amgen AstraZeneca Wellcome Sanger Institute
Executive Assistant Engineer Intern Modelling and Simulations Engineer Design Engineer International Student Representative Graduate Innovation Engineer Healthcare Assistant Social Research Officer Operations Director Content Marketing Manager

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/subjects/biosciences-courses/medical-biochemistry-bsc:
Discover the building blocks of life with our Royal Society of Biology accredited Medical Biochemistry degree, where you’ll explore molecular mechanisms of disease and innovative therapeutic pathways to make a meaningful impact in healthcare!
This flexible course empowers you to customize your learning journey, engage in live research projects, and acquire essential skills.
You'll graduate equipped to tackle real-world challenges and make a significant impact in the field of biochemistry!
I choose medical biochemistry because it allowed me to explore the living world from microbiology to disease progression.
The broad range of topics presented in the first year...
allowed the opportunity to sample every aspect of what biochemistry is.
In the first year, explore the physiology of living organisms, delve into molecular reactions, and discover the enzymes that drive them.
A pivotal Chemistry module lays the foundation, while an exciting elective lets you venture into other fascinating disciplines at the University!
Master core biochemistry modules and select two electives to tailor your expertise.
Your final year is a thrilling journey of discovery!
Collaborate with expert faculty on an innovative research project, honing your analytical skills.
With diverse elective options and the choice of practical, literature review, or education-focused projects, you’ll develop the expertise needed to make a powerful impact in biochemistry!
Our Medical Biochemistry course at Birmingham stands out by merging cutting-edge research with a flexible, hands-on learning experience.
Gain expertise in data analysis, experimental design, and problem-solving while studying under world-renowned faculty in state-of-the-art facilities.
With diverse optional modules and the chance to engage in live research projects, you’ll tailor your degree to match your interests."
Our Biochemistry course is unique for its flexibility and research-driven approach.
Engage in research-led teaching, utilizing cutting-edge facilities like the Phenome Centre and Birmingham Advanced Light Microscopy.
This dynamic program equips you with advanced skills and hands-on experience, making you a standout professional in the biochemistry landscape.
At Birmingham, our course integrates groundbreaking research with dynamic teaching, offering a range of tailored options to align with your career goals and passions.
Our assessment methods ensure a deep understanding and practical application of biochemistry.
You will experience a balanced mix of continuous assessments and end-of-year exams, with continuous assessments playing a significant role in shaping your final grade.
Some modules are assessed entirely through coursework.
Detailed feedback provided within three weeks helps you refine your skills and achieve steady improvement, ensuring you truly master biochemistry in practice.
Students must choose one of the following:
Students must also choose one of the following:
I chose to study at the University of Birmingham because of the high recognition and the opportunities that it offers in terms of professional development

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/news/2025/cryptic-clues-and-little-information-the-risks-and-benefits-of-the-taylor-swift-marketing-strategy:
Taylor Swift's yet-to-be-released album has been associated with the colour orange.
Photo credit: Thomas Jackson via Alamy.
On the announcement of Taylor Swift’s 12 th album, The Life of a Showgirl , Professor Sarah Montano said:
“With the latest news that Taylor Swift is entering her ‘Showgirl’ era, fans are once again counting down the days until the release of her next album.
Her last album, The Tortured Poets Department, broke records for the most-streamed album on Spotify.
Her impact on generating revenue, known as the Swiftonomics effect, saw her recent Eras Tour bring in over $1 billion for her and contribute £967 million to the UK economy.
As such, there will be great expectations on Swift to achieve the same heights with her newest musical offering, not only for her own commercial ambitions, but to drive revenue for others.
“Known as an epic storyteller who reveals her innermost thoughts via her lyrics, there will also be expectations that once again, fans will hear her ever-evolving story in intimate detail.
This mastermind reputation also carries through to her signature cryptic marketing strategy.
For The Life of a Showgirl announcement, no information has been officially shared other than the name and shipment deadline of the album.
Swift herself held up a blurred vinyl of the unreleased album on a New Heights podcast episode, but other than that, information has been scant.
“The success of any artist or marketing campaign is never guaranteed; even big stars and brands get it wrong sometimes.
However, if we look at the teasers, clues and lack of information as a marketing tactic, and the accompanying media coverage that has been generated in the last 24 hours, then a strategy that drives curiosity and interest seems likely to succeed and mirror former record-breaking achievements.
As with any launch, it is a risky strategy to tease and make customers wait when immediacy of access to a product or service is desired by modern-day customers.
Already, supposed leaked photographs of the track list and album art are circulating online, but this may drive even more interest and hype.
“If there is any criticism of this marketing approach, then it is likely that Taylor Swift will simply shake it off , and surely, expected high revenues will be received as good karma for the singer.”
Professor of Retail Marketing
Sarah Montano is a Senior Lecturer in Marketing at Birmingham Business School, University of Birmingham, UK.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/news/2025/innovative-ambulance-software-could-help-millions-across-the-world:
New software technology will help to save lives in Rwanda and beyond
New ambulance technology developed in Rwanda by University of Birmingham experts working with a local software company could save nearly one million lives.
Rwanda Build Program (RWBuild) worked with local and international partners to develop the 912Rwanda software.
The new software helps ambulance crews and hospitals coordinate faster care for emergency patients by automatically recommending the nearest available facility which can provide the care that the patient needs.
The innovative software could reduce serious disabilities for an estimated 250 million people who suffer injuries each year in Low- and Middle-income Countries (LMICs).
It will also reduce deaths and disability from emergency medical conditions, like post-partum hemorrhage, sepsis, malaria, heart attacks, or strokes – conditions which cause around 50% of deaths in LMICs.
In emergency care, minutes saved equals lives saved, but it is not just about getting patients to any care quickly, patients need to get to the care which is right for them.
The readiness of our programme also comes at a time when policy makers in Rwanda recognise that the numbers of people dying after injuries is more than what it should be and that ambulance services need to be more efficient.
The project is backed by more than £3 million funding from the UK’s National Institute for Health and Care Research (NIHR), Research on Interventions for Global Health Transformation (RIGHT) programme and nearly $1 million from the United States National Institute of Health.
The initial phase of the software which prioritises ambulance deployment based on basic data collected by dispatchers is already operational in Kigali.
It has been used for over 20,000 journeys, allowing ambulance teams to locate patients quickly in areas where smartphone penetration and triangulation off cell phone masts is not possible.
The new – second phase - software launched today introduces novel triage software which incorporates a Destination Decision Support Algorithm (DDSA).
This DDSA enables ambulance crews to capture simple patient information and uses that information to recommend the nearest suitable healthcare facility to treat that patient.
This is especially critical for patients with life-threatening conditions, who must reach treatment within one hour of symptom onset.
Justine Davies, Professor of Global Health Research at the University of Birmingham, and co-Principle Investigator of the NIHR funded project, commented: “Each one of these phases - finding the patient and then finding the right facility for that patient - is likely to dramatically reduce the time it takes for emergency patients to get to the treatment that they need at a hospital.
“In emergency care, minutes saved equals lives saved, but it is not just about getting patients to any care quickly, patients need to get to the care which is right for them.
“Our collaborative efforts are setting new benchmarks in healthcare technology; the success of this project comes from the strength of all the partners dedication and the support of the SAMU division within the Ministry of Health and Rwanda Biomedical Center.”
912Rwanda is more than a local success story.
Designed and built in Kigali for Rwanda’s Ministry of Health, it proves that advanced, life-saving technology can be developed in Africa, by Africans, for the world.
Its Kigali-born DDSA logic—tailored for low- and middle-income countries—has the potential to save millions of lives globally.
While high-income countries have developed sophisticated ambulance systems to reduce the delay in getting patients to appropriate healthcare facilities, LMICs often lack the financial and training resources to implement similarly complex solutions.
912Rwanda is both accurate and easy to use - tailored to the realities of emergency healthcare in LMICs.
Rwanda’s ambulance services have previously relied on multiple phone calls between patients, dispatchers, ambulance teams, and hospitals.
This system often led to delays of up to 30 minutes and frequent miscommunications.
The 912Rwanda software eliminates these inefficiencies by enabling real-time digital communication between dispatch, ambulances, and healthcare facilities.
Rob Rickard, Director of Rwanda Build Program, commented: "Incorporating the DDSA into 912Rwanda introduces a pivotal shift towards more precise and time-efficient emergency responses ensuring a decision of the nearest appropriate facility is instant and accurate.
“When an expectant mother in Kigali collapses at home and needs medical help, the SAMU division of MOH uses the 912Rwanda dispatch software to locate her instantly.
Within minutes, a SAMU ambulance is deployed.
Now with the DDSA update to 912Rwanda, SAMU can ensure she reaches the best hospital for her needs, and real-time data sent to the hospital before arrival, ensure quality care is waiting for her when she arrives.
“912Rwanda is more than a local success story.
Its Kigali-born DDSA logic—tailored for low- and middle-income countries—has the potential to save millions of lives globally.”
Jean Claude Byiringiro, Associate Professor of Surgery and Former Dean of the School of Medicine and Pharmacy at University of Rwanda commented: “We believe that the programme can make a significant impact in Rwanda, reducing the time it takes to get injured patients to hospital.
Importantly, the project could play a key role in developing similar solutions in countries facing the same sort of problems.”
Researchers from the Universities of Birmingham, Rwanda, and Utah are working with the Rwandan Ministry of Health, RWBuild, and academic partners at the Universities of Global Health Equity, York, and Aberdeen to develop, deploy, and evaluate the 912Rwanda system.
Professor Sudha Jayaraman, Principal Investigator of the NIHR funded first phase of the project and Director of the Center for Global Surgery at University of Utah commented: "The 912Rwanda software and project has already had phenomenal success due to buy-in from the very highest leaders in the government of Rwanda as they look to transform their country into a leading power in the region and envision this work being an important part of that future.
“We are privileged and excited to partner with the leadership of Division of Emergency Medical Services, Dr Nepo Sindikubwabo and Mrs Jeanne d’Arc Nyinawankusi, as they create an international role model for such systems."
For more information, please contact the Press Office at the University of Birmingham on +44 (0)121 414 2772
Every year in Rwanda, injury causes 9% of deaths with 47% of these occurring before patients can reach hospital.
The National Institute for Health and Care Research (NIHR)
The mission of the National Institute for Health and Care Research (NIHR) is to improve the health and wealth of the nation through research.
We do this by:
NIHR is funded by the Department of Health and Social Care.
The NIHR Global Health Research portfolio supports high-quality applied health research for the direct and primary benefit of people in LMICs, using international development funding from the UK Government.
Professor of Global Health Research
Staff profile for Justine Davies, Professor of Global Health, Department of Applied Health Sciences

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/news/2025/ptsd-costs-the-uk-economy-40-billion-a-year-new-research-says:
New research into the economic impact of post-traumatic stress disorder has found that average annual costs exceed £14780 per person, which at current prevalence rates equates to £40 billion.
Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is a significant anxiety disorder that can be triggered as a result of witnessing or experiencing a traumatic event or events.
It is estimated that across the UK military and civilian population, 4% of people – or 2,612,000 individuals – have PTSD, with a total of 6,665,000 people expected to develop PTSD at some point in their life.
Despite increased awareness of mental health conditions and the increased prevalence of PTSD, the disorder continues to be misunderstood, misdiagnosed and stigmatised, and the cost to the UK economy has been unknown.
Now, new research from the University of Birmingham has found that the economic and societal burden of PTSD in the UK is far greater than previously understood.
The research was funded by Supporting Wounded Veterans and The Veterans Foundation, and published in BMJ Open.
Health and well-being can have significant impacts not only on individuals’ economic situations, but also on the wider UK economy.
Appointments, treatment, missed work and other related issues can all add up quickly.
Paul Montgomery, Professor of Social Intervention at the University of Birmingham, said: “Health and well-being can have significant impacts not only on individuals’ economic situations, but also on the wider UK economy.
The impact that poor mental health can have on the economy has been recognised by successive governments, with various pledges being made to reduce this cost.
But, now for the first time, we have a more detailed and current picture of what part of that previously unknown cost is when it comes to PTSD.
”The researchers analysed databases for different types of quantitative data that evaluated the direct and indirect economic and societal costs related to PTSD from 1990-2023.
Direct costs included hospital (inpatient beds), medication, general practitioner/doctors, treatment for alcohol and/or substance abuse, psychiatrists, psychologists, and counsellor costs.
Indirect costs include homelessness, disability living allowance, unemployment allowance, productivity loss at work (absenteeism and presenteeism), home-care workers, social workers (mental health), and premature mortality.
It is incredibly hard to measure the cost of stigma and discrimination, which could lead to reduced income and a higher dependence on social security assistance.
There may also be an increased cost relating to criminal justice, relationship and family support services, and education.
This suggests that the actual costs of PTSD on the economy may well exceed that £40 billion figure.
The researchers found that the annual average direct excess costs for a patient with PTSD in the UK is approximately £1,118, whilst the average indirect cost is £13,663 per year, totalling £14,781, with a range from around £11,373 to £16,797.
Based on the prevalence figures for PTSD, this comes out at an average annual cost to the UK economy of £40 billion.
Siddhartha Bandyopadhyay, Professor of Economics, explained: “Despite this detailed breakdown of costs and this high figure, there are other factors that may add further costs which we are not able to provide figures for.
This suggests that the actual costs of PTSD on the economy may well exceed that £40 billion figure.”
The researchers also acknowledge that PTSD is often present with other mental health conditions, so disentangling one condition from the other is difficult, and the severity of PTSD can vary from person to person.
If the government is serious about reducing the cost of poor mental health and well-being on the economy, then collecting high-quality and accurate cost data, developing more effective therapies and expanding evidence-based interventions for PTSD should be a key part of that plan.
Professor Montgomery concluded: “PTSD affects millions of people in the UK, and as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, it is anticipated that there will be a rise of 77,000 cases per year.
This presents even more demand for social and economic services and further increases in the associated costs.
“If the government is serious about reducing the cost of poor mental health and well-being on the economy, then collecting high-quality and accurate cost data, developing more effective therapies and expanding evidence-based interventions for PTSD should be a key part of that plan.”
Professor of Economics
Siddhartha Bandyopadhyay is a Professor of Economics at Birmingham Business School.
He is an internationally recognised economist in the field of political economy and public policy.
Professor of Social Intervention
Professor Paul Montgomery, Professor of Social Intervention in the Department of Social Policy, Sociology and Criminology in the School of Social Policy and Society at the University of Birmingham.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/news/2025/rethinking-joint-replacement-testing-in-silico-trials-and-the-changing-role-of-simulators:
Professors Alice Roberts and Richard M Hall at the opening of the University of Birmingham's Advanced Medical Simulation and Testing laboratories.
Total joint replacements of the hip, knee, and increasingly, the shoulder and spine, have transformed the lives of millions, alleviating pain and restoring mobility.
Their success has driven wider use, including in younger, more active individuals and patients with complex conditions.
As the demands on these implants grow, so too does the need for more rigorous assessment of their long-term safety, durability, and clinical performance.
This is no small task as human joints are complex, load-bearing systems, and the implants we design today are more advanced than ever.
At the University of Birmingham, we are working across engineering, healthcare, and regulatory science to improve how these critical technologies are evaluated.
For decades, mechanical simulators have played a central role in these assessments.
The machines replicate millions of walking cycles in the hip, for instance, to assess how implants wear and how generated debris might trigger adverse biological responses.
However, despite these capabilities, questions persist about how well lab-based testing reflects the realities of human movement and joint function.
The challenge of representing the real world
Simulators are designed to balance reproducibility with clinical relevance.
Most operate under idealised, standardised conditions – for example, fixed motions and controlled loads.
Yet real-world patients vary widely in body weight, gait, muscular strength, and so on.
Our laboratories at the University house unique simulators capable of recreating walking, running, and stair climbing in these patients.
However, even with these advanced rigs significant challenges remain; for instance, a single test replicating five million walking cycles, roughly five years of use, can take up to four months.
Additionally, implant technologies are progressing rapidly, with patient-specific designs, new biomaterials, and additive manufacturing becoming commonplace.
Testing every possible configuration through physical trials alone is unfeasible.
The pace of innovation is simply outstripping the capacity of conventional testing infrastructure.
One of the most promising advances in this space is the emergence of in silico trials; computer-based simulations that model how implants perform within virtual patient populations.
These digital models can account for variations in, for instance, anatomy, movement, surgical approach, and disease status, offering insight into how devices might behave across a broad clinical spectrum.
International standards such as ISO 14242 (for hip wear) have improved the confidence in medical devices, but these standards often reflect only a narrow slice of clinical experience.
The effects of conditions such as edge-loading, impingement, or inflammation are typically evaluated in supplementary, non-standard tests or not all.
Critically, standards are often reactive.
Many are introduced or updated only after long-term clinical use or when failures emerge.
This lag can leave regulators and patients exposed to risks that were not well-characterised before the device entered the market.
A prominent example is the metal-on-metal implant crisis of the 2010s.
Devices were released with inadequate scrutiny, leading to high failure rates, tissue damage, and systemic metal ion exposure.
In Silico trials: A digital shift
The advantages within these proposed models are significant - including the facts that simulations can assess hundreds of virtual patients in a fraction of the time needed for physical tests and the models can provide data not available in experimental assessments.
Encouragingly, both the European Commission and US FDA are beginning to actively integrate in silico approaches into regulatory science within healthcare.
These models are increasingly accepted in support of preclinical evaluation, performance prediction, and safety assessment.
Not replacement, but rethinking
It is important to be clear: in silico models are not a substitute for physical testing but are complementary.
These virtual models must be built on robust experimental data and validated against clinical outcomes.
Physical simulators still provide the empirical ‘ground truth’ against which digital models are refined.
Similarly, retrieval analysis, the study of implants removed from patients, remains essential, especially when incorporating data from both successful and failed cases.
The future lies in hybrid frameworks.
At Birmingham, we are in the early stages of developing integrated platforms that combine digital patient models with wear simulators and advanced imaging.
These systems allow iterative testing of implant designs, failure scenarios, and surgical techniques.
Crucially, they provide a more holistic, patient-centred view of device performance.
The broader implications
This shift in testing is part of a larger change in how we approach medical innovation.
In silico trials enable adaptive testing strategies and earlier patient stratification, offering faster, safer access to life-enhancing technologies.
For regulators and policymakers, this represents an opportunity to modernise evaluation frameworks without compromising on public trust.
Ultimately, we must ensure that our methods for assessing implants evolve alongside the devices themselves.
That means embracing better models, smarter testing, and more responsive regulation.
At the University of Birmingham, we believe the future lies in combining the power of simulation with the rigour of physical testing, in ways that are transparent, evidence-based, and focused on patient outcomes.
Professor of Biomechanical and Oncological Engineering
Profile of Professor Richard M Hall, University of Birmingham

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/news/2025/global-standards-local-impact-advancing-musculoskeletal-care-through-physiotherapy:
University of Birmingham researcher champions advanced physiotherapy roles to meet global MSK health challenges
Photo by yury kirillov on Unsplash
Musculoskeletal (MSK) disorders remain one of the leading causes of disability worldwide, presenting a major challenge for healthcare systems grappling with ageing populations and rising service demands.
In response, a growing cadre of highly trained professionals - Advanced Clinical Practice (ACP) physiotherapists - are redefining how MSK care is delivered, offering timely, expert, and patient-centred solutions both in the UK and beyond.
Dr Michael Mansfield, Assistant Professor in Musculoskeletal Physiotherapy at the University of Birmingham, is at the forefront of research and education in this rapidly evolving area of healthcare.
His latest work highlights how advanced physiotherapy practice, particularly within the NHS and similar systems, has transformed care pathways and offers significant potential for adaptation in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs), including across South Asia.
Advanced Clinical Practice is not just about extended roles - it’s about a shift in how we view physiotherapy’s place in the health system.
By expanding scope and deepening clinical expertise, we’re improving access, reducing pressure on medical staff, and ultimately achieving better outcomes for patients.
Advanced practice in physiotherapy is underpinned by four pillars: clinical practice, leadership, education, and research.
ACPs are highly trained professionals - often educated to Master’s level - who operate with a high degree of autonomy.
In the UK, these roles are supported by Health Education England (NHS England) frameworks that ensure ACPs meet rigorous standards across clinical and professional domains.
In primary care settings, First Contact Physiotherapists (FCPs) provide rapid assessments, streamlining access to care and reducing waiting times.
They may order imaging, perform injections, and in some cases, prescribe medication, depending on their training and local regulations.
Becoming an ACP requires a blend of academic learning and practical training.
Postgraduate degrees - such as the MSc in Advanced Clinical Practice or Musculoskeletal Physiotherapy - equip clinicians with the skills needed to assess complex cases, lead services, and contribute to research and teaching.
The educational journey includes structured mentorship, and competency-based assessments, ensuring that practitioners are prepared for the demands of advanced autonomous practice.
These professionals often play vital roles in mentoring junior staff, leading audits, and driving service improvement initiatives.
“Advanced practice isn’t a static qualification - it’s a career-long commitment to learning and leadership,” says Dr Mansfield.
The NHS has embraced ACP roles as part of a broader strategy to address workforce shortages and rising MSK demand.
National frameworks, such as the NHS Long Term Plan and the MSK Core Capabilities Framework, provide essential infrastructure for training, governance, and service integration.
But the relevance of advanced physiotherapy practice goes far beyond the UK.
Dr Mansfield argues that countries in South Asia, where MSK conditions contribute heavily to disability and economic strain, could significantly benefit from adopting and adapting the ACP model.
In India, for example, physiotherapists are formally recognised as autonomous practitioners.
Dr Mansfield sees this as a key opportunity to develop accredited MSc programmes and structured clinical placements to foster a new generation of ACPs.
Pilot projects in primary care settings, supported by robust data collection, could demonstrate the value of ACPs in improving access and outcomes.
“There’s immense untapped potential in LMICs,” says Dr Mansfield.
“We have a model that works, backed by evidence.
The next step is local adaptation, policy support, and investment in training.”
Dr Mansfield also sees emerging opportunities in digital health.
With the rise of remote consultations and app-based rehabilitation, ACPs can help expand the reach of MSK services, particularly in rural or underserved areas.
In parallel, global education pathways - such as online MSc programmes and credentialing partnerships—are making advanced training more accessible.
“International collaboration is essential,” he adds.
“By working together across borders, we can develop shared standards, enable practitioner mobility, and ultimately deliver better care for more people.”
Advanced practice in musculoskeletal physiotherapy represents more than expanded roles - it embodies a forward-thinking approach to healthcare.
Grounded in evidence, education, and patient-centred practice, ACPs are already reshaping care in the UK and offer a scalable, cost-effective model for health systems around the world.
As Dr Mansfield puts it: “The future of MSK care lies in empowered practitioners, integrated pathways, and global collaboration.
The University of Birmingham is proud to be part of that journey.”
This article is adapted from a feature in the July edition of Physio Times
Assistant Professor Musculoskeletal Physiotherapy
Dr Mansfield's work focuses on improving outcomes in musculoskeletal and orthopaedic care, with particular expertise in evidence synthesis and psychophysical methods.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/news/2025/university-of-birmingham-seventh-in-the-russell-group-in-latest-national-student-survey-results:
The National Student Survey (NSS) has published its latest results, and the University of Birmingham has outperformed the higher education sector, with an improvement of 4.2% across the average of all institutional questions, compared to a sector average of 1.9%.
Computer Science at the University of Birmingham is now second out of all higher education institutions and is the number one Computer Science course at a Russell Group university, with scores of over 90% satisfaction for every question area.
The NSS allows students to provide feedback on their programmes, and on their teaching, assessment and academic support.
It provides crucial insights for universities and colleges on students’ academic experience, and on areas of delivery and organisation that require improvement.
The NSS results reflect both the dedication of academic and professional services staff who work so hard to make that happen, and our efforts to work closely with our student community, listen to their feedback and act rapidly to improve their learning experience.
As we approach the start of the next academic year, we look forward to continuing that effort.
University of Birmingham Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Education) Professor Deborah Longworth said: “Universities are places of teaching and learning and, when our students come through our gates, we want them to have an excellent education – one that supports to them to flourish in their study and in their future lives.
“The NSS results reflect both the dedication of academic and professional services staff who work so hard to make that happen, and our efforts to work closely with our student community, listen to their feedback and act rapidly to improve their learning experience.
As we approach the start of the next academic year, we look forward to continuing that effort.”
The scores reflect the strength of our partnership with students and our shared commitment to creating a world-class learning environment.
Professor Matthew Leeke, Deputy Head of the School of Computer Science, said: “We are delighted with the results of NSS 2025.
The scores reflect the strength of our partnership with students and our shared commitment to creating a world-class learning environment.”
This year, the University celebrates 125 years since it received its royal charter from Queen Victoria in 1900.
Highlights from this anniversary year, include improvements in important rankings tables, gaining four places to 76th in the QS World University Rankings 2025.
In the QS World University Rankings by Subject, six subjects are among the Top 50, with a further 20 in the top 100.
Its work brings people from across the world to Birmingham, including researchers, teachers and more than 8,000 international students from over 150 countries
Chair in Dependable Systems
Staff profile for Professor Matthew Leeke for the School of Computer Science

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/dubai/study/term-dates:
The dates in the standard academic year calendar apply to most undergraduate and taught postgraduate programmes.
The dates provided are correct at the time of publication, but may be subject to change.
Some programmes may teach outside this standard calendar ; non-standard programmes include: all School of Education programmes, MBA, MSc Bioinformatics, MSc Global Health System Leadership, MSc Microbiology and Infection, MSc Musculoskeletal Physiotherapy, MSc Sport and Exercise Medicine, MPH Public Health, MSc Supply Chain Management, and all January start foundation programmes.
For further information, please check the programme page, programme handbook, or contact the Programme Director.
Attendance is required throughout term time , including during assessment support, examination periods, and the summer term.
Current students can access their timetable via the MyUoB website or application.
We observe UAE public holidays and University closure days throughout the academic year.
While we aim to provide accurate information, some dates may change, particularly those determined by the Islamic Hijri calendar (marked with an asterisk*).
Final confirmation from the University will be shared closer to the time, following official announcements from the UAE's Moon Sighting Committee.
The campus will be closed, and no teaching will take place.
The University's academic year dates are available up to 2027/28.
However, please note that dates at the Dubai campus may vary slightly .
Finalised dates will be confirmed closer to each academic year.
We recommend checking back regularly or contacting your department for the most up-to-date information.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/schools/law/events/2025/law-dubai-webinar-september-2:
Join us for an online webinar about preparing to study one of our LLM courses at the University of Birmingham Dubai.
This will be from 17:00 –18:00 (GST) on Tuesday 2 September 2025.
Dr Mohammad Hwaidi will provide information on the LLM courses and what you can expect from studying at the University of Birmingham Dubai.
This will cover:
The courses included are:
Book your place at the webinar

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/dubai/events/2025/open-day/september:
Book your place today on our next Open Day to discover what life on our Dubai campus is like.
Make Birmingham yours.
Study at a global top 100 British university in Dubai.
As well as an introduction to the University, you'll also gain an insight into visas, transport, student services, and our award-winning careers and employability support.
It's also a great opportunity to ask any questions you may have.
Join us in person to meet our academics, speak 1-1 with our Admissions Team, and take a student-led tour of our state-of-the-art campus.
Register now to secure your spot.
This event will be hosted on campus, further details will be shared following booking.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/dubai/collaborate:
We’re the top choice for major employers searching for graduate recruits.
Connect with our student and graduate talent and access the leaders of the future, today.
Our Dubai campus has everything you need.
From fully equipped meeting rooms and spacious lecture theatres, to catered conference facilities for up to 300 attendees.
At the University of Birmingham Dubai, we engage with industry to build strategic partnerships that spark real change.
Through collaboration, we tackle key global challenges, including inequality and exclusion, global health threats, climate change, the regulation of emerging technologies, and the fourth industrial revolution.
Our Dubai campus connects Birmingham with local, regional, and international organisations to shape agendas, anticipate future challenges, and drive impactful change.
Of our research is rated as world-leading or internationally excellent.
REF 2021
The University of Birmingham is ranked #76 in the world.
The Dubai campus provides expert consultancy and advice, addressing technical issues and solving complex problems for companies in the UAE and around the world.
We partner with leading global corporations and governmental institutions to develop innovative solutions for their most challenging issues.
Our distinguished faculty of academics, researchers, and scientists are leaders in science and technology.
They are dedicated to tackling today's critical challenges and shaping policies and legislation worldwide.
We leverage our world-leading expertise to support our industry partners in developing new ideas that are changing how the world works.
Our Dubai campus offers access to over 3,000 subject-matter experts across five colleges and more than 100 research centres, with extensive partnerships that span all continents .
We take pride in our award-winning approach to business collaboration, with dedicated account management teams, many from industry, and innovative strategies for partnerships, IP, licensing, and consultancy.
Birmingham academics collaborate with businesses through meaningful knowledge exchange activities, generating £885M for the economy annually.
Every £1 million invested in our research results in an additional £5 million in economic output.
The Roads and Transport Authority (RTA) has opened their Transportation Research and Innovation Pavilion (TRIP) on campus, driving innovation and supporting the next generation of UAE transport engineers.
RTA Innovation and R&D Centre at University of Birmingham Dubai is an important milestone in RTA’s 'Innovation Roadmap’ as it will not only provide tools and resources to enhance the culture of Innovation and experimentation at RTA, but it will also allow RTA to effectively engage with its external ecosystem.
Looking to develop your employees through professional education?
As well as degrees, we offer a range of workshops, guest lectures, and executive education courses designed for working professionals.
From bespoke CPD courses to over 900 undergraduate, master's, and PhD programmes, we provide professional education to suit your needs.
We understand the importance of nurturing talent and work closely with our industry partners to support talent development and employee upskilling initiatives.
By actively listening to your specific needs, we guide you through our comprehensive portfolio of programmes.
Additionally, we offer bespoke training courses tailored to your organisation's requirements, available for delivery either at your premises or our state-of-the-art campus facilities in Dubai.
The University of Birmingham Dubai launched the fifth cohort of the United Arab Emirates' Artificial Intelligence Programme.
This initiative was in partnership with the Ministry of Artificial Intelligence and the Prime Minister's Office - UAE under the sponsorship of His Excellency Omar Sultan Al Olama, Minister of State for Artificial Intelligence.
The five-week programme concluded with a week at our Edgbaston campus in September, providing specialised training that enhanced participants' expertise in AI and the latest developments in generative AI.
If your business is facing a challenge or would like to discuss a collaborative project, get in touch with our Business Development Manager.
Contact Roger Griffiths via email at r.griffiths@bham.ac.uk or call +971 442 80500.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/dubai/about/campus/facilities:
Our campus is a Living Lab for research, industry collaboration, and teaching.
Equipped with cutting-edge technology, it offers a world-class physical and digital experience for students, staff, and visitors.
Using IoT technology, our bespoke mobile application helps users work smarter and manage their time more effectively.
Described as an ‘intelligent campus’, it is designed to embrace sustainable practices, ensuring we lead in corporate environmental responsibility.
Our modern building adapts to changes in technology, learning, and climate.
This innovative technology is integrated into our curriculum, across various disciplines, and utilised by industry partners through research projects, consultancy, and student internships.
TECOM Group is one of main drivers of the UAE’s knowledge economy and a key supporter of home-grown talent.
To this end, we are committed to consolidating Dubai’s position as a destination of choice for world-class academic institutions.
Our partnership with Birmingham on the development of this campus is testament to our continued support to our partners to create an ecosystem that enables growth and makes a positive impact in the region.
Our campus is built around collaboration, reflecting real-world work environments.
We have a variety of adaptable spaces, from large lecture theatres and laboratories to intimate seminar rooms, all designed to suit different learning styles and activities.
Throughout the campus, you'll find informal study areas and meeting rooms perfect for solo or group study.
Our Library features rooms equipped for hybrid meetings and group work, with Wi-Fi access available to all students.
The Siemens Innovation Lounge is ideal for group study and innovation, hosting events like presentations, hackathons, and workshops.
The Birmingham experience goes way beyond studying and learning.
Outside of lectures, there are lots of spaces to relax and enjoy your free time.
We have numerous social spaces to foster community and networking.
Enjoy informal seating on the ground floor and dedicated Student Association spaces at the ends of our wings.
Our campus includes two main food outlets offering a range of refreshments and meals.
Vending machines and a pantry are also available for preparing your own drinks and warming food.
Nearby, Dubai International Academic City offers a variety of dining options.
We encourage you to help reduce plastic waste by using reusable water bottles and coffee cups.
Our two shaded courtyards offer a peaceful retreat from the desert heat, providing our campus community with a calming space to socialise and work.
We occupy a prominent position at the heart of Academic City, overlooking the stunning parkland, which features brand new sports facilities, including Padel and basketball courts.
We have male and female prayer rooms available throughout the campus and the Parklands.
To locate a prayer room, please refer to the campus maps located by the lifts or ask at reception.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/university/history-and-heritage/our-heritage:
The University of Birmingham grew out of the radical vision of our first Chancellor, Joseph Chamberlain.
Founded in 1900, the University was England’s first civic university, a place where students from all backgrounds were accepted on an equal basis.
Today, the Edgbaston campus has grown to cover 672 acres, and there is a campus in Dubai.
Each year, more than 40,000 students from across the world study at Birmingham.
From its earliest days, Birmingham pushed the boundaries of research in medicine and the sciences.
Our roots were seeded in 1767 in the early medical education seminars of Mr John Tomlinson, ‘First Surgeon’ to the Birmingham Workhouse Infirmary.
Mason Science College was founded by Kidderminster-born industrialist and philanthropist Josiah Mason in 1875, becoming Mason University College in 1898.
At the time, England’s only other independent universities were in Oxford, Cambridge, Durham and London.
Chamberlain sought to provide “a great school of universal instruction”, so that “the most important work of original research should be continuously carried on under most favourable circumstances”.
Granted a Royal Charter by Queen Victoria on 24 March 1900 - and with generous donations of land and funds - the University of Birmingham was born.
It was an ambitious undertaking from someone who had been considered a radical liberal and who caused offence among the elite classes with his demands for social reform.
Chamberlain is probably best known for implementing the ‘civic gospel’ which brought gas, water and street lighting into council hands at the cost of ratepayers.
Dr Matt Cole has explored the life and legacy of Joseph Chamberlain ; a legacy “so broad and idiosyncratic that it is likely to leave no one in full agreement with him”.
Since 1900, the University of Birmingham has been leading the way, changing the way the world works with research that addresses the world’s greatest challenges.
This includes 10 Nobel Prize-winners as well as Olympic stars and renowned politicians.
Birmingham is where pacemakers and plastic heart valves were developed, where the first artificial vitamin (Vitamin C) was synthesised, and where the cavity magnetron was developed, leading to radar and the microwave oven.
Its academics pioneered allergy vaccines and held the first clinical trials of the contraceptive pill outside the US.
It has been integral to some of the greatest scientific discoveries of recent times, such as the Higgs Boson and Gravitational Waves , and is pioneering new approaches to tackling major global issues; from antibiotic resistance and maternal health to conflict resolution and access to education.
The University leads the field in many emerging disciplines, including nanotechnology, gene therapy, robotics and the use of virtual reality in the study of archaeology, and is continually developing new initiatives to enrich teaching and learning.
We were the first university to...
At the heart of the Edgbaston campus lie the iconic redbrick buildings of Chancellor’s Court, one legacy of Joseph Chamberlain.
Designed by leading architect Sir Aston Webb, they surround the soaring clock tower, affectionately known as ‘Old Joe’, which can be seen across Birmingham: an emblem of the University’s prestige.
The University has expanded and improved its campus over the years, resulting in a range of architecture and iconic buildings, including Muirhead Tower with its ‘brutalist’ architecture, the modern lines of the Teaching and Learning Building, and the Barber Institute of Fine Arts, a grade-two-listed Art Deco building designed by Robert Atkinson and opened in 1939 by Queen Mary.
At the Green Heart of the campus is a striking 12-acre parkland, completed as part of a £500 million, five-year estates redevelopment plan.
While preserving its rich heritage, the University remains committed to expanding and improving its teaching and research facilities to provide a modern, vibrant, sustainable campus that gives students, staff and visitors the very best experience.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/news/2022/university-of-birmingham-dubai-officially-opens-new-campus:
The University of Birmingham Dubai officially opened its new campus in the presence of His Highness Sheikh Hamdan bin Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum
From left, Professor David Sadler Provost, University of Birmingham Dubai, Lord Karan Bilimoria, Chancellor of the University of Birmingham, His Highness Sheikh Hamdan bin Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Crown Prince of Dubai and Chairman of The Executive Council of Dubai, Professor Adam Tickell, Vice-Chancellor and Principal of the University of Birmingham and Cathy Gilbert, Director of External Relations at the University of Birmingham
The University of Birmingham officially opened its iconic new Dubai campus in Dubai International Academic City (DIAC), in the presence of His Highness Sheikh Hamdan bin Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Crown Prince of Dubai and Chairman of The Executive Council of Dubai.
The ceremony marked the next stage in the University’s long-term commitment to positioning Dubai as a regional hub for world-class higher education and talent development.
In addition to high-ranking officials from the UAE, the University of Birmingham’s Vice-Chancellor Professor Adam Tickell and Chancellor Lord Karan Bilimoria, travelled to Dubai to attend the landmark ceremony.
Located opposite Dubai’s first purpose-built student housing community, the campus has been home to students since January.
It encourages collaboration across academic disciplines, offering flexible learning spaces and formal teaching spaces to ensure that teaching and research work in tandem to benefit students.
Officially opening our iconic new campus is another exciting milestone which demonstrates the University of Birmingham’s long-term commitment to contributing to UAE society – through in-country partnership in education and areas of research strength that support the National Agenda.
“I would like to thank the Knowledge and Human Development Authority (KHDA), TECOM Group, DIAC and all our partners in the region for their generous support in helping us reach this point.
“Our new campus will provide students from the UAE and beyond with excellent, innovative facilities and a first-class education from an elite British university, that sees them graduate as high-achieving and employable problem solvers.”
The campus can currently support up to 2,900 students and will eventually be able to support up to 4500 students and feature innovative teaching and research space to encourage cross disciplinary working.
Learning spaces incorporate digital technology and a student hub supports student needs across teaching and wellbeing.
Designed by Hopkins Architects and built by Khansaheb, the buildings overlook parkland and natural spaces.
They reflect the ‘green heart’ of the University’s campus in Birmingham, giving the student community a complete campus university experience.
Sheltered courtyards and social spaces aim to enhance the campus’ sustainability while providing students and staff with a relaxing environment in keeping with Dubai’s unique climate.
Our leadership has always underscored education as the backbone of sustainable economic development, ensuring the availability of skilled and innovation-minded talent across key sectors.
For the past 20 years, Dubai has succeeded in attracting global companies and academic institutions to consolidate our knowledge-based economy and boost our competitiveness on a global scale.
Leading institutes like the University of Birmingham Dubai have been integral to setting and maintaining high standards of academic excellence, reinforcing our attractiveness to ambitious students who will fuel the success and advancement of our industries, and that of the wider region.”
The University was the first global top 100 and UK Russell Group university to establish a campus in Dubai in September 2018, and now adds to the leading education hub’s roster of global and local internationally accredited academic institutions.
DIAC has played a key role in enabling, advancing and promoting Dubai’s position on the regional and global education scale, and in recent years, the agility and resilience of the Emirate has further boosted its attractiveness to universities and students alike.
The University of Birmingham Dubai is accredited by the UAE Ministry of Education - recognising the quality of its educational experience.
The University offers degrees taught, examined and accredited to the same high standards as those delivered on its UK campus with students receiving a University of Birmingham degree.
Study programmes include Biomedical Science, Accounting, Financial Management, International Commercial Law, Business, Economics, Computer Science, Artificial Intelligence, Mechanical and Civil Engineering, Construction Management, Public Health, Psychology, Sport Coaching, Urban Planning, Water Resources Management and Education degrees, including teacher training in Special Educational Needs.
The range of degree programmes will continue to grow in the new campus.
From the left, Professor David Sadler Provost, University of Birmingham Dubai and Lord Karan Bilimoria, Chancellor of the University of Birmingham meet His Highness Sheikh Hamdan bin Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Crown Prince of Dubai and Chairman of The Executive Council of Dubai
Our range of programmes in Dubai is already very broad and that is because we believe students benefit from an actively inter-disciplinary environment, where they can learn from different perspectives.
“We are crafting our academic offer in Dubai to deliver the experience that every student needs to develop and grow - a ‘digital first’ approach to teaching, learning and assessment.
“Sustainability is important to us and partnering with Siemens will make our campuses in Dubai and Birmingham as sustainable as possible.
Our beautiful new building is accessible to everyone - as in Birmingham, it is open to the local community for events and opportunities that will enrich the lives of Dubai residents.”
The University’s partnership with Siemens combines digital sensor and analytics technologies, artificial intelligence, decentralised energy generation and storage, renewable energy and concepts that help change users’ behaviour to transform the Edgbaston and Dubai campuses into the world’s smartest global campus , creating a ‘Living Lab’ where research, teaching and learning all benefit from access to new data and connectivity.
The ‘Living Lab’ will capture data from the University’s building technologies, estates infrastructure and energy plants and use it for innovation, R&D activities and teaching.
Live data from across the sites provides a unique opportunity for applied learning for students and creates a platform for cutting-edge research.
Discover more about the University of Birmingham Dubai.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/news/2023/dubai-campus-wins-special-prize-in-top-global-architecture-award:
The University of Birmingham Dubai’s new campus has scooped a prestigious architecture award
University of Birmingham Dubai
The University of Birmingham Dubai’s iconic new campus has won a Special Prize in the prestigious Prix Versailles 2022 global architecture and design award.
Airports, university campuses, passenger stations and major sports facilities around the world are in the running for the award, with six nominees chosen in each category.
The University of Birmingham Dubai secured the Special Prize for its campus interior.
The World Judges Panel selected the Dubai campus for the award based on the criteria of innovation, creativity, reflection of local heritage and ecological efficiency, with the importance of sustainable development at the heart of its decision making.
The World Titles Announcement took place at UNESCO Headquarters in Paris.
We are delighted that this iconic building - designed and built to deliver the experience that every student needs to develop and grow - has won a Special Prize in a global competition as prestigious as the Prix Versailles.
Professor David Sadler, University of Birmingham Dubai Provost, commented: “We are delighted that this iconic building - designed and built to deliver the experience that every student needs to develop and grow - has won a Special Prize in a global competition as prestigious as the Prix Versailles.
“With its dramatic atrium and ‘floating library’, our beautiful campus is certainly a special place to study and work.
Our campus is designed to be accessible to everyone - open to the local community for events and opportunities that will enrich the lives of Dubai residents.”
The building was shortlisted for the Prix Versailles alongside the following campuses:
Opened in April 2022, in the presence of His Highness Sheikh Hamdan bin Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Crown Prince of Dubai and Chairman of The Executive Council of Dubai, the campus has been home to students since January last year.
The campus, located in Dubai International Academic City (DIAC), marks the next stage in the University of Birmingham’s long-term commitment to supporting the position of Dubai as a regional hub for world-class higher education, nurturing talent and enhancing academic excellence in the UAE.
University of Birmingham Vice-Chancellor and Principal Professor Adam Tickell commented: “It is a great honour to win this Special Prize which recognises the vision and hard work of University of Birmingham colleagues and our partners in creating a learning and research environment that is innovative, inspiring and sustainable.
“The Prix Versaille award represents global testament to the support of the Knowledge and Human Development Authority (KHDA), TECOM Group, DIAC and all our partners in the region in helping us to create a stunning academic home that gives students from the UAE and beyond magnificent facilities and a first-class education.”
Floating library and Spanish steps
Located opposite Dubai’s first purpose-built student housing community, the campus encourages collaboration across academic disciplines, offering flexible learning spaces to ensure that teaching and research work in tandem to benefit students.
Innovative facilities and high-quality staff provide students from the region and beyond with first-class education from the first global top 100 and UK Russell Group university in Dubai.
Partnership with Siemens enables the University’s campuses in Dubai and Birmingham to embrace sustainable practices in line with net-zero carbon emission initiatives
The campus can currently support up to 2,900 students and will eventually be able to support up to 4,500 students.
Sheltered courtyards and social spaces aim to enhance the campus’ sustainability while providing students and staff with a relaxing environment in keeping with Dubai’s distinctive climate.
The University’s partnership with Siemens combines digital sensor and analytics technologies, artificial intelligence, decentralised energy generation and storage, renewable energy and concepts that help change users’ behaviour to transform the Edgbaston and Dubai campuses into the world’s smartest global campus, creating a ‘Living Lab’ where research, teaching and learning all benefit from access to new data and connectivity.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/news/2023/university-of-birmingham-launches-groundbreaking-report-on-adaptation-and-resilience-at-cop28:
New report released during COP28 - Adaptation and Building Resilience in a Changing World.
Adaptation and Building Resilience in a Changing World.
Launch event
Academic experts, students, industry leaders and policy makers came together at the University of Birmingham Dubai campus for a panel discussion to launch a new report ‘ Adaptation and Building Resilience in a Changing World ’.
Chaired by the distinguished Lord Bilimoria, Chancellor of the University of Birmingham, the event highlighted the University's commitment to combating the climate crisis.
Panellists discussed the vital role of global collaboration in generating meaningful outcomes from COP28.
The discussion began with opening remarks from Razan Al Mubarak , President of the International Union for Conservation of Nature .
Al Mubarak welcomed the policy recommendations presented by the report and “commended the collaborative endeavours that will be enabled by this initiative.”
Lord Bilimoria, Chancellor of the University of Birmingham
Professor David Hannah commented: “There is a huge weight of expectation on this year’s UN Climate Summit COP28 to deliver a clear plan of action – and this international, intergovernmental effort requires new knowledge and innovation to tackle greenhouse gas emissions and inform adaptation strategies for impacts around the world.”
Dr Rebecca Heaton shed light on the historical neglect of 'adaptation' in comparison to climate change mitigation, pointing out the pressing reality of weather events directly linked to climate change.
Shruti Tamilselvan, representing the student perspective, highlighted the crucial role of youth engagement as a cornerstone of resilience in the face of climate change.
The 'Adaptation and Building Resilience in a Changing World' report has consolidated national and global policy recommendations, incorporating the latest research led by the University of Birmingham.
The report comprises four separate policy briefs focusing on water and food security, global adaptation, global finance and health and environmental quality.
Created by top climate experts and other academics, it includes recommendations on how research can help us to understand and address climate challenges.
Throughout COP28, the University of Birmingham is hosting a programme of events focusing on specific challenges arising from climate change.
It will harness its pool of world-leading academics and researchers, drawing on its broad network, including UN organisations and other universities in the UAE.
Academics from the University of Birmingham will be involved throughout the Summit, sharing their insights and research with policymakers and industry leaders in the Green Zone and Blue Zone.
Deputy Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Sustainability)
Professor David Hannah studies hydroclimatology in cold regions, focusing on river dynamics, climate interactions, and ecohydrology.
Professor of Environmental Law
Academic profile of Dr Aleks Cavoski, Senior Lecturer at Birmingham Law School, University of Birmingham
Business School Director of Research
Hisham Farag is Professor of Finance and Director of Research at Birmingham Business School.
He is also the Founding Director of the Sustainable Financial Innovation Research Centre (SFIC).

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/accommodation/apply-for-accommodation/apply-online:
Applying for accommodation is a key step on your university journey.
And we’re here to make it as easy as possible so you can settle into student life with confidence.
Keep an eye on this page for the latest announcements and updates
We know how important it is to find the right student home, especially in your first year.
That’s why we guarantee most new students a room in our accommodation.
Start your university experience off right by applying for accommodation that’s designed to help you thrive.
Join our friendly postgraduate community on campus and live your best postgrad life in accommodation that supports you and your studies.
Our friendly, global community is waiting for you.
Look forward to a uniquely Birmingham student experience and having the support you need to feel at home in the UK.
Joining us for a Presessional English course before you start your degree?
We’re here to help you transition into university and British life as smoothly as possible.
Find your home for the summer and beyond today.
Start your student life right with accommodation that supports you on your journey.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/accommodation/guarantee:
We understand how important it is to find the right accommodation for your time at University, especially if you’re just beginning your studies.
That’s why we guarantee you an opportunity to book a room in our accommodation if you’re a new undergraduate, international postgraduate, or full-year international exchange student.
Your place with us will be secured so long as:
All students can register for accommodation from 1 December 2024.
*As an overseas postgrad, you'll have the chance to book your room from January 2025.
We therefore recommend applying as soon as you can.
We only have a limited number of rooms available for returning students.
Therefore, we cannot guarantee all students will be given the opportunity to book a room.
The opportunity to book a room is prioritised for students with additional requirements that have been discussed with Student Living and the University's Student Disability Services.
Remaining rooms will be available to book on a random lottery basis from the end of January 2025 .
All students with an application will be emailed with further details from the beginning of January.
Unfortunately, we can’t guarantee you accommodation if you are a UK postgraduate student.
You can apply for accommodation from 1 December 2024, but you will not be given the opportunity to book a room until after 31 July 2025, subject to availability.
If University of Birmingham is your insurance choice, we unfortunately cannot guarantee you accommodation.
However, we still encourage you to register for accommodation from 1 December 2024; we’ll try our best to find you a student home.
We also have a dedicated number of rooms available for international students staying with us for just one semester but we cannot guarantee a room in campus accommodation if you are Autumn semester exchange student.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/welcome/travel-and-getting-to-campus/what-to-pack:
Moving into accommodation?
You've probably already started thinking about what to bring with you.
Deciding what to pack can be a bit tricky, but don't worry, we've got some top tips to help you get started.
Please note this list has been written with undergraduate UK and international students who'll be living in University accommodation in mind, but will provide a useful reminder for any student moving into new accommodation.
What to pack for your first year at uni
If you're going to be living in University-owned accommodation, you can find out what'll l be provided in your accommodation by checking the inventories .
If you're living in partner or private accommodation, check with your provider or landlord to find out what's included and what you need to bring.
Travelling from outside the UK?
There are some essential things you should bring in your hand luggage (which is safer than carrying them in your checked/hold luggage):
You may want to keep copies of these documents on your phone too, as a backup.
Make sure they are protected by a password or PIN so only you can access them.
Printed copies are important in case anything happens to your phone/laptop.
If you need to bring prescribed medication with you, bring a translated copy of the doctor's note with you and carry it in its original packaging.
You should also think about bringing some emergency items in case your checked/hold luggage is delayed or lost.
For example, a change of clothes, a toothbrush, UK travel adapters, any cables or chargers including for your phone, and small toiletries.
Students living in University-owned accommodation have insurance included in their rent through Howden for Students .
Make sure you understand what is and isn't covered by the policy so that you can decide if it's sufficient for your needs.
Register and access your cover .
There are lots of other things you'll want to bring to help you feel at home and ready to study.
Think about what you'll need to bring with you, or what you might want to get when you arrive.
There are a range of local shops where you can buy home goods, including the nearby Selly Oak Shopping Park and you'll be able to arrange online deliveries from most major retailers.
If you're looking for more detailed suggestions of what to bring, UCAS have produced a 'A big list of absolutely everything that you need to take to University' for students.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/accommodation/our-services/contracts-inventories-and-facilities:
There are lots of things you need to know before you stay with us, from the ins and outs of your contract, to what’s included in your accommodation.
We’ve rounded up the essentials.
We’ve partnered with Howden for Students to provide our students with free contents insurance, including free bike insurance up to £400 (with a £25 excess charge).
Please see our certificate of insurance for a full breakdown of what’s covered in your accommodation contract.
We recommend confirming your cover through the Howden for Students website when you arrive to find out more about:
Free, high-speed Wi-Fi is included with your accommodation and is provided by our partner, ASK4.
This includes a 100Mb/s fibre optic wired connection via the network socket in your room (you will need an Ethernet cable) and a wireless service (up to 100Mb/s) across all flats.
In addition to this inclusive package, wired speed upgrades and product add-ons are available for a fee.
Please see the ASK4 website to find out how to upgrade.
They also offer helpful hints and tips on how to get started, including what you need to do before you arrive at Birmingham.
A TV Licence is not included with your accommodation.
You must have a licence to:
on any device, including games consoles, mobile phones, tablets, and laptops.
If you don’t have a TV Licence, you may be fined up to £1,000 and ordered to pay for any legal costs and/or compensation.
It’s better to be safe than sorry.
Please visit the TV Licensing website to find out more and get yours.
Don’t think you need a licence?
Let TV Licensing know online.
If you’re moving out of accommodation for the summer, there’s a good chance you won’t need the licence you’ve bought for your time at university.
This is only the case if where you’re moving to has a current TV Licence.
If you won’t need your licence again before it expires and you have at least one calendar month left on it, you’re eligible for a refund .
All our villages have their own washing and drying facilities.
They run 24/7 and are provided by Circuit Laundry (Pritchatts Park) and Washstation (Selly Oak and The Vale).
You can wash and dry your clothes for as little as £4.00 and, thanks to the Washstation and Circuit mobile apps, it’s never been easier to pay.
Washstation also accepts Apple Pay and contactless payments.
Through the apps you can also see what machines are in use, reserve a machine and top up your balance.
You’ll have a dedicated customer service manager to support you throughout your time with us.
They’re on hand to help you settle in and take care of anything that doesn’t quite meet your expectations to ensure you have the best student experience.
You can get in touch with them by submitting a general enquiry through our online helpdesk or by ringing your village reception on:
If you live with one of our partners, you’ll benefit from having a dedicated site manager and reception team to ensure you can access support 24 hours a day.
If you have any concerns or are simply struggling to settle in, please get in touch with your reception team.
Guidance on Vaccination, Registering with a family doctor [GP] for new students.
We have a limited number of parking spaces at our villages, available to permit holders and blue badge holders.
We therefore recommend that you do not bring your car with you unless absolutely necessary.
Parking permits are only available at The Vale and Pritchatts Park and are allocated on a case-by-case basis.
Your needs will be assessed by us, and we will give out permits to those who need them most, at our own discretion.
You’ll be considered for a permit if:
You must supply evidence for us to consider your application.
Permit pricing:
£336 for 42 weeks (20th Sept - 11th July 2026)
£166 for Term One (20th September - 11th January 2026)
£280 for Term Two & Three (12th January - 11th July 2026)
£90 during Summer Vacation (12th July - 14th September 2026)
Only Blue Badge holders are permitted to park at Jarratt Hall (Selly Oak).
This must be arranged with the village’s reception team before you arrive.
Contact them on 0121 415 1011 .
The terms and conditions of your accommodation contract are detailed below.
You can find specific details relating to your individual booking in your online contract.
If you’re under the age of 18 when your accommodation contract commences, or you hold the Enhanced Chamberlain Award, you will be sent a separate set of terms and conditions.
These terms and conditions are available upon request.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/welcome/travel-and-getting-to-campus/moving-into-university-accommodation:
Moving into your new home can be a busy and exciting time.
So you can feel at home right away, we aim to make the process as simple as possible.
So long as you’ve applied for accommodation by the deadline and your place at the University of Birmingham has been confirmed, we’ll invite you to book your room within five days of A-level Results Day via email.
This email will contain everything you need to know to get started, including your allotted booking timeslot.
For more information about the process, please visit our ' How to book your room' page .
Once you’ve found your perfect room, you’ll need to pay a £550 Advance Payment to secure it.
Alternatively, you can pay for your accommodation fees in full.
Please note that the Advance Payment is an initial instalment towards your accommodation fees, not a deposit .
This means that it won’t be refunded to you at the end of your contract.
If you’ve chosen a room with one of our partners, you may be required to pay an Advance Payment or a deposit to secure your room.
They’ll be in touch as soon as you’ve completed your booking.
Booking your room at the University of Birmingham is easier than ever before.
Rather than us allocating your accommodation, you can now choose the exact room to suit you, ensuring you feel at home from day one.
International postgraduate students can book rooms from January 2025 .
If you’re a UK postgraduate student, you won’t be able to book your room until after 31 July 2025 .
International postgrad?
You can book your room through the Accommodation Portal in January.
Please see our ‘ How to book your room ’ page for more information.
The Accommodation Pass is your comprehensive guide and introduction to living in student accommodation.
Containing all the essential information you'll need during your time with us, it's an important part of your student induction process and every student needs to complete it.
You'll receive an email from our Student Living team as soon as the Pass becomes available (usually early September).
So you can check into your new home with ease, you must book an arrival timeslot.
You can do this as soon as you've completed the Accommodation Pass.
Timeslot options will be carefully spaced out throughout Arrivals Weekend (Friday 19 – Sunday 21 September) to ensure only a limited number of students arrive on campus at any one time.
On your moving-in day, you should plan to arrive directly to your accommodation village within your pre-booked timeslot.
Our arrival timeslots have been carefully designed to help manage the flow of traffic.
It is therefore important that you try to arrive for your timeslot.
We know delays can happen though.
If you get stuck in traffic and miss your timeslot, don't panic.
When you arrive to your accommodation site, let staff know and they will slot you in as soon as they can.
When you arrive at your village, please follow any signage and directions around entrances and exits to help us make sure we can get everybody in safely and efficiently.
Unless you’re living at Maple Bank, your student ID card is the key to your room.
You can therefore move straight into your accommodation if you have this.
Our friendly Welcome team will be on hand to support you if there's anything you need.
If you’re a UK student , you should receive your ID card in the post in the weeks before your arrival.
If you haven’t, you can collect an access card from your village’s reception during Arrivals Weekend.
International student?
You will need to collect your student ID card once you arrive on campus.
Don’t forget to bring photo ID and your student number with you; we can’t give you your student ID, access card, or room keys without it.
Proof of booking is also helpful.
If you require an access card or need to collect your student ID card, please visit Shackleton reception ( B15 3SX ) on arrival.
This is open 24/7, so you won’t have to wait to access your room.
Your arrivals reception is at Chamberlain Tower ( B15 3AS ).
You can collect your student ID or access card from here during peak hours.
Outside of these times, please visit our 24-hour reception at Shackleton ( B15 3SX ).
Your arrivals reception is based at Mason lounge, adjacent to the laundrette ( B15 2RU ).
You can collect your student ID or access card from here between 11:30 and 18:00 on Friday 20 September or 7:00 and 22:00 on Saturday 21 and Sunday 22 September.
Please note, if you're living in Mason Block 4, you cannot check-in until Saturday 21 September, nor collect your student ID or access card until this date.
You will have a physical room key.
Please visit your arrivals reception in the Maple Bank car park ( B15 3TE ) to get yours and collect your student ID card if you're an international student.
Reception is open during peak hours.
Outside of these hours, please visit our 24-hour reception at Shackleton ( B15 3SX ).
Please note, if you're living in Maple Bank Block 8, you cannot check-in until Saturday 21 September, nor collect your student ID or access card until this date.
Your arrivals reception is based in Green Community ( B15 2RB ).
You can collect your student ID or access card from here during peak times.
Your student ID card is the key to your room.
You will need to collect your student ID card from your village reception on arrival.
If you require an access card or need to collect your student ID card, please visit Pritchatts House reception ( B15 2QX ) on arrival.
Your arrivals reception is at Bournbrook Block A ( B15 2QR ).
Outside of these times, please visit our Jarratt Hall reception ( B29 6FQ ), which is open 24/7.
If you require an access card or need to collect your student ID card, please visit Jarratt Hall reception ( B29 6FQ ) on arrival.
Don't forget to bring photo ID and a copy of your tenancy agreement with you.
Calthorpe Court has its own car park.
Our welcome team will help you find somewhere to park and unload.
If you have any questions about moving in, please contact Homes for Students directly on 0372 291 3016 .
Belgrave View's reception is open 24/7 to help you settle in as soon as you arrive.
Belgrave View has its own car park, and our welcome team will be on hand to direct you to a space.
They will also help you get settled in, along with your accommodation's friendly team.
If no spaces are available, you will be directed to park in the University's North East Car Park ( B15 2SA ), which offers free parking over Arrivals Weekend.
If you have any questions about moving in, please contact Campus Living Villages directly on 0121 227 7010 or birmingham@clvuk.com .
The Metalworks' friendly reception team will help get you settled in.
You should have received an email inviting you to book an arrival slot from Homes for Students.
If you haven't, please get in touch with them at salesenquiries@wearehomesforstudents.com.
You can also call them on 0121 285 1770 .
The Metalworks has a drop-and-go car park where you can unload your car.
For longer-term parking, free parking is available at the University's North East Car Park ( B15 2SA ).
Our friendly welcome team will be available to point you in the right direction.
Reception is open 24/7, so there's always a friendly face around to help.
Oak Brook Park has a drop-and-go car park where you can unload your car, whilst Battery Park offers three-hours free parking in nearby Battery Retail Park.
There's also limited on-street parking in the local area.
If you have any questions about moving in, please contact Unite Students directly on 0300 303 8642 .
If you’re travelling by car, you’ll be directed around our villages by our student ambassadors over Arrivals Weekend.
You’ll have 30 minutes to unload before being redirected to a long-stay car park on site (if you wish to stay longer).
Parking is free over Arrivals Weekend.
There are a limited number of accessible parking spaces on site for Blue Badge holders.
Please give us a call on 0121 415 8520 if you require on of these spaces.
If you or anyone helping you move in has any mobility concerns, please contact us .
Once you have unloaded, you will be asked to move your car to one of our car parks, so we ensure everybody can move in as easily as possible.
Over Arrivals Weekend, we'll have minibuses running between the Vale and the North East Multi-Storey car park on Pritchatts Road, to help you get back to helping unpack.
You can then stay as long as you like to settle in and explore our Arrivals Weekend activities on campus.
Once you have unloaded your belongings, please move your car to North East Car Park (52 Pritchatts Road, Birmingham, B15 2SA).
Parking is also available at:
These smaller car parks are located on the left-hand side of Edgbaston Park Road, once you've exited right from The Vale.
From these car parks, you can walk back to the village (ten minutes) or meet the shuttle bus at North East Car Park.
Don't worry if you can't find a space; we'll direct you to an available parking spot.
Once you have unloaded your belongings, please move your car to Pritchatts Road Multi-storey Car Park, which will be clearly signposted as you exit Pritchatts Park Village onto Brailsford Drive.
Once you have unloaded your belongings, please move your car to Edgbaston Park Car Park (Edgbaston Park road, B15 7SW).
To get here, travel down the Bristol Road (A38) towards the city centre.
At the traffic lights adjacent to the Sport & Fitness centre, turn left.
The entrance to the car park will be the first turn on your right.
From here, Bournbrook and Jarratt Hall are within a ten-minute walk.
There may also be on-street parking in the surrounding area, including Dale Road; however, we cannot guarantee availability.
Please note that parking will be extremely restricted at Jarratt Hall and Bournbrook over Arrivals Weekend; please ensure you unload and move your car as quickly as possible.
If your flatmates have opted to share their details with you, you'll be able to access this information when booking your room.
Don't worry if they haven't though; your accommodation's Reslife team will run activities throughout Welcome Week and beyond to help you get to know your neighbours.
You can connect with your future flatmates before you arrive through Unibuddy , an online community where students can find out more about university life and chat to their peers.
Meet your new flatmates and your Guild Residence Life team, over a slice of pizza, to help you make the most of your first few nights in your accommodation.
Whether you're in University-owned or partner accommodation, find your Pizza Party and join us from 17:00-19:00!
Please be aware of unofficial Facebook groups and group chats on WhatsApp and Snapchat set up for 'University of Birmingham freshers' or accommodation sites.
Be cautious of who you're giving your information to and bear in mind that many of these groups are set up by promoters who want to sell to you.
Always remember to look out for the Guild of Students' official stamp, which will be included on all Guild Welcome events.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/welcome/before/online-registration:
Online Registration is the process for confirming that you'll be studying at the University of Birmingham and that you agree to abide by the University's regulations.
You'll need to complete Online Registration for each academic year that you study with us.
We'll ask you to confirm your personal details, your programme details, and how your tuition fees will be funded (including student loans and sponsorship).
Don't forget to have a passport-style photo ready to upload for your student ID card.
You will need to log in using your student username and password - not your email address.
If you are a new student, these will be emailed to you when you are eligible to complete Online Registration.
Online Registration will be unavailable due to essential campus network maintenance between 6.30am and 7.30am (UK times) on Tuesday 2 September.
Online Registration is accessed at registration.bham.ac.uk .
You'll need to log in using your student username and password, sometimes called your ADF log in.
If you're a new student, you'll receive your username and password in the email asking you to complete Online Registration.
Most students will need to complete Online Registration ahead of the beginning of the academic year in September.
You'll receive an email from the University asking you to complete Online Registration once you're eligible.
You must complete it before you can attend lectures.
You will not be able to complete Online Registration until you've received the email inviting you to do so.
New students will receive their Online Registration email once they're considered 'unconditional' and have accepted their place.
For many students this will be a few days after A Level results day in August, or for international students when you've received your Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS).
At busy times of the year, it might take a few days for your email to arrive - be sure to check any spam or junk folders!
If you have an unconditional offer, or have already met the conditions of your offer, you may receive the email as early as July.
If you're starting on a programme at any other time of the year, you'll need to complete Online Registration before the start of your programme.
You'll receive the email in the same way as any other student.
All students who need to complete Online Registration will receive an email asking them to do so when necessary.
This will be the majority of students, including:
All undergraduate and postgraduate students are required to complete Online Registration for each academic session (September-September) of your programme of study.
This includes distance learners, part-time students, and students based off-campus.
Postgraduate Researchers in writing-up (Thesis Awaited) need to complete Online Registration each year, including checking and update their contact details.
You'll need to complete Online Registration even though you won't be studying on campus.
Register as soon as possible to make sure you have access to the University’s online facilities, including your student email and online Library resources.
If you don't register you may not be covered by the University's insurance policy for students studying abroad, which could potentially have serious consequences.
Students starting a pre-sessional English course at the Birmingham International Academy (BIA) will need to register for your pre-sessional course before you arrive.
At the end of your pre-sessional course, you'll need to complete Online Registration again for your main programme of study.
Students who've followed the application process to apply for a Federal or private loan will need to complete sections 1-8 of Online Registration.
Your tuition fee is automatically credited from each of your loan disbursements.
You don't need to enter any funding information.
Please contact usloans@contacts.bham.ac.uk if you have any queries regarding US loans.
Students who are classed as externally registered, for example for the purpose of retaking examinations or a break in your studies, will also need to complete Online Registration for the academic year.
Most students on programmes delivered with partner institutions or affiliates will need to complete Online Registration, and will receive an email inviting them to do so.
You'll need to complete Online Registration each academic year.
You'll receive an email inviting you to do so from June onwards, once your School has confirmed that you can progress to the next year of study.
This usually means that you've submitted and passed all of your assessments, including any resits.
You'll need to complete Online Registration by the time teaching starts.
You'll need to check the information held is still correct, update your address details (including your term-time address), and read and agree to the declaration.
You won't receive a new ID card.
If your ID card is lost, stolen, or damaged, you'll need to request a new one .
You'll be sent your ID card in the post if your photo is acceptable, your home address is in the UK, and you complete Online Registration by Tuesday 3 September .
If your home address is outside the UK, or you complete Online Registration after this point, you'll be able to collect your ID card on campus.
Once you've completed Online Registration, you'll also be able to access letters proving that you're a student at the University, for example to open a bank account or register with a GP.
As part of Online Registration, you'll be asked to agree to the University's declaration; take time to make sure you understand what this means.
You must complete Online Registration to be able to attend your programme of study, access services like your student email and the Library, collect your ID card , and participate in Guild of Students activities.
Please see our student privacy notice to understand how we use the data you provide during Online Registration, and any other data about you that we may hold.
As part of Online Registration, I have checked and amended where required my Personal Details, Addresses, Emergency Contact Details, Programme Details, Further Details and Data Sharing Agreements and Financial Sponsor Details.
I have also read, understood and promise to obey the University Charter, Statutes and Ordinances , Regulations and Codes of Practice (including the Conditions of use of Computing and Network Facilities) and the changes made for the 2025/26 academic year, paying particular attention to the regulations on Attendance and Reasonable Diligence, Conduct and Fitness to Practise.
I understand that my registration is not complete until the University is satisfied that the documents I have provided demonstrate that I have the right to study in the UK.
I acknowledge that the University will collect, store, use and share my personal data obtained as part of Online Registration and other personal data obtained from me or other sources as explained as part of Online Registration and in connection with my registration, my programme, my student life, my health, safety and wellbeing, for the administration and management of the University and to enable the University to fulfil its public and statutory reporting and other duties.
Please see the student privacy notice to understand how the University stores and uses your data.
It is your responsibility to ensure that the data the University holds about you is up-to-date and accurate.
You can return to Online Registration at any time during the year to update your data.
You will be asked to demonstrate that you have the right to study in the UK.
All students who will be based in the UK (including students from the UK) for all or part of their studies must provide evidence of this.
Once you have completed Online Registration, the documents you have uploaded will be reviewed.
You will be considered fully registered when we are satisfied that you have submitted the necessary documents and information.
International students must complete a Right to Study check.
Through the Right to Study check you must provide conclusive proof that you hold the appropriate visa or immigration permission (including your Biometric Residence Permit, if applicable).
You will not be allowed to start your studies until you have done so.
We encourage you to disclose any disability as defined by the Equality Act 2010 (including dyslexia, mental health and other long term health conditions) at the earliest opportunity.
We would also encourage you to register with the Student Disability Service to ensure that appropriate support is put in place for you in good time.
Please be aware that if you choose not to disclose your disability or to limit that disclosure you may not be able to access the full range of support available .
When you register with the Student Disability Service, you will be asked to provide consent for your information to be shared with relevant staff at the University and external agencies (where necessary).
The University is keen to ensure disabled students are treated with respect and our professional services will deal with your personal information confidentially and sensitively.
If you do not wish to disclose your disability as part of Online Registration, you can choose to disclose at any point during your studies by contacting the Student Disability Service directly .
Please take time to complete the questions in Online Registration on your ethnicity/race, gender, age, sexual orientation, religion and belief, disabilities and caring responsibilities.
This information is used to assist us to develop and maintain an inclusive, equitable and responsive student experience.
This request for information is in compliance with our duties under the Equality Act 2010 .
Please see the student privacy notice for information on how the University stores and uses your data.
Upon registering at the University, you agree to become a member of the Guild of Students unless you chose to opt out.
The Guild would like to communicate with you via your University email and via The Guild's website about your membership of the Guild (e.g.
to provide notice of general meetings, referenda and election of officers.
The Guild may also send you marketing materials that they consider may be of interest to you.
The Guild will ask you for your consent to receiving these electronically, when you register at the Guild website .
View the code of practice pursuant to requirements of the Education Act 1994 (PDF - 285 KB) which outlines your membership benefits and how you can opt out.
If you wish to receive information from the Multi-Faith Chaplaincy please tick the relevant box in Online Registration.
If you wish to have your name and contact details removed from the contact list at any time during the academic session you will need to contact the Chaplaincy directly.
Careers Network, your careers service at the University, provides students with tailored advice on how to begin making the most of the opportunities on offer whilst studying at the University including: how to start with career planning, finding relevant work experience, meeting with our extensive network of employers, as well as support for the application and interview process ready to secure your chosen career.
You will be asked to complete some questions to indicate your interests and needs.
Please be aware that we will use your responses to offer you bespoke advice and support.
I have also read, understood and promise to obey the University Charter, Statutes and Ordinances , Regulations and Codes of Practice (including the Conditions of use of Computing and Network Facilities) and the changes made for the 2024/25 academic year, paying particular attention to the regulations on Attendance and Reasonable Diligence, Conduct and Fitness to Practise.
I have also read, understood and promise to obey the University Charter, Statutes and Ordinances , Regulations and Codes of Practice (including the Conditions of use of Computing and Network Facilities) and the changes made for the 2023/24 academic year, paying particular attention to the regulations on Attendance and Reasonable Diligence, Conduct and Fitness to Practise.
I have also read, understood and promise to obey the University Charter, Statutes and Ordinances , Regulations and Codes of Practice (including the Conditions of use of Computing and Network Facilities) and the changes made for the 2022/23 academic year, paying particular attention to the regulations on Attendance and Reasonable Diligence, Conduct and Fitness to Practise.
I have also read, understood and promise to obey the University Charter, Statutes and Ordinances , Regulations and Codes of Practice (including the Conditions of use of Computing and Network Facilities) and the changes made for the 2020/21 academic year, paying particular attention to the regulations on Attendance and Reasonable Diligence, Conduct and Fitness to Practise.
I have also read, understood and promise to obey the University Charter, Statutes and Ordinances , Regulations and Codes of Practice (including the Conditions of use of Computing and Network Facilities) and the changes made for the 2019/20 academic year, paying particular attention to the regulations on Attendance and Reasonable Diligence, Conduct and Fitness to Practise.
I have also read, understood and promise to obey the University Charter, Statutes and Ordinances , Regulations and Codes of Practice (including the Conditions of use of Computing and Network Facilities and the Data Protection Policy) and the changes made for the 2018/19 academic year, paying particular attention to the regulations on Attendance and Reasonable Diligence, Conduct and Fitness to Practise.
I understand that my registration is not complete until the University is satisfied that the documents I have provided demonstrate that I have the right to study in the UK.I also promise to respect the University’s values and uphold the University's good name to the best of my ability, both while as a student, and if admitted to a degree, as a graduate.
I have also read, understood and promise to obey the University Charter, Statutes and Ordinances , Regulations and Codes of Practice (including the Conditions of use of Computing and Network Facilities) and the changes made for the 2017/18 academic year, paying particular attention to the regulations on Attendance and Reasonable Diligence, Conduct and Fitness to Practise.
You cannot become a registered student of the University until you have read and ticked to say that you agree to the declaration.
The declaration statement provides links through to the web pages for the University Charter, Statutes and Ordinances , Regulations and Codes of Practice (including the Conditions of use of Computing and Network Facilities ) of the University and to the changes made for the 2016/17 academic year , so that you can view these in full before agreeing to the declaration.
I have also read, understood and promise to obey the University Charter, Statutes and Ordinances , Regulations and Codes of Practice (including the Conditions of use of Computing and Network Facilities ) and the changes made for the 2016/17 academic year, paying particular attention to the regulations on Attendance and Reasonable Diligence, Conduct and Fitness to Practise.
I also promise to submit to discipline and uphold the University's honour and credit to the best of my ability, both while as a student, and if admitted to a degree, as a graduate.
I acknowledge that in accordance with the requirements of section 22(3) of the education Act 1994 the University has issued a Student Code of Practice.
As a Registered Student, I understand that I will be required to produce my University Identity Card to confirm my identity when asked to do so by a member of University Staff.
Failure to disclose identity (i.e.
my name, Student ID number, my address and Principal Academic Unit at the University) to a member of staff of the University in circumstances in which it is reasonable to require that such information be given shall be deemed a breach of Section 8 of the University Regulations and disciplinary action.
I acknowledge that:
Neither the student nor the University shall be liable to each other for failure or delay in performing obligations if failure is due to any cause beyond that party's control e.g.
war, national emergency, terrorism, acts of God, government restrictions, industrial action or unforeseen closure of the University.
The declaration statement provides links through to the web pages for the University Charter, Statutes and Ordinances , Regulations and Codes of Practice (including the Conditions of use of Computing and Network Facilities ) of the University and to the summary changes made for the 2015/16 academic year, so that you can view these in full before agreeing to the declaration.
I have also read and understood the University Charter, Statutes, Ordinances, Regulations and Codes of Practice (including the Conditions of use of Computing and Network Facilities ) and the changes made for the 2015/16 academic year, paying particular attention to the regulations on Attendance and Reasonable Diligence, Conduct and Fitness to Practise.
I promise to obey the University Charter Statutes, Ordinances, Regulations and Codes of Practices (including the General Conditions of Use of Computing and Network facilities ), submit to discipline and uphold the University's honour and credit to the best of my ability, both while as a student, and if admitted to a degree, as a graduate.
my name, Student ID number, my address and Principal Academic Unit at the University) to a member of staff of the University in circumstances in which it is reasonable to require that such information be given shall be deemed a breach of Section 5.2.10 of the University Regulations and disciplinary action will be taken in line with Section 8.2.1 of the University Regulations .
I agree to the University of Birmingham processing my personal data obtained as part of Online Registration, and other personal data that the University may obtain from me or other sources for any purposes connected with my studies, my health and safety, or for any other legitimate reason.
I acknowledge that neither I nor the University shall be liable to each other for failure or delay in performing obligations if failure is due to any cause beyond that party's control e.g.
The University's updated Legislation comes into effect each year on 1st August.
If you are a re-registering student you should note that you will be covered by the University Legislation (including Codes of Practice) for 2013/14 until the date on which your programme of study for the 2014/15 session commences, or 1st August 2014, whichever is the sooner.
From that date you will be covered by the Legislation for the 2014/15 session.
Please read this page carefully.
Once you have agreed to the Declaration you will have registered with the University of Birmingham for the 2014/15 academic year.
Please refer to the step-by-step guide for more information.
You cannot become a registered student of the University until you have read and ticked to say that you agree with the declaration.
The declaration statement provides links through to the web pages for the University Charter, Statutes and Ordinances , Regulations and Codes of Practice (including the Conditions and Use of Computing and Network facilities ) of the University so that you can view these in full before agreeing to the declaration.
As part of Online Registration, I have checked and amended where required my Personal Details, Addresses, Emergency Details, Programme Details, Further Details and Data Sharing Agreements and Financial Sponsor Details.
I have also read and understood the University Charter, Statutes, Ordinances, Regulations, and Codes of Practice paying particular attention to the regulations on Attendance and Academic Duty, Conduct, Discipline and Fitness to Practise.
As a Registered Student you will be required to produce your University Identity Card when asked to do so by a member of University Staff.
your name, Student ID number, your address and Principal Academic Unit at the University) to a member of staff of the University in circumstances where it is reasonable to require that such information be given shall be deemed a breach of Section 5.2.10 of the University Regulations and action will be taken in line with Section 8.2.1 of the University regulations .
I declare that the information that I have given as part of Online Registration is true and complete and, being admitted to be a student of the University of Birmingham, promise to obey the University Charter, Statutes, Ordinances, Regulations, and Codes of Practice (including the Conditions of Use of Computing and Network Facilities ), to submit to discipline, and uphold its honour and credit to the best of my ability, both while as a student and, if admitted to a degree, as a graduate.
I agree to the University of Birmingham processing my personal data obtained as part of Online Registration, or other data that the University may obtain from me or other sources.
I agree to the processing of such data for any purposes connected with my studies, my health and safety, or for any other legitimate reason and to the publication of my degree classification at the end of my studies.
I understand that these data will be stored in manual and electronic files and is subject to the Data Protection Act and will be used for statutory reporting including the Higher Education Statistical Agency (HESA) .
I understand that my University email address (ending @bham.ac.uk) will be listed in the University's Email Directory which is made available to all students and staff.
I understand that my academic data may be disclosed to organisations acting as my sponsor.
I understand my assessments may be shared with Northumbria Learning as part of the University's requirement to maintain academic integrity.
war, national emergency, terrorism, acts of God, government restrictions industrial action or unforeseen closure of the University.
In accordance with the requirements of S22(3) Education Act 1994 the University have issued a Student Code of Practice.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/welcome/travel-and-getting-to-campus/travelling-from-the-airports:
We know that lots of you will have long journeys to campus, and we're here to help make the journey as easy as possible.
We are offering you the opportunity to book free travel from one of six main airports with National Express, the UK's experts in safe and comfortable coach travel.
Birmingham Airport is well connected for the city, and will provide the shortest journey times.
There is one terminal at Birmingham Airport.
Trains run regularly through the day from Birmingham International station to Birmingham New Street, where you can change for University station (taking trains travelling towards Redditch or Bromsgrove).
The journey time is around 45 minutes and tickets cost approximately £5.
Tickets can be purchased via National Rail and Trainline , or from ticket machines at the station.
The station is connected to the airport via the free Air-Rail Link shuttle, which takes two minutes to get to the station and operates from 03:30-00:30 daily.
The station and Air-Rail Link are well signposted from the airport.
Taxis can be pre-booked through local companies, or you can take a black cab (taxi) from the taxi rank outside arrivals.
The taxi rank is operated by Birmingham Airport Cabs .
You can use their online quote calculator to estimate the cost of your journey.
A journey from the airport to The Vale could cost around £38 and take 30 minutes, depending on traffic.
Their taxis will typically accommodate up to 6 passengers and 6 suitcases.
TOA Taxis are a Birmingham-based company who provide airport transfers.
A meet and greet service at arrivals can be arranged for a small fee.
Booking enquiries can be made online.
A taxi transfer may be preferable if you are travelling with others, or have multiple items of luggage.
Taxis can drop you directly to each of our accommodation sites.
A taxi is likely to be the best option for travel if you have large suitcases or are travelling with a companion.
During key Welcome periods, we offer free vouchers for new international students to travel from London Heathrow , London Gatwick , London Stansted , London Luton , Manchester and Bristol Airports to Birmingham Coach Station in the city centre.
We are also extending our free voucher offer to attendees of the Birmingham International Summer School.
Eligible students will be able to request a voucher code, either via this page, or through their department.
You will receive a voucher code which you can use on the dedicated University of Birmingham National Express portal to book a coach journey from London Heathrow, London Gatwick, London Stansted, London Luton, Manchester or Bristol airport to Birmingham Coach Station.
Vouchers will be available for the following students:
Voucher requests will be made available ahead of key Welcome periods.
Birmingham International Summer School attendees and new pre-sessional English students will receive information directly by email.
Students starting programmes in September 2025 will be able to request vouchers via this page in early September, once you have received your Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS).
National Express coaches run regularly, meaning you can quickly continue your journey to campus.
Booking a ticket means that you are guaranteed a seat on that journey.
Their coaches are air-conditioned, have generous legroom, and complimentary Wi-Fi and USB charging ports.
National Express are committed to ensuring passenger safety.
Find out what to expect on board .
We know that travel doesn't always go to plan.
For your peace of mind, we have included both the Fully Flexible ticket option and the additional Change & Go upgrade in the voucher, so you can make changes to your ticket if your travel plans change or your flight is delayed.
Make sure to check the Terms & Conditions when booking.
If you need to change your booking, please contact National Express by phone or social media, to ensure your free voucher is applied to the rearranged journey.
National Express operate from Terminal 4, Terminal 5, and the Central Bus Station (for Terminal 2 & 3).
You can find where each terminal is on the Heathrow map .
At Terminal 4, the coaches use stops 13 and 14.
These are directly outside the main door from the terminal building as you exit the arrivals area.
At Terminal 5, the coaches use stops 11-15.
The Central Bus Station is a five minute walk from the Terminal 2 & 3 buildings via the lift, escalators and moving walkways.
The Central Bus Station is well sign-posted from arrivals in both terminals, about 5 minutes from Terminal 2 and 10 minutes from Terminal 3.
If your ticket shows Terminal 2 or Terminal 3, you will need to head to the Central Bus Station.
You can book your ticket directly from the most convenient terminal for you.
London Gatwick has two terminals (North and South), with National Express coaches operating from both.
At the North Terminal, coaches depart from the lower level, outside International Arrivals.
You will need to go downstairs using the large lifts (elevators).
The ticket office is at International Arrivals, if you have any questions.
View the North Terminal map .
At the South Terminal, coaches depart from the lower forecourt at stops 1-5.
The ticket offices are in Arrivals and the lower forecourt area.
View the South Terminal map .
At Stansted, the coaches depart from the bus station just outside the airport.
Turn left out of the exits and follow the signs to the bus station, which is a 3-5 minute walk.
There is an indoor waiting area at the bus station, with National Express staff available from 06:00-02:30.
View the London Stansted map .
At London Luton Airport, the coaches depart from the departure point is clearly signposted and is a short walk away from arrivals.
There is a National Express office at Luton, which is staffed from 07:00-23:00, in the Onward Travel Centre.
This is located next to Burger King.
View the London Luton Airport map .
National Express coaches operate from Manchester Airport Station, the airport's transport hub.
This is connected to the three terminals by Skylink travelators, as well as the free shuttle bus operating between the terminals and the station.
At Bristol, the coach to Birmingham operates from the coach park, which is just outside the terminal building (next to the multi-storey car park).
View the Bristol Airport car park map .
Heathrow is well connected to help you find your onward journey, but our Meet & Greet partners Airport Angels will be on hand over Arrivals Weekend to help you navigate the UK's busiest airport.
You'll be able to find them at the Central Bus Station (for Terminals 2 and 3) during peak hours - look out for their bright pink clothes!
You will arrive into Birmingham Coach Station , in the city centre.
The station operates 24 hours and there is wifi available.
You will need to book your own taxi, or share the ride with new friends.
There is a taxi rank at the coach station, or TOA Taxis are a Birmingham-based company who offer online booking enquiries.
We recommend having some cash (Pounds Sterling) available, although many taxis will accept card payments and there is an ATM cashpoint at the coach station.
For University and partner accommodation, we recommend that you take the taxi directly to your accommodation's reception.
Check out our arrivals essentials webpage to find out where yours is and when it's open.
You'll find lots of other useful arrivals information on this page too.
If you are living elsewhere, we recommend checking with your accommodation provider to find out where you should go on arrival.
For Birmingham International Summer School students , vouchers are valid for travel up to three days before and after the course starts and ends.
However, you should book additional alternative accommodation if you are planning to travel more than one day outside of the published arrival and departure date.
If you need assistance finding alternative accommodation before your course officially starts and after it ends, please contact us .
New students joining in September 2025 will be able to access the request form via this page from early September.
You will need to have received your Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS).
Students studying pre-sessional English programmes or joining the Birmingham International Summer School will receive information directly from the Birmingham International Academy.
The voucher is a code made up of letters and numbers.
Once you have received it, you can make your booking on the University's dedicated National Express portal .
It cannot be used on other versions of the National Express website, including translated versions.
You will need to select the journey you want and proceed with the booking until you reach the checkout, where you can either create an account or use the guest checkout.
When you are asked to choose a payment option, at the bottom of the list is an option for 'Do you have a voucher code?' - selecting this option will open up a text box where you can copy your code and click 'Apply'.
Applying your voucher code will take the cost of your booking to £0, unless you have selected any chargeable extras, such as specific seat reservations or additional luggage.
Remember that the Change & Go and Fully Flexible ticket options are included in the voucher offer, and you will not need to pay additional charges for these.
Please make sure that you are logging into the form using your student email address and password.
You will have received these when you were invited to complete Online Registration.
The IT Service Desk can help with issues with your password.
You can contact us if you have non-password related queries, or have not yet received your login details:
The voucher will be valid for one journey from London Heathrow, London Gatwick, London Luton, London Stansted, Bristol or Manchester airports to Birmingham Coach Station, including the standard luggage allowance.
The voucher can only be used on the University's dedicated National Express portal.
For your peace of mind, the voucher includes the Fully Flexible and Change & Go options, giving you flexibility to rearrange your ticket before you travel and if you experience travel delays.
You will need to select these options when making your booking.
Please check the Terms and Conditions during booking to understand what these cover.
The voucher will cover:
The voucher does not cover the following options, which are available at an additional cost:
As standard, National Express allow one hand luggage and one hold luggage item - check the luggage allowances for more information.
When booking, you may be able to pay for additional luggage items, up to a maximum of three additional hold luggage items.
No, the vouchers are only for new international students.
Guests can book through the main National Express website, or you may want to consider a private taxi transfer.
The ticket you book will be a flexible one which can be amended (within restrictions) with National Express.
Check the conditions when booking.
You can also add the 'Change and go' option for free when booking using the voucher, which gives flexibility if you miss your coach due to travel delays.
If you need to change your booking, please contact National Express by phone or social media, as the system may not recognise that you used a voucher, and may charge you the full cost of the journey when making changes.
No, vouchers will only be valid for the dates specified, in line with our key Welcome periods.
If you wish to arrive earlier, you will need to confirm with your accommodation that this is possible, and make your own travel arrangements.
All of our airport stops are listed as accessible stops by National Express, meaning that the lift can be deployed for wheelchair users.
All National Express coaches have a wheelchair lift.
Passengers with accessibility needs are encouraged to contact the Assisted Travel Team at National Express using the Assisted Travel email form or by phoning on +443717818181 (lines open 08:00-18:00 BST, 7 days a week).
You will be able to discuss your needs and request assistance if needed.
For example, this could include:
You can also contact us for support in speaking with National Express about your travel needs.
You should contact National Express with queries about the coaches, including changes to your booking.
Birmingham International Summer School and pre-sessional English students can contact biacoachvouchers@contacts.bham.ac.uk for queries relating to getting a voucher code or travelling from Birmingham Coach Station to your accommodation.
All other new students can contact us on coachvouchers@contacts.bham.ac.uk for queries relating to getting a voucher code or travelling from Birmingham Coach Station to your accommodation.
If you are arriving outside these dates, are travelling with lots of luggage or guests, or are arriving to a different airport, there are other ways to travel to campus.
You can book your own National Express coach journey, which will cost around £20-£40, depending on the time of day and the type of ticket you choose.
Journey time varies between 3 hours and 25 minutes to 5 hours, depending on which route you are taking.
Mega bus also operate from London Heathrow to Birmingham city centre (Brunel Street), with tickets ranging from £13-£30.
Flix bus operate a limited service to Birmingham Summer Row - Great Charles Street, with tickets around £15.
It is possible to travel by train from Heathrow to Birmingham, however this will require transferring through central London using the London Underground.
Tickets typically cost from £80-£125 depending on the time of travel and route taken, with a journey time around 3 hours.
Tickets can be purchased via National Rail and Trainline .
We do not recommend train travel from London Heathrow if you have bulky luggage due to the number of changes you will need to make.
For private taxi transfers, TOA Taxis are a Birmingham-based company who provide airport transfers.
You can book your own National Express coach journey, which will cost around £25-£60, depending on the time of day and the type of ticket you choose.
Journey time typically varies between 4-5 hours, depending on which route you are taking.
Mega bus operate coaches from London Gatwick.
To travel to Birmingham, you will need to transfer coaches at London Heathrow Central Bus Station.
Tickets typically cost £30-£45 with journey times taking around 5-7 hours.
Flix Bus offer limited services to Birmingham Summer Row - Great Charles Street and also require a transfer at Heathrow.
Tickets cost around £20 and journey times take around 5 hours and 30 minutes.
Train travel from London Gatwick to Birmingham requires transferring through central London using the London Underground.
Tickets typically cost from £60 depending on the time of travel and route taken, with a journey time around 3-5 hours.
We do not recommend train travel from London Gatwick if you have bulky luggage due to the number of changes you will need to make.
You can book your own National Express coach journey, which will cost around £8-£20, depending on the time of day and the type of ticket you choose.
The journey time is around 2 hours.
Mega bus also operate from London Heathrow to Birmingham city centre (Brunel Street), with tickets ranging from £8-£18.
Flix bus operate a limited service to Birmingham Summer Row - Great Charles Street, with tickets around £7.
Travelling by train from Manchester Airport to Birmingham requires changing trains at Manchester Piccadilly station.
Tickets typically cost from £20-£60 depending on the time of travel, with a journey time around 2 hours and 30 minutes.
Euro star services to London terminate at London St Pancras Station, which is joined to King's Cross Station.
From St Pancras, you will need to transfer via the London Underground to Euston or Marylebone stations for connections to Birmingham.
Tickets cost around £45 with journey times to University taking around 3-3.5 hours.
Alternatively, you can transfer via the Underground to London Victoria coach station, with National Express tickets to Birmingham costing around £7-£20 and taking around 3 hours and 30 minutes.
Preparing to travel abroad for your studies can feel daunting, but we're here to support you on your journey.
The UK Council for International Student Affairs (UKCISA) provides some really helpful advice on preparing for your arrival in the UK , including what documents you need to bring with you in your hand luggage.
When you arrive, you'll need to go through passport control - make sure you have your passport ready.
It's important that you're also ready to answer questions about your visa and that you make sure the details are correct.
Read more about immigration and passport control .
Once you've collected your luggage, you'll then need to pass through customs control.
At this stage, you'll need to declare certain items.
For a hassle-free experience, make sure you understand what restricted and prohibited items you shouldn't bring with you.
After passing through customs you can then make your way out of the airport, where a warm welcome will be waiting for you on campus!

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/welcome/travel-and-getting-to-campus/commuting-to-university:
With great transport links, many of our students choose to commute to our campus.
Whatever your reasons for commuting, there are still plenty of ways to make the most out of your student experience!
Keep reading for all the practical information you need for a great start to your UoB journey.
You're a commuter student if your term-time address is the same as your home address, but there are lots of different situations.
You may live very locally to campus from Birmingham, or you may have a longer commute from a nearby town or city, or even further afield.
Your Guild of Students are hosting a Commuter Students' social, so you can meet other students travelling to campus.
Whether it's someone with a similar journey, or someone who just gets what it's like, having friends in the same situation can be really reassuring!
Head to Beorma bar on Monday 29 September from 16:00-18:00 where you'll find free nibbles and drinks, and activities to help you get to know people.
No need to book, just go along.
As part of Online Registration , you're asked to provide your address details.
All students are asked to provide a 'home' and 'term-time' address.
As a commuter student, you'll still need to do this - just enter the same address in both sections if they are the same for you.
Commuter student Mia shares her top-tips on getting involved in Welcome, what you should bring with you, and other helpful pointers to help you make the most out of your UoB experience!
As a student who commutes to university every day, my skills in organisation, patience, and planning have greatly improved.
Even living away from campus, I've formed strong and invaluable friendships, and as a result my university experience has been rewarding and fulfilling both socially and academically.
Make sure you know the best way to travel to the University for you.
You might want to think about back up plans or routes in case there are issues with public transport.
For combined travel by bus, train, and tram across the West Midlands and some out-of-county stations, use Transport for West Midland’s ticket finder.
If you’re planning to drive, find out if you're eligible for a student parking permit .
In case of emergencies, it’s worth having the number or apps for local taxis on your phone – especially when travelling back later in the evening, this can help make sure that you get home safely.
Find out more about support for your personal safety .

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/welcome/your-new-student-life/looking-after-yourself:
Studying at University can be an exciting and fun time.
It can also feel quite challenging at times, and that's okay.
At Birmingham, we take your health, wellbeing and safety seriously and offer you different things you can do to stay happy and healthy at UoB.
You will have access to a Personal Academic Tutor and Wellbeing Officers through your School.
Every student has a Personal Academic Tutor.
Their role is to support your personal and academic development, as well as assist with any welfare issues you might have for the duration of your study.
You'll meet regularly with your Personal Academic Tutor and your tutor peer group throughout the year, giving you the chance to get to know a small group of students in your cohort.
You can find out more about your Personal Academic Tutor from your School during Welcome.
Each School has dedicated Wellbeing Officers who are able to provide practical and emotional support if you're experiencing personal problems, especially where these begin to interfere with your academic work.
They can also recommend sources of professional help and, if appropriate, will guide you through the extenuating circumstances process .
We welcome everyone here at Birmingham, regardless of physical disability, medical conditions, or other specific special needs.
Telling us about any disabilities means we can advise and provide you with the appropriate advice and support throughout your studies.
A disability may be a long-term health condition, physical or sensory impairment, a mental health difficulty, autism, and specific learning disabilities, such as dyslexia, dyspraxia, and dyscalculia.
We really encourage you to tell us about a disability as early as possible, even if you feel you don't need support yet.
This will ensure we can better understand your needs and discuss any support you might need with you.
Drawing on her own personal experience, student Olivia shares some advice on what you need to know and think about.
Navigating university life is full of challenges.
Staying healthy and well will help you make the most of your time here.
Find out how we can support you.
When you’re going through a tough time, you can always depend on us.
Whether you’re being affected by your studies or life in general, we’re here to support you.
We can offer a range of free and confidential services for all students here at UoB, from our trained and friendly Wellbeing Officers in every College, to our 24/7 support line UBHeard.
We can help you find a service that works for you.
Our Time to Talk?
resource can help you find the right people to talk to, or you can explore our full range of mental health and wellbeing support through the World of Wellbeing.
When I moved to the UK from my home country, I had many expectations about how my life would be in terms of friendships, academia and even finances.
When these things didn’t happen as soon as I imagined they would, I started to feel like a failure.
As though I didn’t belong.
Just so you know, you don’t need to shoulder the load alone.
There are lots of services available at UoB, as well as people who are specially trained and willing to assist you in navigating Uni while your mental health needs are met.
Registering with a local GP (General Practitioner, also known as a doctor) practice will make sure you can access support for your mental and physical health, and they’re usually the first service you should contact if you ever experience a problem.
We recommend that you should register with a GP near to where you spend most of your time, which is likely to be your term-time address.
There are a few GP surgeries near to campus.
They're really convenient, and familiar with anything you might need support with.
Don’t wait until you feel unwell, register as soon as you get here.
Your health is important to us.
We understand that starting University can be an exciting time, but being away from a normal routine can sometimes lead to development habits and behaviours, that, over time, can start to have more negative impact on your life.
From substances like alcohol or drugs, or behaviours like gambling, online shopping, gaming, screen time, or porn addiction, you can get the help you need at UoB.
Our own recovery programme, Better Than Well , is for students in recovery from alcohol, drug or behavioural addictions, and is coordinated by academic staff from the Institute for Mental Health , but is run by students supporting their peers to maximise educational and social opportunities while continuing a personal programme of recovery from addiction.
We know that many of you may be feeling worried about the rising costs of living and managing your money at University.
We’ve been working with the Guild of Students to ensure that our student community are supported with some practical changes and initiatives, in response to your feedback, to help reduce some of your costs and ease your worries.
Some of our practical changes and initiatives include:
Explore our Cost of Living support page .
You're strongly encouraged to get a COVID-19 vaccine if you are eligible and they are available to you.
You may be eligible in the UK if you are at increased risk of getting seriously ill from COVID-19.
Your GP will be able to advise you.
New students are considered to be particularly at risk of meningitis and septicaemia (also called sepsis or blood poisoning).
Make sure you know the signs and symptoms of meningitis and septicaemia.
You're strongly encouraged to speak to your doctor about having the Men ACWY vaccine vaccine a few weeks before the start of term, or as soon as possible.
International students and those not offered the vaccine by their GP (general doctor) should request it when registering with a GP , which you should do as soon as you arrive at University.
MMR is a safe and effective combined vaccine that protects against three separate illnesses – measles, mumps and rubella (German measles) – in a single injection.
These are highly infectious diseases which can have serious complications.
The full course of MMR vaccination requires two doses.
Find out about the MMR vaccine.
The NHS are providing the flu vaccine (influenza) to more people this year, including those living with someone who is at high risk from coronavirus.
If you're eligible, we encourage you to take it.
Many young adults will have received the HPV vaccine at school.
The HPV vaccine is given in two doses, six months apart.
It protects against types of HPV which have been linked to risks of different types of cancers, and genital warts.
If you didn't receive it at school, you may be eligible if:
Trans women (people who were assigned male at birth) are eligible in the same way as MSM if their risk of getting HPV is similar to the risk of MSM who are eligible for the HPV vaccine.
Trans men (people who were assigned female at birth) are eligible if they have sex with other men and are aged 45 or under.
A smallpox vaccination is being offered to people who are most at risk to help protect them against monkeypox .
Some sexual health services will be contacting those men that are likely to be at highest risk, others may offer the vaccine alongside other appointments.
It may also be offered by relevant employers for healthcare workers.
You can visit NHS.uk to find your local clinic or call 111 for advice.
It's free to eligible groups.
Find out more from the UK government .
We have a few more tips on what to bring to make sure you can stay happy and healthy before you study at Birmingham, especially if you’re moving away from home.
Bring all of your important documents: Make sure you bring all the information, documents, and prescriptions you might need about any illnesses or conditions you have.
This might include having copies of any diagnoses, or letter to share with a new GP or health service.
If you’re an international student, you might want to have these translated into English, and for UK students, you should probably make a note of your NHS number, if known.
You never know when you might need them!
Bring copies of your prescriptions: If you take any medicines, make sure you bring copies of prescriptions or details of these medicines.
You’ll also want to ensure you have enough medicine to last until you’re able to register with a GP and access a local pharmacy.
Similarly, if you wear glasses or contact lenses, it's helpful to have a copy of your most recent prescription/eye test in case you need replacements.
If you get your contact lenses delivered by post, remember to update your address, or make arrangements to collect them.
Get ready by visiting our What to Pack page.
As a student, you may be eligible to apply for support with health costs under the NHS Low Income Scheme.
This could help you pay for:
To apply, you'll need to complete a HC1 Form, or you may be able to apply online.
You may also need to provide evidence such as payslips or information about your student loan.
Find out more on the NHS website .

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/welcome/your-new-student-life/understanding-the-first-year:
Every student experiences university differently, but it's useful to understand some of the key milestones of the first year.
We've developed this guide over years of experience with new students (and their families!), and know that parents and carers often find it helpful.
We recognise that parents and carers are often students' first point of call for issues that come up.
Being aware of the support that's available will put you you signpost and encourage them when they need it.
We have lots of support available for students, but it can be tricky to know where to start, especially when they are feeling down or finding things difficult.
Our Time to Talk page help students (and you) navigate the different options and find the right support for them, from a friendly face to chat to, through to ongoing support.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/university/social-responsibility-sustainability:
For our community at the University of Birmingham, Sustainability is about using our available resources and living in a way today that provides the needs for us all to live a happy and healthy life, without preventing future generations' ability to do the same.
We recognise that the world as it functions today is not achieving this, and international efforts are being made to create a society that is more sustainable, aiming to achieve the UN's 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in the process.
It is vital we use our position as a global civic university, with world-leading research, and an institution proud to educate the workforce of the future, to combat the climate crisis.
This is why we have declared a climate emergency .
We have created a clear strategy for how to create a more sustainable university and world, and have demonstrated this commitment throughout our 2030 Strategic Framework , including having 'Sustainability' as one of the six pillars.
Whilst we celebrate this brilliant work, we acknowledge there is still far to go and we continue to develop as an institution whose work continues to be impactful and creates a world that is healthy for all.
One of our biggest tasks in this space right now is our commitment to Net Zero Carbon Emissions by 2035 (Scope 1 and 2) and 2045 (Scope 3), against a 20/21 baseline.
We are working hard on a Roadmap to Net Zero that we believe can achieve this ambitious target.
This page signposts the University's sustainability work, from our operations to our curriculum and our research.
Use the categories below to explore.
We have set clear targets for what we need to do as a global civic instituion to tackle the climate crisis.
It is important, however, for external bodies to assess our targets and our effectiveness at achieving them to make sure we are committed to our promises.
There are many different types of audits Higher Education can undergo to assess this, of which a more detailed list can be found in our auditing report that also descibes why there are some league tables and audits we do not opt-in to.
Meet the team leading Sustainability programmes and strategy at the University of Birmingham
Have you visited our Sustainable Operations page?
This includes information on the work we are doing on campus and beyond.
If you still have any questions or would like to get in touch, please email us at sustainability@contacts.bham.ac.uk .
Alternatively, Staff and Students can use our internal communications guide.
There are opportunities to get involved in sustainability initiatives at the University of Birmingham whether you are a student, member of staff, or a member of the public.
Visit our Get Involved page for information on joining these initiatives and networks.
NewsListing1 (NewsListing) had an error during initialisation.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/schools/mathematics/news-and-events/events/conferences/2023/data-driven-mechanistic-models-of-complex-biomedical-systems:
Sara Jabbari , Fabian Spill
The goal of this workshop is to bring together researchers at all career stages who are interested in connecting biomedical data with mechanistic models.
Please register before 31 October 2023.
The full programme is available on the conference website .

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/short-courses:
Our short courses meet the needs of modern learners, empowering you to develop your skills to get you to where you want to be, faster.
You’ll be joining a large, diverse and vibrant University, accessing world-leading and industry-ready education.
Short courses are designed to equip you with skills and knowledge through fast and flexible courses.
They vary from one-day in-person workshops to online lectures and seminars taught over several weeks.
We offer a range of Continuing Professional Development (CPD) and Postgraduate Microcredential courses, designed for individuals and organisations to empower development and provide you with the skills you need to accelerate your career.
Our CPD and microcredential courses offer flexible learning, so you can enhance your knowledge without stepping away from your responsibilities.
Our short courses provide the opportunity to learn and develop, whether that’s to gain the practical skills you need to stay up to date in your chosen field or you are interested in exploring a new subject area.
Choosing to study one of our short courses will enable you to access degree-quality education in flexible chunks and empower you to take control of your professional development.
We are committed to supporting lifelong learning by offering a wide range of courses designed to enhance your skills and to make your studies suit you.
Short courses are an assured way to upskill, upon completion you will receive a University certificate or formal qualification you can use towards further study.
I chose to study the short course as I had made the decision to pursue Shakespeare for my Masters degree.
However, my qualification from my bachelors wasn’t high enough, being only a 2:2.
As such, I decided to study at Birmingham as they offered the short course as alternative qualification.
Applying to your short course can be done in a few simple steps.
The application process will vary slightly across our different short courses.
For all microcredential courses, the application process is similar to applying to an undergraduate or postgraduate programme.
Check out our application guide to see the different processes for each of our short courses.
Our short courses allow you to study flexibly and to fit your studies around your other commitments.
Short courses are delivered in a variety of different modes to meet your needs.
There is a range of support available for our short course students, including experienced academic staff, tutors, support staff and our wellbeing resource, which includes 24-hour online support through UBHeard.
Students also have access to our Careers Network teams, which help to prepare them with the skills they need to compete for jobs.
Our courses are designed to fit flexibly around busy schedules and vary in different teaching methods.
Courses can be delivered as in-person workshops, a series of online seminars, or a combination of hybrid teaching.
Across all our short courses, you will have access to all the reading and training materials required for successful completion of your course.
As a microcredential student, you will be registered as a student of the University and have access to all our teaching and library facilities.
All of our short courses provide access to postgraduate level study and world-leading education.
Whether you have recently studied at university or are returning to studying after a break, choosing to study a short course can be challenging, especially if you have other responsibilities and commitments.
We are committed to providing the best possible support to all our students throughout their studies with the University, enabling you to achieve the best possible outcomes.
We have support available for all areas of your studies, from dedicated programme and wellbeing teams, to academic skills and financial advice, there is lots of support available to you at Birmingham.
As well as providing a range of ready made courses for our students, we can also co-develop customised courses based on the objectives you want to achieve as an organisation.
Contact us now to speak to us about developing a custom course for your team.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/degree-apprenticeships:
Higher and degree apprenticeships are a unique way of combining classroom teaching with real-life work experience, enabling you  to get the best of both worlds.
For an employer, apprenticeship programmes provide an opportunity to address skill gaps by recruiting new talent or developing, upskilling and retaining current staff as the business evolves.
For apprentices, it is a way of putting theory into practice and gaining a wealth of experience whilst achieving a formal qualification without the cost of fees and student loans.
The University of Birmingham offers apprenticeships in a wide range of subject areas, from Advanced Clinical Practitioner to Railway Systems.
We also offer an undergraduate programme in partnership with PwC.
The university has a good reputation, and the campus and facilities are great.
Going back into the university environment was a real challenge to begin with but the lecturers, administration team and fellow students have all been approachable and supportive.
The combination of practical skills and theoretical knowledge that I have experienced so far will be really useful to my planning role.
Degree apprenticeships can be at Level 6 (undergraduate degree) or Level 7 (postgraduate degree) and each programme is mapped to an apprenticeship standard, ensuring that apprentices develop the knowledge, skills and behaviours required for a specific occupation.
Apprenticeships can be paid for by employers through the Apprenticeship Levy.
Find out how to apply for a degree apprenticeship at Birmingham.
If you're interested in finding out more about our range of apprenticeships or the ways that we can work with you to create a bespoke programme for your organisation, please get in touch with our expert team.
If you’re looking to reskill, upskill or just study something you love, a short course gives you the opportunity to study in smaller bite-size units.
Our short courses allow you to work around existing commitments, offering flexible study options such as online learning or long weekend intensive block learning.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/changing-directions:
If you're considering a complete change in career from your current job or sector then we offer opportunities to pursue a postgraduate degree in certain fields, which don't require a specialist undergraduate degree.
We have a number of postgraduate opportunities for graduates where no prior knowledge of the subject area is expected.
Sometimes, experience is required for some programmes, which you can fulfill while going through the application process.
Many of the programme listed below do not require prior knowledge or specific degrees, but we do ask for some other evidence of interest in the subject, such as volunteering or work experience:
The programmes below require previous care experience, however you can apply from many degree backgrounds:
Once you have enrolled on the PGCE primary course, you can opt to specialise in working with 3-7 year olds or 5-11 year olds or 7-11 year olds.
All applicants to the PGCE Primary (QTS) must hold a degree from a UK Higher Education Institution.
Normally, this should be a 2:2 or above (and this will be a condition of any offer where the degree is not already awarded).
You must have GCSE Mathematics, English and Science (Grade 4/C or above) or equivalent qualifications, which will be a condition of any offer if not already achieved (equivalency tests will be accepted, but only from equivalency testing).
We offer programmes in the following subjects: English, Geography, History, Mathematics, Modern Languages, Physical Education, Religious Education, Biology, Chemistry or Physics.
All applicants must hold a strong academic record at A level or equivalent in relevant subjects is required, along with a strong degree (usually a minimum of 2:2), as well as GCSE Grade 4/C or above (or equivalent) in Mathematics and English.
Please see individual subject pages for further information.
Visit the teacher education pages
The great thing about transferring subjects for postgraduate study is that it pushes you to do things you never thought possible.
My undergraduate degree gives me a unique lens for storytelling, enriching my creative work with perspectives I might not otherwise have.
In postgraduate study, your unique background isn’t something to overcome, it’s your greatest asset.
Explore what alternative routes may be available to you with your current undergraduate qualifications, or find out what may be an option with no prior knowledge required.
These are not all the options available to you, but they give you an idea of the type of career you could move into.
Our Alumni Scholarship offers up to 300 scholarships for our returning undergraduate alumni via a £2,000 tuition fee waiver for their Masters studies in the 2025/26 academic year.
With his reporting experience at the NFU, Danny developed an interest in environmental policy.
Hoping to instigate change, he chose to study MSc Environment, International Development and Politics.
Despite her background in Business Administration, Yuky always had a passion for storytelling.
After working in project management, she left her home in Peru to study MA Film and Television.
Aqil developed a love for creative writing during his undergraduate degree.
His political analysis skills provided a unique lens for storytelling, so he decided to pursue MA Creative Writing.
Join us for one of our on campus or online events to find out more about our courses, student life, and the vibrant community that makes studying at Birmingham unique.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/student-experience/stories/search:
Read more about the journey of Hemant Kandoi - a former student on our MSc Exercise and Sports Medicine programme, and how this led him to set up Moovesa.
Read Mariah's story as she talks more about her time as a Pre-Registration Physiotherapy Student, before becoming a Senior Physiotherapist for the NHS.
Hear more from Physiotherapy Alumnus, Kayur, as he talks about his University journey and career after graduation.
Read about the journey of Dr Kathryn Rowsell, who was a student on our Doctorate in Forensic Psychology programme in 2021.
Read about Ariadne's experience as a student on our 2024/2025 cohort for MSci Biological Sciences (Genetics), and her time as a student at Birmingham.
Charlotte Bull talks about her time on the MSci Biological Sciences with Professional Placement programme, and her experience as a Birmingham student.
Hear more from Gbemisola, a UoB alum, who studied on our Sports and Exercise Medicine programme.
She now works as an NHS Physiotherapist.
Read Hu Yue's story, as she discusses her life as a student at Birmingham and what she is currently up to now.
Read more about Xiangxiang's story about her time at Birmingham, and her time in her current role as a Psychological Therapist, Shanghai Children’s Hospital
Read all about our alum, Mike Gong, and his time at Birmingham; and what he went on to do after graduating.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/student-experience/meet-our-students:
Student
MA by Research in Modern Languages
Aaron is a distance learning at Birmingham and a Woltmann Masters Scholarship recipient.
Space Engineering
Abdullah is studying MSc Space Engineering at the University of Birmingham.
Health Data Science
MSc Health Data Science student at the University of Birmingham
Immunology and Immunotherapy
MSc Immunology and Immunotherapy student at the University of Birmingham

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/apply:
Your application is specifically designed for the programme you choose to apply for and it is sensitive to the answers you provide as you proceed through the application.
Please read through the following information carefully before submitting your application.
Doing so will help to avoid any unnecessary delays in processing your application.
Find the course that’s right for you by using our course finder tool.
Check the entry requirements on your chosen course page.
Each course has different requirements so make sure you read these carefully.
If you're an international student, you may have slightly different entry requirements.
Apply for your course and submit any supporting documents through our online portal.
You can find this on your chosen course page.
From student loans to scholarships, there are many different ways for you to fund your postgraduate study.
The best place to start is our postgraduate funding database which lists all the scholarships and funding opportunities available to you.
Once you’ve applied, your application will then be reviewed by the Admissions Tutor for your course, who will decide whether your application should receive an offer.
If you are offered a place at Birmingham, you may have a Conditional Offer.
This usually means that we still need some more information from you before we can accept you on to your course.
This could be things like your undergraduate degree certificate, your English Language test results or a reference.
However, your offer letter will outline exactly what these are.
Upload these to your online portal as soon as you receive these, so that the admissions team can move your application along.
To confirm your place at Birmingham, you’ll need to accept your offer via the online portal.
You can do this if you have a conditional offer or an unconditional offer.
If you are an international student, you may need to pay a £3,000 deposit to secure your place at Birmingham.
You will need to pay this before your Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) can be issued.
*This is the final deposit deadline and therefore your deposit deadline may vary.
Please see your applicant portal for more details.
Please note that some individual programmes may have varying application deadlines and would therefore recommend that you check the details on the individual course pages before making your application.
Applications for the following postgraduate programmes should be made through the appropriate central Clearing House:
Some programmes follow a different Admissions process to our standard postgraduate programmes.
If you hold an offer for one of the below programmes, you will need to follow different procedure to accept your place.
If you are in receipt of a conditional offer of a place, you will need to inform the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS) of your decision.
To firmly accept this offer of a place you will need to reply online through the UCAS Track service at https://www.ucas.com/teaching-in-the-uk .
You will need to enter your firm and insurance choices via UCAS track .
If you do not reply by the deadline specified by UCAS, they will decline your offer by default.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/international/students/index.aspx:
A comprehensive timeline of the application process for international students and their journey to Birmingham.
Explore the fees and funding opportunities to help you with your studies here at University of Birmingham
Explore what life is like living in Birmingham, from spaces on campus, to the wide range of support we offer for our international students.
The BIA provides Foundation Pathways and Presessional English programmes for students preparing to study at the University and English support for students who are already at the University.
Meet the University of Birmingham when we're visiting your country, join one of our online events or chat to a student online.
International student country pages
Visa and immigration information for International students.
Welcome to the University of Birmingham's dedicated page for sponsors of international students.
Information for supporting international school counsellors.
Find out why we're the most targeted University by top graduate employers.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/postgraduate/courses/taught/sport-exercise/physio-pre-reg.aspx:
Kickstart your career in Physiotherapy with our accredited course and become a qualified, competent practitioner.
Unlock your potential and make a valuable impact on the future of modern healthcare services.
At the core of our programme is a commitment to patient care.
We will equip you with the skills to become an independent, evidence-based, and patient-centred physiotherapist.
By joining us, you'll be empowered to make a meaningful impact on the lives of those who need it most.
Study MSc Physiotherapy (pre-registration) at the University of Birmingham
So, I did my undergrad here—I did three years of the Sports Science undergrad—and I knew I wanted to do a Master's afterwards.
And I knew Birmingham was a great uni, I had loads of my friends here, and I think the facilities for physio are so good and I just really liked the idea of the course and the practical element of it.
So that's why I decided to stay.
The facilities are fab.
So we have in the SportEx building loads of practical rooms and they've got all the equipment that we would see in a hospital as well.
And with the Master’s, you're able to book out rooms and, before your exams especially, practice with the equipment that you use.
It's just nice to be in labs with the plinths and everything.
So placements, I think they're primarily weighted in the second year.
They're between four and six weeks, and you have six placements in total.
But you get exposure to so many different areas of physio, like respiratory, neuro, MSK, and they're all based around Birmingham.
My plan is to do my NHS rotations, just to figure out what I enjoy most and what area I'm the best at.
I really like paediatrics as well, so I want some more experience in paediatrics and then go from there—that's my plan.
The course is comprehensive, hands-on, and inspiring.
It offers excellent learning opportunities with diverse clinical placements and an evidence-based curriculum which prepare you to become a competent healthcare professional.
The course will run over 24 months in a full-time mode equally dividing your time between university and clinically based care settings.
Year 1: 29 September 2025 - 26 June 2026
Year 1 will introduce you to the profession through practice and clinical reasoning.
This will include modules centered around theory, application and then exposure on placements.
You will primarily be based on campus for this year.
Year 2: 28 September 2026 - 25 June 2027
Year 2 will give you greater independence as you engage in real-world experiences during Practice Education Placements.
The majority of your time will be spent on placements.
During this time you will also undertake a research project.
Practice education placements comprise 34 weeks of the programme and are organised into six modules, two of which take place in year 1 and four in year 2, to complete a minimum of 1,065 hours of supervised practice.
These placements reflect the four pillars of practice including clinical, leadership, education and research.
Through our research-informed teaching and interdisciplinary learning environment, you'll gain a holistic understanding of patient care.
Dive into high-quality placements and projects and take your place at the forefront of modern healthcare with local practice experiences.
Bring your learning to life through opportunities to work in real-world community and other settings during extracurricular activities and placements.
for Sports-Related Subjects
QS World University Rankings by Subject 2025
for Sport and Exercise Sciences
Our commitment to patient-centered care, equality, diversity, and inclusion resonates within the NHS Constitution’s values.
You will not only graduate as a skilled practitioner but also as a compassionate and ethical advocate for equality in healthcare.
This course is tailored for those aspiring to become physiotherapists and is not intended for those already qualified.
Successful completion of this course will give you eligibility to apply for registration with both the Chartered Society of Physiotherapy and the Health and Care Professions Council.
Through a variety of teaching methods, our blended learning approach ensures that you will engage in theory driven learning and real-life placements.
Teaching usually takes place over three or four days per week.
Our new Centre for Movement and Wellbeing clinic will provide unique opportunities to interact with patients and gain real-life experiences through placements.
The physiotherapy clinic is at the heart of MoveWell , offering targeted therapies to support good health, through the treatment and rehabilitation from injury, acute illness and chronic disease.
The course is comprised of a series of taught core modules, practice placements and a final year research project.
Practice education placements comprise 34 weeks of the programme and are organised into six modules, two of which take place in year one and four in year two.
In Year 1, the following modules must be taken:
In Year 2, the following modules must be taken:
in a relevant undergraduate discipline
You should present evidence of study in a relevant discipline, ordinarily holding an honours degree in a relevant discipline at 1st or 2.1 classifications.
It is expected that you will have previous knowledge in human anatomy or physiology.
Ideally, we would consider life science degrees that contain modules focused around human anatomy or physiology, including but not limited to:
These modules should have formed part of the previous degree programme.
Alternatively, we would consider applications from graduates of other disciplines who have either a) worked in a healthcare field and gained significant practical experience (e.g.
healthcare assistant, physiotherapy assistant or those holding existing professional healthcare qualifications) or b) obtained additional qualifications where the study of human anatomy and physiology has formed a significant part of the programme of study.
Applicants are required to demonstrate clear evidence of Physiotherapy experience (e.g.
signed letters from clinical managers confirming dates and types of experience) or evidence of experience that you can show relates to the practice of physiotherapy.
Not sure if your qualifications are relevant?
You are very welcome to send us your degree transcript so our Admissions Tutor can review what you have studied before you submit a full application.
You will be asked to submit a personal statement along with the University application form.
The purpose of the personal statement is to support your application.
Your personal statement should include:
If you have a disability, we take a positive view of what you can achieve as future healthcare professionals and take seriously our obligation to make reasonable adjustments to ensure that you can successfully complete your studies.
You will be assessed up to and including the interview on the basis of the criteria outlined here regardless of any disability.
If you declare a disability we will invite you to work with us together with the disability team, clinical colleagues and specialist services (RNIB, for example) to explore how best we can support your studies.
For this course we require IELTS 7.0 with no less than 6.5 in any band, which is equivalent to:
If you demonstrate via your application that you have meet the admission criteria, you will be invited to interview prior to a decision regarding admission to the course.
This process will identify and examine your ability to cope with the multiple demands of the programme and will explore personal values and attitudes to ensure your suitability for admission to a registered healthcare profession.
Through our patient-centred practice and interdisciplinary approach, you’ll be ready to step into your role as a qualified Physiotherapist.
Embark on an exciting career journey in the NHS, private sector, or community hospitals.
Explore opportunities within sports clubs and the military.
You could even work on a freelance basis alongside working in the NHS.
As a graduate in physiotherapy, you’ll have a diverse range of career paths to choose from.
University of Birmingham students demonstrate the professionalism, competence, and dedication of fully qualified physiotherapists even before completing their degrees.
We are impressed with their readiness to contribute meaningfully to patient care and are eager to welcome them into our team.
Graduates are eligible to apply for registration with both the Chartered Society of Physiotherapy and the Health and Care Professions Council
An overview of Student and Alumni Stories and Profiles

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/postgraduate/courses/taught/metallurgy-materials/space-engineering.aspx:
Want to help design a spacecraft or take part in a space mission?
Push the boundaries of space exploration with our Space Engineering MSc.
You could play a role in helping us explore further than ever before.
On our course you’ll learn advanced concepts of spacecraft engineering ready for a career in this hugely exciting sector.
Our MSc programme prioritises high-quality teaching and learning, emphasising inquiry-based and independent study methods.
This approach ensures that our graduates are equipped to become high-caliber professionals, with the skills needed to thrive in technical roles within the space industry.
Accredited by the Royal Aeronautical Society on behalf of the Engineering Council as meeting the requirements for Further Learning for registration as a Chartered Engineer.
Blue space-themed titles appear on screen with the video title: 'MSc Space Engineering at Birmingham'.
The video is cut with talking head footage and stock footage clips of space engineering related clips.(Dr Leah-Nani Alconcel, Course Lead)
My name is Dr Leah-Nani Alconcel.
I am an associate professor of Space Engineering.
I'm also the course lead for the new MSC in Space Engineering.
This programme has been designed for new graduates in STEM disciplines and for professionals who wish to reskill or upskill in order to enter the labour market in the space industry.
The programme has three unique selling points: the first one is materials and manufacturing for space, the School of Metallurgy and Materials has a heritage of research in developing advanced materials for aerospace and space applications, in both the civil and defence sectors.
The second is in the space environment and radio engineering.
And the third is a hands-on approach to spacecraft design, focused on the CubeSat form factor.
Our programme has been informed by our industrial advisory board and our industrial partners are either very experienced in the space sector or have recently begun to invest in space research and development projects.
They have identified skills gaps in the labour market, so our programme is designed so that when our students complete their studies they can target those gaps.
University of Birmingham, School of Metallurgy and Materials lock-up appears on screen with the following link: Space Engineering MSc :
During this term you'll master fundamental engineering and physical principles for space missions and spacecraft design and cover core modules that meet Royal Aeronautical Society MSc accreditation standards.
Towards the end of the term, you'll choose optional modules and rank your project choices.
In this term you'll choose from specialised optional modules, including CubeSat design and satellite communications.
Some modules are required in order to undertake your specific research projects in term 3, and you'll begin meeting with your supervisor for your summer research project.
Exams typically take place from the first week of May to the first week of June.
The summer is dedicated to your research project.
you'll work closely with an academic supervisor on a live research project.
This could be experimental and lab based, theoretical and literature based, involve modelling, or be a mixture of all three elements.
You should expect to finish your project by the end of August with marks and feedback delivered in September.
in the UK for Aerospace Engineering
Complete University Guide 2026
You'll cover the full life cycle of space missions with a focus on the space environment and its hazards and mitigation, and materials and manufacturing for space applications.
Our course prepares you with a broad knowledge and research skills of spacecraft technology and engineering, and you can choose to specialise in areas such as space weather, radar or sustainability.
Benefit from instruction from our experts in the field.
you'll be taught through a blend of lectures, seminars, tutorials, and project-based methods, practical laboratories, group activities, and individual projects.
This course consists of 180 credits.
As well as your core modules, you'll choose three optional modules and undertake a research project.
Select 60 credits of optional modules.
Examples of options are below:
Staff profile for Dr Leah-Nani Alconcel, Lecturer in the School of Metallurgy and Materials, at the University of Birmingham
in a physical science or engineering subject.
If you are unsure if you meet our entry requirements, you can also contact the admissions department to discuss whether your application would be considered.
Meet the growing industrial demand for skilled engineers in advanced spacecraft engineering concepts with our comprehensive course.
Our goal is to cultivate graduates of the highest caliber, highly sought-after for their skills, knowledge, and leadership abilities within teams tasked with designing, manufacturing, deploying, and controlling space equipment.
This course is ideal if you are seeking entry into a PhD programme at Birmingham or elsewhere.
Our MSc Space Engineering graduates are making an impact across a wide range of sectors and have gone on to work for leading employers including the Manufacturing Technology Centre, Northumbria University, Leonardo, and Goonhilly Earth Station.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/doctoral-programme/expertise:
Our research has real-world impact.
We don’t just generate knowledge: we apply it to solve critical issues in the economy, policy, and society.
As a researcher at Birmingham, you’ll have the opportunity to work alongside leading academics, engage with policymakers and industry leaders, and contribute to public discourse, ensuring your work makes a tangible difference.
You'll have the freedom to pursue independent research, gaining the skills and confidence to make a lasting difference on a global scale.
The Research Excellence Framework (REF) assesses both the quality and broader impact of research in all universities in the UK.
In the most recent 2021 results, we were ranked 13th overall in the UK for Research Power.
More than 50 per cent of research at Birmingham was recognised as 4 star: the highest score.
This reflects the transformative impact of our research community on today’s major social and environmental issues.
Our postgraduate researchers are changing how the world works.
We are unveiling the hidden with quantum technology; understanding how future atmospheres affect biodiversity; removing barriers to create more inclusive education; promoting cultural understanding; and preventing maternal deaths.
Our Research Challenge Themes showcase our pioneering breakthroughs, multidisciplinary collaborations and significant global impact.
Birmingham is a place where groundbreaking research is nurtured, supported, and turned into real-world impact - helping students not only discover new knowledge but change the world with it.
Collaboration is at the heart of what we do.
Our globally-recognised research centres and institutes work across disciplines to drive innovation and discovery.
They play a pivotal role in securing funding, forming industry partnerships, and promoting ground-breaking research.
We thrive on collaboration across disciplines, partnering with institutions in the UK and around the world.
Our Institutes and Centres of Excellence are key to our success, securing funding, building cross-sector partnerships, and promoting innovation across teaching, learning, and research.
From revealing the structure of DNA to developing new treatments for heart disease and cancer, raising awareness of climate change to pioneering molecular machines, at Birmingham we have been conducting research that matters for over one hundred years.
In the company of our ten Nobel Prize winners, our researchers continue to make a lasting impact on peoples, cultures, industry and society.
If you’d like to study a research degree with us, you can apply in a few simple steps.
From our campus to the city, and across the wider region, we have an evolving wealth of resources for researchers across all disciplines, contributing to the delivery of innovative work.
The Cadbury Research Library holds rare books, manuscripts, archives & artefacts, including the Mingana Collection with 3,000+ Middle Eastern manuscripts & the Birmingham Qur’an, dated 568–645AD.
BIFoR studies forest responses to rising CO2 levels, featuring a unique FACE experiment in temperate woodland—the only one in the Northern Hemisphere & second of its kind worldwide.
Birmingham Health Innovation Campus in Selly Oak is a top healthcare tech hub, advancing drug development, real-world studies & treatments for cancer, dementia, rare diseases & antibiotic resistance.
The Lapworth Museum of Geology holds 250,000+ fossils, minerals & rocks dating back 4.5 billion years, plus geological maps, equipment, zoological specimens & ancient stone axes.
The Barber Institute of Fine Arts, an Art Deco gem, features a concert hall, exhibitions & a top-tier British art collection, including Monet & Van Gogh, plus rare Roman, Byzantine & Medieval coins.
Winterbourne House & Garden, built in 1903, showcases Arts & Crafts design, 6,000+ plant species, buzzing wildlife & interactive exhibits, making it a rich learning space for all ages.
The Institute of Translational Medicine speeds up clinical trials, connecting scientists, clinicians & experts to turn medical research into innovative drugs, devices & healthcare applications.
Tyseley Energy Park drives innovation in energy, waste & low-carbon transport, fostering industry collaboration & training to build a sustainable future for Birmingham.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/how-to-apply/advertised-phd:
Considering and applying for a PhD can seem like a daunting experience and you may have questions about where to start and what you need to do at each stage.
Applying to an ‘advertised PhD’, is a simple 4-step process.
We offer a huge diversity of opportunities for research at postgraduate level.
Find and identify your project via our advertised PhD's database.
Make sure you read all the detailed information about the research project including duration, funding level/type, entry requirements and application deadlines.
If you need more information, contact the relevant department to find out more.
Pay attention to the application process as you may be asked to apply to the specific project or be asked to apply to a larger subject area and identify the project title within your application.
We’ll ask for specific documents to support your application.
These include academic certificates, two references and proof of English Language skills.
If you apply for your own research programme, you’ll also need to include a research proposal.
In addition to your Research Proposal, you’ll also need a personal statement of approximately 5,000 characters, explaining why you are interested in researching your chosen subject.
This can be uploaded to the personal statement section in PDF or Microsoft Word format.
Alternatively, you can type this within the application portal.
On your application, you will have been asked for contact details of one or two references.
For some courses, you will need the references before a decision to be made eg.
School of Education courses.
Please make sure you tell your references to expect contact from the University of Birmingham via email, requesting their reference.
Please note that the contact email address of the referee must be an official email address and not a personal one (for example, gmail).
We recommend that the referee sends back the reference in a PDF format as it is preferred if:
If both your referees send back references which are not on official headed paper, you may be asked to send in additional references.
If you already have a written reference(s) and want to upload it on behalf of your referee(s), make sure the reference is a scanned copy of the original and that it is on official headed paper.
If you input your referee details, your referees will receive a reference request email from us as soon as you submit your application.
When a referee provides the reference by clicking on the link in the reference request email, it will be automatically uploaded to your application.
A referee can also provide a reference by emailing it to us directly via pgadmissions@contacts.bham.ac.uk , it should be sent from their official email address and contain their full name and role.
Once the email has been received, it will be sent for processing so that it can be uploaded to your application.
Your online portal will be updated when a reference has been received and processed but please allow at least 15 working days for this.
If your portal has not been updated, this does not necessarily mean that the references have not been received as there can be a delay with the processing of references.
Please note that for the vast majority of our programmes, we do not require references in order for a decision to be made and your application will still be processed as usual.
If an offer is made and the references are still outstanding, they will form part of the conditions of the offer.
You will have been asked to upload a scan of your original or certified copies of your degree certificate(s) and transcript(s) on the Postgraduate Application Portal.
If you have not done so already, you can go back into the portal to upload your documents.
Otherwise your application cannot be considered.
Please be prepared to send in your original or certified copies of your documents if the Admissions team requests to verify them.
If you don’t have certified copies of your documents and would prefer not to send the original, you can get copies certified by either the institution where you studied; a notary; or the British Council (students outside of the UK).
If you are an EU or International student and submitted your application with a University of Birmingham Overseas Representative, they will be able to verify your documents and there will be no need to send in copies by post.
You will have been asked to upload an interim transcript from your latest exams.
If you have not done so already, you can go back into the portal to upload your interim transcript.
Please be prepared to send in your original or certified copies of your degree certificate and final transcript upon graduation if the Admissions team requests to verify them.
If you are an EU or international student and submitted your application with a University of Birmingham Overseas Representative, they will be able to verify your documents and there will be no need to send in copies by post.
Please note, if you did not originally submit your application through an agent representative, you will not be able to ask an agent to help you verify and upload documents at this stage.
For the full list of suitable documents which you can use as your proof of English proficiency, you can visit our English language requirements page.
Make sure that your test results are no more than two years old from the start date of your course* at the University of Birmingham.
You can scan and upload a copy of your results to the Postgraduate application portal.
You do not need to send in a copy of this to the University or bring it when you are verifying your documents with our representatives in your country as the University can verify the certificate using the reference code.
*If you are deferring your offer by one year, please make sure your test results will still be valid for when your course starts next year.
For those who have recently graduated from a University in the UK or majority English speaking country (e.g USA, Australia, New Zealand or Canada) you may be exempt from taking English language test.
Please note that if your degree was delivered in English but not at a recognised university in the UK or majority English speaking country, our Admissions Office will require you to demonstrate your level of English with IELTS/TOEFL/PTE or alternative qualifications .
You may also want to check our country pages as some countries may have certain exemptions, such as those who graduate from the University of Malta.
You will still need to present evidence of your qualifications studied in English to meet our entry requirement.
Our Admissions office will then review your application and if exempt you will not be required to provide evidence of English language proficiency.
If you are required to submit a piece of example work— usually a short written piece (common for programmes such as Creative Writing or English Literature); music composition or performance for those looking to study music related programmes— you will be notified by the academic tutor before they can access and make a decision on your application.
Please make sure you submit these as soon as possible and in the format requested by the academic tutor.
Once you have found your research project you will need to check the entry requirements to see if you are eligible to undertake research with us.
Typically you will need need a good Honours degree and usually a Masters degree.
Alternative equivalent qualifications and experience may also be considered but it's best to visit the project or course page for more detailed information.
Once you've identified your project and prepared your supporting documents, you are ready to make a fomal application to the University.
You can do this online by visiting your chosen research project page and following the instructions to apply.
You will create an online account and be asked to upload your supporting documents.
Once you’ve submitted your application, we’ll send you details on how to access your applicant portal.
You’ll be able to track the progress of your application, update your personal information, view decisions and accept offers.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/how-to-apply/propose-research:
You’re not limited to our existing projects.
You can propose your own research, too.
First, you’ll need to submit a proposal for your research.
This includes identifying the supervisor you’d like to work with.
To pay for your research, there’s a range of funding available from scholarships, charities, loans and self-finance.
Proposing your own research at Birmingham is a six-step process.
The first thing you need to do is to consider which type of research degree you would like to study (PhD, MA/MSc by research or MRes).
You will then need to see to search our course listings to find a subject that is closely aligned to your proposed research area.
Doctoral degrees, such as the PhD, are the highest level of academic qualification.
They allow you to prove yourself to be capable of conducting original research and making a contribution to a field of knowledge.
As a postgraduate researcher you will usually contribute to the research life of your department by presenting papers at seminars and conferences.
Doctoral researchers often teach undergraduate classes during their degree programme.
A research Masters, such as the MSc by Research, is a good way to investigate a topic from your undergraduate study in greater depth, to prove your capacity for undertaking research and/or to demonstrate your suitability to progress to a doctoral degree.
These research-only Masters programmes are normally one-year full time, or two years if taken part time.
A Masters by Research involves the investigation and evaluation of an approved research project and the presentation of a research thesis of around 40,000 words, depending on your subject area.
You will receive supervision by one or more members of academic staff.
For entry to most of these programmes you will need a good undergraduate degree (usually a 2:1), or an equivalent qualification, in a relevant subject.
A combined research-and-taught Masters, such as the MRes, will provide you with both taught modules to increase your knowledge of a subject, and the opportunity to complete a research thesis with the appropriate training and supervision.
MRes programmes combine research and taught elements, and are normally one year in duration if studied on a full-time basis or two years if taken part time.
An MRes requires the production of a thesis of between 15,000 and 20,000 words on a specific research topic.
Providing a structured study programme and a broad range of training, it is an ideal stepping stone to a PhD programme.
Find your research theme by searching our postgraduate subject areas.
Once you have found your subject area you will need to check the entry requirements to see if you are eligible to undertake research with us.
Alternative equivalent qualifications and experience may also be considered but it's best to visit your course page for more detailed information.
Once you've identified a subject area, you will need to find a supervisor for your project.
All Doctoral Researchers are provided with a lead supervisor, who will act as the main source of academic supervisory support and research mentoring during your time as a Doctoral Researcher at the University.
Once you have ensured that the department to which you are applying is able to offer appropriate supervisory support in your research area, you can start to reach out to the staff members who you think will be a great fit as a your research supervisor.
You will usually have the same lead supervisor throughout your studies, however in some cases Doctoral Researchers may require additional supervision from another member of academic staff.
The appointment of a co-supervisor is generally decided between the prospective student and the lead supervisor.
Start by contacting potential supervisors by using the details provided on their staff profile.
There are many ways to finance your research degree; from scholarships and studentships to loans and partial funding from other sources.
A research proposal is a concise and ‭coherent summary of your proposed research.
‭It is a key part of your application, on which ‭potential supervisors will decide if your ‭research is something they can support.
A research proposal generally consists of an outline of your proposed research project, including your main research questions and the methods you intend to use.
Once you've identified a supervisor and completed your research proposal, you are ready to make a fomal application to the University.
You can do this by visiting the course page of the subject area most relevant to your research topic (e.g.
PhD English Literature).
You will need to upload your supporting documents, including your research proposal and potential supervisor name(s).
In addition to your research proposal, we’ll also ask for specific documents to support your application.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/doctoral-school:
We believe that research is transformative — for individuals, for societies, and for the world.
We work across all subject areas to offer exceptional supervision; tailored researcher development; wellbeing support and community engagement; global opportunities and sector placements; and career preparation for life after the PhD.
Countries represented
Academic research experts
My own research journey began at Birmingham, and now as Director of the Doctoral School, I’m proud to support the next generation of researchers - helping them thrive, connect, and change the world through their research.
It offers world-class supervision, a tailored development framework, and real-world engagement opportunities that prepare you to thrive — whatever your future holds.
As a researcher at Birmingham, you will have access to:
You'll have the chance to work alongside leading academics, engage with policymakers and industry leaders, and contribute to public discourse, ensuring your work makes a tangible difference.
Enjoy a world-class research environment with advanced labs, specialised centres, and collaborative spaces—all in the heart of the UK's second city, on a truly unique campus.
We are committed to helping you grow as a confident, capable, and impactful researcher — equipped with the skills and resilience to lead in academia, industry, and beyond.
At Birmingham, no two research journeys are the same.
Our researchers are a vibrant and diverse community — each following a pathway shaped by their passions, ideas, and ambitions.
From one-to-one career guidance and CV advice to networking events and employer presentations, you'll benefit from dedicated careers support tailored specifically for postgraduate researchers.
World University
(QS 2026)
in the UK for Research Power
alumni and staff have been recognised with Nobel prizes
If you’d like to study a research degree with us, there are generally two routes
you can take.
You can apply for an 'advertised PhD' or you can 'propose your own research'.
An ‘advertised PhD’ simply means that it’s part of an established research project at the University.
It’s also usually funded by us, or another funding body.
Alternatively, you can propose your own research.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/doctoral-programme:
The Birmingham Doctoral Programme shows the commitment, resources and support we deliver for all Birmingham postgraduate researchers.
It means you'll have access to:
You’ll work alongside leading academics, engage with policymakers and industry leaders, and contribute to public discourse, ensuring your work makes a tangible difference.
You'll enjoy a world-class research environment with advanced labs, specialized centers, and collaborative spaces—all in the heart of the UK's second city, on a truly unique campus.
Our doctoral researchers are a vibrant, diverse community — each following a pathway shaped by their passions, ideas, and ambitions.
From one-to-one career guidance and CV advice to networking events and employer presentations, you'll benefit from dedicated careers support tailored specifially to postgraduate resarchers.
The University Doctoral School supports postgraduate researchers throughout their time at the University of Birmingham.
At every stage of your journey, from induction through to graduation, we ensure you have the resources, guidance, and opportunities you need to thrive in your PhD and beyond.
The Birmingham Doctoral programme was designed to give Birmingham researchers the support they need to excel in their research, develop essential skills, and connect with global opportunities.
All postgraduate researchers at Birmingham — whether funded by UKRI, supported through industry collaborations, self-funded, or part-time — are part of the Birmingham Doctoral Programme.
Whatever your pathway, you’ll be fully supported to grow, connect, and achieve.
If you’d like to study a research degree with us, there are generally two routes you can take.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/how-to-apply:
We want to make applying for our postgraduate research degrees as simple and straightforward as possible.
Your first step is to decide what type of research degree is right for you.
Typically, there are two options to consider:
From scholarships and studentships, to loans and partial funding, you can
explore all the options available to you.
The University charges an annual tuition fee which covers the cost of your tuition, supervision, assessment and membership to the Guild of Students.
Tuition fees are payable at the start of your programme of study and at the beginning of each subsequent academic year.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/funding:
There are 2 main routes to fund your PhD:
You devise your own PhD topic, find a supervisor, write a research proposal and apply to the relevant programme.
If you’re offered a place at Birmingham, you can then apply for studentships or funding from various sources.
If you’re a UK national who normally lives in England, this government loan allows you to borrow up to £30,301 to help with course fees and living costs if your course starts on or after 1 August 2025.
Whether you're studying full-time or part-time, the loan is divided into equal payments for each year of your course, which can last from three to eight academic years.
If you started your course before 1 August 2025, you may still be able to apply for the Doctoral Loan.
Doctoral loans are also available for students who normally live in Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales.
You may be able to get financial support from a government-funded research council.
They’re known jointly as UKRI (United Kingdom Research and Innovation).
Full UKRI awards cover the cost of tuition fees and also provide a maintenance grant to support you during your studies.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/student-experience/stories/search/starting-a-phd-the-basics:
Felicity shares how she chose her PhD project, how she got started, and an insight into the life of a research student.
After completing an undergraduate degree in psychology, I knew that I enjoyed research and wanted to undertake a PhD.
Therefore, after narrowing down my topic area of interest to health and wellbeing in older adults, I started browsing for projects a year before I wanted to start my PhD.
This allowed me plenty of time to find a project that was right for me.
Three key areas were important to me when choosing my PhD:
With these requirements in mind, I focused my search for PhD projects on www.findaphd.com , which lists hundreds of potential projects.
You can search Birmingham projects on the University’s website.
Once I had found a project that interested me, I contacted the supervisors listed on the application.
I met with them online to discuss the project in more detail.
To learn more about what was on offer in the University and city, I also attended an open day .
I really liked the project, the supervisors, and the University so I decided to apply for my PhD.
Luckily my application was successful!
This is a difficult question to answer, as my days are so varied!
For example, in the first week of my PhD I attended an international conference, but I spent the majority of last week in the library.
As my PhD focuses on both theoretical and practical aspects of clinical trials methodology, I am currently working on several projects at once.
It can be difficult to juggle but is really enjoyable.
There is lots of flexibility when studying a PhD to make your own timetable.
Personally, I like to start working early, around 8am (08:00).
I then enjoy time to myself or with friends in the evening.
With that in mind, I often spend my mornings in the laboratory, practising techniques that I need for the practical section of my PhD.
Or I’ll be in the library, reading academic papers and catching up with emails.
My day is sometimes broken up by various meetings, often with my supervisors.
We have a lab group meeting every week.
It’s a nice opportunity to share what we are working on and help each other with any issues.
I also regularly attend research seminars in my department.
It’s refreshing to learn about other research that’s happening, especially if it’s not related to my own project.
Alongside this, I also try and take some time each day to try and develop my transferable skills.
At the moment I’m completing an online coding course.
This will be useful when analysing data from experiments in my PhD and applying to various tasks in the future.
It’s also a nice opportunity to connect with other researchers from outside of my department.
Overall, I really enjoy life as a PhD student.
There is lots of freedom to explore the topic that you’re interested in, whilst gaining lots of skills along the way.
I hope you found this blog interesting, and it gave you some useful tips for choosing your own PhD project!
PhD student funded by the Trials Methodology Research Partnership in the School of Sport, Exercise, and Rehabilitation S...

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/student-experience/meet-our-students/chat-with-our-postgrads:
The best advice about studying a Masters or PhD at Birmingham comes from our students.
Our friendly and welcoming postgraduate students are ready and waiting to chat and share their thoughts on our courses, stunning campus and life in a vibrant and cultural city.
Our students are only able to answer questions about student life and their experience of their course.
For all admissions queries, please refer to our Postgraduate Admissions FAQs .
Our postgraduate students and alumni share their experiences of settling in, studying, and living in Birmingham.
Join our virtual live chat sessions to speak to our staff and students about postgraduate study, funding and student life in Birmingham.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/online-learning/why-study-online:
As one of the largest providers of distance learning in the UK, we offer you a prestigious online education that matches the on-campus experience, taught by our same expert professors and lecturers.
You’ll have the freedom to study whenever and wherever it works best for you while benefitting from world-class instruction delivered by the same lecturers and faculty experts who teach on campus.
We also provide a range of flexible payment options to meet students where they are and lower the barrier to higher education.
You will become part of our alumni community and build a network of like-minded professionals on your course that will help you navigate your next steps in your career.
We’ll even support you in your job search with our Careers Network, linking you to global opportunities to launch or elevate your career.
You will have access to the latest in digital media to experience more dynamic and interactive learning.
Our course curriculum design encourages participation and connectivity through the use of video lectures, case studies, interactive assignments, digital resources and peer-to-peer social interaction.
You’ll be led by the same leading lecturers and faculty experts who teach on campus.
The University of Birmingham is a top quality school in England.
I wanted to make sure that the school I chose was well accredited, and with the triple-crown accreditation my degree will transfer back to the US.
Designed for public sector professionals aspiring to take senior leadership roles.
We offer more than 100 online courses at postgraduate level.
Search our wide range of online Masters, PhD and Short Courses using our course finder.
Advice and career progression from being an online distance learner.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/online-learning/how-does-it-work:
Rather than trying to replicate a campus-based setting online, we’ve built our programmes from the ground up, drawing on the latest technology to create a truly unique and immersive student experience.
The University of Birmingham brings the interactive nature of campus based learning to the digital environment.
Our courses are built with leading industry guest speakers, interactive case study assignments, discussion forums, simulations, group work activity and video lectures.
This is accessible on desktop, laptop, and mobile devices.
All your course content will be delivered through a virtual learning environment (VLE) called Canvas – the University’s online learning platform.
It therefore goes without saying that you will want a reliable laptop and a strong internet connection.
Should you ever have any difficulty whilst working in the platform, the 24-hour technical support team will always be there to help.
Study times and assessment types will vary from course to course, and from module to module.
As an online student, all your module information and assessments can be found within the Canvas VLE, only a few clicks away, giving you the ability to study and take your assessments wherever you are.
The way everything is structured genuinely makes it easy to follow along, which is a massive benefit for me.
The programme is not only informative, but also engaging, and I look forward to discovering what comes next.
A flexible, part-time path for professionals to gain advanced skills in supporting children with autism.
This online course empowers you to apply learning directly to your professional setting, enhancing your ability to support adults with autism.

New sentences found on https://birmingham.ac.uk/study/online-learning/supporting-online-study:
Even though you are studying remotely, you’re never far away from a helping hand.
From your recruitment, through to studying and career support, our team is here to help you throughout your online journey.
Throughout your study, your academic tutors will be on hand to help support you academically throughout the modules and programmes.
You will also have unlimited access to a range of online skills training.
If you’re having any practical, emotional or psychological issues, our confidential service can help.
Staffed by professional counsellors and wellbeing advisors, it offers
one-to-one sessions, online counselling, and a range of support groups.
At Birmingham, our aim is to make sure that success in your studies leads you on to a fulfilling career.
I chose to study at the University of Birmingham because I wanted the best school for my studies.
That and with the flexible online offering, I can keep my job and continue to earn as I study.
Develop the entrepreneurial thinking, analytical skills and self-awareness you need to make a meaningful impact in the field of engineering
Develop the business leadership skills necessary to drive new solutions and improve public health outcomes.