# Site: https://www.bolton.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 338
# --------

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk:
We use cookies to personalise content and ads, to provide social media features and to analyse our traffic.
We also share information about your use of our site with our social media,
          advertising and analytics partners who may combine it with other information that you’ve provided to them or that they’ve collected from your use of their services.
You consent to our cookies if you continue to use our website.
Learn more .
International
Staff
Students
Business
Open Days
Courses
Join Us
Student Life
More
Accountancy & Business
Apprenticeships
Biomedical Sciences & Medical Biology
Creative & Digital Arts, English & Creative Writing
Computer Science
Dance, Musical Theatre & Performance
Dental Sciences
Education, Early Years and Teacher Training
Engineering, Motorsport and Construction
Film FX, Film & TV Production
Games
Health and Social Care, Social Work & Community and Youth
Law & Crime and Criminal Justice
Paramedic Sciences
Nursing & Midwifery
Psychology
Physiotherapy & Sport Rehabilitation
Pre-University Study
Medicine
Welcome to #UniAsItShouldBe
We believe in you
Cost-of-living
Postgraduate Courses
Download a Brochure
Help Centre
How to Apply & Admissions
Research
Study with an Off-Campus Partner
Information for Parents, Guardians and Teachers
Mentored with Newlove
Care Experienced Students
Student Magazine
Summer School
Life at Bolton
Rent a Room Scheme
Student Support
Fees & Funding
Accommodation
Sport & Wellness
Facilities & Investment
Careers & Employability
Bolton & Greater Manchester
Visit the Bolton Students Union
National Student Survey
Gym Membership
Schools & Centres
Strategy & Vision
News
Business Gateway
Governance
Events
Sustainability
University Leadership
Vacancies
Alumni
Honorary Doctorates
Getting in Touch
Blogs
Welcome
Degree Outcomes Statement
Back to menu
Still weighing up your options?
Changed your mind?
Didn’t get the results you hoped for?
Beat the queues and secure your place with an immediate online conditional offer*.
Our instant offer tool makes Clearing as easy as 1-2-3.
Just provide a few details, find a course and secure your place for this September.
Visit our stunning campus - tour our facilities, speak with our tutors, and see why studying at Greater Manchester is a greater choice for your future.
*Offers subject to eligibility and UK students only.
Greater teaching, greater opportunities - a greater you.
At the University of Greater Manchester, we are proud to have been voted No.1 for Student Satisfaction in the UK for the past four years.
Ranked 32nd in the United Kingdom.
The Guardian 2024.
First in the North West for Student Satisfaction.
Times and Sunday Times.
For student satisfaction NW the Complete University Guide 2025.
The University of Greater Manchester is proud to deliver a supportive learning environment, where we put you, and your needs, first!
We're delighted to be No.
1 in the North West for Teaching Quality (The Times and Sunday Times, Good University Guide), and for the past 6 years, we have been ranked No.1 for Student Satisfaction (Complete University Guide - Student Satisfaction - North West).
Check our Help Centre for answers!
Our Help Centre is here to support you—whether you're exploring your options, applying
        to join us, or already a student.
You'll find clear, up-to-date advice on everything from
        admissions and funding to course details, student support, graduation, and more.
It's the
        quickest way to get the answers you need, all in one place.
Find clear guidance on how to apply, explore funding options and financial support, find out about our campus and discover how our expert team can help you at every stage of your application journey.
How do I apply
How do I contact the University
Can I visit
Find everything you need to know as an international applicant — from visa advice and English language requirements to helpful tips on preparing for life and study in the UK.
How to apply
Visa and immigration guidance
About Greater Manchester
Discover everything you need to know about applying through Clearing — and how we’re here to support and guide you every step of the way on your journey to joining us.
Essential Guide to Clearing
Course availability
Enquiry Team
University of Greater Manchester
enquiries@greatermanchester.ac.uk
+44 (0)1204 903903
Clearing
clearing@greatermanchester.ac.uk
0808 281 1111
Getting In Touch
Governance & Legal
Schools, Faculties & Centres
Policy Zone
Transparency Information
Access & Participation and Fee Information
Charitable Status
Data Protection
Equality & Diversity
Modern Slavery
Environmental Sustainability
Staff Area
Staff Directory
Students Area
Webmail Student
Webmail Staff
© 2025 University of Greater Manchester.
All rights reserved.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/governance/privacy-and-cookies:
The University of Bolton website does not capture or store personal information, but merely logs the user’s IP address which is automatically recognised by the webserver.
This is used to record the number of visitors to our site.
When we provide services, we want to make them easy, useful and reliable.
Where services are delivered on the internet, this sometimes involves placing small amounts of information on your device, for example, your computer or mobile phone.
These include small files known as cookies.
They cannot be used to identify you personally.
These pieces of information are used to improve services for you through, for example: Enabling a service to recognise your device so you don’t have to give the same information several times during one task Recognising that you may already have given a username and password so you don’t need to do it for every web page requested Measuring how many people are using services, so they can be made easier to use and there’s enough capacity to ensure they are fast Measuring the popularity of different areas of the website, to help us identify web pages that may need our attention
These pieces of information are used to improve services for you through, for example:
Our Use Of Cookies Google Tag Manager Terms of Service: By clicking “Yes” below or by using the Google Tag Manager service (the “Service”), you and the legal entity on whose behalf you are using the Service (if any) (together, “You”) agree to use the Service in accordance with the Google Terms of Service (located at https://www.google.com/intl/en/policies/terms/ ), the Google Privacy Policy (located at https://www.google.com/intl/en/policies/privacy/ ), and the Google Tag Manager Use Policy (located at https://www.google.com/analytics/tag-manager/use-policy/ ), each as may be modified from time to time and collectively, the “Google Tag Manager Terms of Service.” Google Tag Manager Use Policy Use of the Google Tag Manager (the “Service”) is subject to this Google Tag Manager Use Policy (the “GTM Use Policy”).
If You use the Service to support products or services from a 3rd party or designed by You (together, “3rd Party Tags”) or Google, You will have and abide by an appropriate privacy policy and will comply with the EU user consent policy (located at https://www.google.com/about/company/user-consent-policy.htm l) and all applicable agreements and regulations (also relating to the collection of information), including for example: The Google Analytics Terms of Service located at: https://www.google.com/analytics/terms/us.html, The agreement between You and DoubleClick that is in effect during the dates that You are participating in the Service, and The Google Inc.
Advertising Program Terms (or, if applicable, as negotiated).
If You Have 3rd Party Tags Delivered Through The Service: Google is not responsible for 3rd Party Tags.
Google may screen such 3rd Party Tags to ensure compliance with this GTM Use Policy.
You guarantee that You have the rights to upload the 3rd Party Tags.
You agree not to, and not to allow third parties to use the Service or interfaces provided with the Service To engage in or promote any unlawful, infringing, defamatory or otherwise harmful activity; To disable, interfere with or circumvent any aspect of the Service; to upload any data to Google Tag Manager that personally identifies an individual (such as a name, email address or billing information), or other data which can be reasonably linked to such information by Google, or To access any other Google product or service in a manner that violates their respective terms.
For Google Analytics 360 Suite Home users, Your use of the Google Analytics 360 Suite Home is governed by the Google Analytics 360 Suite Home Terms of Service available at https://360suite.google.com/terms (or such other URL as Google may provide) and as modified from time to time (the “Suite Home Terms”); subject to Section 2 of the Suite Home Terms, use of the Service will continue to be governed by the Google Tag Manager Terms of Service.
We may collect information such as how the Service is used, and how and what tags are deployed.
We may use this data to improve, maintain, protect and develop the Service as described in our privacy policy, but we will not share this data with any other Google product without Your consent.
For more information about Google Analytics visit the Google Analytics website.
AdRoll Cookie As you browse the University of Greater Manchester, advertising cookies will be placed on your computer so that we can understand what you are interested in.
Our display advertising partner, AdRoll, then enables us to present you with retargeting advertising on other sites based on your previous interaction with University of Greater Manchester.
The techniques our partners employ do not collect personal information such as your name, email address, postal address or telephone number.
You can visit this page to opt out of AdRoll and their partners’ targeted advertising.
Removing and disabling cookies If you do not wish to accept cookies on to your machine you can disable them by adjusting the settings on your web browser.
However, this will affect the functionality of the websites you visit.
Google Analytics Opt-out Browser Add-on Google have developed a browser add-on that tells the Analytics script not to record any details of a visit to any website.
To find out more visit the Browser Add-on page on the Google website.
Google Tag Manager Terms of Service:
By clicking “Yes” below or by using the Google Tag Manager service (the “Service”), you and the legal entity on whose behalf you are using the Service (if any) (together, “You”) agree to use the Service in accordance with the Google Terms of Service (located at https://www.google.com/intl/en/policies/terms/ ), the Google Privacy Policy (located at https://www.google.com/intl/en/policies/privacy/ ), and the Google Tag Manager Use Policy (located at https://www.google.com/analytics/tag-manager/use-policy/ ), each as may be modified from time to time and collectively, the “Google Tag Manager Terms of Service.”
Use of the Google Tag Manager (the “Service”) is subject to this Google Tag Manager Use Policy (the “GTM Use Policy”).
If You use the Service to support products or services from a 3rd party or designed by You (together, “3rd Party Tags”) or Google, You will have and abide by an appropriate privacy policy and will comply with the EU user consent policy (located at https://www.google.com/about/company/user-consent-policy.htm l) and all applicable agreements and regulations (also relating to the collection of information), including for example:
AdRoll Cookie
As you browse the University of Greater Manchester, advertising cookies will be placed on your computer so that we can understand what you are interested in.
Removing and disabling cookies
If you do not wish to accept cookies on to your machine you can disable them by adjusting the settings on your web browser.
Google Analytics Opt-out Browser Add-on
Google have developed a browser add-on that tells the Analytics script not to record any details of a visit to any website.
Download the app for your smartphone from:

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/clearing:
Apply for clearing and start this September.
Clearing gives you another chance – and we’re here to help you make the most of it.
At the University of Greater Manchester, we’re ranked 32nd in the UK (Guardian University Guide), known for our friendly, welcoming community, and focused on helping you become a greater you.
There are a number of ways you can apply for a course through Clearing at the University of Greater Manchester.
You can apply through UCAS Hub , using our Offer Generator below, or by calling our admissions team on 0808 281 1111.
Our Clearing line team will take your application over the phone and make you an official offer on the spot.
The team will also support you through the enrolment process, to make it as easy as possible for you.
Got questions?
Read our Essential Guide to Clearing .
We’ll guide you step by step – and can complete your application with you.
Call our Clearing hotline on 0808 281 1111 or email clearing@greatermanchester.ac.uk .
Our instant offer tool makes Clearing simple.
Just provide a few details, see which courses match your UCAS points, and get an instant offer – all online.
You can secure your place for this September in minutes.
Don’t have your results yet?
Give us a call on 0808 281 1111 and we’ll guide you through it.
Calculate my UCAS points
Don't know your results or UCAS points?
This course will require an interview
Course overview
You need to finalise your conditional offer and verify your information.
*subject to eligibility, course availability and verification.
See common ways to achieve your UCAS points using different qualifications.
The table below gives quick grade examples.
You can check the full tariff calculator or our detailed guidance for more options.
Use Add to include your choices in your form.
32
1 A2 at C or 2 A2 at EE
Diploma PP or Subsidiary M
Pass (D/E core)
Diploma 24 pts
45 Level 3 credits at Pass
40
1 A2 at B or 2 A2 at DE
Diploma PPP or Subsidiary D
48
1 A2 at A or 2 A2 at DD
64
2 A2 at CC or 3 A2 at DDE
Diploma MPP or Subsidiary D + C
45 credits: 6D, 3M, 36P
88
2 A2 at AB or 3 A2 at CCD
Diploma MMM or Subsidiary D + B
Pass (C + core)
45 credits: 18D, 3M, 24P
96
2 A2 at AA or 3 A2 at CCC
Diploma MMM or Subsidiary D + A
45 credits: 21D, 3M, 21P
104
2 A2 at A*A or 3 A2 at BCC
Diploma DMM
Merit
Diploma 25 pts
45 credits: 27D, 18P
112
2 A2 at A*A* or 3 A2 at BBC
45 credits: 30D, 15P
120
3 A2 at ABC or BBB
Diploma DDM
Diploma 26 pts
45 credits: 33D, 3M, 9P
Unsure?
We can help - Call 0808 281 111
No problem - our admissions team are here to help
Confused about clearing?
Don’t be - our team is here to help.
Find out all you need to know about applying during Clearing, and how our award-winning Student Services team can guide you through your journey to Higher Education.
What is Clearing?
How to pre-register for clearing?
Is Clearing open?
Why do I need to call before referring myself?
What is the Clearing line number?
How do I get an offer in Clearing?
Where do I send my qualifications during clearing?
What courses are available in Clearing?
I want to talk to someone about my options.
I have a place at another university but now wish to study at UGM, can I still apply?
I have a place at UGM, but would like to change to a different course - what should I do next?
When is Clearing and can I apply for courses starting the next year?
I submitted a direct application during Clearing, how long till I hear back?
Have you any Clearing vacancies?
Do you have vacancies in the subject I am interested in?

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/study/international:
Welcome to #UniAsiItShouldBe.
Our student-centric approach to putting you first is what makes Bolton a place that you can call home.
Want to look at our campus?
Check out our 360-degree virtual tour and walk inside our buildings for yourself.
See what facilities our Bolton family has to offer from our small and supportive learning environment.
At the University of Greater Manchester, we understand that moving to a new country can be daunting.
That’s why we’re here to help you.
We have the facilities in place to help you settle into life in the UK as quickly as possible.
Have a click below to read extra information about travelling and studying in Bolton.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/staff-area:
Welcome to the staff portal.
We hope that on the page, you will find everything that you need at your fingertips.
Keep updated with everything going on around campus and beyond via Inside UoB – your dedicated staff e-newsletter.
Bradford Nursing (Lister Mills)
17 Sep 25
27 Sep 25
University Careers Fair 2025
13 Nov 25
Bristol Online Surveys
Exam timetables
HEAR (Higher Education Achievement Report)
LEAP Online
The library
Timetables
Quality Transformation Unit
STEP – Staff Teaching Enhancement Programme
Student attendance
Equality and diversity
Health and Safety
External accounts
External user registry – create external user accounts
External access request system for University of Bolton (Moodle course)
Externals e:Vision access form
IST Portal – ISTHMUS (restricted – university computers)
Information security policies
IT support services webpages
Moodle 2 – staff training material & information
SITS Client Access Form
Sponsor form for new group
Telephone codes
Careers
Facilities Team
Health & Safety (Staff Only)
HR
myHR – employee self service
Spirituality, faith & beliefs (Chaplaincy)
Sport & recreation service
Student Services
The Finance Office
CELCAT – timetables, registers & occasional room bookings
Content management enquiries
Congregation attendance (restricted)
Inside UoB – staff bulletin
Modules database (new)
Module database (archive)
Programmes specification database
QualTrack
Staff search
Student records
Statistical (SDM) data requests (restricted)
SDM assessment queries
Bullying and harassmment
Explore Our Schools
Emergency numbers
Fire and evacuation
IT support
Loneliness
Medicine and ambulance
Mental health and wellbeing
Money worries
Nightline
Police
Report a fault
Study worries

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/student-area:
On this page we hope that you find everything that you are looking for to enhance your experience at the University of Bolton.
Whether that is access to things such as your timetable, Moodle or computer availability, to knowing what clubs and societies are on offer.
Don’t forget our award-winning student services team are here to support you, and hope that your time at university is as positive as possible.
University of Bolton Students and Graduates can access many resources from booking appointments with trained career advisers to finding your timetable.
LEAP Online is designed to support your academic and personal development.
Each section contains information, videos and activities.
You can earn digital badges by completing the assessments.
When it comes to University, there is a lot is going on, both in the lead-up to starting and while studying.
While this may leave you feeling overwhelmed, there are a wealth of support services available to you at Bolton.
We are here to put you, the student, first!
Our Customer Service Excellence Award-winning Student Services team are here to support you from the moment you enrol and throughout your time at University.
Find out more about the services available using the links below.
Please select your device from below for instructions on how to setup your University of Greater Manchester email account.
We’re here to help you love student life!
We are your Students' Union at the University of Greater Manchester.
We offer opportunities, representation, advice, societies, events and so much more - all to help you get the most out of your student experience!

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/business:
Access to a network of academic experts and
                    sector specialists across the University of Greater Manchester
                    Group
Expert advice from business specialists, mentoring
                    and networking opportunities
Toolkits, webinars and other resources
Apprenticeships allow you to invest in your business’s future.
By taking on an apprentice or by supporting existing members of staff through an apprenticeship, you could develop specialist skills for your business that allow you to keep ahead of new technologies and competitors.
Apprenticeships from L2 to L7
We have a range of training a CPD courses and we will collaborate with you to develop bespoke training courses for your employees and management.
Bespoke training and CPD packages, developed to help your business grow.
Access to free, on-demand learning , online leadership and
                        management resources
Established centres and areas of expertise
Contract research/testing and research
                    partnerships
Public and community engagement work
Consultancy, innovation and collaboration with specialist staff and students
Funding opportunities (including Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTP) and Innovation vouchers)
Working with Rob and the team at the Centre of Advanced
                                        Manufacturing has been a wonderful experience.
Their
                                        knowledge of the industry has allowed them to identify key
                                        challenges and position the centre with the required
                                        expertise and equipment to address these challenges
                                        through cutting edge research.
This research will provide
                                        industry with the knowledge to adopt and exploit these
                                        advanced manufacturing techniques.
In addition, the
                                        centre will give students hands-on experience with these
                                        advanced manufacturing and qualification processes and
                                        provide them with the skills required to advance in their
                                        own careers.
Chief Technology Officer | Plastometrex
Our students and graduates can bring the latest skills and
                        knowledge to your business through placements, student
                        consultancy projects, full and part-time roles and seasonal jobs.
Working together, we can assist you to reach the right talent for
                        your business and raise your company profile on campus.
As an employer, you can work with our dedicated Employer
                        Engagement Consultants for access to student talent,
                        recruitment advice and support.
Recruit a student or graduate for a part-time, casual or full-time
                        role – including placement opportunities, internships, live briefs
                        and graduate jobs
Attract the right candidate – we can support with advertising and
                        shortlisting
Attend our careers fairs and employability events and promote
                        your brand to our University community
Connect with us on LinkedIn and follow us on Twitter !
To see what
                            our Student Employment Champions are up to, follow our Instagram account.
As part of the £13 million, state-of-the-art National Centre Motorsport Engineering, the brand-new Centre for Advanced Manufacturing (CfAM) will offer sector-leading equipment and capabilities list to partners.
We’re excited about partnering with companies like Xact Metal to deliver increased accessibility for companies looking to maximise the benefit of additive manufacturing.
Powder analysis, characterisation and test of metallic and polymer powders
A composite space including large and small ovens, a hot press and an autoclave
An additive manufacturing capability including powder and wire
                    polymers, powder bed fusion of a variety of metals across
                    multiple platforms, and a binder system by Desktop Meta
A test lab including metallurgical preparation, microscopy, static
                    and dynamic testing, and indentation plastometry alongside
                    chemical and surface measurement and metrology
The University of Greater Manchester’s Institute of
                    Medical Sciences is a new £40m skills
                    training centre for clinical healthcare
                    roles.
The first development of its kind in
                    Greater Manchester, it will transform the
                    way people are trained and employed in
                    the healthcare sector.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/open-days:
Visiting a university you are considering applying to (or have already!) is a great way to get a feel for the place, helping you make an informed decision when making your choices.
Our Open Days offer a mixture of presentations and tours, alongside activities and workshops led by our own students and Student Life team, designed to give you a snapshot of what being a UoB student is like.
Every Open Day is slightly different but you can be assured of a friendly and welcoming experience whether you choose to you can come along solo, or invite friends and family along to make sure you ask all the right questions.
Open Day Extra - These all singing, all dancing timetabled events cover all of our undergraduate and postgraduate programmes.
They combine subject talks and workshops across our full campus, with opportunities to speak with lecturers, support staff and current students about studying at Bolton.
These events really do go the ‘Extra’ mile to help you with your future study decisions.
Mini Open Day - These smaller scale drop-in events allow you to speak with our academic staff about all elements of the programme, as well as discover the wide range of support available to you as a Bolton student.
These events are perfect if you have quick questions or want to find out more about our courses on a one-to-one basis.
At the above events representatives from the disability service , student funding , student services and careers service are also on hand to discuss any additional support needs you may have, advise you regarding tuition fees , fees and funding as well as offer guidance regarding your future career and increasing your employability .
School of Arts & Creative Technologies Open Day - This specialist event is focussed on our courses within the Arts and Creative Technologies sector, with expert advice and guidance, tours of our specialist facilities and engaging workshops delivered by our academic staff.
Note: - If you are interested in courses outside of the School of Arts & Creative Technology, please you book yourself onto one of our other fantastic open events to get the best experience and advice
Admissions Drop-In - Speak with our expert admissions team about your application.
While our academic staff won’t be present, you can be sure to get all the information you’ll need regarding our admissions process, your status and next steps, and the opportunity to ask any other questions you may have.
Nursing Open Evening - These specialist events cover our School of Nursing and Midwifery courses.
Hear from our academic experts about our programmes, placement opportunities and ways to make sure your application stands out, as well as touring our state-of-the-art Clinical Simulation Suites.
CPD Events - These virtual drop-in sessions cover our accredited Continued Professional Development options delivered at the University, ranging from stand-alone modules to Master’s degrees.
If you are a current health and social care professional looking to keep your skills, knowledge and behaviours up to date, this is the event for you.
For guidance or help with booking a place, get in touch with our dedicated team at: opendays@bolton.ac.uk or call 01204 903807.
We are here to help you make the right choice.
“ Receiving advice for my portfolio also really helped me to start to know what I need to do to make my portfolio better, and seeing all facilities has helped me to make an informed decision on where I want to go.
”
“ From being at the open day, hearing all the information, talking to staff and student ambassadors, looking at the facilities, seeing the accommodation, meeting tutors for the course I'm interested in, learning about Animation and Illustration and getting advice on my portfolio has all made me know that this is the university for me.
I'm so glad I came!
“ It was an amazing experience ”

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/courses:
Loading, please wait

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/join-us:
The University of Bolton is a dynamic, vibrant and friendly university that offers a student experience like no other.
Our goal is to help you reach your potential, while developing important life skills in a positive and supportive environment.
We are one of the best universities in the UK and we have the accolades to prove it.
Voted No.1 in the North West for Student Satisfaction for the past five years (Complete University Guide in 2023, 2022, 2021, 2020, and 2019), we make a great choice for your undergraduate degree.
And ranked the Top 5 in the UK for Teaching Quality (The Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide in 2021 and 2020), you’ll be guaranteed an outstanding course experience.
Why choose the University of Bolton?
An inclusive, friendly, and positive approach is what makes us stand out from other UK universities.
Our passionate lecturers provide one-to-one mentorship, and will get to know you and as importantly, your career goals.
We nurture your talent and will also work with you upon graduation to find suitable jobs or career paths, thanks to our dedicated Employability Team.
Why study here?
* We provide a supportive learning environment * We offer industry-standard facilities and equipment * We have relatively small classes to maintain the best teaching quality * We have direct links with employers to support our students’ career ambitions.
2021 financial support to be confirmed.
More than just a place to study As well as being a top university for Undergraduate courses, the University of Bolton offers a lively atmosphere where students feel engaged, included and looked after.
From sport clubs and socials to our energetic Students’ Union, student life here is always exciting.
Home to more than 11,000 full-time and part-time students, our student community is a great place to make friends.
People from all backgrounds and parts of the world are welcome, and there are plenty of opportunities to expand your social circle and build meaningful relationships.
Undergraduate courses that inspire Whether you are an international or UK student, we have a wide range of Undergraduate courses to suit everyone.
Our goal is to inspire you and prepare you for those first steps in your career.
That’s why we don’t just teach and send you on your way.
Upon graduation, our Employability Team will work with you, and hopefully help you secure a job.
If you’re excited to begin your future with us, find out more about our Open Days and book your place.
More than just a place to study
As well as being a top university for Undergraduate courses, the University of Bolton offers a lively atmosphere where students feel engaged, included and looked after.
Undergraduate courses that inspire
Whether you are an international or UK student, we have a wide range of Undergraduate courses to suit everyone.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/student-life:
A positive student experience is what we all want!
Those who join the Bolton family can expect nothing but a quality education, where all our courses are taught by experienced, passionate and supportive lecturers.
Our teaching intensive approach is core to our successes, resulting in the University of Bolton being number one in the Northwest for teaching quality, according to The Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2023.
We are extremely proud that our students have voted us as the number one university in the Northwest for student satisfaction for the past four years, according to the Complete University Guide 2019-2023.
Located on a modern friendly campus, the University of Bolton not only provides students with exciting social opportunities, including our vast number of clubs and societies, but we also offer free specialist services for students if further support is ever required.
These services include: Careers & Employability Chaplaincy Disability Support Immigration & Welfare Pets as Therapy Student Finance and Funding Advice Student Liaison Officer Wellbeing support (including Counselling and Cognitive Behavioural Therapy) If you would like more information about these services on offer, please visit the Support Services page.
These services include:
If you would like more information about these services on offer, please visit the Support Services page.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/subject-areas/accountancy-and-business:
Top 40 University in the
                                United Kingdom.
The
                                Guardian 2024.
First in the North West
                                for Student Satisfaction.
For student satisfaction
                                the Complete University
                                Guide 2024.
Launch your career in business or accountancy with confidence.
Our undergraduate and postgraduate courses combine expert teaching, practical skills, and strong industry links.
Whether you're starting out or seeking to progress, you'll gain real-world experience, tailored support, and recognised qualifications to succeed in finance, management, entrepreneurship, and beyond.
Career-ready with real-world placements: Gain valuable business and accountancy experience through hands-on placements, guided by industry-savvy academics.
Dual award for business students: Earn a CMI Level 5 Diploma in Leadership and Management alongside your business degree.
ACCA Gold Partner since 2012 – our undergraduate accountancy degree offers maximum exemptions towards professional ACCA accreditation.
BA (Hons) Accountancy
BSc (Hons) Business Management
BSc (Hons) Digital Management and Marketing
BA (Hons) Accountancy with foundation year
BSc (Hons) Business Management with foundation year
BSc (Hons) Business Management (Enterprise) (top-up)
BSc (Hons) Business Management (Finance) top-up
BSc (Hons) Business Management (Information Systems): top-up
BSc (Hons) Business Management (Marketing) top-up
BSc (Hons) Business Management (People Management) top-up
BSc (Hons) Business Management (Retail) top-up
BSc (Hons) Business Management (Supply Chain) top-up
BSc (Hons) Business Management (top-up)
BSc (Hons) Business Management with Industrial Placement Year
BSc (Hons) Entrepreneurship and Business Start-Up
BSc (Hons) Retail Business Management (Chartered Manager Degree Apprenticeship)
MBA (Global Healthcare Management)
MBA (Global Healthcare Management) top-up
MRes International Relations
MRes Islamic Economics and Finance
MRes Leadership and Strategy
MRes Logistics and Supply Chain Management
MRes Strategy and Leadership
BSc (Hons) Business Management (Chartered Manager Degree Apprenticeship)
BSc (Hons) Business Management: Health and Social Care (top-up) (Chartered Manager Degree Apprenticeship)
MA Global Educational Leadership (online)
EdD Professional Doctorate in Educational Leadership (Online)
AdvDip(CPD)  ACCA Strategic Professional (Accountancy Professional Level 7 Apprenticeship)
BSc (Hons) Business Management (Finance)
BSc (Hons) Business Management (Marketing)
BSc (Hons) Business Management (People Management)
BSc (Hons) Business Management (Retail)
BSc (Hons) Business Management (Supply Chain)
BSc (Hons) Finance and Accounting
BSc (Hons) International Business Management
BSc (Hons) Business Management (Finance) with foundation year
BSc (Hons) Business Management (Marketing) with foundation year
BSc (Hons) Business Management (People Management) with foundation year
BSc (Hons) Business Management (Retail) with foundation year
BSc (Hons) Business Management (Supply Chain) with foundation year
BSc (Hons) Finance and Accounting with Integrated foundation year
BSc (Hons) International Business Management with integrated foundation year
BSc (Hons) Business Management HE6 top-up
MSc Accountancy and Financial Management
MBA Business Administration
MSc Entrepreneurship and Innovation
MSc Entrepreneurship and Innovation: Extended
MBA International (Graduate Entry)
MBA International (Graduate Entry) - Jan Start
MSc International Management
MSc International Management: 18 months
MSc Logistics and Supply Chain Management
MSc Logistics and Supply Chain Management: January Start
MBA Master of Business Administration (Islamic Finance)
MBA Master of Business Administration (Islamic Finance) - May
MBA Masters in Business Administration:18 months
MBA Master of Business Administration (top-up)
MBA Master of Business Administration (Islamic Finance) (Executive)
MBA Master of Business Administration
MBA Alternative Dispute Resolution (online)
MBA (Executive)
MSc Project Management
MBA top-up (Executive)

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/apprenticeships:
Find out how to become an apprentice, what apprenticeships
                                    are available, which employers offer them and information
                                    about starting your apprenticeship.
Looking to kick-start your career with an apprenticeship?
Register for our employers database and get early access
                                                    to apprenticeships in Greater Manchester.
Looking to future-proof your business by participating in our apprenticeship programme?
Register to access our Guide to Apprenticeships now.
Yep!
For a Degree Apprenticeship, you will need an
                                            employer who is willing to support you through your programme.
Your employer
                                            can email our team to begin the process or answer any questions they may
                                            have at apprentices@bolton.ac.uk
A Degree Apprenticeship enables you to gain a full
                                            undergraduate or master’s degree and earn while you learn.
You will spend
                                            most of the time working and part-time at university studying for your
                                            degree.
You will need a Grade 4 or above in GCSE English and Maths.
For certain courses, you may need additional qualifications or certificates.
If this is the case, we’ll let you know before enrolling on
                                            the course.
No courses found
The University of Greater Manchester's professionally endorsed
                                                BA (Hons) Community Development and Youth Work (Youth Worker Degree
                                                Apprenticeship) allows you to invest in your workforce by combining
                                                university ed...
Level of Study
Apprenticeship
Where
Duration
3 years
Mode
Full-time
UCAS Points
Our BSc (Hons) Digital and Technology Solutions: Cyber
                                                Security (Degree Apprenticeship Route) allows you to invest in your
                                                workforce by combining university education, work-based learning and
                                                ongoing ...
Our BSc (Hons) Digital and Technology Solutions: Data
                                                Analyst (Degree Apprenticeship Route) allows you to invest in your
                                                workforce by combining university education, work-based learning and
                                                ongoing pr...
Our BSc (Hons) Digital and Technology Solutions:
                                                Network Engineering (Degree Apprenticeship Route) allows you to invest
                                                in your workforce by combining university education, work-based learning
                                                and ong...
Our BSc (Hons) Digital and Technology Solutions:
                                                Software Engineering (Degree Apprenticeship Route) allows you to invest
                                                in your workforce by combining university education, work-based learning
                                                and on...
Our BEng (Hons) Electrical and Electronic Engineering
                                                (Embedded Electronic Systems Design and Development Engineer Degree
                                                Apprenticeship) allows you to invest in your workforce by combining
                                                university...
Our BSc (Hons) Nursing - Registered Nurse Degree
                                                Apprenticeship (RNDA) (Adult) allows you to invest in your workforce by
                                                combining higher education, work-based learning and ongoing professional
                                                develo...
Our BSc (Hons) Nursing - Registered Nurse Degree
                                                Apprenticeship (RNDA) (Mental Health) allows you to invest in your
                                                workforce by combining university education, work-based learning and
                                                ongoing profess...
Our HCPC-approved degree apprenticeship allows you to
                                                invest in your workforce by combining university education, work-based
                                                learning and professional development.
You can offer apprentices
                                                rewarding ...
0
Our Level 6 CMI-accredited BSc (Hons) Retail Business
                                                Management (Chartered Manager Degree Apprenticeship) allows you to
                                                invest in your workforce by combining university education, work-based
                                                learning...
4 years
The University of Greater Manchester's Social Work
                                                England-approved BA (Hons) Social Work (Degree Apprenticeship) allows
                                                you to invest in your workforce by combining university education,
                                                work-based learning and ...
Our PgDip Community Nurse Specialist Practitioner
                                                (District Nursing) degree apprenticeship allows you to invest in your
                                                workforce by combining higher education, work-based learning and ongoing
                                                profess...
Other
53 weeks
Our PgDip Community Nurse Specialist Practitioner
                                                (District Nursing) with (V300) integrated non-medical prescribing degree
                                                apprenticeship allows you to invest in your workforce by combining
                                                higher edu...
Our PgDip Community Nurse Specialist Practitioner
                                                (General Practice Nursing) degree apprenticeship allows you to invest in
                                                your workforce by combining higher education, work-based learning and
                                                ongoing...
Our PgDip Community Nurse Specialist Practitioner
                                                (General Practice Nursing) with integrated V300 (Non-Medical
                                                Prescribing) degree apprenticeship course allows you to invest in your
                                                workforce by combi...
12 months
Our FdA Health and Social Care (Assistant Practitioner
                                                (Health) Higher Apprenticeship Route) combines on and off-the-job
                                                learning and development tailored to your workforce needs.
While working
                                                as a v...
2 years
Our Level 5 FdSc Nursing Associate (Higher
                                                Apprenticeship Route) allows you to invest in your workforce by
                                                combining University education, work-based learning and ongoing
                                                professional development.
Whi...
Our NMC-approved PgDip Specialist Community Public
                                                Health Nursing (Health Visitor) Degree Apprenticeship allows you to
                                                invest in your workforce by combining higher education, work-based
                                                learning and o...
Our NMC-approved PgDip Specialist Community Public
                                                Health Nursing (School Nurse) Degree Apprenticeship allows you to invest
                                                in your workforce by combining higher education, work-based learning and
                                                ong...
The University of Greater Manchester's Level 6 CMI-accredited
                                                BSc (Hons) Business Management (Chartered Manager Degree Apprenticeship)
                                                allows you to invest in your workforce by combining university
                                                education, wor...
Part-time
Our CMI accredited Chartered Manager Degree
                                                Apprenticeship (CMDA) allows you to invest in your workforce by
                                                combining university education, work-based learning and ongoing
                                                professional development lea...
Our JBM-accredited BEng (Hons) Civil Engineering (Civil
                                                Engineer Degree Apprenticeship Route) allows you to invest in your
                                                workforce by combining university education, work-based learning and
                                                ongoing ...
5 years
Our BSc (Hons) Construction Project Management
                                                (Construction Site Management Degree Apprenticeship) allows you to
                                                invest in your workforce by combining university education, work-based
                                                learning and on...
Our BSc (Hons) Construction Project Management (Design
                                                and Construction Management Degree Apprenticeship) allows you to invest
                                                in your workforce by combining university education, work-based learning
                                                ...
Our BEng (Hons) Electrical and Electronic Engineering
                                                (Electrical/Electronic Technical Support Engineer Degree Apprenticeship)
                                                allows you to invest in your workforce by combining university
                                                education,...
4.5 years
60 months
Our IMechE-accredited BEng (Hons) Mechanical
                                                Engineering (Manufacturing Engineer Degree Apprenticeship) allows you to
                                                invest in your workforce by combining university education, work-based
                                                learning an...
Our IMechE-accredited BEng (Hons) Mechanical
                                                Engineering (Product Design and Development Engineer Degree
                                                Apprenticeship) allows you to invest in your workforce by combining
                                                university education, work-...
56 months
The University of Greater Manchester's Level 7 ACCA Strategic
                                                Professional (Accountancy Professional Level 7 Apprenticeship) allows
                                                you to invest in your professional staff by combining university
                                                education, work...
39 months
Our MSc Advanced Clinical Practice (Integrated Degree
                                                Apprenticeship) allows you to invest in your workforce by combining
                                                university education, work-based learning and ongoing professional
                                                development...
24 months
Our MSc Advanced Clinical Practice (Integrated Degree
                                                Apprenticeship) (Acute Medicine) allows you to invest in your workforce
                                                by combining university education, work-based learning and ongoing
                                                profess...
Our MSc Advanced Clinical Practice (Integrated Degree
                                                Apprenticeship) (Geriatric Medicine) allows you to invest in your
                                                workforce by combining university education, work-based learning and
                                                ongoing pro...
Our MSc Advanced Clinical Practice (Integrated Degree
                                                Apprenticeship) (Mental Health) allows you to invest in your workforce
                                                by combining university education, work-based learning and ongoing
                                                professi...
Our MSc Advanced Clinical Practice (Integrated Degree
                                                Apprenticeship) (Primary Care) allows you to invest in your workforce by
                                                combining university education, work-based learning and ongoing
                                                professio...
Our MSc Advanced Clinical Practice (Integrated Degree
                                                Apprenticeship) (Respiratory) allows you to invest in your workforce by
                                                combining university education, work-based learning and ongoing
                                                profession...
Our MSc Electrical and Electronic Engineering (PG
                                                Engineer Degree Apprenticeship) allows you to invest in your workforce
                                                by combining university education, work-based learning and ongoing
                                                professional...
30 months
Our MRes Engineering Management (Postgraduate Engineer
                                                Apprenticeship Route) allows you to invest in your workforce by
                                                combining university education, work-based learning and ongoing
                                                professional deve...
The University of Greater Manchester's Level 5 FdSc Dental
                                                Technology - Higher Apprenticeship Integrated EPA programme allows you
                                                to invest in your employees by combining university education,
                                                work-based learning...
Our MSc Mechanical Engineering (Degree Apprenticeship)
                                                allows you to invest in your workforce by combining university
                                                education, work-based learning and ongoing professional development.
While working...
Our PgDip Senior Leader: Heath and Social Care (Degree
                                                Apprenticeship) allows you to invest in your leadership team by
                                                combining university education, work-based learning and professional
                                                development....
The University of Greater Manchester's MSc Systems Engineering
                                                (Electronic) and Engineering Management (Degree Apprenticeship Route)
                                                allows you to invest in your workforce by combining university
                                                education, work-...
36 months
The University of Greater Manchester's MSc Systems Engineering
                                                (Mechanical) and Engineering Management (Degree Apprenticeship Route)
                                                allows you to invest in your workforce by combining university
                                                education, work-...
Our MSc Systems Engineering (Mechatronic) and
                                                Engineering Management (Degree Apprenticeship Route) allows you to
                                                invest in your workforce by combining university education, work-based
                                                learning and ong...
In today’s fast-paced job market, traditional pathways to
                                            success are continually evolving.
One of the most promising avenues for
                                            growth is through apprenticeships
Today many employers recognise the value of
                                            apprenticeships as a powerful tool for workforce development.
However,
                                            navigating the world of apprenticeships
The demand for skilled workers with digital expertise is
                                            more important than ever in today’s remote and hybrid landscape.Companies
                                            across various sectors are seeking ways...
I chose this course
                                                        as I had been working in the Civil team at Jacobs for 4 years prior
                                                        and I wanted to become a qualified civil engineer on a course
                                                        that was accredited by the Institution of Civil Engineers (ICE).
By choosing the apprenticeship route, I was able to gain my
                                                        degree but also work towards my Incorporated Engineer (IEng)
                                                        status with the ICE at the same time.
I thoroughly enjoyed the site surveying module as we went outside
                                                        and used the total stations and dumpy levels.
Using the
                                                        equipment outside made it much easier to understand [its]
                                                        purpose as we could physically use it and see what it did.
Show
                                                                more There was a good mix of assignments, practical work and
                                                                exams, with the assignments and [practicals] also being
                                                                a mix of individual work and teamwork in groups.
[Lastly], the Moodle page is a tool that supported me
                                                                greatly throughout my apprenticeships.
If you ever need
                                                                to find anything relating to modules you will find it on
                                                                Moodle.
My main goal when starting at Jacobs was to become a
                                                                qualified Civil Engineer with IEng status and the
                                                                apprenticeship has allowed me to achieve this.
[I]
                                                                initially wanted to pass my degree and gain a 2:1,
                                                                however, due to the course, I was able to surpass this
                                                                goal and achieve first class honours.
Show less
There was a good mix of assignments, practical work and
                                                                exams, with the assignments and [practicals] also being
                                                                a mix of individual work and teamwork in groups.
I feel that by
                                                        applying my newly attained professional knowledge and skills, I
                                                        have a different style of management and believe that I am a
                                                        more effective leader.
Embodying the values of CMI has allowed me to demonstrate
                                                        integrity and effective leadership skills.
I have also developed
                                                        in confidence, resilience and I’m much more agile, resulting in
                                                        being more creative and innovative within my role.
The University of
                                                        Bolton has exceeded my expectations.
The facilities are fantastic, with up-to-date
                                                                laboratories creating an engaging environment, conducive
                                                                to learning.
Teaching staff deliver interesting lectures,
                                                                        backed up with 'real life' anecdotal
                                                                        evidence.
My time on placement
                                                        so far has been great!
We’ve completed different tasks such as:
                                                        engaging with other agencies, running our own groups, meeting
                                                        service users on campus and experiencing supervision.
I have
                                                        learnt a lot up until now and only just realised how many phone
                                                        calls or emails social workers must make to chase something up.
It also helps massively with our tutors on campus offering us
                                                        support when needed.
I’m looking forward to tackling new
                                                        challenges and roles on placement andbuild on my
                                                        experience.
Undertaking the
                                                        apprenticeship degree has enabled me to develop both personally
                                                        and professionally.
Engaging and sharing experience with
                                                        colleagues on the course has enabled me to take a different view
                                                        on similar scenarios within my own role, enabling me to be more
                                                        dynamic in how I approach problems.
The work life balance is
                                                        tough, and that shouldn’t be underestimated, but the rewards are
                                                        well worth it.
One of the most valuable aspects is mixing with
                                                        people from all sectors and industries.
The challenges we see
                                                        have breadth and depth, and how we approach them is so
                                                        varied!
The University of Greater Manchester is ranked 1st in the Northwest for Teaching Quality and
                                        is a Top 30 Ranked Guardian University.
Our industry leading tutors, and
                                        award-winning student satisfaction make us the friendly uni with a big
                                        reputation.
In the North West for Teaching Quality The Times and Sunday Times 2023
Top 40 Ranked University The Guardian 2024
For Student Satisfaction the Complete University Guide 2024
Degree Apprenticeships combine working with part-time study.
Apprentices are employed throughout the programme and spend part of their time at university and the rest with their Employer.
Apprenticeships can last from 2 to 5 years depending on the level of the Apprenticeship.
It allows you to earn as you learn, all while taking on no personal debt for school fees.
Your education is paid for by ESFA, your employer, the university and/or the Levy.
You will earn at least the National Minimum Wage rate.
A crucial part of any apprenticeship entails allocating ample time for the learning of new knowledge, skills and behaviours.
Currently, this is no less than 6 hours per week throughout the apprenticeship programme’s duration.
However, higher-level apprenticeships are very intense and require a large amount of study so may take more.
Your Off The Job (OTJ) training might include face-to-face delivery (e.g.
lectures/ training sessions), role-playing/simulation exercises, distance/online learning, 1:1 coaching, shadowing and mentoring, industry visits/manufacturer training, participation in competitions, assignments and projects or supported study days.
Yes, the End Point Assessment (EPA) is the final stage of an Apprenticeship.
It is an impartial assessment of whether or not you have developed the skills, knowledge
                                                    and behaviours outlined in the apprenticeship standard.
You should always talk to your programme leader, tutors or employer first.
However, Bolton Students’ Union has an independent Advice Unit based within the Students’ Union Office.
The Advice Unit offers free, impartial and confidential advice to all University of Greater Manchester students on academic issues, money concerns, problems with accommodation and more.
To arrange a chat, email info@boltonsu.com .
Yes, existing staff with job roles that match the target Apprenticeship standard can undertake an Apprenticeship programme.
If you would like more information on how to talk to your employer about this, contact our team at apprentices@bolton.ac.uk .
Find out how to hire an apprentice, how funding works, which programmes we offer and
                                    more information about launching an apprenticeship programme in your business.
A Degree Apprenticeship provides your team members with
                                            the chance to upskill while working.
At the University of Greater Manchester you can
                                            invest in your employees with level 5, 6, and 7 degrees.
Learners can achieve their academic dreams and as an
                                            employer you get higher-skilled employees who bring their learning back into
                                            your business at little-to-no cost to you.
If you have an annual pay bill of over £3 million per
                                            annum, you will be a levy payer, which is used to fund Apprentice training.
Smaller non-levy paying companies will pay 5% of apprenticeship costs, with
                                            the Government contributing the other 95%.
Kate Myatt Assistant Divisional Director of Nursing,
                                            Bolton NHS Foundation Trust University of Greater Manchester
At the start of my CMDA journey I was working as a
                                            Service Manager – Elective Care, at the acute hospital.
The facilities are fantastic, with up-to-date laboratories
                                                        creating an engaging environment, conducive to learning.
Teaching staff deliver interesting lectures, backed up with 'real
                                                        life' anecdotal evidence.
An Apprenticeship allows your employees to expand their skills with
                                                    university study while still working full-time within your business.
Learners then get designated time to attend university to gain
                                                    off-the-job training.
This will allow them to complete the
                                                    requirements of their Apprenticeship, along with reviews and
                                                    assessments.
This is flexible, depending on the course.
It can be a
                                                    one-day-per-week release or block delivery.
Yes, existing staff with job roles that match the target
                                                    Apprenticeship standard can undertake an Apprenticeship programme.
You simply need to sign up for the Apprenticeship programme with us
                                                    and we will check the eligibility requirements.
If you would like
                                                    more information on this, contact our team at apprentices@bolton.ac.uk .
Apprenticeships can last from 2 to 5 years depending on the level of
                                                    the Apprenticeship.
Learners need to be 16+ to be on an Apprenticeship.
There are other requirements under the Government Funding Rules but
                                                    we can help you with those, simply email us at apprentices@bolton.ac.uk .
You need to pay at least the National Minimum Wage rate for the Apprentice’s age.
We offer Higher and Degree Apprenticeships at the University, which
                                                    vary from level 5 to Level 7 (Master’s Degree).
Training for the Apprenticeship programme falls under
                                                    either the Levy or Co-Investment funding scheme.
Not sure what that
                                                    is?
Email us at apprentices@bolton.ac.uk .
There are more benefits than we could list!
However,
                                                    these are the most compelling:

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/subject-areas/biomedical-sciences-and-medical-biology:
Start your career in medical biology or biomedical science with confidence.
Our IBMS and Royal Society of Biology accredited degrees offer expert teaching, practical lab skills, and insights into disease, diagnostics, and treatment.
You'll gain the knowledge, support, and qualifications to thrive in healthcare, research, pharmaceuticals, or postgraduate study.
IBMS-accredited degree: Gain a qualification recognised by the Institute of Biomedical Science, enhancing your career prospects.
Hands-on professional placement: Take part in a 150-hour work experience placement through our honours-level professional practice module.
Explore disease and diagnostics: Study the causes of illness and the technologies used to detect and treat them.
BSc (Hons) Biomedical Science
BSc (Hons) Medical Biology
BSc (Hons) Biomedical Science with foundation year
BSc (Hons) Medical Biology with foundation year
BSc (Hons) Biomedical Science with foundation and Placement year
BSc (Hons) Biomedical Science with Placement year
No course found.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/subject-areas/creative-and-digital-arts-english-and-creative-writing:
Tell powerful stories through design and photography.
Our degrees combine creative freedom with expert guidance, helping you develop visual communication skills across typography, branding, editorial, and image-making.
Whether you’re drawn to design or photography, you’ll gain real-world experience, professional insight, and the qualifications to succeed in creative industries, media, or further study.
Industry-standard creative studios: Work in five dedicated spaces equipped with Apple Macs, scanners, and professional design software.
Trips and exhibitions to inspire you: Take part in UK gallery visits and international study trips that broaden your creative outlook.
Practical skills and critical thinking: Learn lighting, location techniques, and research methods to develop innovative, idea-led work.
BA (Hons) Animation and Illustration
BA (Hons) Commercial Surface Design
BA (Hons) Contemporary Art Practice
BA (Hons) Digital Media and Content Creation
BA (Hons) Graphic Design with Advertising
BA (Hons) Photography
BA (Hons) Animation and Illustration with foundation year
BA (Hons) Commercial Surface Design with foundation year
BA (Hons) Contemporary Art Practice with foundation year
BA (Hons) Digital Media and Content Creation with foundation year
BA (Hons) Graphic Design with Advertising with foundation year
BA (Hons) Photography with foundation year
BA (Hons) Fashion (HE6 top-up)
MA (Specialist Title) via Creative Practice
MA Visual Journalism and Storytelling

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/subject-areas/computer-science:
Build a future in computing with confidence.
Our undergraduate and postgraduate degrees offer hands-on experience, expert teaching, and specialisms in AI, machine learning, and cyber security.
With industry links, modern facilities, and real-world projects, you'll gain the skills, support, and recognised qualifications needed for a dynamic and rewarding tech career.
Creative, hands-on problem-solving: Explore more than code—develop the skills to innovate and improve how the world uses technology.
Global tech partnerships: Learn through our links with Cisco, Red Hat, AWS, and hear from leading voices in the computing industry.
Top 5:
BSc (Hons) Artificial Intelligence
BSc (Hons) Computer Science
BSc (Hons) Computing
BSc (Hons) Cyber Security
BEng (Hons) Software Engineering
BSc (Hons) Artificial Intelligence with foundation year
BSc (Hons) Computer Science with foundation year
BSc (Hons) Cyber Security with foundation year
BEng (Hons) Software Engineering With Foundation Year
BSc (Hons) Computer Science (top-up)
BSc (Hons) Computing (Top-up)
BSc (Hons) Cyber Security (top-up)
BEng (Hons) Software Engineering - HE6 top-up
BSc (Hons) Computer Science with Industrial Placement year
BSc (Hons) Computing with Industrial Placement
BSc (Hons) Cyber Security with Industrial Placement
BSc (Hons) Digital and Technology Solutions : Cyber Security (Degree Apprenticeship Route)
BSc (Hons) Digital and Technology Solutions : Data Analyst (Degree Apprenticeship Route)
BSc (Hons) Digital and Technology Solutions : Network Engineering (Degree Apprenticeship Route)
BSc (Hons) Digital and Technology Solutions : Software Engineering (Degree Apprenticeship Route)
BEng (Hons) Software Engineering with Industrial Placement
MRes Applied Artificial Intelligence
MRes Artificial Intelligence
MRes Computing
BSc (Hons) Computer Science with foundation
BSc (Hons) Computing with foundation year
BEng (Hons) Software Engineering with foundation year
BSc (Hons) Computing (top-up)
HND in Computing for England (HTQ)
MSc Artificial Intelligence
MSc Artificial Intelligence: Extended
MSc Business Analytics and Technologies
MSc Business Analytics and Technologies: Extended
MSc Cloud and Network Security
MSc Cloud and Network Security: 18 months
MSc Data Analytics and Technologies
MSc Data Analytics and Technologies: Extended
MSc Health Analytics and Technologies
MSc Health Analytics and Technologies: Extended
MSc Robotics Programming and Automation
MSc Software Engineering
MSc Software Engineering: 18 months

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/subject-areas/dance-musical-theatre-and-performance:
Turn your passion into performance with Shockout at the University of Greater Manchester.
From commercial dance to musical theatre, our degrees and BTEC programmes offer expert training, creative freedom, and real industry insight.
With support from professional tutors, you’ll gain the confidence, skills, and qualifications to shine on stage—or wherever your artistic career takes you.
Industry credits with global artists: Shockout students have worked with stars like Janet Jackson, Stormzy, Little Mix, and more.
Train with leading professionals: Learn directly from dancers, choreographers, producers, and directors working in the industry.
Study in world-class dance studios: Train at Shockout Arts in central Manchester, in facilities built to professional standards.
BA (Hons) Musical Theatre
BA (Hons) Professional and Commercial Dance
BA (Hons) Professional and Commercial Dance (top-up)
BA (Hons) Street Dance Artistry and Hip-Hop Theatre (top-up)
BA (Hons) Professional and Commercial Dance (Accelerated Route)
BA (Hons) Musical Theatre (top-up)
FdA Musical Theatre
FdA Professional and Commercial Dance
FdA Street and Hip-Hop Vernacular Dance
PGCE M 14+ Performance and Creative Arts - Postgraduate Level at Shockout Arts
PGCE M 14+ Dance - Postgraduate Level at Shockout Arts
MA Dance (Specialist Title)
MA Professional and Commercial Dance

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/subject-areas/dental-sciences:
Combine creativity, care, and technical skill with our dental technology and dentistry degrees.
Train in high-spec labs, master digital tools, and learn to design appliances that transform patients’ lives.
With expert tutors and flexible MSc options including implant, digital, and aesthetic dentistry, you’ll gain the knowledge and confidence to excel in this specialist healthcare field.
GDC-regulated training: Our course meets the standards set by the General Dental Council for dental technology education.
Preparing industry-ready technicians: Gain the knowledge and skills to excel in a competitive, high-demand profession.
Comprehensive legal and scientific foundation: Study essential regulatory, ethical, and biomedical science topics relevant to modern dental technology.
BSc (Hons) Dental Hygiene and Therapy
BSc (Hons) Dental Technology
BSc (Hons) Dental Technology (top-up)
FdSc Foundation Degree Dental Technology - Higher Apprenticeship Integrated EPA
MSc Dento-Alveolar Surgery and Implantology (2 year programme)
MSc Dento-Alveolar Surgery and Implantology (3 year programme)
MSc Dentofacial Orthodontics and Clear Aligners (2 year programme)
MSc Dentofacial Orthodontics and Clear Aligners (3 year programme)
MSc Digital Dental Technology
MSc Endodontics and Implantology (2 year programme)
MSc Endodontics and Implantology (3 year programme)
MSc Periodontology and Implantology (2 year programme)
MSc Periodontology and Implantology (3 year programme)
MSc Primary Dental Care (2 year programme)
MSc Primary Dental Care (3 year programme)
MSc Prosthodontics and Implantology (2 year programme)
MSc Prosthodontics and Implantology (3 year programme)

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/subject-areas/education-early-years-and-teacher-training:
Start your teaching career with confidence.
Our undergraduate and postgraduate education courses offer
                        real-world experience, expert lecturers, and strong links to schools.
Whether you're new to study or aiming
                        to progress, you'll gain the skills, support, and recognised qualifications to thrive in the classroom and
                        beyond.
Learn from experienced educators: Lectures are delivered by qualified teachers, community
                            practitioners, and youth workers offering real-world insight into the education sector.
Small classes, creative assessments: Enjoy high-quality teaching in a supportive environment that
                            encourages participation and reflective learning.
180 hours of hands-on experience: Gain practical skills through placements and projects built into our
                            undergraduate education courses.
BA (Hons) Early Years Childhood Studies
BA (Hons) Education and Learning
BA (Hons) Education and Pastoral Practice
BA (Hons) Early Years Childhood Studies (top-up)
BA (Hons) Learning, Teaching and Assessment in Professional Practice (top-up)
MA Early Childhood Studies
MRes Educational Leadership
BA (Hons) Learning, Teaching and Assessment in Professional Practice top-up Online
FdA Early Years Childhood Studies
MA Educational Leadership
MA Inclusive Education
MEd Professional Development in Education
MA Teaching and Learning in Higher and Professional Education (Advanced Standing)
MA Educational Leadership (online)
MEd Professional Development in Education (online)
PgCert Applied Generative AI for Education
EdD Doctor of Education

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/subject-areas/engineering-motorsport-and-construction:
Engineer your future with hands-on, high-tech training in our £13m facilities—including the UK's only National Centre for Motorsport Engineering.
Study automotive, performance, and advanced manufacturing with expert tutors and industry links.
Whether you’re into motorsport, smart materials, or cutting-edge design, our degrees offer the skills, support, and innovation to power your engineering career.
Future-proof your engineering career: Gain skills designed to meet evolving industry demands in engineering and motorsport.
Learn from industry professionals: Engage with guest lectures, site visits, and internships offered by national and multinational engineering firms.
Diverse career pathways: Our broad curriculum opens doors across multiple sectors, preparing you for success in engineering and motorsport.
BEng (Hons) Automotive Performance Engineering (Motorsport)
BEng (Hons) Civil Engineering
BEng (Hons) Electrical and Electronic Engineering
BEng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering
BSc (Hons) Motorsport Technology
BEng (Hons) Automotive Performance Engineering (Motorsport) with foundation year
BEng (Hons) Civil Engineering with foundation year
BEng (Hons) Electrical and Electronic Engineering with foundation year
BEng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering with foundation year
BSc (Hons) Motorsport Technology with foundation year
BSc (Hons) Mechatronics (top-up)
BEng (Hons) Electrical and Electronic Engineering (Degree Apprenticeship)
BEng (Hons) Biomedical Engineering
MRes Engineering Management
MRes Environmental Management
MRes Sustainable Engineering Management
BEng (Hons) Civil Engineering (Degree Apprenticeship Route)
BSc (Hons) Construction Project Management (Construction Site Management Degree Apprenticeship)
BSc (Hons) Construction Project Management (Design and Construction Management Degree Apprenticeship)
BSc (Hons) Facilities and Built Asset Management (Senior/Head of Facilities Management Degree Apprenticeship Route)
BEng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering (Degree Apprenticeship)
MSc Electrical and Electronic Engineering (Degree Apprenticeship)
MRes Engineering Management (PG Engineer Apprenticeship Route)
MSc Mechanical Engineering (Degree Apprenticeship)
MSc Systems Engineering (Electronic) and Engineering Management (Degree Apprenticeship Route)
MSc Systems Engineering (Mechanical) and Engineering Management (Degree Apprenticeship Route)
MSc Systems Engineering (Mechatronic) and Engineering Management (Degree Apprenticeship Route)
BEng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering with foundation
HNC Manufacturing Engineering for England HTQ
HND Manufacturing Engineering for England HTQ
HNC Civil Engineering for England (HTQ)
HNC Construction Management for England (Construction Design and Build Technician)(HTQ)
HNC Construction Management for England (Construction Site Supervisor) (HTQ)
MSc Biomedical Engineering
MSc Biomedical Engineering: January Start
MSc Civil Engineering
MSc Civil Engineering: January Start
MSc Construction Project Management
MSc Electrical and Electronic Engineering
MSc Electrical and Electronic Engineering: January Start
MSc Engineering Management
MSc Mechanical Engineering
MSc Mechanical Engineering: January Start
MSc Motorsport Engineering
MSc Robotics, Autonomous Systems and Telecommunications
MSc Robotics, Autonomous Systems and Telecommunications: January Start
MSc Systems Engineering (Electronic) and Engineering Management
MSc Systems Engineering (Electronics) and Engineering Management
MSc Systems Engineering (Mechanical) and Engineering Management
MSc Systems Engineering (Mechatronics) and Engineering Management

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/subject-areas/film-fx-film-and-tv-production:
Step into the world of film, TV, and special effects with hands-on degrees in production, make-up, prosthetics, and modelmaking.
Gain technical and creative skills, build a standout portfolio, and learn from industry experts using professional equipment.
Whether you're behind the camera or crafting characters, you’ll graduate ready to thrive in the screen industries.
Work featured on top productions: Graduates have contributed to shows and films like Ackley Bridge, Ant Man, and Napoleon.
Learn from industry legends: Benefit from teaching by Visiting Professor Neill Gorton, founder of Millennium FX, and support from BAFTA-winning Nick Dudman.
Cutting-edge skills and networks: Gain expert knowledge, industry contacts, and hands-on experience in special make-up and prosthetics.
BA (Hons) Film and Television Production
BA (Hons) Modelmaking and Creature Effects
BA (Hons) Special Make-up Effects for Film and Television
BSc (Hons) Visual  Effects and Animation
BA (Hons) Modelmaking and Creature Effects with foundation year
BA (Hons) Special Make-up Effects for Film and Television with foundation year

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/subject-areas/games:
Turn your passion for gaming into a career with our hands-on degrees in games design, programming, and development.
Learn from industry pros, master tools like C++, and create for platforms including VR and mobile.
With real project experience and expert mentoring, you’ll graduate with the skills, confidence, and credits to succeed in the fast-growing games industry.
Collaborative interdisciplinary projects: Work alongside peers from related games courses to build teamwork and industry-relevant skills.
Real-world industry collaborations: Participate in usability testing for upcoming games with leading development companies.
Pioneers in games education: Benefit from one of the UK’s longest-established games programmes and strong graduate career outcomes.
BA (Hons) Games Art
BSc (Hons) Games Design
BSc (Hons) Games Programming
BA (Hons) Games Art with foundation year
BSc (Hons) Games Design with foundation year
BSc (Hons) Games Programming with foundation year
MA Games Development

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/subject-areas/health-and-social-care-social-work-and-community-and-youth:
Make a real impact with degrees in health and social care, social work, or youth work.
With expert teaching, practical placements, and strong industry links, you'll gain the skills to support individuals and communities.
Our Social Work England-approved programme and postgraduate options prepare you for a meaningful, rewarding career making a difference where it matters most.
Expert-led person-centred care: Learn the principles of compassionate, ethical, and effective health and social care practice.
Focus on safeguarding and wellbeing: Develop knowledge in health promotion, safeguarding, and holistic care approaches.
Learn alongside professionals: Share insights and experience with practicing health and social care professionals in your cohort.
BA (Hons) Community Development and Youth Work (endorsed route)
BSc (Hons) Health and Social Care
BSc (Hons) Health and Social Care (Bradford Satellite Centre)
BA (Hons) Social Work
BSc (Hons) Health and Social Care with foundation year
BA (Hons) Community Development and Youth Studies (top-up)
BSc (Hons) Health and Social Care Final Year top-up
BA (Hons) Community Development and Youth Work (Professionally Endorsed) (Youth Worker Integrated Degree Apprenticeship)
BA (Hons) Social Work (Degree Apprenticeship)
HND Health and Social Care
FdA Health and Social Care (Assistant Practitioner (Health) Independent Route)
HND Health and Social Care (Bradford Satellite Centre)
FdA Health and Social Care (Assistant Practitioner (Health) Higher Apprenticeship Route)
MSc Health and Social Care
PgDip Health and Social Care
PgCert Health and Social Care
PD Professional Doctorate in Health and Social Care (Online)
AdvDip(CPD) Bereavement and Loss HE6
AdvDip(CPD) Enhancing Professional Practice in Social Care (HE6)
AdvDip(CPD) Bereavement and Loss (HE7)
AdvDip(CPD) Enhancing Professional Practice in Social Care (HE7)
BSc (Hons) Health and Social Care with integrated foundation year
BSc (Hons) Health and Social Care (top-up)
BSc (Hons) Health and Social Care (HE6 top-up)
FdA Health Care Studies
MA Community Development and Youth Studies
MSc Public Health
MSc Social Care, Health and Wellbeing
MA Social Work

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/subject-areas/law-and-crime-and-criminal-justice:
Start your legal career at Greater Manchester School of Law with expert tutors, courtroom training, and small class sizes.
Our undergraduate and postgraduate degrees prepare you for roles in law, civil service, politics, immigration, business and consultancy..
Specialise in areas like criminal justice or coronial law, and gain real insight through court and prision visits, qualified legal professionals and become a member of the Student Law Society.
Practice law in a real courtroom: Gain hands-on experience in our state-of-the-art Moot Law Court, applying skills in realistic scenarios.
SQE and Bar Standards Board ready: Our courses prepare aspiring solicitors and barristers to meet professional qualification requirements.
Highly rated teaching: Ranked 2nd in the UK and 1st in the North West for student satisfaction (Guardian University Guide 2023).
BA (Hons) Crime and Criminal Justice
LLB (Hons) Law
LLB (Hons) Law with foundation year
BA (Hons) Crime and Criminal Justice (HE6 top-up)
MRes AI Law and Emerging Technologies
MRes Law
LLM International Business Law
LLM Law
LLM Coronial Law

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/subject-areas/paramedic-sciences:
Train for a vital frontline role with our Paramedic Science degree, developed with the NHS.
Gain hands-on experience, expert support, and the clinical skills to manage emergencies and complex care.
For senior practitioners, our MBA in Global Healthcare Management builds leadership, strategy, and service improvement expertise—preparing you to advance your career in health and care settings.
600 hours of real-world practice: Gain hands-on experience with NWAS and local healthcare providers, preparing for paramedic life.
Advanced simulation facilities: Train using clinical suites, immersive environments, and a dedicated ambulance simulator.
Leadership in healthcare management: Explore system design, decision-making, and innovation through our Global Healthcare Management modules.
BSc (Hons) Paramedic Science (Pre-registration)
MSc Sports Medicine
MSc Sports Medicine - January start
MSc Advanced Clinical Practice (Integrated Degree Apprenticeship)
MSc Advanced Clinical Practice (Integrated Degree Apprenticeship) (Acute Medicine)
MSc Advanced Clinical Practice (Integrated Degree Apprenticeship) (Geriatric Medicine)
MSc Advanced Clinical Practice (Integrated Degree Apprenticeship) (Mental Health)
MSc Advanced Clinical Practice (Integrated Degree Apprenticeship) (Primary Care)
MSc Advanced Clinical Practice (Integrated Degree Apprenticeship) (Respiratory)
MSc Advanced Clinical Practice
MSc Advanced Clinical Practice (Acute Medicine)
MSc Advanced Clinical Practice (Geriatric Medicine)
MSc Advanced Clinical Practice (Mental Health)
MSc Advanced Clinical Practice (Primary Care)
MSc Advanced Clinical Practice (Respiratory)
MSc Clinical Practice
PgDip Clinical Practice
PgCert Clinical Practice
PgCert First Contact Practice in Primary Care

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/subject-areas/nursing-and-midwifery:
Begin a rewarding healthcare career with our NMC-approved Nursing and Midwifery degrees, delivered in partnership with NHS Trusts.
Gain clinical skills, real-world experience, and the confidence to care through every stage of life.
With routes from undergraduate to postgraduate, including pre-registration MSc, we prepare you to lead, support, and make a lasting impact in health and care.
Expert lecturers with real-world NHS experience: Learn from professionals across primary, secondary, and tertiary care settings.
Extensive NHS placement opportunities: Gain practical experience in diverse healthcare environments.
Professional registration on graduation: Qualify to register with the NMC or HCPC, enabling you to practise as a Nurse, Midwife, or ODP.
Innovative facilities and teaching: Access cutting-edge labs and software, combined with dynamic, student-centred learning approaches.
BSc (Hons) Nursing (Adults) [Manchester University NHS Foundation Trust]
BSc (Hons) Midwifery (Pre-Registration)
BSc (Hons) Nursing (Adult) [Bolton NHS Foundation Trust]
BSc (Hons) Nursing (Adult) [Lancashire Teaching Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust]
BSc (Hons) Nursing (Adult) [Stockport NHS Foundation Trust]
BSc (Hons) Nursing (Adult) [Wrightington, Wigan and Leigh NHS Foundation Trust]
BSc (Hons) Nursing (Children)
BSc (Hons) Operating Department Practice
BSc (Hons) Nursing - Registered Nurse Degree Apprenticeship
BSc (Hons) Nursing-  Registered Nurse Degree Apprenticeship (Mental Health)
BSc (Hons) Operating Department Practice (Degree Apprenticeship)
FdSc Nursing Associate
M(Nurs) Nursing (Adult) (Integrated Master's)
FndCert Fast-track to Higher Education (Nursing)
PgDip Community Nurse Specialist Practitioner (District Nursing)
PgDip Community Nurse Specialist Practitioner (District Nursing) with (V300)  integrated non-medical prescribing
PgDip Community Nurse Specialist Practitioner (General Practice Nursing)
PgDip Community Nurse Specialist Practitioner (General Practice Nursing) with integrated V300 (Non-Medical Prescribing)
BSc (Hons) Nursing (Adult)
FdSc Nursing Associate (Higher Apprenticeship Route)
PgDip Specialist Community Public Health Nursing (Health Visiting) Degree apprenticeship
PgDip Specialist Community Public Health Nursing (School Nursing) Degree Apprenticeship
PgDip Senior Leader: Health and Social Care (Degree Apprenticeship)
BSc (Hons) Nursing (Adult) [Bradford Satellite Nursing Centre]
BSc (Hons) Nursing (Adult) [Petroc College Satellite Nursing Centre]
FdSc Nursing Associate [Bradford Satellite Nursing Centre]
MSc Nursing (Adult) (Pre-registration)
MSc Nursing Post-registration
PgDip Community Nurse Specialist Practice (General Practice Nursing) with integrated V300 (Non-Medical Prescribing)
PgDip Community Nurse Specialist Practitioner (District Nursing) with (V300) integrated non-medical prescribing
PgDip Specialist Community Public Health Nursing (Health Visiting)
PgDip Specialist Community Public Health Nursing (School Nursing)
PgDip Senior Leader: Health and Social Care
MSc Community Health Care Nursing (top-up)
MSc Community Public Health Nursing (top-up)

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/subject-areas/psychology:
Explore the human mind with our Psychology degrees, taught by expert academics in supportive, immersive learning environments.
From behaviour to motivation, you’ll gain real-world insight and develop key research skills.
Our undergraduate and MSc programmes emphasise employability, preparing you for careers in mental health, education, research, and beyond.
BPS-accredited programmes: Our courses provide a pathway to professional qualifications and careers as a psychologist.
Graduate Basis for Chartered Membership: Achieve GBC status, a key step toward chartered psychologist status.
State-of-the-art learning environment: Benefit from innovative teaching and access to specialised labs and advanced neuroscience software.
BSc (Hons)  Psychology and Cognitive Neuroscience
BSc (Hons) Criminological and Forensic Psychology
BSc (Hons) Mental Health, Wellbeing and Counselling
BSc (Hons) Psychology
BSc (Hons) Psychology with Applications in Education
BSc (Hons) Psychology with Applications in Sport and Exercise
BSc (Hons) Psychology, Psychotherapy and Counselling
BSc (Hons) Criminological and Forensic Psychology with foundation year
BSc (Hons) Mental Health, Wellbeing and Counselling with foundation year
BSc (Hons) Psychology and Cognitive Neuroscience with foundation year
BSc (Hons) Psychology with Applications in Education with foundation year
BSc (Hons) Psychology with Applications in Sport and Exercise - with foundation year
BSc (Hons) Psychology with foundation year
BSc (Hons) Psychology, Psychotherapy and Counselling with foundation year
MRes Emerging Psychology
MSc Applied Sport and Exercise Psychology
MSc Counselling and Positive Psychology
MSc Forensic Psychology
MSc Positive Psychology
MSc Psychological Wellbeing and Mental Health
MSc Psychology
MSc Psychology (Conversion)
MSc Social Neuroscience
PgCert Counselling Skills
MSc Cognitive Behavioural Psychotherapies
MSc Psychology (Conversion) Online
PgDip Cognitive Behavioural Psychotherapies

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/subject-areas/physiotherapy-and-sport-rehabilitation:
Support performance, recovery, and wellbeing with degrees in sport rehabilitation, physiotherapy, and strength & conditioning.
With expert teaching, BASRaT accreditation, and real-world placements—including elite sport—you’ll build the skills to treat injury, improve mobility, and enhance athletic performance.
Our postgraduate options help you take your expertise—and career—to the next level.
Pathway to diverse degrees: Open doors to a wide range of undergraduate courses after completing Fast Track or Access programmes.
Employability-focused learning: Benefit from real-life case studies, guest speakers, and industry visits tailored to employer needs.
Progress to University of Greater Manchester degrees: Successfully complete Fast Track to HE and apply for approved degree programmes.
BSc (Hons) Physiotherapy
BSc (Hons) Sport Rehabilitation
BSc (Hons) Sport Rehabilitation with foundation year
MSc Physiotherapy (Pre-registration)
MSc Strength and Conditioning
MSc Strength and Conditioning: January Start

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/subject-areas/pre-university-study:
Looking to start or return to education but don’t meet entry requirements?
Our Foundation Year and Fast-Track, routes help you build the skills and confidence for degree-level study.
Whether you’re aiming for teaching, nursing, or a new career path, these flexible courses offer the perfect first step into Higher Education.
A wide range of degree opportunities will open up to you after completing a Fast Track course.
These flexible programmes focus on employability, using real-life case studies, guest speakers, and industry visits to connect your learning with employer needs locally and globally.
Once you’ve completed the Fast Track to HE programme, you’ll be eligible to apply for an approved range of degree programmes at the University of Greater Manchester.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/uniasitshouldbe:
At the University of Greater Manchester, we pride ourselves on our student-focused approach to learning, supporting your career ambitions, and, quite simply, ensuring you enjoy your time at University; through quality teaching, passionate lecturers, supportive environments, great facilities, and on graduation, helping you find a job.
With more than 11,000 full-time and part-time students from across the world, our Teaching-Intensive, Undergraduate and Postgraduate courses are designed to give you the best University experience possible.
With a heritage that stretches back nearly 200 years, we’ve been preparing people for their dream careers for quite some time now.
We provide a positive
                        and supportive learning
                        environment.
Our relatively small
                        classes ensure optimum
                        learning opportunities.
We continually
                        invest millions into our
                        campus facilities and
                        student experience.
Our facilities and
                        equipment are industry
                        standard, helping your
                        transition into
                        employment.
We have direct links
                        with employers in
                        relevant industries.
With a campus of 6,000 full-time students, teaching quality is at the heart of everything we do.
A testament to this is the fact that the University of Greater Manchester has been awarded 5th in the UK for teaching quality.
Passionate lecturers dedicate themselves to ensure that their teaching is both current and supportive.
We are teaching intensive, research informed, which means the industry knowledge our lecturers have, you will enjoy, giving you the chance to excel in your area of study.
You will also receive support from personal tutors, peer-assisted study and online resources.
Don’t just take our word for it.
Along the way, we’ve not only helped Undergraduate and Postgraduate students begin their career journey, but we’ve ranked highly on many league ranking tables too.
Our dedicated employability team are passionate about assisting you in pursuing your future career.
Whilst you’re studying, our team can help you find part-time work, placements and provide business contacts.
We also provide guest lecturers and industry visits throughout your studies ensuring you’re getting up-to-date knowledge from your sector, which enhances your employability prospects upon graduation
However, it’s not just the learning that’s great about the University of Greater Manchester, but the location too.
A huge, friendly town filled with great amenities, you’ll be able to enjoy everything from vibrant nightlife and shopping to restaurants, festivals and the Octagon Theatre Bolton.
Or if you are a lover of the great outdoors, you have the West Pennine Moors on your doorstep.
Meanwhile, excellent transport links help you reach the city of Manchester in only 20 minutes by train, while opening up stunning countryside like the Peak District and West Pennine Moors.
At our welcoming and diverse campus, we embrace over 120 nationalities, fostering a rich cultural tapestry.
Our student community proudly comprises over 25% ethnic minorities, ensuring a vibrant and inclusive environment.
Thanks to our intimate campus setting, you’ll have the opportunity to forge lifelong friendships, while the smaller class sizes guarantee that you’ll be recognised by your name rather than a student number.
invested

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/join-us/we-believe-in-you:
From it’s not worth it to there’s no support to all unis
                            are the same, Bolton busts the myths to give you
                            a better uni experience.
Bolton Uni prides itself on
                            providing supportive learning on
                            a small, friendly campus with 
                            diverse students.
It’s not worth it .
All unis are
                            the same.
You’re on your
                            own at uni!
It costs an arm and a leg!
Where on earth is Bolton?
No guarantee I’ll
                            get a job!
You need to go
                            to a Russell
                            Group uni!
Unis are full of intellectuals!

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/cost-of-living:
The cost-of-living crisis is affecting millions of people across the country!
The recent price rises and high inflation has resulted in many 
                reconsidering their university plans.
However, you can 'bite back' with good planning and budgeting.
We have put together advice and tips on how to successfully move in the right direction, sussing the discounts and squeezing more 
                from your budget.
Continue reading to find out how to save that dosh!
There is a lot to consider when managing your money, from tuition fees and housing to
                food, course materials and your social life.
Student funding may seem like a lot when it
                lands in your bank account, but it is designed to last for one semester (typically 16 weeks).
To make sure this money lasts, you will need to plan and budget.
Most students have to live on a limited income while at university, so it’s essential that you
                are prepared by getting your finances in order before you arrive, and making a realistic
                spending plan at the beginning of each year.
With many students wishing they’d learnt more
                about personal finance and money management before they graduated.
Budgeting is the only method that puts you in control of your spending.
It is an essential life skill and can help you develop good money habits by encouraging you to think about your
                spending in a practical way.
Budgeting can also be used to save money.
You might want to
                budget to help provide for an unpaid placement or a summer holiday abroad as a treat for
                passing your year!
Budgeting your time, energy and money will help to prevent money worries and help you
            get the most out of your student experience.
It’s really important to draw up and keep to a realistic budget.
If you, don’t you could get
            confused over how much money you have coming in and going out.
It’s important to work
            out your budget before you start your studies to make sure you have enough money to live
        on.
If you are receiving the maintenance from Student Finance your student loan will come in
        three instalments.
Please apply for Student Finance as soon as possible, you do not need to have a place
        secured at university before applying.
Late applications can result in a delay in receiving
        these payments.
Planning your budget will help you ensure that your payments cover all the essentials, such
        as rent, food and other expenses.
Plan your budget in 3 simple steps:
1.
Figure out your income: Add up your maintenance loan, any bursaries you receive,
        money from family members if they send you money regularly and any regular
        income you get from any employment.
2.
Identify the essentials: Put aside the money you need for essentials like rent and
        utility bills (if in private accommodation).
You’ll also want to consider food and travel
        costs, plus any essential committed spending, e.g.: Mobile phone bill.
3.
Calculate what’s left over: Divide what you have left by the number of weeks the
        money will need to last.
This will be the money you have to leftover to save, spend
        socialising or buying non-essential items.
To help you plan your budget please use the Student Budget Calculator , you can tailor this
        to your spending habits and provide you an insight into what’s to come.
We also partner with Blackbullion who allow applicants/offer holders to access their
        platform before they enrol.
You can register with a personal email address before enrolling and change your account to
        a student account after you have enrolled and received your university email address.
Blackbullion has a number of resources on there that will help you to “Prepare for Uni” this
        includes videos on: Money management, budgeting, student lifestyle and costs,
        accommodation, money tips and many more!
Alongside academic essentials (course specific items) you may have to purchase, there will
        be other things you should remember to include that you might not have thought about.
For example, you might want to consider the following:
You will also need to consider the cost of securing your accommodation for the next
academic year, as you may need to pay a deposit to letting agencies in the spring/summer
terms to ensure that you have somewhere to live next year.
All students need a bank account of their own.
For your own safety, do not keep large
            amounts of money in your bag or in your accommodation and pay any large sums of money
            into a bank account as soon as you can.
If you have not opened a bank account before you arrive at University, it should be the first
            thing you do once you are settled in.
There are many banks in Bolton town centre and the
            surrounding Greater Manchester area.
Choose your student bank account carefully.
Many banks offer perks such as free rail cards,
            vouchers or cheap cinema tickets.
Make sure you
            
            do your research to find the best deal.
A free overdraft is useful but only as a backup or else
            you’re just getting into debt.
Look for hidden charges in the small print.
When shopping online, be sure to look for student discount offers.
These are often found through providers such as TOTUM , which has 3 membership options
            (TOTUM lite is free), but there are free options too such as Unidays and Student Beans .
*Make sure you ask in-store as well but remember that discounts and special offers are
            often only there to persuade you to part with your cash.
If you use public transport, look at investing in a bus pass or rail card .
If you’re using public
            transport everyday then this can save you loads.
Even better, cycle or walk whenever
            possible.
You will get fit and help the environment as well – The University also operates a
            free mini bus for students to get across campus (Orlando Village Halls of Residence, Senate
            House, Greater Manchester Business School & Queens Campus).
If you do get into financial difficulty, it’s important to ask for help.
Debts will only grow if
            you ignore them and a bad credit rating can cause you problems later.
Contact a member of our Student Funding Team for further information or to book a one-
            to-one appointment if you need further help.
Telephone: 01204 903497
Email: studentfunding@bolton.ac.uk
Location: Student Centre
Timings: Tuesday & Thursday 10am-12pm
In certain circumstances you may also be eligible for help from the University of Greater Manchester
            Student Support Fund .
Or you can seek confidential support by contacting Stepchange or the Citizens' Advice
            Bureau.
It’s important to note that worries about money can have an impact on your mental health.
The University of Greater Manchester have staff in our Life Lounge who can support you.
University of Greater Manchester enrolled students who reside in the UK can access: Wellbeing
            practitioners, Mental Health Advisors, Counsellors and Cognitive Behavioural Therapist.
These staff with your permission will also work with our Student Funding Advisors to support you with any such challenges.
/student-life/student-support/life-lounge/
Ideas:
Student Funding: studentfunding@bolton.ac.uk or Telephone 01204 903497
Student Advisors: studentadvisors@bolton.ac.uk or Telephone 01204 903733
30 May 2023
02 June 2023

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/postgraduate-courses:
With a postgraduate course
Advancing your knowledge and continuing your studies is easy at the University of Greater Manchester.
Not only do we have a diverse range of postgraduate courses to choose from, but we create a relaxed, positive and exciting university experience.
Our course leaders provide a supportive and friendly learning environment and offer one-to-one mentorship, getting to know you and your needs.
No two students are the same, and that’s why we tailor our techniques to ensure you get the most out of your experience.
Our goal is to help you reach your potential in your chosen field, and get you noticed by the best employers.
Apply for a postgraduate course and study at one of the leading universities in the UK.
Our priority is to ensure you enjoy your time at university, you are supported and leave ready to thrive in your chosen career.
From our continued multi-million-pound campus investments to our focus on employability skills and opportunities, there are numerous reasons why Bolton ranked in the top 5 for Student Satisfaction in the North West of England (Complete University Guide 2023).
Let us give you an overview:
We offer a wide range of postgraduate courses in the following areas:
Finding one couldn’t be easier with our ‘Course Search’, which you can find here.
International students who are interested in studying a postgraduate course should apply via the online application form.
This can be done via a University of Greater Manchester representative or agent in your country.
To find out more information, please visit our international applicant’s webpages, where you’ll find
                                        all the information and contacts you’ll need.
You can also contact our International Team on +44 (0)1204 903 110 or international@bolton.ac.uk
While all of the above may sound perfect, you’re probably wondering one thing.
How much does it cost?
While each postgraduate course will vary in terms of cost, depending on what you’re studying, there is a selection of loans and scholarships that you can apply for.
These include:
Government funding
The Government may be able to help you cover your tuition and university costs with a Postgraduate Master’s Loan
If you’re starting a master’s degree, you could get a Postgraduate Master’s Loan to help with course fees and living costs.
You can get up to:
£12,167 if your course starts on or after 1 August 2023.
See here for more details.
University of Greater Manchester Scholarships
We offer scholarships to those looking to study postgraduate courses, these are detailed below
Alumni Loyalty Discount
This is awarded to both full and part-time UK and EU Masters students, regardless of financial means who go on to study a University of Greater Manchester Taught Master’s course, having completed an undergraduate Higher Education (H.E.) course of study or PGCE/PGDE/PDE/Cert Ed at the University of Greater Manchester.
This is a £1,000 tuition fee waiver made of the anticipated duration of the course.
Find out more here.
Military Service Award
Offered to students who’ve spent three years or more in military services for the British Armed Forces, Students must be enrolled on a full-time taught master’s programme at the University, depending on eligibility.
This is a cash reward of £500 per academic year.
For more information, including terms and conditions and how to apply for scholarships, please visit our Scholarships & Bursaries page or contact the team on +44 (0)1204 903 497 or studentfunding@bolton.ac.uk .
To apply for all our postgraduate courses, you will need to complete the University's online application form.
To do this, you simply need to find the course you wish to study, select the ‘How to Apply’ tab and follow the instructions.
Following this, the selection process will begin with applications being considered by the University’s admissions tutor in the relevant school or research centre.
Interviews may take place depending on the course you’ve applied for followed by an offer or rejection.
If you want to find out more, why not take advantage of one of our Postgraduate Open Days and Course Advice Days!
These days allow you to meet with the tutors from each faculty and talk to them about the courses you’re interested in.
This will give you the chance to ask any questions and discover if the courses are right for you.
From learning about the course content and assessment methods to discovering the hours expected of part-time students, our tutors will be more than happy to help.
It’ll also give you the chance to check out all the great facilities on our friendly campus, as well as enjoy several presentations and tours, where you can find out more about career paths, scholarships and the postgraduate options available.
We have Open Days throughout the year, which you can discover and book here .
For more information, please call the team on +44 (0)1204 903 807 or email opendays@bolton.ac.uk
To apply for these courses, you need to hold a 2.1 honours degree or approved equivalent relating to your area of study.
Contact the relevant research coordinator to discuss the specialism and nature of the research you wish to undertake.
Following this, if everything appears to be fine, you will need to complete an application form and send it to the person specified on the form.
All applicants will be required to take part in an interview before offers are made.
Learn more about the Research programmes here .
If you still have any questions please get in touch with our Admissions Team and they will be happy to help.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/join-us/download-a-brochure:
Choose a prospectus for the information on all of our courses.
If you already know the school or faculty you'd like to study at, why not choose a faculty or school brochure.
Just tell us which you'd like and whether you prefer a digital or paper copy and we'll get it sent to you straight away.
View our UG courses for September 2026 & January 2027 intakes
View our UG courses for September 2025 & January 2026 intakes
Order your Postgraduate Prospectus today
General Enquiry
Health & Wellbeing Brochure
Education & Psychology Brochure
Law Brochure
Institute of Management Brochure
Engineering Brochure
Arts and Creative Technologies Brochure

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/join-us/how-to-apply-and-admissions:
The University of Greater Manchester accepts applications from students from all backgrounds.
We assess every applicant on their own merit following the Student Admissions Policy and the criteria outlined for each specific course.
Full details of our Admissions Policy may be found here .
For some courses, you’ll need to attend an interview, audition or other assessments, we may ask you to provide a portfolio of work.
You can find full details of all our course entry requirements and how to apply on each specific course page by searching the Course Finder .
If you wish to apply for multiple institutions or multiple courses for full-time September entry, then please apply through UCAS.
You can apply for up to five courses through UCAS (at the same or different institutions) for a fee of £28.50.
The online application form and guidance notes are available on the UCAS website .
You will need the following information to complete your UCAS application form:
Tel: 0870 1122211
Web: www.ucas.com
If you have carefully considered your course and institution choices and decided that you wish to apply for a single course offered by the University of Greater Manchester for September entry, then you may apply directly to the University using our online application form, please click on “How to Apply” from the specific course page to take you to the application link.
A direct application to Bolton provides the following features:
NOTE: You cannot apply for both UCAS and directly to University of Greater Manchester during the same academic year, this will void any direct application you make to us.
For courses starting in September, please be aware that we are required to share your information with UCAS if we accept you on this course.
We will create a simplified UCAS acceptance record on your behalf and return this to UCAS.
By submitting your application directly to the University of Greater Manchester, you agree to these terms.
Before applying, please read the entry requirements carefully and before beginning your application you should have the following information to hand:
Please make sure any document you wish to upload* in support of your application are in pdf or jpeg format, personal statements may be word documents.
Your personal statement is your chance to explain why you would be a great student and a good match for the course you have chosen.
We assess your statement alongside your academic achievements to help us decide whether to accept you onto the course.
Your personal statement should outline:
References are a critical part of the application process and need to include the following information:
Further information on how to apply for part-time undergraduate programmes, postgraduate taught programmes and CPD programmes, along with full details of our entry requirements, can be found on our specific course pages by searching the Course Finder .
We do offer a range of courses for our January intake, for full details of the courses that are available please visit our website, you will also find our entry requirements and details of how to apply.
If you experience any difficulties during the application process, please contact the Admissions Team by telephone on 01204 903394 or by email at admissions-team@bolton.ac.uk.
*Not more than 10mb per upload
You can find the University’s Admissions Policy and other relevant policies in the Student Policy Zone .
Before applying to the University of Bolton, we advise that you read through all of this information.
Offering you a place to study with the University means we are preparing to make a contract with you.
This contract will be updated at various stages throughout the admissions process and during your time as a student.
The information in your offer, enrolment letters and key documents form an essential part of the contract.
Therefore, it’s important that you read and understand them before accepting the offer and enrolling with us.
You can find the Terms & Conditions of Enrolment and Course Fees Policy in the Student Policy Zone .
If you are unhappy with the way your application has been handled, or if you want to request a review of the decision made on your application, you should make a request in writing by email or letter to the relevant Admissions Team:
Home and International applicants: admissions-team@bolton.ac.uk
Postgraduate Research applicants: rdcadmissions@bolton.ac.uk
Following this, if you are still unhappy, the next step is to consult the Complaints and Appeals Process for Applicants, which can be found in the Student Policy Zone .

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/join-us/research-programmes:
You'll have the opportunity to make new discoveries, challenge conventional wisdom, and make a real impact in your subject.
Starting a career in business is much like setting sail on a dynamic journey where your degree acts as the compass guiding you through uncharted waters.
This journey begins with the crucial decision of selecting the right business degree pr...
Are you a sports fan and have an interest in upholding the law?
You could be a great sports lawyer!
Being a sports player or pundit in today’s game means you are required to abide by several laws.
Of course, this is not always the case, ...
Are you studying a master’s degree in health and social care?
Here are some top study tips!
For students doing a postgraduate health and social care degree, time management is everything.
This subject is extremely hands-on and won’t just t...
When choosing where you’d like to study accounting, the decision goes beyond just location, facilities or even tuition fees.
One of the most important factors for prospective accountants should be whether their degree is accredited by the A...
The year 2023 will be here before we know it!
And with the healthcare industry constantly evolving, child nurses need to be prepared for the changes that are taking place.
So, what big questions will child nursing face in 2023?
One way t...
Many law students are wondering how they can gain additional experience during their studies.
After all, practical experience is essential in the legal field.
Fortunately, there are several ways to get your foot in the door and start gainin...
Bolton students praised for Covid-19 support
23 2 2022
NCME students support F1 racing car at popular Silverstone race meeting
27 9 2022

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/off-campus-division:
The Off Campus Division supports relationships between the University and UK and international partners, building links between on campus schools and those who deliver University of Bolton qualifications in the wider world.
Please click on the links below to find out how we work with existing or prospective partners, and to explore how we support current and future students.
The Off Campus Division provides a central service supporting our partners and academic schools.
Working together, we review partnership enquiries, undertake appraisal of operations (due diligence), present proposals for strategic and academic approval, and create and manage approved collaborative provision partnerships, guided by the University's Collaborative Provision Strategy.
Dedicated partnership management teams operate our partnerships; our annual monitoring and development processes ensure that partnerships are well supported and on a trajectory for growth.
We carefully select partners with whom we work, so that our students can be confident in the choices we make.
Academics work in the Off Campus Division and academic rigour underpins everything we do, so that our partnerships reflect the very best of the University of Bolton.
Head of Centre - Centre of Strategic Partnerships
Professor of Leadership and Enterprise

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/information-for-student-supporters:
Making the move into the world of University is a huge leap, and for many, it can be just as scary as it is exciting.
It is one of the most important choices a young person will make, where parents, guardians, teachers and careers advisors can all play an important part in helping and advising.
Here we provide some information to support students through the process.
The majority of deadlines for Undergraduate applications are set by the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS), an application service used by higher education institutes in the UK.
It’s here that students apply for their course and University of choice.
Most of our courses have a corresponding UCAS page, you can find our courses using our ‘ Course Finder ’.
Meanwhile, a list of important UCAS dates can be found on our admissions page .
For more information about UCAS, please visit their website .
With all the deadlines and application processes on the horizon, there are many things you can do to help make it easier from the get-go.
Sit down and discuss what it is they like, what subjects they’re good at and what they might like to do in the future.
This will help them to think about what they want to do, making applying for courses easier
From finding the right course and place to study to reputation, size and accommodation, it’s important to research everything.
This will help find the exact course they’re looking to potentially study.
You may even find a course that mixes others they’re passionate about together, or, it could change their mind on what they wish to study.
Once you’ve shortlisted some Universities, attend the Open Days (usually 9am – 3pm), where you’ll be able to meet lecturers, explore the facilities, surrounding areas and ask questions.
A great way to get advice regarding your subject choice, funding, careers, making your application and everything in between.
Find out more about our Open Days and how to book your place on one here .
Once all this has been done, they should be able to decide on the University they want to attend, making the application process that little bit smoother
While we provide Open Days for potential students, we also host Access All Areas Days too.
Helpful for teachers, parents and guardians, these are designed for Year 12 and 13 students and helps us show them the University of Greater Manchester.
Year 11 students are also welcome, however, you’ll need to contact the team on schoolsandcolleges@bolton.ac.uk or 01204 903807 to arrange this.
During these days, students can partake in mini-lectures, tours, and learn about the support provided for students.
While this is available to individuals, it is encouraged that groups from colleges and sixth forms attend to.
Areas at the University that offer these days are:
Dates vary for each subject, and more information can be found here .
While you wait for those all-important UCAS dates to be released, there’s plenty more you can be doing to help them prepare for University.
From accommodation to finance and the area where they’ll be living, we’ve highlighted a few things below:
The first thing you need to do is enrol.
And, while the process can seem daunting for all involved, you’ll find everything you need to make it easier here
Moving away from home for some can be a big deal, and helping to find the right accommodation is extremely important, as it’ll help to teach independent living while building new friendships.
University costs money, and eligibility and entitlement when it comes to government funding are all based on household income.
Take a look at our finance and funding page
Situated in a large vibrant town on a modern, compact campus and filled with around 11,000 students, there’s lots to love and learn about Bolton .
Only 20-minutes from Central Manchester that has everything to offer, whatever your tastes
Moving away can be difficult, and it’s important to know that those coming to the University of Bolton will be looked after.
Our team of award-winning support services help new students take to uni life with ease, whilst offering on-going support during studies.
Find out more here
For all those teachers and tutors trying to help their students when it comes to University, we do as much as we can to help you when supporting young people.
One way we can help is by providing presentations either here or at your school or college.
During these presentations, a member of staff will talk to your pupils about the following subjects:
These talks can also be offered at parent’s evenings or as drop-in student sessions.
Alongside these talks, we also offer Academic Enrichment Taster Sessions.
Designed to help students when it comes to choosing a course, these sessions provide a look at what’s to come before they join the University of Greater Manchester, helping them to see if it’s right for them.
We also offer bespoke visits to our University.
These allow you to tailor your visit to the specific needs of your students.
From a tour and taster session to visiting specific departments and discussions around careers, our academic team can help arrange all of this for your pupils.
To find out more, please email schoolsandcolleges@bolton.ac.uk or call +44 (0)1204 903 807.
If you still need a little help or guidance when it comes to our University, please feel free to contact us:
University of Bolton Deane Road Bolton BL3 5AB
Tel: +44 (0)1204 900 600 Email: enquiries@bolton.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/join-us/mentored-with-newlove:
Mentored with Newlove is an exciting new initiative Bolton University have introduced this academic year (2022-2023) in partnership with Bolton Muslim Girls’ School, part of the Prosper Multi Academy Trust.
This scheme is an opportunity for students in years 10 to be mentored and inspired by Baroness Newlove to achieve their highest aspirations.
Baroness Helen Newlove is a member of the House of Lords and a former victims commissioner to the UK Government.
She also holds the appointment of the Pro-Vice-Chancellor at the University of Greater Manchester and is passionate about helping people from a wide range of communities.
The Mentored with Newlove scheme will showcase how mentoring, networking and enhancing key professional skills can open up new and different career pathways for students.
Throughout the academic year, Bolton Muslim Girls’ School will facilitate the Mentored with Newlove scheme by reporting on the performance trajectory of those being mentored and the impact of the scheme on their academic as well as their professional performance.
Interested students will be invited to complete an application in the form of a personal statement, outlining how they feel they would benefit from the Mentored with Newlove scheme.
Six students will be selected on the basis of their application.
Supported by the Office of the Provost at the University of Greater Manchester and the administration team for this scheme, the six successful students will be mentored throughout the academic year by Baroness Newlove.
This may involve some travel to London, a tour of the House of Lords, as well as the opportunity to attend a range of business meetings, and events where they will be able to create networking opportunities.
If any school is interested in joining this scheme or for press enquiries please email Janet Burke at mentored@bolton.ac.uk
Application dates: Monday 10 October –  Wednesday 2 November
In partnership with
Apply Now

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/student-life/care-experienced-students:
The University of Greater Manchester is committed to ensuring it is a supportive, welcoming and inclusive place for all students from all backgrounds.
The University also recognises the unique challenges students from a Care Experienced background may face when entering Higher Education.
As such, the University has put support in place to assist these students from the pre-application stage through to graduation.
We have also provided training to our professional support staff in recruitment, admissions and student services on matters related to care experienced students to allow them to provide appropriate support and assistance where needed.
The term 'care-experienced' refers to anyone who has been or is currently in care or from a looked-after background at any stage in their life, no matter how short, including adopted children who were previously looked-after.
"The University offers the best support for care leavers, the members of staff are always very helpful, and I am always happy with the services I receive.
Thank you for all your support over the years I’m glad I chose to study here"
"I would like to say how grateful I am to the University of Greater Manchester for the support in the last 6 years.
My three-year nursing degree took longer than it should have because I have experienced many setbacks and challenges and mental health related issues.
I can hand on heart say that each time, the University of Greater Manchester has been there when I have faced these challenges and I think if it wasn't for the support from each person I have been in contact with over the years, I wouldn't now be qualifying as a registered nurse.
I am and will be forever grateful for the help and support I have had, particularly from Jonathan Stackhouse, Clare Hough, Kay Loxham and those in Student Services and the Life Lounge, from the bottom of my heart, thank you, from a student nurse with 2 small children coming from a difficult childhood that has worked tirelessly for 6 years to be better and give my children a life I never had.
Thank you"
Student Funding Advisor
Schools Liaison and Outreach Manager
Senior Careers and Employability Advisor

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/student-life/life-at-bolton:
We are a university who put our students needs first and offer a supportive and positive environment so you can achieve your chosen goals.
We are all about small class sizes, courses designed in consultation with industry experts, continued multi-million-pound investment in our facilities and we focus on employability after training.
We are Teaching Intensive, Research Informed.
Thanks to the living costs in Bolton being significantly lower than other major cities, our students can spend their money and time enjoying what the town has to offer.
Alongside retail shops, bars, restaurants and the Octagon Theatre Bolton in town.
students also have social opportunities on campus.
According to The Times & The Sunday Times Good University Guide 2020, the University of Bolton is one of the most socially inclusive Universities in the country.
You only have to take a look at all the clubs and society options to choose from to understand why.
Our investments in recent years have left our students with incredible facilities to help them in their studies, including:
But we also understand that you need time out from your studies.
Whether it’s a quick study break to gather your thoughts or a day out enjoying your hobbies and interests.
The Bolton One building provides all the de-stressing activity facilities you need with a 25m swimming pool, 50m climbing wall, competition-level trampolines, large sports hall and fully equipped modern gym.
Whether you wish to play sport competitively or just for fun, there are activities and classes for all students.
Not only that, but you can use our Athlete Development Centre which help all athletes to improve their performance as well as helping assist in recovery through the Sports and Spinal Injury Clinic.
Alternatively, if the great outdoors is more your thing, Bolton is surrounded by the beautiful Pennine Moors perfect for hiking, kayaking and horse riding.
But if you don’t have a couple of hours spare to get active or get outside, we also have the Athena Café to grab a quick coffee on campus ready to give you that boost that will help you through the rest of your revision session.
You can also enjoy the bar-style menu at Vista Meet and Eat or sit down for a hot meal in the Eagle Restaurant.
The result of all these incredible facilities?
We were voted in the Top 15 Universities for student experience from The Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2020.
In comparison to other Universities we are relatively small, and that’s exactly how we like it.
It means our class sizes are smaller and all of our students benefit from more time with their tutors and lecturers.
It also means outside of the classroom you’ll find a familiar face, whether its bumping into the same person on your way to the library or sharing a bus ride with the same students each morning.
We also love to help our surrounding community off campus.
Our Plogging society love a gentle jog around the local area whilst collecting litter to help clean up our town.
Whether you’re moving 10-minutes down the road or halfway across the world, we understand that coming to University can be scary for a lot of people.
But this is why we ensure from the moment you enrol, you are supported both on campus and remotely, to make sure the University of Bolton feels like your second home – a place you can feel welcome, relaxed and above all else, happy.
Our services include:
Bolton is in the heart of Greater Manchester and is one of the largest towns in England and has everything a student will need to complete their off-campus experience.
The town offers a big shopping centre, multiple restaurants with lots of international cuisines, a cinema, bowling alley, and of course, plenty of traditional British pubs.
But it also has ample history to explore, including the LE Mans Crescent Town Hall.
Not only that, but the town is only a 20-minute train journey away from the city of Manchester and also has a direct train link to Manchester Airport.
Bolton is the perfect location to have everything you need close by without all the overwhelming crowds of a city, what’s more, depending on your mode of transport, you can hop on a flight within an hour of leaving your home!
We have no doubt that you will thoroughly enjoy your time at the University of Bolton.
Many of our students choose to continue living in the area after their studies.
For all of our students we have a dedicated Careers & Employability centre, waiting to help you in making your next steps, even if you do decide to move away from the area!
If you’re unsure of your next steps you can find out more information here .

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/student-support:
Student Services and Life Lounge Our Customer Service Excellence Award-winning student services team are here to support you from the moment you enrol and throughout your time at University.
They are here to help you with day-to-day matters; our specialist support services include: Disability Service Student Funding and Finance including Budgeting Advice Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) Bursaries, Scholarships and the Student Support Fund Mental Health and Wellbeing including, Mental Health Advisors, Counsellors and Cognitive Behavioural Therapy based in the Life Lounge Multi-faith chaplaincy Pets as Therapy Academic Advice including complaints, mitigating circumstances, appeals and timetables Accommodation advice (via Orlando Village team) Signposting to immigration and Tier 4 advice
Our Customer Service Excellence Award-winning student services team are here to support you from the moment you enrol and throughout your time at University.
They are here to help you with day-to-day matters; our specialist support services include:
As you would expect, there are plenty of print books, ebooks and electronic resources available in our library.
The dedicated Customer Service Excellence Award-winning team library team are also here to advise you on getting the most from the resources available to you.
There is also a variety of open study facilities, group working areas and computing suites available to students throughout the year.
All our students are allocated a Personal Tutor to discuss academic and non-academic matters with.
In addition you’ll have access to peer-assisted study sessions, our online academic support platform LEAP Online and our virtual learning environment, Moodle to support your studies.
Our student services team are not only here to support you as a student but before you arrive.
Take a look at these pages for further advice:
Fees and Finance
Disability Service
To find out more about our award-winning student support, please go to our Student Support section of our Student Area

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/fees-and-funding:
Deciding to study at university is an investment in your future.
There are many studies that confirm that graduates, on the whole, earn more over the course of their working life than non-graduates.
It’s important, though, that you consider how much it will cost to study at University and what funding is available to help you achieve your goals.
You will pay tuition fees for all our courses and these vary depending on the type, level and location of the course you are studying.
You will also need to consider accommodation, living and travel costs as part of this.
There is a wide range of financial support available to you through Student Finance England and potentially other external sources.
The University of Greater Manchester also offers a number of scholarships and bursaries to make studying easier.
Eligibility and entitlement to Government Funding can be based on your household income, what you are studying, and how you choose to study.
Below is what is available:
If you are having difficulty managing your finances whilst studying at university, we can help you work through your problems with budgeting and money management sessions.
Learn how to manage your finances and avoid getting into debt.
We act as a referral agency allowing you to get in touch with the right people.
In addition to Government funding, there are some financial awards/fee waivers available to students both from the University and external bodies.
Take a look at our Scholarships and Bursary page to find out what’s available to you.
Before starting higher education, it’s important to think about the costs you’re likely to face and how to manage your money.
You’ll receive your maintenance support in termly instalments.
This will need to be budgeted for on-going costs such as accommodation, insurance, fuel costs, TV licence, food and drink, travel, sports, leisure and social activities, mobile phone and internet.
If you’d like more information about budgeting please contact our student funding team: studentfunding@bolton.ac.uk
Below is an example of the estimated average cost of living for a full time student for one academic year (Source: Save the Student National Student Money Survey 2023).
Average student living costs are £1078 per month

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation:
At Orlando Village, we take pride in fostering a warm and inclusive community that celebrates the richness of diversity.
Your journey with us is more than a residency; it’s a chance to discover a home away from home, where different cultures are not only respected but joyously embraced.
Join our vibrant community and be part of an inclusive living experience that welcomes students from every corner of the globe.
Here, your individuality is not only honored but celebrated, and any requests to accommodate personal preferences are met with understanding and unwavering support.
The only student accommodation provider approved and recommended by the University of Greater Manchester
Bronze rooms with single beds and essential furnishings.
Bronze Plus rooms with added comforts and extra kitchen storage.
Silver rooms with 3/4 size beds and high-quality furnishings.
Gold rooms with flat screen smart TV, communal lounge and en-suite
Dive into what Orlando Village can offer you as a student with our 360 tour.
The award-winning, purpose-built halls have 383 rooms allocated into flats of up to six people, ideal if you're looking to share with a group.
Enjoy the convenience of self-catering facilities with shared kitchens, bathrooms, and laundry facilities.
In 2024, Orlando Village has been proudly nominated for multiple awards, recognising its commitment to inclusivity, mental health support, and community safety through initiatives like collaborative mental health training, cultural celebrations, and dedicated staff support.
Weekly events cater to diverse interests, creating a vibrant community experience.
The recently renovated common room is the heart of social connections, featuring a study area, PS5, large screen TV with a full Sky TV package, and a pool table.
For relaxation, the cinema room offers a cosy escape and is available to book daily.
Orlando Village prioritises positive mental health, offering mindfulness sessions and social opportunities to connect with like-minded people.
Conveniently located, it's just a 10-minute walk from the main campus and town centre, with easy access to bus and rail stations and supermarkets like Sainsbury’s, Morrison’s, and Aldi.
Experience comfort and community at Orlando Village!
“Affordable accommodation for students.
Self-contained fenced gated campus with own laundry and social room, single rooms with fully equipped kitchens and bathrooms in every flat.
Very kind staff present all around the clock, safe place to stay.”
The bookings team are on hand to answer any questions you may have, alternatively you can check out the most common questions below.
Want to know more?
Our team are waiting to take your call on +44 (0)1204 903 488 , or email us using the link below.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/student-life/sport-and-wellness:
We boast a multi-use four-court sports hall available for hire for a range of activities, such as badminton, table tennis, 5-a-side football, volleyball and much more.
We also have social sport activities, fitness classes and a 50ft climbing wall with many sessions FREE for University of Greater Manchester students.
If you are a little more serious about your sport and fancy having the opportunity to compete for the university in competitive leagues this can be done by joining a club at the University Sports Centre Reception.
Whether you want to compete, engage in sport for fun, or make new friends, come and try us out.
Remember sport welcomes all!
Sports Centre Activities
Club Sport Activities
50FT Indoor Climbing Wall
Anderton Centre Outdoor Activities
Suggest an activity /Start a club
Free Gym Memberships
Local Sporting Attractions
Sport/Activity Initiatives
Sports Centre Resources
Meet The Team
Opening times and how to find us
O’Neill’s Leisurewear Shop
Instagram News
Contact us

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/student-life/facilities-and-investment:
Alongside our high-quality, Teaching Intensive approach to education, the University of Bolton invests millions into its facilities.
We understand just what it takes, which is why students have access to state-of-the-art facilities day in and day out.
These include industry-standard equipment, so you can walk out of university and into a job without any worry.
A £31 million health and sports centre, this provides everything for casual sports fans and serious athletes alike.
Step inside, where you’ll be given access to various sports facilities, including a large sports hall, a modern gym, 15m climbing wall, 25m swimming pool and a competition-level trampoline.
You’ll also find the Athlete Development Centre, which helps athletes, sports teams and coaches at all levels improve their performance, and our Sports and Spinal Injury Clinic is open to everyone.
Visit the Bolton One website.
The only centre in the UK of its kind, we invested £13 million into this facility.
Featuring an exceptional team of highly-qualified staff, with countless years of knowledge within the world of motorsport and engineering, each one works to provide students with the tools they need to achieve their career goals.
They do this, not only through their expertise but through the centre’s purpose-built environment to give students a real-life experience to enhance employability.
Inside our Queen’s Building, you’ll find these new £4.8 million purpose-built laboratories.
These provide our dental students with state-of-the-art dental processing rooms where they can work on developing their skills to the highest standards.
The rooms are sponsored by digital dental laboratory houses, and house extremely advanced, specialist industry-standard equipment.
Continuing to improve our offering to help better our current and future students, this is a £4 million custom-built business management centre.
Designed to support students from a range of backgrounds, this is home to the ConnectED apprenticeship hub and works to provide students with the qualifications, skills and confidence to build exceptional careers for themselves.
From purpose-built facilities such as photography studios and darkrooms to 2D and 3D art workshops to a fully operating theatre, there’s plenty here to get your creative juices flowing.
Find out more about Bolton School Of The Arts here.
You discover a huge selection of facilities here to benefit your studies.
Whether it’s Bolton One, the Centre for Dental Sciences or specialist, purpose-built facilities, we have everything here to ensure your career in health and well-being gets off to the best start.
Discover everything you’ll need to get hands-on experiences, such as fully-equipped games and visual effects labs, and computing and networking suites and even a dedicated model-making studio.
State-of-the-art and purpose-built, the facilities in Eagle Tower include a selection of psychology laboratories and various teaching and seminar rooms.
Find out more about our exceptional Education and Psychology department here .
Whether you’re studying Construction, Civil Engineering or Mathematics, you’ll find everything you could need in the Calderwood Building.
From industrial research-grade equipment to modern laboratories specialising in electronics to computing labs, we have everything here.
From the £100,000 Moot Court and our Legal Resource Centre, our School of Law provides you with everything you could possibly need.
Discover more here .
Providing excellent facilities, the Queens Specialist Building houses modern laboratories, classrooms and a dedicated cell imaging and biochemistry suite.
Meanwhile, Bolton One is available for all sports, health, leisure and research need.
Aside from our quality teaching, passionate lecturers, great facilities and supportive environment when it comes to education, we also have a wealth of societies, places to go and people to talk to, all designed to help you thrive in your personal life at university.
Learn about it all here .

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/join-us/careers-and-employability:
The Careers Service is here to help you!
We are here to listen.
We care about your future.
We want to help you to achieve your career goals.
At the University of Bolton, we offer you more than just careers advice.
We want you to achieve career success and we will help you every step of the way, providing you with employability experiences that will enhance your CV and boost your skills.
Whether you are studying on a full-time or part-time basis, or you are an undergraduate or postgraduate student, we offer a range of careers and employability support adapted to your individual needs.
We can help you with exploring your career options, applying for job vacancies, writing a CV and cover letter, finding a work placement, and developing those skills and attributes that employers look for.
"I would love all students to be proactive about seeking career advice and help early...
No one knows it all!
Working with the Careers service is one of the best things that happened to me"
"I was able to form a connection with my career advisor which was super helpful.
Helpful because they understand what I wanted and needed from my career, where I would want to be post-degree.
With that relationship, I was able to confidently apply for jobs, attend events and put myself out there.
I would not have gotten some of the opportunities without their help."
"In my opinion, your department (Careers) is doing a great job offering many opportunities for students to learn and develop."
"Working with the Careers and Employment Service at the University of Bolton was an invaluable experience that provided me with a multifaceted skill set and a profound sense of career direction."
"My time with the Careers and Employment Service of the University of Bolton was transformative, equipping me with the tools, knowledge, and clarity necessary for a successful and fulfilling career journey."
"The guidance and support I received from the service not only helped me clarify my career objectives but also equipped me with the necessary strategies to navigate the job market effectively.
Through resume workshops counselling, I gained invaluable insights that boosted my self-assurance."
Looking for a graduate job, placement or internship?
Whatever job you’re searching for, we can
          help to get you started!
Besides the range of on-campus opportunities, we have links to a wide range of websites and information.
We
          can help you to understand the jargon and help you to understand how the whole recruitment process works.
University of Bolton Students and Graduates can access many resources from booking appointments with trained career advisers to booking onto events and workshops.
22-03-2024
University of Bolton's Exclusive GAME Initiative
31-05-2023
Games Art vs Game Design – what’s the difference?
Skills needed to be a game developer
22-05-2023
What Degree do you need to become a Game Developer?

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/international/location-bolton-greater-manchester:
Bolton is a historic town, and a great place to live during your time studying at university in the UK.
It’s a large, thriving town, with many shops, bars, restaurants and leisure facilities.
Bolton has a renowned and growing cultural scene, it is one of the UK's most vibrant towns and the University of Greater Manchester campus is right at the heart of it.
The beautiful town hall, gallery and museum, as well as the famous Octagon theatre and the performance venue the Albert Halls Bolton are all just a short walk from campus.
Behind the town hall is the famous Le Mans Crescent which was named after Bolton’s twinned town of Le Mans in France, the home of endurance motor-racing.
Bolton also has one of the oldest pubs in Britain, Ye Olde Man & Scythe which dates back to 1251 as well as a series of new bars and major restaurants in the town centre, such as those hosted in the Vaults at Market Place, Bolton.
There is also a multiplex cinema, ten-pin bowling, shops, hotels and 24-hour supermarkets can be found a few minutes from the Deane Road Campus.
Free live music events and regular student nights are on offer at many venues.
Bolton is home to one of the English Football League’s founding members, Bolton Wanderers, who play at the University of Greater Manchester Stadium, a state-of-the-art facility which has also hosted the Commonwealth Games.
Outside the University there are public football pitches, golf courses, riding schools, sports centre and public swimming pools.
Bolton Arena is the Regional Tennis Centre and hosts national tennis events.
Just 17 minutes by train from Bolton is Manchester; one of the UK's most multicultural and liveliest cities.
Here you can find even more culture, attractions and vibrant nightlife.
Whether you are looking for high end, designer retailers in Spinningfields; a taste of culture and history around Castlefield or a vintage bargain and quality coffee in the Northern Quarter - you are in a great place to benefit from what the city of Manchester has to offer.
There are world-class museums, theatres and international cinemas, legendary music venues and a wealth of eateries and student friendly shops.
A short journey down the River Irwell you will also find the new media and cultural hub of Mediacity UK at Salford Quays (pictured).
This is now the premier waterfront destination in Manchester and is the heart of the UK's biggest media and digital industries (such as the BBC and ITV) as well as being another shopping hub.
For those who enjoy their shopping experience supersized, the huge shopping mall of the Trafford Centre is just a few miles away from Bolton and Manchester.
Liverpool is just a short train journey west, this city is famous for producing the Beatles rock band and world-renowned football club, Liverpool FC.
You’ll be able to enjoy bars with a variety of food and drink options, museums containing the city’s history and art galleries which have famous painting on display.
The transport links from Liverpool have been booming since the industrial revolution when passengers were ferried to the USA.
Now, passengers are mainly travelling to Dublin and other local areas, but for those wishing to travel internationally, Liverpool John Lennon Airport is a short journey away from the city centre.
Bolton enjoys being surrounded by stunning scenery.
The West Pennine moors area is only 2.5 miles from campus and offers some of the North of England's most beautiful countryside with lakes and reservoirs, historic ruins and ancient sites.
From here, you have the perfect base to explore the North West of England coastline, the Peak District to the south or the breath-taking Lake District to the North which has been declared a Unesco World Heritage Site in 2017.
International travel could not be simpler, Bolton enjoys a direct train link to Manchester Airport - the busiest UK airport outside of London!
So whether it's returning home or onward travel, being at Bolton will mean you always feel connected.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/national-student-survey:
Your opportunity to have your say and be in with a chance to WIN a Graduation Package or an Amazon Voucher
The NSS is the largest UK wide annual survey aimed at final year undergraduates in the UK.
The NSS is open to eligible final year undergraduate students
The NSS launches at the University on Monday 20 January to Wednesday 30 April 2025, but can be completed any time from Wednesday 8 January.
The survey provides you with an opportunity to give your honest opinions on what you liked about your course at the University of Greater Manchester as well as things that you feel could have been improved.
The survey is administered by Ipsos MORI , an independent market research agency on behalf of the UK Higher Education funding and regulatory bodies, so your responses remain anonymous to your university or college at all times.
You will be asked questions relating to various aspects of your course such as teaching, feedback and assessment, and learning resources.
You will also be given the opportunity to provide comments on your overall student experience, mental health and wellbeing support and your freedom of expression at the University of Greater Manchester.
Nearly half a million students across the UK are invited to take part in the National Student Survey (NSS) every year.
The NSS is your opportunity to give your honest feedback about what it has been like to study on your course at the University of Greater Manchester.
It is published every year and is a rich and influential source of information about higher education.
The survey is a key component of the quality assurance and wider regulatory landscape in UK higher education.
As a student, you have a powerful collective voice that will help shape the future of your course and your university/college for current and prospective students.
The survey is completed by final-year students at:
Eligible students who enter the online survey prize draw will have a chance to win one of the following exciting prizes:
2 x 1st Prizes: Graduation package, which includes Graduation gown hire (Full outfit: Gown, Hood & Hat), a Starter pack of photography, two free guest tickets, and a University of Greater Manchester Scroll certificate holder.
If the winning student is not due to graduate, the prize can be substituted for an Amazon voucher of the same value.
2 x 2nd Prizes: £100 Amazon Gift Voucher.
The winners will be drawn and contacted by the Student Life Team once the survey closes on Wednesday 30 April 2025.
Create a sense of belonging at the Greater Manchester Business School
Developed a Student Success Zone the student area (ground floor)
Students have accessed to support 5-days per week from a variety of service, including academic support.
Positivity measure for teaching
Strategic Planning & Information: sdm@bolton.ac.uk
Ipsos MORI: thestudentsurvey@ipsos.com
Students can also contact the OFS: nss@officeforstudents.org.uk
Students can tell the OfS if they have been inappropriately influenced: NSSallegations@officeforstudents.org.uk

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/student-life/gym-membership:
*The offer is available to 250 free gym membership applications on a first-come, first-served basis.
We are delighted to announce, as part of the University of Greater Manchester's partnership with Bolton Arena (now the University of Greater Manchester Arena) at Middlebrook, Horwich, that students can take advantage of a variety of the Arena’s fantastic facilities.
They include:
Immediate family members of students will also be entitled to a peak membership rate of £25 per month (subject to a 12-month agreement required).
As well as the free gym discounted memberships, other facilities available for students include:
For further information and the terms and conditions of these benefits, please see the Bolton Arena website - Visit Bolton Arena
Train
A 0.4-mile walk from Bolton One to Bolton Train station.
Every 30 mins, a train will take you two stops from Bolton Station to Horwich Parkway.
A 1-minute walk from Horwich Parkway to the University of Greater Manchester Arena.
Total time = approximately 17 minutes
Bus
Various bus routes can take you to the University of Greater Manchester Arena.
The 516, 575 and 904 can take you from the Deane Road campus to the University of Greater Manchester Arena.
Total time = approximately 30 – 45 minutes
Middlebrook Retail Park and Bolton Wanderers Football Club are within walking distance of the Arena.
Middlebrook Retail Park - Shoppers Map - Middlebrook Retail
Bolton Wanderers FC - Bolton Wanderers (bwfc.co.uk)

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/explore-our-schools-and-centres:
Creative & Digital Arts,
                            English & Creative Writing
Dance, Musical Theatre
                            & Performance
Film FX, Film &
                            TV Production
Game Design
Biomedical Sciences &
                            Medical Biology
Paramedic
                            Sciences
Physiotherapy &
                            Sport Rehabilitation
Education, Early Years
                            and Teacher Training
Pre-University
                            Study
Health and Social Care, Social Work & Community and Youth
Law & Crime and
                            Criminal Justice
School of Law
School of Medicine
Off Campus Division
Centre for Clinical and Biomedical Sciences
Centre for Contemporary Coronial Law
Queens Dental Sciences Centre
Centre for Islamic Finance
Centre for Opposition Studies
Centre of Pedagogy
Centre for Research for Health and Wellbeing
Centre for Worktown Studies
Institute for Materials Research and Innovation (IMRI)
Centre for advanced manufacturing
Centre for Leadership and Empowerment
Centre for Research in BAME Education & Entrepreneurship
Centre of Higher Education Research and Practice (CHERP)

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/strategy-and-vision:
The University traces its educational roots all the way back to 1824 when it opened as one of the first mechanics’ institutes.
Granted University status in 2005, Bolton now has a global student body of around 11,000 – including all campuses and affiliates – employing over 900 people.
The University is based on a modern, compact, town-centre campus and our teaching quality has consistently won the highest rankings possible from the Government’s quality control agency.
Our strong industry links allow us to provide a large number of professionally accredited courses through partnerships that include several Chartered Institutes, the British Psychological Society and the Nursing & Midwifery Council.
More than 30 of our courses are professionally accredited, reflecting the industry focus of course content.
The University of Greater Manchester is committed to helping and supporting students and their teachers and advisors at every stage of their journey into higher education.
Valuing its strong partnerships with local schools and colleges, the University offers a range of enrichment activities supporting progression into higher education.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/news:
21 July 2025
Sports rehab student Mehnoor Naseer has followed in the footsteps of her four super siblings and graduated with a first-class degree from the University of Greater Manchester.
Mehnoor was awarded her...
18 July 2025
World-renowned tenor Russell Watson sung to the next generation of healthcare professionals as he was awarded an honorary degree from the University of Greater Manchester.
Russell, who has overcome t...
17 July 2025
An expert in heraldry who helped to redesign the University of Greater Manchester’s coat of arms, was awarded an honorary doctorate.
William Hunt was honoured as Doctor of Letters (DLitt) in recognit...
16 July 2025
A founding member of one the most famous rock bands in the world, who also helped to rescue Bolton Wanderers from a financial crisis, received an honorary doctorate from the University of Greater Manc...
14 July 2025
The boss of an HIV charity was awarded an honorary doctorate by the University of Greater Manchester on the first day of a week of graduation celebrations.
Darren Knight, Chief Executive of the Manch...
An ‘outstanding’ secondary head also received an honorary doctorate on the first day of the University’s graduation week.
Professor Geoff Ashton was made Doctor of Education (EdD) in recognition of h...
11 June 2025
Students and their families celebrated at the annual Creative Arts Show Awards prizegiving ceremony at the University of Greater Manchester.
The awards, covering a wide range of arts disciplines, wer...
A sports rehabilitation lecturer and two students supported the British Touring Car Championships at Snetterton race track last weekend.
Sean Devlin and students Josh Walsh and Aram Giglio provided s...
2 June 2025
The University of Greater Manchester is urging students of all ages from disadvantaged backgrounds to consider applying for a free 10-week course which prepares them to take up a degree apprenticeship...

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/governance:
The Board of Governors acting collectively as the university’s effective Governing Body is responsible for overseeing the educational character and mission of the university with specific responsibilities for financial probity and the effective use of resources.
The Board comprises of both independent and staff/student governors who are also the charitable trustees of the university.
The Vice Chancellor and the President of the Students’ Union are both ex-officio members of the Board.
The Chair and Deputy Chair of the Board are elected from the independent members of the Board.
Governors are required to adhere at all times to the Code of Conduct for Governors (which includes the Statement of Primary Responsibilities).
The Board meets at least four times a year and has established the following sub-committees to assist it in carrying out its responsibilities:
Audit Committee
Resources Committee
Nominations Committee
Remuneration Committee
Ad Hoc Committee
Any queries concerning governance matters may be addressed to:
Dr Sue Duncan LLD (hc), Solicitor Registrar Vice Chancellor’s Office, Senate House The University of Greater Manchester Deane Road Bolton BL3 5AB
If you would like to view the university’s Governing Documents, please click here .
To download the Significant Risk and Critical Incident Notification Protocol Documents,
please click here .
Warrant and under Seal granted 5 March 1990 The University of Greater Manchester The Arms following that is to say: Or Fretty Gules overall three Moorcocks two and one Sable a Bordure Gules charged with eight Pomegranates Or seeded Gules And for the Crest (above) upona Helm with a Wreath Or Gules An Elephant statant proper its trappings Or charged on either side (one being manifest) with a Rose Gules barbed and seeded proper plain gorged and attached by achain to the trunk of a Hazel Nut Tree Or Fructed Gules Mantled Gules Doubled Or And by theauthority aforesaid We do further grant and assign the following Device or Badge (not shown above)that is to say Four arrows in Cross Gules the barbs outwards and extending beyond a Chaplet ofLaurel Or and surmounted by a Pomegranate Gules seeded Gold.
(Heraldic terms: ‘Or’ is gold,’Gules’ is red, as in red gullet) Motto: “SAPIENTIA SUPERAT MORAS”, ‘Wisdom overcomes difficulty’.)
The university’s legal name is The University of Greater Manchester Higher Education Corporation.
As a higher education corporation, the university is a statutory body established under the provisions of the Education Reform Act 1988 and enjoys charitable status as an exempt charity.
The university is autonomous and responsible for the management of its own affairs.
Assistant Vice Chancellor (Knowledge Exchange)
Joint Deputy Chair of the Board, Independent Member, Chair of the Audit Committee and Member of the Remuneration Committee
Independent Member and Member of the Audit Committee
Independent Member and Member of the Resources Committee
Independent Member and Governor Member of the University Health & safety Committee
Independent Member and Member of the Resources and the Nominations Committee
Independent Member and Chair of the Resources Committee Member and of the Remuneration Committee
Independent Member, Chair of the Board of Governors and Member of the Nominations Committee and of the Remuneration Committee
Statutory Co-opted Member and Member of the Audit Committee
Independent Member, Member of the Nominations Committee and Member of the Remuneration Committee
Independent Member, Member of the Audit Committee and Member of the Remuneration Committee
Senate Member and Member of the Nominations Committee
Statutory Co-opted Member & Member of the Resources Committee
Independent Member and Member of the Audit and the Ad hoc Appointments Committee
Students’ Union President to the Governors

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/visit-us/events:
No Events found.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/governance/policies-and-legal/environmental-sustainability:
Nine out of ten people in the world currently breathe polluted air and almost 80% of the world’s plastic ends up in landfill or the natural environment.
It’s a global tragedy that we are not looking after our planet.
It is something that you cannot escape, and action is long overdue.
The University of Greater Manchester is proud to be working towards solutions for a better life.
A sustainability committee was launched during 2019 and the University is constantly evolving its practices for the good of the students, staff and community.
Together, with small changes we can make a large enough impact to change the future of sustainability and respond to and manage climate change.
The Environmental Sustainability Lead for the University said: “As one of the largest organisations in the Greater Manchester region, the University recognises the environmental impacts from its activities, routine operations, infrastructure development and its influence over wider community regionally, nationally and globally.
The University will be using the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals as their prime objectives and will plan and work to achieve the goals in alignment with regional and national timelines.”
The United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals were set in 2015 as a “blueprint to achieve a better and more sustainable future for all" and these are:
Environmental Sustainability Strategy Framework
PAOW stands for Pledge, Act, Observe and Win.
A collaborative project initiated by the University of Greater Manchester and the former Bolton Students’ Union President (2021-23) to build a partnership with local communities working together towards cleaner streets.
PAOW – get involved!

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/university-leadership:
Educated at Eton College, Downing College and Cambridge University, the Earl of St Andrews read history.
He served in New York and Budapest in HM Diplomatic Service, working for many years in the antiquarian book business including Christies UK.
George Windsor has also been the Chairman of an internet-based world history project, the Golden Web (2006-2012).
He encourages building bridges between different civilisations and is heavily involved in the community by holding a number of titles including:
Association for International Cancer Research (no Worldwide Cancer Research) – Patron since 1995
Great Britain Sasakawa Foundation - Trustee from 1996 onwards, Chairman since 2005.
The Princess Margareta of Romania Foundation – Patron since 1997
SOS Children’s Villages UK – Trustee since 1999
Welsh Sinfonia – Patron since 2011
Next Century Foundation – Member of the advisory board since 2012
University of Cambridge – Patron since 2012
Global eHealth Foundation – Trustee since 2012
The University of Greater Manchester Centre for Islamic Finance – Patron
After earning a Doctorate in Education, a Masters degree in Business Administration and a BSc in Economics, Professor Holmes went on to become the youngest University head in the UK when he was appointed in 2005.
His previous experiences of editing International Journals, specialising in Quality Assurance in education and as Principal of Doncaster College have given him a lot of success including securing the largest capital grant in the history of the FE sector at the time and had responsibility for building a new £75 million college on the waterfront in Doncaster.
As an active member in society, Professor Holmes has held a number of titles, including:
Board Member for Regents College
Deputy Lieutenant for Her Majesty’s Lord Lieutenant of the County of Greater Manchester
Founding Trustee of the Bolton University Technical College
Former Governor at Bolton College, Bolton School, and the ESSA Academy Trust
Former Board Member of the Bolton Lads and Girls Club
Board Member of the Octagon Theatre, Bolton (2008-2014)
The university is committed to transparency with regard to the pay of the head of the institution – its President and Vice-Chancellor.
As of 31 July 2018 the salary for Professor George Holmes was £256,284 per annum.
The President and Vice-Chancellor’s Pay (and that of the institutions Designated Senior Post holders) is determined by the university’s Remuneration Committee, comprising independent external members of the university’s Board of Governors.
The University of Bolton publishes Head of Institution Pay Ratios based on basic salaries on an annual basis and provides comparative data over a five year period.
As at 31 July 2018 the ratio of lowest paid employee (Living Wage Foundation rate of pay) to the head of institution was 1:15.5.
In the Hutton Review of Fair Pay (2011) it was noted that no public sector executive should earn more than 20 times the salary of the lowest paid employee.
The ratio at the university is somewhat lower than that stipulated in the Hutton Review.
In the most recent information published by UCEA in 2016/17 the sector average was 1:16.3.
Noting that the median pay will not be significantly affected by large or small salaries that may skew an average as at 31st July 2018 the ratio of the median salary (all employees) to the head of institution was 1:7.2.
In the most recent information published by UCEA in 2016/17 the sector average was 1:6.8.
Therefore it is possible to conclude that the university is broadly in step with the rest of the sector.
i) Ratio of lowest paid employee to the head of institution salary
31 July 2018 – 1:15.5
31 July 2017 – 1:15.8
31 July 2016 – 1:14.3
31 July 2015 – 1:13.8
31 July 2014 – 1:14.6
ii) Ratio of median salary to the head of institution salary
31 July 2018 – 1:7.2
31 July 2017 – 1:7.2
31 July 2016 – 1:64
31 July 2015 – 1:5.9
31 July 2014 – 1:5.9
Any queries concerning governance matters may be addressed to: Dr Sue Duncan LLD (hc) Solicitor Registrar Vice Chancellor’s Office Senate House The University of Greater Manchester Deane Road Bolton BL3 5AB
Dr Sue Duncan LLD (hc) Solicitor Registrar Vice Chancellor’s Office Senate House The University of Greater Manchester Deane Road Bolton BL3 5AB

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/alumni:
Stay in touch with your University of Greater Manchester Family
As a University of Greater Manchester graduate, your relationship with the University continues long after you graduate.
Your graduation with the University of Greater Manchester is only the commencement of our continued relationship with you.
No matter when or what you studied with us, we’re still here for you to make sure you stay tuned into the goings on from the University and your fellow graduates.
It is always a pleasure to see and hear about where life has taken you after Bolton and we want you to know we are here for you when you need us.
"Having recently graduated with a BSc in Sports Rehabilitation, I would unreservedly recommend the University and its courses.
The degree programmes in the Sports Science department offer exceptional opportunities to students, as well as training and learning in first-class facilities.
University of Greater Manchester made me a more practical and confident therapist, for which I am very grateful to the university.
I am delighted I chose to study at the university and strongly recommend it to all future applicants."
"I attended the open day as I was interested in the Computer Games Design course and, after attending, I quickly felt like I would enjoy my time at the university.
The course seemed exactly like what I wanted to do and this persuaded me to choose Bolton.
Having real world projects and real client feedback was invaluable, as it enabled me to learn to accept design critique and set me up for a career in the design industry.
My design course has set me up on my career path: I am now leading a design team and shaping design decisions for a national tech company.
None of this would have been possible had I not started my path at the University of Greater Manchester."
"I’m lucky that I’ve always known what I wanted to do, but I know for a lot of young people going through GCSEs and A-levels, and even degrees, it’s difficult to know exactly where you want to go with your life.
For anyone who might be struggling to decide, I’d suggest looking into engineering.
I’ve always loved building and creating things – I get a real buzz being able to point at something and say 'I made that'.
Regardless of which path you take it’s important to make sure you enjoy it.
When I first went to university I thought I wanted to be a structural engineer, but after my first year I realised this wasn’t for me, and started specialising in setting out instead.
University gave me practical and lab experience to see how things work and I really enjoyed having the chance to work with construction management modules and hydraulics."
"Amongst the university’s alumni is entrepreneur and supercar designer Dr Tony Keating, who studied Automobile Engineering at Bolton Institute during the nineties, went on to achieve an MBA and was awarded an Honorary Doctorate in 2013.
The course enabled him to begin work in the engineering industry and in 1998 he set up his own business.
Tony was born in Manchester and is one of the university’s most successful Alumni.
Now CEO of Keating Supercars, his company is currently celebrating a decade in business, and preparing to drive full throttle into another decade with the Keating Berus.
"
"I completed both my Degree in Visual Arts (where I specialised in sculpture) and my MA in Public Art at Bolton, which has lead to extensive opportunities including my first public sculpture being installed last summer in Moses Gate.
I had a great relationship with staff at the university and have made some life long friends and contacts in my field.
As a free lance artist I am currently taking part in a large project in Sparth in Rochdale, where I will be creating aluminium etched panels to be installed and fixed onto knee rails outside the local community centre.
This will be done with extensive consultation from the local community.
In my role as CPO I manage the current projects and apply for funding to develop new initiatives for the centre, including a Driving Project for the community and refugees, ESOL and IT classes, UCAN Feel Fitter classes which encompasses healthy walks, weight management and healthy Eating.
We run Counselling sessions for the community, as well as providing customer care and sign posting information and referrals to many agencies, including the Citizens Advice and Employment agencies.
My role is very varied on a day to day basis as well as extremely challenging."
As a Bolton graduate, you can access free careers information, advice and guidance for up to three years after you graduate.
We can help you with exploring your career options, applying for job vacancies, and developing those skills and attributes that employers look for.
It doesn’t matter if you are unsure about your future, or you want to explore other options; we offer a range of support to suit all of your career needs.
If you are having difficulty gaining access to StudentHub to login please contact alumni@bolton.ac.uk
We’re always looking for graduates who are willing to provide a testimonial of your experiences and how your time at Bolton has helped you achieve success.
By submitting a profile you will be providing current and future students with a valuable insight into what a degree with the University of Greater Manchester can lead on to!

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/more/honorary-doctorates:
Honorary Fellowships were awarded from 1988 to 2005, then, when the university title was achieved in 2005, Honorary Doctorates were awarded from 2006.
Honorary awards are conferred at degree ceremonies and we are honoured that these people have accepted our degrees.
Carl Ward For his outstanding contribution to Education Doctor of Education
Christopher Morris For his outstanding contribution to Engineering Master of Engineering
Dr David Kevin Jones For his outstanding contribution to Health Doctor of Health Care
Elisabeth Long For her outstanding contribution to Psychology Doctor of Social Science
Ged O'Dwyer For his outstanding contribution to Engineering Doctor of Engineering (Hon.DEng)
Dr George M Fernie For his outstanding contribution to Law Doctor of Laws
Guy Kioni For his outstanding contribution to Business Doctor of Business Administration
Hitesh Patel For his outstanding contribution to Engineering Doctor of Engineering (Hon.DEng)
Judith Bromley For her outstanding contribution to Law and the Community Doctor of Laws
Kenan Poleo For his outstanding contribution to Diplomacy Doctor of Letters
Marco Gatti For his outstanding contribution to Services to Finance Doctor of Business Administration
Marie Oxtoby For her outstanding contribution to Health in the Community Doctor of Health Care
Mehmet Gültekin For his outstanding contribution to Education Doctor of Education
Michael Josephson MBE For his outstanding contribution to Charitable Work Doctor of Social Science
Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala For her outstanding contribution to Global Economics and Diplomacy Doctor of Business Administration
Philip John Britton For his outstanding contribution to Education Doctor of Education
Raj Nambiar For his outstanding contribution to International Education Doctor of Education
Raymond Andrew Voyce For his outstanding contribution to Psychology Doctor of Social Science
Sam Sherrington For her outstanding contribution to Health Doctor of Health Care
Victoria Claire For her outstanding contribution to Public Art Doctor of Arts
William Dyson For his outstanding contribution to Education Doctor of Education
Professor Christopher Dorries OBE For his outstanding contribution to Coroners and the Coronial Law Service Doctor of Laws (Hon.LLD)
Clive Memmott OBE For his outstanding contribution to Business Doctor of Business Administration (Hon.DBA)
Diane Hawkins JP LLB For her outstanding contribution to Charitable Work Doctor of Laws (Hon.LLD)
Diane Morgan For her outstanding contribution to Television and Comedy Doctor of Arts (Hon.DArts)
Dimitris Politopoulos For his outstanding contribution to Technology and Engineering Doctor of Engineering (Hon.DEng)
Don Wightman For his outstanding contribution to Business Doctor of Business Administration (Hon.DBA)
Elaine Willcox For her outstanding contribution to Broadcasting Doctor of Social Sciences (Hon.DSocSci)
Ghazal Baig For her outstanding contribution to Health Care Doctor of Health Care (Hon.DHC)
James Martin For his outstanding contribution to Hospitality and Entertainment Doctor of Arts (Hon.DArts)
Dr Jason Challender For his outstanding contribution to Civil Engineering Doctor of Engineering (Hon.DEng)
Jon Lord For his outstanding contribution to Bolton Doctor of Social Sciences (Hon.DSocSci)
Dr Luca Beccarri For his outstanding contribution to International Law Doctor of Laws (Hon.LLD)
Panagiotis Notis Mitarachi For his outstanding contribution to Business and Politics Doctor of Business Administration (Hon.DBA)
Professor Bob Johnson For his outstanding contribution to Psychology Doctor of Science (Hon.DSc)
Richard Skerritt For his outstanding contribution to Sustainable Tourism Development Doctor of Social Science (Hon.DSocSci)
Saif Al Seiari For his outstanding contribution to Transnational Education Doctor of Engineering (Hon.DEng)
Stuart Proffitt OBE For his outstanding contribution to Publishing Doctor of Letters (Hon.DLitt)
Tess Daly For her outstanding contribution to Entertainment Doctor of Arts (Hon.DArts)
HHJ Thomas Teague KC For his outstanding contribution to Law Doctor of Laws (Hon.LLD)
Mr Tony Ratcliffe In recognition of his sustained and dedicated service to the University Honorary Master of Engineering (Hon.
MEng)
Hon Mark Brantley For his outstanding contribution to Politics Doctor of Laws (Hon.
LLD)
Admiral The Rt Hon Baron West of Spithead GCB DSC PC For his outstanding contribution to the Safety and Security of the United Kingdom Doctor of Laws (Hon.
Dr Darryn Allcorn For his outstanding contribution to Nursing Doctor of Health Care (Hon.DHC)
Dr Ayaz Bhuta MBE For his outstanding contribution to Sport & the Community Doctor of Science (Hon.DSc)
Dr Melvin Bradley For his outstanding contribution to Mental Health Services Doctor of Health Care (Hon.DHC)
Dr Sharon Brittan For her outstanding contribution to Sport & the Community Doctor of the University (Hon.DUniv)
Mr Shaun Buckley For his outstanding contribution to Higher Education Master of the University (Hon.MUniv)
Dr Stephen Conn For his outstanding contribution to the University Doctor of Business Administration (Hon.DBA)
Dr Nick Dudman For his outstanding contribution to Creative Industry Doctor of Innovation (Hon.DInn)
Dr Owain Wyn Evans For his outstanding contribution to Broadcasting Doctor of Arts (Hon.DArts)
Dr Alan Fletcher For his outstanding contribution to Medical Services Doctor of Health Care (Hon.DHC)
Professor Dr Andrew Hargreaves For his outstanding contribution to Global Higher Education Doctor of Education (Hon.EdD)
Professor Dr David Hargreaves For his outstanding contribution to Global Higher Education Doctor of Education (Hon.EdD)
Dr Rehan Hassan For his outstanding contribution to Innovation in the Technology Sector Doctor of Engineering (Hon.DEng)
Dr Ansar Hussain For his outstanding contribution to Law Doctor of Laws (Hon.LLD)
Dr Mike James For his outstanding contribution to Sport & the Community Doctor of the University (Hon.DUniv)
Dr Jonathan Kendrick For his outstanding contribution to Digital Communications, Industry & Education Doctor of Business Administration (Hon.DBA)
Professor Dr Tom Kennie For his outstanding contribution to Global Higher Education Doctor of Education (Hon.EdD)
Rt Hon Dr Teodoro Lonfernini For his outstanding contribution to Politics Doctor of Science (Hon.DSc)
Dr Helen Lowey For her outstanding contribution to Public Health Doctor of Health Care (Hon.DHC)
Mr Akeim Mundell BEM Alumni Fellow of the University (FUniv)
Dr Clive Myrie For his outstanding contribution to Broadcasting, Television & Society Doctor of Social Science (Hon.DSocSci)
Dr Julie Oldham OBE For her outstanding contribution to Library & Museum Services Doctor of Arts (Hon.DArts)
Dr Clare Pollard For her outstanding contribution to Literature Doctor of Letters (Hon.DLitt)
Dr Jayesh Ranjan For his outstanding contribution to the development of collaborative relationships between India and Manchester (particularly in the technology sector) Doctor of the University (Hon.DUniv)
Dr Nick Richardson For his outstanding contribution to Technology & Data Analytics Doctor of Innovation (Hon.DInn)
Dr Jenny Ryan For her outstanding contribution to Television & Entertainment Doctor of Arts (Hon.DArts)
Dr David Saltiel For his outstanding contribution to Business & the Community Doctor of Philosophy (Hon.DPhil)
Dr Ali Raza Siddiqui For his outstanding contribution to International Business & Commerce Doctor of Business Administration (Hon.DBA)
Dr Lisa Stansfield For her outstanding contribution to Music & Entertainment Doctor of Arts (Hon.DArts)
Dr Annabel Tiffin For her outstanding contribution to Broadcasting Doctor of Arts (Hon.DArts)
Dr Helen Wall For her outstanding contribution to Public Health Doctor of Health Care (Hon.DHC)
Dr Sophie Willan For her outstanding contribution to Television & Comedy Doctor of Arts (Hon.DArts)
Dr Anthony Unsworth For his outstanding contribution to the University Doctor of Business Administration (Hon.DBA)
Dr William Webster For his outstanding contribution to Education Doctor of Education (Hon.EdD)
Dr Dean Holdsworth For his outstanding contribution to sport Doctor of the University (Hon.DUniv)
Dr Gill Smallwood For her outstanding services to women and children Doctor of the University (Hon.DUniv)
Dr John C C May DL For his outstanding contribution to young people Doctor of Social Science (Hon.DSocSci)
Dr Kelvin Fletcher For his outstanding contribution to entertainment and motorsport Doctor of the University (Hon.DUniv)
Dr Ken Eglinton For his outstanding contribution to business and commerce Doctor of Business Administration (Hon.DBA)
Dr Ken Heathcote For his outstanding contribution to Sport Doctor of the University (Hon.DUniv)
Dr Lesley Martin-Wright JP DL For her outstanding contribution to business and commerce Doctor of Business Administration (Hon.DBA)
The Rt Hon.
the Lord Baker of Dorking CH For his outstanding contribution to education Doctor of Education (Hon.EdD)
Dr Matt Cain For his outstanding contribution to Literature and the Community Doctor of the University (Hon.DUniv)
Dr Rebecca Long-Bailey MP For her outstanding contribution to local and national politics Doctor of Social Science (Hon.DSocSci)
Dr Shobna Gulati DL For her outstanding contribution to entertainment and the community Doctor of Arts (Hon.DArts)
Dr Stephen Critchlow For his outstanding contribution to health and sustainability Doctor of the University (Hon.DUniv)
Dr Stephen Peter Hodgson For his outstanding contribution to education Doctor of Health Care (Hon.DHC)
Dr Stuart Procter For his outstanding contribution to the hospitality industry Doctor of Business Administration (Hon.DBA)
Dr Tasos Pattichis For his outstanding contribution to the town of Bolton Doctor of the University (Hon.DUniv)
Canon Professor Timothy Wheeler For his outstanding contribution to higher education Doctor of Education (Hon.EdD)
Dr Yasmin Qureshi MP For her outstanding contribution to politics and the local community Doctor of Social Science (Hon.DSocSci)
Professor Iqbal Singh OBE For his outstanding contribution to the Health Sector (particularly in his work with BAME health professionals and communities) Doctor of Health Care (Hon.DHC)
Dr Alan Gemmell OBE For his outstanding contribution to the development of trade relationships between the UK and India, (particularly his work during the coronavirus pandemic in helping student mobility) Doctor of the University (Hon.DUniv)
Dr Alistair Jarvis For his outstanding contribution to Higher Education, (particularly during the Covid-19 pandemic) Doctor of Education (Hon.EdD)
Dr Chris Green MP For his outstanding contribution to the town of Bolton Doctor of the University (Hon.DUniv)
Dr David Ricardo-Pearce For his outstanding contribution to the Theatre Doctor of Arts (Hon.DArts)
Dr Greg Walker For his outstanding contribution to Higher Education, (particularly during the Covid-19 pandemic) Doctor of Education (Hon.EdD)
Dr Fiona Noden For her outstanding contribution to the Health Sector and Community Wellbeing, (particularly during the coronavirus pandemic) Doctor of Health Care (Hon.DHC)
Dr Harpal Singh Matharu For his outstanding contribution to hospitality Doctor of Business Administration (Hon.DBA)
Dr Paul Martin OBE For his outstanding contribution to the community Doctor of Social Science (Hon.DSocSci)
Dr Rasha Said Khawaja For her outstanding contribution to business innovation Doctor of Business Administration (Hon.DBA)
Dr Tony Oakman For his outstanding contribution to the town of Bolton Doctor of the University (Hon.DUniv)
Dr Sarosh Zaiwalla For his outstanding contribution to Law Doctor of Laws (Hon.LLD)
Dr Daren Mochrie For his outstanding contribution to the Ambulance Service and the Health Sector (particularly during the coronavirus pandemic), Doctor of Health Care (Hon.DHC)
Dr Vanessa Kirby For her outstanding services to Dramatic Arts Doctor of Arts (Hon.DArts)
The Right Honourable Dr Prodromos Prodromou For his outstanding contribution to academia and politics Doctor of Education (Hon.EdD)
Dr Shanu Hinduja For her outstanding contribution to the economy Doctor of Business Administration (Hon.DBA)
Yannis Katsaounis For his outstanding services to international business Doctor of Business Administration
Baroness Newlove For her outstanding services to victim support Doctor of Laws
Bernard Waldron MBE For his outstanding contribution to business Doctor of Business Administration
Tawfic Khoury For his outstanding services to civil engineering Doctor of Engineering
Ian Savage For his outstanding services to the media Doctor of the University
Doctor Jackie Bene For her outstanding contribution to medicine Doctor of Health Care
Chris Houghton For his outstanding services to charity Doctor of the University
Maurice Watkins CBE For his outstanding services to sport Doctor of Laws
Professor Doctor Mehmet Akalin For his outstanding contribution to Higher Education and Research Doctor of Education
Andy Burnham For his outstanding services to the North West Doctor of the University
Elaine Constantine For her outstanding contribution to creative and film industries Doctor of Arts
Neill Gorton For his outstanding services to the creative industry Doctor of Innovation
Reverend Phil Mason For his outstanding services to the community Doctor of the University
Philip Isgar For his outstanding contribution to civil engineering Doctor of Engineering
His Honour Judge Peter Thorton QC For his outstanding contribution to the legal profession Doctor of Laws
To commemorate the Installation of our third Chancellor, the Earl of St Andrews, the University awarded 16 Honorary Doctorates
Christopher Ball For his outstanding services to further education Doctor of Education
Mark Eager For his outstanding contribution to music and performance Doctor of Arts
Joseph William Foster For his outstanding services to economic development Doctor of the University
Michael Griffiths For his outstanding services to further education Doctor of Education
Professor Dame Caroline Humphrey DBE FBA For her outstanding contribution to the field of anthropology Doctor of Philosophy
Richard Hurst For his outstanding services to the community Doctor of the University
Ahmed Paul Keeler For his outstanding contribution to the understanding of the exchanges and the inter-connection between cultures and civilisations Doctor of Laws
Mustafa Mohammed For his outstanding contribution to dental education Doctor of Health Care
Claire Moreland DL For her outstanding services to arts Doctor of Arts
William Morris For his outstanding contribution to foreign policy, international dialogue and peace Doctor of Laws
Uday Nayak For his outstanding contribution to aviation Doctor of Science
David Singleton For his outstanding services to young people and the community Doctor of Social Science
Frederick John Stuart For his outstanding services to engineering Doctor of Engineering
Councillor Carole Swarbrick For her outstanding services to the community Doctor of the University
Councillor Linda Thomas For her outstanding services to the community Doctor of the University
Professor John Wallwork CBE For his outstanding contribution to the field of medicine Doctor of Health Care
The Earl of St Andrews For his contribution to public service Doctor of Laws
Dr Andrew Cowan For his outstanding contribution to business and industrial development Doctor of Business Administration (Hon.DBA)
Dr Andrew Fleming For his outstanding contribution to the British Civil Service Doctor of Philosophy (Hon.DPhil)
Dr Atul Pathak For his outstanding contribution to business Doctor of Business Administration (Hon.DBA)
Dr Bill Dawson For his outstanding contribution to the community Doctor of the University (Hon.DUniv)
Sir Cary Cooper CBE For his outstanding contribution to psychology Doctor of Education (Hon.EdD)
Professor Christopher Bigsby For his outstanding contribution to arts and literature Doctor of Arts (Hon D.Arts)
Sir David Dalton For his outstanding contribution to health care Doctor of Health Care (Hon.DHC)
Dr Elena Ambrosiadou For her outstanding services to Financial Markets Doctor of Business Administration (Hon.DBA)
Sir John Hayes For his outstanding contribution to Further Education and Apprenticeships Doctor of Education (Hon.EdD)
Sir John Sorrell CBE For his outstanding contribution to education Doctor of Education (Hon.EdD)
Dr Karen Partington For her outstanding contribution to health care Doctor of Health Care (Hon.DHC)
Dr Maurizio Bragagni For his outstanding contribution to business Doctor of Business Administration (Hon.DBA)
Professor Nadey Hakim For his outstanding contribution to aesthetics Doctor of Arts (Hon.DArts)
Professor Nawal Prinja For his outstanding contribution to the energy industry Doctor of Engineering (Hon.DEng)
Dr Onelanna Seito-Kgokgwe For her outstanding contribution to education Doctor of Education (Hon.EdD)
Professor Patrick Trodden For his outstanding contribution to education Doctor of Education (Hon.EdD)
Dr Peter Cowgill For his outstanding contribution to business Doctor of Business Administration (Hon.DBA)
Dr Robert George Fernley For his outstanding contribution to automotive engineering Doctor of Engineering (Hon.DEng)
Dr Rohan Pallewatta For his outstanding contribution to international business Doctor of Business Administration (Hon.DBA)
Professor Rolf Richterich For his outstanding contribution to engineering Doctor of Engineering (DEng)
Dr Selva Pankaj For his outstanding contribution to further and higher education Doctor of Education (Hon.EdD)
Dr Sue Lomax For her outstanding contribution to education Doctor of Education (Hon.EdD)
Dr Sue Luke For her outstanding contribution to performing arts Doctor of Arts (Hon.DArts)
Dr Angelos Syrigos For his outstanding contribution to Poltical Sciences Doctor of Science (Hon.DSc)
Ismail Amla For his outstanding contribution to Business Doctor of Business Administration
Reena Banks For her outstanding contribution in performing arts Master of Arts
Sir Peter Fahy For his outstanding contribution to Greater Manchester and to Charitable Works Doctor of Social Science
Professor David Ford OBE For his outstanding contribution to higher education Professor Doctor of Divinity
Michael Gunn For his outstanding contribution to higher education Doctor of Education
Mark Sheen For his outstanding contribution to the University of Bolton Doctor of the University
Dame Janet Smith DBE For her outstanding contribution to the legal profession Doctor of Laws
Martin Taylor For his outstanding contribution to the University and to public musical performance Master of Arts
Lawrence Tomlinson For his outstanding contribution to motor engineering and to sport Doctor of Science
Dr Jin Yang For his outstanding contribution to higher education Doctor of Education
Ken Adshead For his outstanding contribution to art and education Doctor of Education
Trish Armstrong-Child for her outstanding contribution to health care.
Doctor of Health Care
Margaret Asquith For her outstanding contribution to Bolton Doctor of the University
Carilyn Baxendale For her outstanding contribution to education Doctor of Arts
Carl Austin-Behan For his outstanding contribution to the community Doctor of the University
Simon Blagden CBE or his outstanding contribution to business and charity Doctor of Business Administration
Professor Sonia Blandford For her outstanding contribution to education Doctor of Science
Sir Graham Brady For his outstanding contribution to national politics Doctor of Science
Professor Norman Davies For his outstanding contribution to history Doctor of Arts
Joe Egan For his outstanding contribution to law Doctor of Laws
Sotiris Foutsis For his outstanding contribution to education Doctor of Philosophy in the field of education
Elaine Inglesby-Burke CBE For her outstanding contribution to health care Doctor of Health Care
Sylvia Lancaster OBE For her outstanding contribution to education Doctor of the University
HHJ Mark Lucraft QC For his outstanding contribution to law Doctor of Laws
Professor John Lumley For his outstanding contribution to medical science Doctor of Science
Fiona Murphy MBE For her outstanding contribution to nursing Doctor of Health Care
Elizabeth Newman For her outstanding contribution to arts and Bolton Doctor of Arts
Arthur Parsons For his outstanding contribution to gaming technology Doctor of Innovation
Andrew Roberts For his outstanding contribution to education Doctor of Education
Professor David Titterington For his outstanding contribution to music Doctor of Arts
Professor Willem Toet For his outstanding contribution to motorsport engineering Doctor of Engineering
The Honourable Mr Justice Turner For his outstanding contribution to law Doctor of Laws
Kui Man Gerry Yeung OBE DL For his outstanding contribution to charity Doctor of the University
Dr Christopher Brookes For his outstanding contribution to the medical profession Doctor of Healthcare
Cllr Martin Donaghy For his outstanding contribution to the town of Bolton and the University Doctor of the University
Mike Dwan For his outstanding contribution to education Doctor of Education
Phil Gartside For his outstanding contribution to the Bolton community and football Doctor of Education
Anthony Griffin For his outstanding contribution to sport and charity Doctor of Science
HH Iain Hamilton CBE For his outstanding contribution to the legal profession Doctor of Laws
Amir Khan For his outstanding contribution to sport and charity Doctor of Science
Sajid Mahmood For his outstanding contribution to sport Doctor of Arts
Tracey Neville For her outstanding contribution to sport and charity Doctor of Science
Eamonn O’Neal DL For his outstanding contribution to charity and the media Doctor of Arts
Pam Tatlow For her outstanding contribution to higher education Doctor of Education
Alan Walsh For his outstanding contribution to the town of Bolton Doctor of the University
William Brett Warburton For his outstanding contribution to the food industry and scientific research Doctor of Science
The Right Hon Baroness Warsi PC For her outstanding contribution to politics Doctor of Social Science
Dave Whelan For his outstanding contribution to sport and charity Doctor of Business Administration
Dr Chris Minta For his unique service and lifetime achievements on behalf of both the institution and the Higher Education Sector Lifetime Fellowship
David Ratcliffe For his outstanding contribution to international education Doctor of Education
Aaqil Ahmed For outstanding contribution to the media and broadcasting Doctor of Letters
John Blackmore For outstanding contribution to the arts Doctor of Arts
Hilary Devey LLD FRSA FCILT For outstanding contribution to business Doctor of Business Administration
A J Jenkinson OBE For outstanding contribution to the Bolton Institute of Technology Posthumously admitted to the Honorary degree of Doctor of Science
Ann Johnson For outstanding contribution to health care Doctor of Health Care
Ayub Khan-Din For outstanding contribution to the arts Doctor of Letters
David Kaye For outstanding contribution to the Bolton community Doctor of the University
Tony Keating For outstanding contribution to motor vehicle engineering Doctor of Engineering
Councillor Cliff Morris For outstanding contribution to the town of Bolton Doctor of the University
Fabrice Muamba For outstanding contribution to sport and of the clinicians who save lives in the field of emergency and acute medicine Doctor of Science
Professor Peter Simons For outstanding contribution to philosophy Doctor of Philosophy
Dr Geoffrey Tabbron For outstanding contribution to education Doctor of Education
To commemorate the Installation of our second Chancellor, the Rt Hon Lord Justice Ryder Kt TD DL MA (Cantab) LLD FRSA, and celebrate 190 years as an educational establishment in Bolton, the University awarded 19 Honorary Doctorates – one for each decade of our history.
Mark Brocklehurst For his outstanding contribution to charity Doctor of Humanities
Atul Chauhan For his outstanding contribution to education Doctor of Education
Fred Done For his outstanding contribution to charity and sport Doctor of Business Administration
Sue Duncan For her outstanding contribution to the higher education Doctor of Laws
Chris Eagles For his outstanding contribution to sport Doctor of Science
Ian Goldrein QC For his outstanding contribution to the legal profession Doctor of Laws
John Grant For his outstanding contribution to motorsport Doctor of Engineering
Paul Griffiths DL For his outstanding contribution to the services of the community Doctor of Arts
Her Honour Judge Margaret de Haas QC For her outstanding contribution to the legal profession Doctor of Laws
Susan K Hodgkiss CBE DL For her outstanding contribution to the arts and the community Doctor of Arts
Professor Anthony Howell For his outstanding contribution to cancer research Doctor of Science
Margot Leicester For her outstanding contribution to theatre and television Doctor of Arts
Martine McCutcheon For her outstanding contribution to entertainment Doctor of Arts
The Rt Hon Sir James Munby QC For his outstanding contribution to the legal profession Doctor of Laws
Councillor Dr Colin Shaw For his outstanding contribution to the community Doctor of Humanities
Professor Ian Stewart For his outstanding contribution to politics and the community Doctor of Philosophy
The Rt Hon Baroness Taylor of Bolton PC For her outstanding contribution to the community Doctor of Social Science
Professor David Thacker For his outstanding contribution to the theatre Doctor of Arts
Maureen Warburton For her outstanding contribution to education Doctor of Education
Honorary Award Recipients 2014 Degree congregation ceremonies
Imran Akram For his outstanding contribution to the legal profession Doctor of Business Administration
Dr John S Bailey For his outstanding contribution to International education and leadership Doctor of Education
Margaret Blenkinsop For her outstanding contribution to theatre and the Bolton community Doctor of Arts
Adrian Brooks For his outstanding contribution to business and entertainment Doctor of Business Administration
Professor John Brooks For his outstanding contribution to Higher Education and the Northwest Doctor of Education
Roy Brooks For his outstanding contribution to Automotive Engineering Doctor of Engineering
His Honour Judge Tim Clayson For his outstanding contribution to the legal profession Doctor of Laws
Ryan Giggs OBE For his outstanding contribution to sport Doctor of Science
Sean Harriss For his outstanding contribution to the Bolton community Doctor of Public Administration
Sylvia Kay For her outstanding contribution to the University of Bolton and its Governance Doctor of Laws
Dan Keating For his outstanding contribution to the Bolton community and football Doctor of Business Administration
Simon P Kelly For his outstanding contribution to health and ophthalmology Doctor of Health Care
Gill Richards For her outstanding contribution to education Doctor of Education
John Roberts For his outstanding contribution to local business Doctor of Business Administration
Nicola Shindler For her outstanding contribution to broadcasting Doctor of Letters
Antonia Sotgiu For her outstanding contribution to music Doctor of Arts
Leigh Vallance For her outstanding contribution to health care Doctor of Health Care
Anna Vissi For her outstanding contribution to international music Doctor of Arts
Sir Philip Craven MBE For his outstanding contribution to sport and in particular to the London Paralympics 2012 Doctor of Science
Keith Davies For his significant contribution to the town of Bolton Master of the University
Rev Canon Paul Denby MBE JP DL For his outstanding contribution to Bolton and the region Doctor of Divinity
President Elias Foutsis For his entrepreneurial approach to higher education and in particular the partnership with the University of Bolton Doctor of the University
Jason Kenny OBE For his outstanding contribution to sport and in particular to the world of cycling and his contribution to the London Olympic Games Doctor of Science
Neil Myerson LLP For his outstanding contribution to the University of Bolton Doctor of Laws
Professor David Phoenix OBE For his outstanding contribution to higher education, management and scholarship in the Northwest Doctor of the University
The Rt Hon Lord Justice Ryder Kt TD DL MA (Cantab) LLD FRSA For his outstanding contribution to the legal profession Doctor of Laws
David Tomlinson For his outstanding contribution to the reputation of the University of Bolton Doctor of the University
John Walsh OBE For his outstanding contribution to the town of Bolton Doctor of the University
Mike Chapman For outstanding contribution to education and health Doctor of Health Care
Stan Cording For outstanding contribution to the University Master of the University
Garry Ion For outstanding contribution to civil engineering and overseas developments Doctor of Engineering
Elizabeth Kay MBE For outstanding contribution to education and the community Doctor of Education
Stuart Maconie For outstanding contribution to broadcasting and communication Doctor of Letters
Professor Peter Marsh For outstanding contribution to the University Doctor of the University
Amy Nuttall For outstanding contribution to theatre and the dramatic arts Doctor of Arts
Lord Bhikhu Parekh For outstanding contribution to the development of political thought Doctor of Philosophy
Mark Radcliffe For outstanding contribution to broadcasting and communication Doctor of Letters
Fred Slack For outstanding contribution to education in the community Doctor of Letters
Warren Smith KStJ JP LLD For outstanding contribution to Civic Society and Greater Manchester Doctor of Laws
Dr Joyce Tyldesley For outstanding contribution to education and culture Doctor of Letters
Sam Allardyce For his outstanding contribution to football Doctor of the University
Gordon Burns For his outstanding contribution to broadcasting Doctor of Letters
Alan Cornthwaite For his outstanding contribution to higher education provision for the construction and built environment sectors Doctor of Engineering
Chris Minta For his outstanding contribution to education and to the University as Governor and national trade union leadership Doctor of the University
Professor Iqbal Memon For his outstanding contribution to ethnicity and health and to the University as a Governor and Chair of the Governors Doctor of the University
Baroness Morris of Bolton OBE DL For his outstanding contribution to legislative processes and democracy Doctor of Laws
Jason Kenny For his outstanding contribution to sport Master of the University
Professor Oleg Liber Elizabeth Tatman MBE For her outstanding contribution to the Bolton community Doctor of University
Oleg Liber For his outstanding contribution to the University Doctor of Science
Heik Saud For his outstanding contribution to the University Doctor of the University
Zubair Hanslot For his contribution to the establishment of the University of Bolton in Ras al Khaimah Doctor of Engineering
Jason Kenny OBE as an Honorary Master For his outstanding contribution to sport Master of the University
Sudhir Kartha For his contribution to the establishment of the University of Bolton in Ras al Khaimah Doctor of the University
To celebrate the Installation of Baroness Morris of Bolton OBE DL as the first Chancellor of the University of Bolton, those who had previously been awarded Honorary Fellowships were invited to accept an Honorary Doctorate.
Those who accepted the invitation were:
George Almond CBE OStJ DL For his outstanding contribution to the Fire Service and the region as County Fire Officer, President of the Institute of Fire Engineers and Deputy Lieutenant of the County of Greater Manchester Doctor of Engineering
Professor Arup Banerjee OBE For his outstanding contribution to medicine, especially medical education and research into ageing Doctor of Science
Peter Bounds For his outstanding contribution to local government in Bolton and Liverpool Doctor of the University
Brian Bruce For his outstanding contribution to the University of Bolton, principally as a Governor and as Chair of the Governing Board Doctor of the University
Josephine Burns For her outstanding contribution to the arts and creative industries in Manchester and the North West Doctor of Arts
Jim Cartwright For his outstanding contribution to the theatre as an innovative and highly influential playwright Doctor of Letters
John Cassidy For his outstanding contribution to poetry and the teaching of creative writing Doctor of Letters
Cynthia Clarke For her outstanding contribution to health and community relations Doctor of the University
Sir Alan Cockshaw For his outstanding contribution to the civil engineering industry and urban regeneration Doctor of Engineering
Andrew Dickson For his outstanding contribution to business and the community in Bolton Doctor of Business Administration
Pat Dickson For her outstanding contribution to further education, the arts, business and the community in Bolton Doctor of Education
Frank Finlay CBE For his outstanding contribution to theatre, film and television as a distinguished and highly regarded actor Doctor of Arts
Les Gent For his outstanding contribution to journalism and local history Doctor of Letters
Jeremy Glover MBE For his outstanding contribution to Bolton, as Chief Executive of Bolton Lads and Girls Club Doctor of the University
Anthony Goldstone OBE DL For his outstanding contribution to business and commerce Doctor of Business Administration
Professor John Grant For his outstanding contribution to writing, especially as the creator of the “Lovejoy” novels Doctor of Letters
Gordon Hargreaves For his outstanding contribution to Bolton, as a businessman and chair of Bolton Wanderers FC Doctor of the University
Dr Ron Hill MBE For his outstanding contribution to Sport & textile technology Doctor of Science
Dr Brian Iddon MP For his outstanding contribution to higher education, science and technology and to Bolton and the University of Bolton Doctor of Science
Andrew Kluge For his outstanding contribution to business and enterprise in Bolton Doctor of Business Administration
Sir Harold Kroto FRS For his outstanding contribution to science and innovation Doctor of Science
Nobel Prize laureate Roy Lancaster OBE For his outstanding contribution to horticulture and broadcasting Doctor of Science
Joseph Locke MBE FR Eng For his outstanding contribution to structural engineering Doctor of Engineering
James McKnight For his outstanding contribution to mechanical and automotive engineering Chris Mack – Doctor of the University For his outstanding contribution to the University of Bolton, as Governor and Deputy Chair of the Governors Doctor of Engineering
Baroness Zahida Manzoor CBE For her outstanding contribution to race relations and the health services Doctor of Social Science
Michael Parker For his outstanding contribution to textile studies and the textile industry Doctor of Materials Technology
Lord Adam Patel of Blackburn For his outstanding contribution to race relations and the Muslim community Doctor of Social Science
Meena Pathak OBE For her outstanding contribution to business and commerce Doctor of Business Administration
Anil Ruia OBE For his outstanding contribution to business and commerce Doctor of Business Administration
Pamela Senior For her outstanding contribution to health and to the university as a governor Doctor of the University
Nigel Short For his outstanding contribution to the world of chess Doctor of Science
Clare Smith For her outstanding contribution to broadcasting and health Doctor of Letters
Norman Stoller CBE KStJ DL For his outstanding contribution to business and commerce and Deputy Lord Lieutenant of Greater Manchester Doctor of Business Administration
Peter Syddall For his outstanding contribution to the University of Bolton, as Governor and Chair of the Audit Committee Doctor of the University
Professor John Turner For his outstanding contribution to education Doctor of Education
Frank White For his outstanding contribution to the community, parliamentary processes and the regeneration of Bolton Doctor of the University
Dr Anne Wright CBE For her outstanding contribution to higher education Doctor of Education
Lorraine Brannan For her outstanding contribution to the University Doctor of the University
Howard Devoto For his outstanding contribution to the field of music Doctor of Arts
Pete Shelley For his outstanding contribution to the field of music Doctor of Arts
Vernon Kay For his outstanding contribution to the field of entertainment Doctor of Arts
Mathaka Mmapatsi For his outstanding contribution to the field of education Alumni Fellow
Gary Neville For his outstanding contribution to sport Doctor of Arts
Anwer Patel For his outstanding contribution to the Bolton community Doctor of the University
Yakub Patel For his outstanding contribution to the Bolton community Doctor of the University
Imran Hakim For his outstanding contribution to business and innovation Bolton Doctor of Innovation
Berthold Bitzer For his outstanding contribution to the field of education Doctor of the University
Sir Arnold Wolfendale For his outstanding contribution to the field of science Doctor of Science
Lord Simon Haskel For his outstanding contribution to the field of Textile Technology Doctor of the University
Dr Brian Tomkins For his outstanding contribution to Education Doctor of the University
David Ball For his outstanding contribution to the field of Mechanical Engineering Doctor of Engineering
Bruce Cain For his outstanding contribution to the University Master of the University
Professor James Calderwood For his outstanding contribution to the field of engineering Doctor of Engineering
Edith Conn OBE JP DL For her outstanding contribution to the community Doctor of the University
Howard Goodall For his outstanding contribution to the field of Music Doctor of Arts
Simon Kelner For his outstanding contribution to the field of Journalism Doctor of Letters
Professor His Honour William Morris For his outstanding contribution to the field of law Doctor of Laws
Stass Paraskos For his outstanding contribution to the field of Art Doctor of Arts
Keri-Anne Payne (Honorary Master’s) For her outstanding contribution to the field of sport Master of the University
Allan Ashworth For his outstanding contribution to the field of Construction Doctor of the University
Melvin Burgess For his outstanding contribution to the field of the Arts Doctor of the University
Sara Cox For her outstanding contribution to Broadcasting Doctor of the University
Brian Crossley For his outstanding contribution to the field of Construction Doctor of the University
Anna Friel For her outstanding contribution to the field of Performing Arts Doctor of the University
Professor Jon Glover For his outstanding contribution to English and Creative Writing Doctor of the University
Bernard Hill For his outstanding contribution to the field of Performing Arts Doctor of the University
Arthur Ridings For his outstanding contribution to Education Doctor of the University
Professor Michael Schmidt FRSL For his outstanding contribution to the field of Performing Arts Doctor of the University
Mollie Temple CBE For her outstanding contribution to Education Doctor of the University
Andy Lam JP For his outstanding contribution to the development of education in Hong Kong Doctor of the University
Dr Helen Gilchrist CBE
Richard Hurst
Dr Brian Iddon MP
John Stoddart CBE
John Roberts
Josie Cichockyj (Alumni Fellow)
Cynthia Clarke
Felicity Goodey CBE
Jackie Kay
Meena Pathak OBE
Norman Stoller CBE CStJ DL
Josephine Burns
Tahir Mohsan
Paul Rink OBE
Rt Hon Baroness Mary Warnock OBE
Anthony Goldstone OBE DL
Paul Heathcote
Sue Johnston
Lord Bhikhu Parekh
Andrew Dickson
Pat Dickson
Jeremy Glover MBE
Clive Jeanes
Janette Jenkins (Alumni Fellow)
Anil Ruia OBE
Clare Smith
George Almond CBE OStJ DL
Alan Booth
Brian Bruce
Simon Holt (Alumni Fellow)
Barbara Hurst MBE
Andrew Kluge
James McKnight
Chris Mack
Professor Robert Oxtoby
Lord Adam Patel of Blackburn
Pamela Senior
Peter Syddall
Patrick Caulfield CBE
Sir Alan Cockshaw
Baroness Zahida Manzoor CBE
Derrick Warburton
Dr Anne Wright CBE
Brian Asquith
John Cassidy
Sir Martin Harris CBE
Harry Tuley
Kenneth Wolstenholme
June Corner
Professor John Grant
Maurice Henry
Nigel Short MBE
Frank White
Betty Brown BEM
A J Jenkinson OBE
Joseph Locke MBE FR
Eng Professor Frank Willett CBE
Shirley Anne Field
Les Gent
Jack Goldberg
Sir Harold Kroto FRS
Jim Cartwright
Eric Farnworth OBE
Joe Foster
Victoria Wood OBE
Professor Arup Banerjee OBE
Frank Finlay CBE
Henry Kershaw
David Titterington
Jean Wilson
Richard Hurst OBE
Sir Nat Lofthouse OBE
Sir Ian McKellen CH CBE
Brian Collinge
Sir Kenneth Green
Ruth Hamilton
Gordon Hargreaves
Carol Ann Duffy OBE
Malcolm Frazer CBE
Sir Ernest Hall OBE DL
Roy Lancaster OBE
Peter Bounds CBE
Dr Ron Hill MBE
Martin Milner OBE
Dato Abdul Razak
Bill Naughton
Michael Parker
E M Ryley
Professor John Turner

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/getting-in-touch:
Call us on +44 (0)1204 900 600 , email us at enquiries@bolton.ac.uk or use the enquiry form to let us know what you are interested in and we'll get back to you
+44(0)1204 900 600 enquiries@bolton.ac.uk
01204 903394 admissions-team@bolton.ac.uk
01204 903110 international@bolton.ac.uk
OCDStudentEnquiries@bolton.ac.uk
01204 903940 apprentices@bolton.ac.uk
Our campus is situated in the heart of Greater Manchester, just a short walk from both the rail and coach stations in Bolton's town centre.
If you are planning a visit to the campus, we recommend using the Wellington Street Pay and Display car park, as visitor parking on the campus is limited.
Please use the following address to locate us.
Deane Road, Bolton, BL3 5AB

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/blogs:
8 July 2025
After spending several years in a completely different sector, I reached a point where I knew something had to change.
I wanted more than a job—I wanted purpose.
I realised my passion had always been ...
5 June 2025
By Oliver Tyler – Final-Year BA (Hons) Digital Media and Content Creation Student Hi, I’m Oliver Tyler, a final-year student on the BA (Hons) Digital Media and Content Creation course at the Universi...
4 June 2025
By Finn Chapman, BA (Hons) Creative Writing Hi, I’m Finn Chapman, and I’m in the final stretch of my Creative Writing degree at the University of Greater Manchester.
This summer, I’ll be graduating—a...
3 June 2025
By Ewan Bagot – Final Year Student, BSc Motorsport Technology I’m Ewan Bagot, a final-year Motorsport Technology student at the University of Greater Manchester.
My journey into this exciting field b...
29 May 2025
In terms of healthcare, children are not simply smaller adults.
They require tailored care that responds to their developmental, emotional and medical needs.
Within the NHS, paediatric nursing is a di...
28 May 2025
The NHS is undergoing a technological transformation, integrating advanced medical devices and systems to enhance patient care and operational efficiency.
UK biomedical engineering degrees are pivotal...

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/welcome:
To get started please select the button that is relevant to you.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/course/mbchb-medicine-full-time-5-years-university-of-bolton:
The University of Bolton’s undergraduate medical degree leads to a Primary Medical Qualification (MBChB).
Our expert School of Medicine team will train you in world-class facilities at The Institute of Medical Sciences, within the grounds of the Royal Bolton NHS Foundation Trust hospital in Greater Manchester.
We will support you in becoming a holistic, compassionate, highly skilled and professional doctor who focuses on putting patients first while maintaining your own health and wellbeing.
MBChB Medicine
Award
MBChB
Start Date
To be confirmed
Location
University of Bolton
136
UCAS Code
A100
Where changes are made to material information contained in
                                            this course description or a decision is taken to suspend a course between the offer of
                                            admissions and enrolment, we will inform applicants at the earliest possible opportunity and
                                            will outline the various options available to the applicant.
Medicine provides opportunities in 29 specialties and offers doctors a wide range of roles.
Qualified doctors, after a two-year period of Foundation Training, can undertake core and specialty training to gain Membership of one of the Royal Colleges with higher training leading to Fellowship of a Royal College.
On completion of your clinical training as a doctor, you will be able to apply for consultant roles in the NHS.
The University of Bolton's undergraduate medical degree enables you to gain a Primary Medical Qualification (MBChB) and apply for provisional registration with the General Medical Council (GMC).
The School of Medicine will provide you with a standard stethoscope but you are free to purchase your own.
You will need access to a range of key textbooks (please contact the School of Medicine for a list of texts and recommendations regarding stethoscope brands and suppliers).
This undergraduate medicine degree may involve significant travelling, and you will be expected to cover your travel costs to and from the School of Medicine and your placements.
For long journeys to placements, we may be able to reimburse mileage (please contact the School of Medicine for up-to-date details).
Home applications are not possible for this course at present This course is only available to International students.
This course is only available to International students.
Click here for more information about the scholarships and bursaries available to University of Bolton students.
Important note regarding tuition fees: EU nationals who meet residency requirements (have settled or pre-settled status) may be
                                        eligible for 'Home' fee status.
If you do not meet these residency requirements, overseas fees will apply.
Irish citizens living
                                        in the UK or Ireland will be eligible for 'Home' fee status under the Common Travel
                                        Area arrangement.
Please read the student finance for EU students web page on
                                        www.gov.uk for information.
The fees for a student's course of study will be set for the
                                        normal duration of that course subject only to inflationary increases – measured by the
                                        Consumer Price Index (CPI) recorded in
                                        March each year to take effect for subsequent start dates.
The University welcomes applications from international students from all over the world.
We try to make the application process as simple and as fast as possible for our international applicants.
Apply direct to the University.
Links for the next available intakes of this course are shown below.
Please click the link which will direct you to the online application form.
Please read the user
        guidance before completing this.
If you have any questions, please contact the School of Medicine on +44 (0) 1204 903239 or email schoolofmedicine@greatermanchester.ac.uk
In Phase 1, learning and teaching methods include tutorial sessions, individual and group work, teaching, blended learning, seminars, discussions, lectures and guest lectures.
We will support you over the summer periods using a blended approach, using the University’s virtual learning environment and other suitable technologies.
In Phase 2, expert clinicians will deliver each area of the curriculum.
We will deliver course content through a range of pedagogical approaches, including bedside teaching, group work, and didactic lectures.
These teaching events will provide you with a rich learning experience and opportunities to fully engage with the learning process.
Additional teaching on campus will support placement learning.
Furthermore, we will require you to spend a significant amount of time in private study in addition to timetabled activities.
You can expect a range of assessment methods, such as coursework assignments, practice competencies, problem-based learning and examination of practice.
A description of assessment practices, including standard-setting methodologies, is presented in the Code of Practice (CoP) for Assessment.
Written examinations at the end of each year of the programme will comprise of items in Short Answer Question (SAQ) and Single Best Answer (SBA) formats.
We will assess your clinical skills through Objective Structured Clinical Exams (OSCE) and you will demonstrate evidence of practice skills attainment via an e-portfolio.
The modules listed below may be a mixture of compulsory and optional.
You may not have
                                                the opportunity to study all the modules shown as part of the course.
The university will use all reasonable endeavours to deliver
                                            your course as described in its published material and the programme specification for the
                                            academic year in which you begin your course.
The university considers changes to courses
                                            very carefully and the university will minimise any changes.
Please be aware that our
                                            courses are subject to review on an ongoing basis and changes may be necessary due to
                                            legitimate staffing, financial, regulatory and academic reasons.
The content of course
                                            modules and mode of associated assessments may be updated on an annual basis.
This is to
                                            ensure that all modules are up-to-date and responsive to employment and sector needs.
The
                                            published course material and the programme specification contain indicative ‘optional
                                            modules’ that may be subject to change due to circumstances outside of our control.
For this
                                            reason, we cannot guarantee to run any specific optional module.
School of Medicine Enquiries
The Institute of Medical Sciences, University of Bolton
schoolofmedicine@bolton.ac.uk
+44 (0)1204 903249
Medicine Admissions
medicineadmissions@bolton.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/blogs/becoming-the-teacher-i-was-meant-to-be-marals-inspiring-journey:
08/07/2025
I realised my passion had always been rooted in education: helping young people grow, feel heard, and believe in themselves.
That realisation led me to the PGCE in Mathematics at the University of Greater Manchester , and now, I’m about to begin an exciting new chapter as a Lecturer in Maths at St Helens College .
It wasn’t just a love of maths that drew me to teaching—it was the opportunity to make a genuine difference.
I’ve always been passionate about mental health and wellbeing , and throughout my PGCE, I explored how education can empower learners not just academically, but emotionally.
I believe classrooms should be safe, supportive spaces where every student feels seen and valued—and that’s the kind of environment I’m determined to create.
From the outset, the PGCE course stood out.
It’s thoughtful balance of academic content and hands-on experience gave me the tools—and the confidence—I needed to grow into the teacher I aspired to be.
Over the course of the programme, I completed more than 150 hours of teaching placements at both the University and The Manchester College.
These experiences helped me develop my classroom presence and refine my approach.
I learned that I want to be a teacher who is kind, clear, and committed —someone who meets every learner where they are and supports them to where they could be.
One of the highlights of my journey was being mentored by three exceptional tutors—Sarah, Georgina, and Zaheen —whose belief in me never faltered.
Their guidance went beyond teaching techniques.
They helped me navigate the challenges, celebrate the wins, and stay grounded in my ‘why.’ They reminded me that good teaching is about connection, understanding, and impact .
A turning point for me during the PGCE was discovering the power of inclusive teaching .
Whether adapting content for different needs, using behaviour strategies to create a calm learning space, or embedding safeguarding into everyday classroom practice, I left the course with a strong sense of how to teach every learner, not just the subject .
Juggling assignments, planning, and placements wasn’t easy—it was a true test of resilience.
But through it, I became more organised, reflective, and determined.
It was tough, yes—but also transformative.
If you’re thinking about doing a PGCE, my advice is simple: take the leap .
The University of Greater Manchester doesn’t just offer a qualification—it offers a supportive, inspiring community that prepares you for the realities of the classroom.
I’m incredibly proud of how far I’ve come and grateful for everyone who helped me along the way.
As I take my next steps in teaching, I do so with a clear sense of purpose—and a deep belief in education as a force for good.
Get Into Teaching – find out more

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/blogs/creating-my-future-why-studying-digital-media-and-content-creation-at-the-university-of-greater-manchester-was-the-best-decision-i-made:
05/06/2025
By Oliver Tyler – Final-Year BA (Hons) Digital Media and Content Creation Student Hi, I’m Oliver Tyler, a final-year student on the BA (Hons) Digital Media and Content Creation course at the University of Greater Manchester.
I’ve just submitted my final major project—and as I write this, I’m preparing for several exciting job interviews!
It’s a surreal and rewarding feeling, knowing the work I’ve put in is opening real doors.
I came to the UK from Michigan, USA, and choosing this university was one of the most positive and defining choices I’ve made.
Back home, I had certain expectations about what university life would be like—big lecture halls, limited access to staff, and not much room for creative freedom.
What I found here was completely different in the best way possible.
A Course that Builds Skills and Confidence My background has always included art and design—my dad’s a professor of art, and creativity has been a huge part of my life.
But what really attracted me to the Digital Media and Content Creation course was its versatility .
I’m the kind of person who loves to understand how every part of a creative project works, and this course delivered exactly that.
We didn’t just learn theory—we did the work.
From branding and marketing strategy to photography, graphic design, video production, and audio editing—every skill was hands-on and taught by professionals with real-world experience.
And what’s more, the lecturers here truly care.
They took the time to understand my vision and gave me the support and freedom to bring it to life.
A Community that Supports your Growth One of the questions I get asked all the time is: Why Bolton?
The truth is, that’s exactly why I chose it.
It’s close to the energy of Manchester, but Bolton offers a more personal, tight-knit learning environment.
I didn’t want to be lost in a crowd—I wanted a place where I could build relationships with tutors, work closely with peers, and grow in confidence.
Here, the tutors know their students.
I always felt seen and supported—whether I was stuck on a project or ready to take on something new.
They’ve helped guide me not just through assignments, but also through real-world challenges.
Most of them have industry experience, so their advice has always been grounded in what actually works out there.
Real Clients, Real Experience One of the most valuable parts of the course?
Working on live briefs with real clients .
These projects have given me a strong understanding of how creative industries operate—what clients expect, how to present ideas, and how to adapt to feedback.
They’ve also given me a solid portfolio, which has been a huge asset when applying for jobs.
My advice for any future student is this: use every opportunity to build your portfolio while you’re here.
Ask to borrow equipment.
Book extra studio time.
Collaborate with others.
These moments can really set you apart when you’re starting out in the industry—and the facilities here make it all possible.
Ready for What’s Next As I finish up my final year, I’m excited about what’s next.
I feel prepared, confident, and creatively inspired.
I’ve built a strong portfolio, developed professional skills, and made lasting connections.
Studying Digital Media and Content Creation at the University of Greater Manchester hasn’t just been about getting a degree—it’s been about discovering my path and taking the first real steps toward a creative career I care deeply about.
If you’re passionate about creativity, content, design, or storytelling, this course could be your perfect fit.
It certainly was for me—and I can’t wait to see where it takes me next.
Dr Steven Speed, Programme Leader and Senior Lecturer, said “Oliver has made a fantastic contribution to our course over the last three years and has been an exemplary student.
This is a broad-based course that demands a lot from our students, but the breadth of contemporary skills really does set students up for a fantastic future career.
Through the sort of commitment and resilience that all our final year students have shown it works well as a platform for them to fulfil their ambitions.
All of this year's graduates are either already working in the industry or going for interviews for their first digital media jobs over the next few weeks so they can all start before they even graduate.
Well done to each and every one of them!” Find out more about Creative and Digital Art Courses here
By Oliver Tyler – Final-Year BA (Hons) Digital Media and Content Creation Student
Hi, I’m Oliver Tyler, a final-year student on the BA (Hons) Digital Media and Content Creation course at the University of Greater Manchester.
My background has always included art and design—my dad’s a professor of art, and creativity has been a huge part of my life.
One of the questions I get asked all the time is: Why Bolton?
One of the most valuable parts of the course?
As I finish up my final year, I’m excited about what’s next.
Well done to each and every one of them!”
Find out more about Creative and Digital Art Courses here

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/blogs/from-scribbles-to-stories-my-creative-writing-journey-at-the-university-of-greater-manchester:
04/06/2025
This summer, I’ll be graduating—and as I reflect on the past three years, I’m genuinely grateful for how much this course has allowed me to grow as a writer, a thinker, and a person.
Originally from Birmingham, I made the move to Bolton to pursue what I loved: writing.
I remember stumbling across the Creative Writing course page during my A-levels—almost by accident—and feeling an instant connection.
Even before I knew for sure that university was the right path, this course stood out.
What drew me in then still rings true now: freedom.
The freedom to write what excites me, explore the kind of stories I care about and shape my degree around my creative ambitions.
Writing That Feels Like Living I’ve been a writer and a reader all my life— I devour around a hundred books a year and I've completed three novel manuscripts both during the course and before it.
So, when a lecturer asks me to write 3,000 words of fiction or read a book for class, it doesn’t feel like a chore—it feels natural.
Yes, there are the occasional essays or poems that test my patience, but the overall experience has been creatively liberating.
What’s made this course even more special is its size.
The small cohorts mean I’m not lost in a sea of students.
I’ve had seminars with just a handful of classmates, which creates a real sense of community.
Discussions are meaningful, and there’s always space to be heard.
The support from lecturers has been incredible—they know me, my work, and the passions behind my writing.
That level of familiarity is rare and deeply motivating.
Learning by Doing—And Sharing In my first year, I took a scriptwriting module that embodied the collaborative spirit of the course.
Each week, we read each other’s scripts aloud and held open, constructive discussions.
It felt less like a university class and more like a writer’s circle.
That intimacy and informality carried through the rest of the degree, not only enriching the classroom experience but also building a strong bond between students and staff.
Throughout my time here, I’ve had the opportunity to share my work publicly.
I read my short story, The Bookshop, at the University’s annual Creative Writing Showcase, which was later published in The Bolton Review.
These experiences were both nerve-wracking and rewarding—seeing my work in print and performed in front of an audience helped me take myself seriously as a writer.
Support That Matters One of the most valuable parts of this degree has been the dissertation process.
For my final project, I submitted 7,000 words of original fiction—part of a novel I’ve been developing with guidance from my supervisor, Valerie O’Riordan.
Valerie is not only a fantastic lecturer but also the senior editor of an independent literary journal.
Having someone with her editorial insight read and critique my manuscript has been an incredible opportunity.
Beyond the academic support, it’s been the people—the lecturers and staff—who’ve made all the difference.
Whether it’s feedback on a story draft or a reassuring conversation during a tough week, the open-door attitude has made me feel seen, supported, and genuinely cared for.
More Than a Degree My time at the University of Greater Manchester has been so much more than lectures and coursework.
As a student ambassador, I’ve represented the university at open days, UCAS fairs, and other events—sharing my journey and encouraging others to find their own.
It’s helped me grow in confidence, develop communication skills, and feel part of a wider creative community.
If you’re a writer at heart—whether that means novels, poetry, scripts, or stories—and you want a course that gives you the space, structure, and support to grow, then I can’t recommend Creative Writing at the University of Greater Manchester enough.
You’ll be challenged, encouraged, and given the freedom to find your voice—and that, to me, is what education should be all about.
Valerie O’Riordan, Senior Lecturer – English Studies said “Finn has been an exemplary student during his time here - a voracious reader and a dauntless writer.
As a team, we strive to foster exactly the type of community he describes - supportive, liberating, and exciting - whether students choose to specialise in fiction, poetry, or scriptwriting.
We pride ourselves on offering a diverse, interesting curriculum, and facilitating lessons where students' voices are central and their creativity always encouraged.” Ready to write your own story?
Explore our Creative Courses at the University of Greater Manchester and see where your imagination can take you.
By Finn Chapman, BA (Hons) Creative Writing
Hi, I’m Finn Chapman, and I’m in the final stretch of my Creative Writing degree at the University of Greater Manchester.
I’ve been a writer and a reader all my life— I devour around a hundred books a year and I've completed three novel manuscripts both during the course and before it.
In my first year, I took a scriptwriting module that embodied the collaborative spirit of the course.
One of the most valuable parts of this degree has been the dissertation process.
My time at the University of Greater Manchester has been so much more than lectures and coursework.
We pride ourselves on offering a diverse, interesting curriculum, and facilitating lessons where students' voices are central and their creativity always encouraged.”

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/blogs/from-bolton-to-the-fast-lane-my-motorsport-technology-journey-at-the-university-of-greater-manchester:
03/06/2025
My journey into this exciting field began long before I arrived here—back in 2008 when a young Lewis Hamilton claimed his first Formula 1 World Championship.
I was hooked from that moment on.
My decision to study Motorsport Technology felt like a natural progression.
While I was still applying for a Motor Vehicle course at Bolton College, I watched the impressive National Centre for Motorsport Engineering (NCME) take shape right in my hometown.
I knew then that this was where I wanted to be.
A University That Feels Like Home What stood out immediately when I started my degree was the atmosphere.
Unlike many larger universities, the University of Greater Manchester offers smaller class sizes—something I’ve really valued.
It creates a more personal, supportive learning environment where lecturers feel more like mentors or even friends.
They’ve encouraged me to pursue projects I’m passionate about and given me the space to grow and explore my interests.
Industry-Standard Facilities & Real-World Opportunities The facilities available to us as students are exceptional.
From the race car workshop to the composites and machine shops, there’s no limit to what we can build, design, and test.
This hands-on experience is what sets this course apart.
Early in my studies—during my foundation year—I had the incredible opportunity to work with a British GT motorsport team.
I wasn’t just watching from the sidelines—I was in the pit lane, part of the team, and even got to visit the legendary Spa-Francorchamps circuit in Belgium.
Standing at the bottom of Eau Rouge and looking up was a moment I’ll never forget.
Winning the final race of that season made the experience even more unforgettable.
Back on campus, I joined the University’s Formula Student team and played a key role in getting our first car through the challenging scrutineering process and into competition.
That project taught me not only technical skills but also teamwork, perseverance, and problem-solving in high-pressure environments.
Academic Challenges with Real Rewards Like any engineering course, Motorsport Technology is challenging.
The workload can be intense at times, but the support from lecturers and the thrill of seeing your hard work pay off make it all worthwhile.
There’s something incredibly rewarding about getting feedback on an assignment you’ve poured your heart into.
For my final-year project, I’m working on the design of a 2026 Formula One rear wing in collaboration with renowned aerodynamicist Willem Toet.
It’s been a privilege to learn from someone with such a rich background in F1, and this project has deepened my understanding of aerodynamics and CFD testing—skills that are essential for a future career in motorsport.
Looking Ahead This university might not be the only place in the UK offering a Motorsport degree—but I would recommend it to anyone passionate about racing, engineering, or automotive design.
The combination of expert staff, excellent facilities, and strong industry links creates an environment where students can thrive.
In my four years here, I’ve learned so much—both as a student and as a person.
I’m leaving this course confident, inspired, and ready to take the next step, whether that’s a master’s degree or a role within the world of motorsport.
If you’re thinking about turning your passion for motorsport into a career, I can’t think of a better place to start than the University of Greater Manchester.
Find out more about our Motorsport Courses here .
By Ewan Bagot – Final Year Student, BSc Motorsport Technology
I’m Ewan Bagot, a final-year Motorsport Technology student at the University of Greater Manchester.
What stood out immediately when I started my degree was the atmosphere.
The facilities available to us as students are exceptional.
Like any engineering course, Motorsport Technology is challenging.
This university might not be the only place in the UK offering a Motorsport degree—but I would recommend it to anyone passionate about racing, engineering, or automotive design.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/blogs/how-uk-child-nursing-degrees-address-unique-nhs-paediatric-needs:
29/05/2025
Within the NHS, paediatric nursing is a distinct and vital discipline, and UK child nursing degrees are structured to reflect this.
These programmes equip students with the skills and knowledge needed to deliver high quality, age appropriate care in a variety of clinical settings.
Specialist training for complex patient groups Child nursing degrees provide a foundation in anatomy, physiology and pharmacology, but go further by focusing specifically on conditions and treatments relevant to infants, children and young people.
This includes: ● Safely administering medication by weight ● Managing acute and chronic childhood illnesses ● Recognising non-verbal signs of pain or distress ● Supporting the psychological needs of children during illness or trauma Students also learn to involve families in care planning, an essential part of paediatric nursing.
The ability to communicate clearly with both young patients and their guardians is embedded into every stage of training.
Aligned with NHS priorities The NHS Long Term Plan places strong emphasis on improving child health, from mental health services to better management of long term conditions such as asthma, epilepsy and diabetes.
UK child nursing degrees align closely with these priorities.
For example, training includes experience in multidisciplinary teams and integrated care systems which are central to NHS delivery models.
Courses also prepare students to support NHS vaccination and screening initiatives aimed at early intervention and prevention — now a key area of national focus.
Real world impact in clinical practice Practical experience is central to all UK nursing degrees, and child nursing students spend much of their time on placement in NHS hospitals, community settings and specialist paediatric units.
One example of real world impact is the use of paediatric early warning scores (PEWS) which help nurses detect early signs of deterioration in a child’s condition.
According to NHS England, consistent use of PEWS across trusts has helped reduce preventable harm and improve escalation times in critical care situations.
Students are taught how to implement these systems effectively, giving them tools to protect patients even before qualification.
Meeting the emotional demands of the role Child nursing is emotionally demanding.
Students are trained to manage their own mental wellbeing and respond to emotionally charged situations with sensitivity and professionalism.
This includes safeguarding training, bereavement support and strategies for managing stress, all of which are critical for long-term resilience in the profession.
Graduates also leave with a deep understanding of children’s rights and the legal responsibilities involved in paediatric care which are essential in today’s heavily regulated NHS environment.
Career ready for NHS roles After graduation and registration with the NMC, child nurses can go directly into NHS roles in: ● Paediatric wards and intensive care units ● Neonatal services ● School and community health teams ● Specialist children’s mental health services With staffing shortages across all these areas, graduates can expect strong job prospects and rapid career development.
If you want to care for those who need it most, a child nursing degree from the University of Greater Manchester will prepare you to meet the NHS’s real and urgent paediatric needs.
Get in touch with our team today by calling us on +44 (0)1204 900 600 or sending an email to enquiries@bolton.ac.uk to find out more.
Child nursing degrees provide a foundation in anatomy, physiology and pharmacology, but go further by focusing specifically on conditions and treatments relevant to infants, children and young people.
This includes:
● Safely administering medication by weight
● Managing acute and chronic childhood illnesses
● Recognising non-verbal signs of pain or distress
● Supporting the psychological needs of children during illness or trauma
Students also learn to involve families in care planning, an essential part of paediatric nursing.
The NHS Long Term Plan places strong emphasis on improving child health, from mental health services to better management of long term conditions such as asthma, epilepsy and diabetes.
Practical experience is central to all UK nursing degrees, and child nursing students spend much of their time on placement in NHS hospitals, community settings and specialist paediatric units.
Child nursing is emotionally demanding.
After graduation and registration with the NMC, child nurses can go directly into NHS roles in:
● Paediatric wards and intensive care units
● Neonatal services
● School and community health teams
● Specialist children’s mental health services
With staffing shortages across all these areas, graduates can expect strong job prospects and rapid career development.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/blogs/how-uk-biomedical-engineering-degrees-support-nhs-medical-technology-development:
28/05/2025
UK biomedical engineering degrees are pivotal in this evolution, preparing graduates to design, implement and maintain the technologies driving modern healthcare.
Curriculum aligned with NHS needs UK biomedical engineering programmes are structured to meet the specific demands of the NHS.
Students are trained in areas such as: ● Medical device design and development ● Clinical instrumentation and imaging systems ● Regulatory standards and compliance ● Healthcare technology management This comprehensive education ensures that graduates possess the technical skills and understanding of healthcare environments necessary to contribute effectively to the NHS.
Real world applications and collaborations Biomedical engineering students often engage in projects that have direct implications for NHS services.
For example, the integration of surgical robots for procedures like knee and hip replacements is a significant advancement in NHS surgical practices.
These robots enhance precision and reduce recovery times, addressing the challenge of long waiting lists.
Additionally, collaborations between academic institutions and NHS trusts facilitate the translation of research into clinical practice.
Such partnerships have led to the development of innovative diagnostic tools and treatment methods that are now integral to patient care.
Addressing healthcare challenges Biomedical engineers play a crucial role in tackling pressing healthcare issues.
Their work includes: ● Developing advanced imaging systems for early disease detection ● Creating wearable devices for continuous patient monitoring ● Designing assistive technologies to improve patient mobility These innovations not only improve patient outcomes but also enhance the efficiency of healthcare delivery within the NHS.
Another critical contribution biomedical engineers make is helping the NHS become more sustainable and financially resilient.
By designing energy efficient medical equipment, improving the lifespan of diagnostic tools and supporting better equipment procurement strategies, graduates help reduce unnecessary waste and long term costs.
This aligns with the NHS’s 2040 Net Zero targets, where innovation in medical technology will play a key part in hitting carbon reduction goals.
Career opportunities within the NHS Graduates of UK biomedical engineering programmes are well positioned for careers in various NHS roles, such as: ● Clinical engineers responsible for maintaining and improving medical equipment ● Research and development specialists focusing on new healthcare technologies ● Regulatory affairs professionals ensuring compliance with medical standards Whatever the role, the demand for skilled biomedical engineers in the NHS continues to grow, offering graduates a range of opportunities to contribute to public health.
If you’re ready to help shape the future of healthcare through technology, the University of Greater Manchester’s biomedical engineering degrees are designed to meet real world NHS demands and will prepare you for a career with a lasting impact.
Get in touch with our team today by calling us on +44 (0)1204 900 600 or sending an email to enquiries@bolton.ac.uk to find out how to get started.
UK biomedical engineering programmes are structured to meet the specific demands of the NHS.
Students are trained in areas such as:
● Medical device design and development
● Clinical instrumentation and imaging systems
● Regulatory standards and compliance
● Healthcare technology management
This comprehensive education ensures that graduates possess the technical skills and understanding of healthcare environments necessary to contribute effectively to the NHS.
Biomedical engineering students often engage in projects that have direct implications for NHS services.
Biomedical engineers play a crucial role in tackling pressing healthcare issues.
Their work includes:
● Developing advanced imaging systems for early disease detection
● Creating wearable devices for continuous patient monitoring
● Designing assistive technologies to improve patient mobility
These innovations not only improve patient outcomes but also enhance the efficiency of healthcare delivery within the NHS.
Graduates of UK biomedical engineering programmes are well positioned for careers in various NHS roles, such as:
● Clinical engineers responsible for maintaining and improving medical equipment
● Research and development specialists focusing on new healthcare technologies
● Regulatory affairs professionals ensuring compliance with medical standards
Whatever the role, the demand for skilled biomedical engineers in the NHS continues to grow, offering graduates a range of opportunities to contribute to public health.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/news/student-mehnoor-makes-it-fantastic-five-as-she-joins-super-siblings-who-all-graduated-from-university-of-greater-manchester:
21/07/2025
Mehnoor was awarded her degree at the Albert Hall in Bolton Town Hall on Friday, exactly a year after her brothers and sisters graduated together on the same stage.
Bilal, Umer, Hajra and Amina studied three-year computing programmes, but Mehnoor took a year off to have a baby.
Mehnoor, aged 30, said studying and raising a one-year-old was “really hard”, but that she had “great support from her family, friends and University staff.
She added: “I am extremely proud and so are my parents.
I really enjoyed studying here and today is special.” She and her family moved to the UK with her family from Pakistan in 2018.
Mehnoor now plans to set up her own sports rehab clinic.
I really enjoyed studying here and today is special.”
She and her family moved to the UK with her family from Pakistan in 2018.
18 7 2025
17 7 2025
16 7 2025

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/news/world-renowned-tenor-russell-watson-sings-to-students-as-he-is-awarded-honorary-degree-by-university-of-greater-manchester:
18/07/2025
Russell, who has overcome two life-threatening brain tumours, was conferred the title of Doctor of Arts (Hon DArts) during a graduation ceremony for students from the School of Health, Science & Society – Clinical & Biomedical Sciences.
He then sang an extract of ‘O sole mio’, which received a rapturous reception in the Albert Hall in Bolton Town Hall.
Commending the dedication and resilience of the graduating class, he said earlier: “It’s such a great honour to be here today.
I’ve sung in stadia and theatres and arenas across the world and never felt any sense of trepidation or nerves but I feel that today and that’s because of the significance of it to me personally.
I feel really quite emotional.” He added: “Most of you are medical students and I have had my experiences with ill-health over the years.
I wanted to give you a bit of insight into how it’s going to affect the lives of your patients.
“The profound effect that medicine and the healthcare system has on people like me and other human beings is immense.
It doesn’t matter when or where I have met my surgeons over the years – whenever I meet them I always get this sense of ‘wow, you’re the person who saved my life.” “It is such a powerful emotion to know that some such as yourselves has studied to save human life and I salute you for that.” The classical crossover star was first diagnosed with a brain tumour in 2006 after experiencing blurred peripheral vision.
The tumour was successfully removed during emergency surgery at St George’s Hospital in Tooting following a trip to Los Angeles.
A year later, a recurrence on his pituitary gland required a second emergency operation at the Alexandra Hospital in Cheadle.
Watson underwent intensive rehabilitation, hormone replacement therapy and struggled with mental health challenges during his recovery.
At one point, doctors feared he would never sing again.
Despite the odds, he returned to the stage and rebuilt his career.
The University of Greater Manchester, ranked first in the country for improving students’ social mobility, also resonates with Watson’s personal journey.
Born into a working-class family in Salford in the late 1960s, he said: “I haven’t  been honoured like this before in my life and I have been doing this for 35 years.” He added: “I just want to say congratulations to you all, thank you for this wonderful award.
“I’ll take great delight from it in so many different ways but I really do think that Dr Watson has a splendid ring to it and the lady that works as our housekeeper also happens to be called Mrs Hudson, so we are going to have lots of fun with that.
All we need now is a Sherlock Holmes!”
I feel really quite emotional.”
He added: “Most of you are medical students and I have had my experiences with ill-health over the years.
It doesn’t matter when or where I have met my surgeons over the years – whenever I meet them I always get this sense of ‘wow, you’re the person who saved my life.”
“It is such a powerful emotion to know that some such as yourselves has studied to save human life and I salute you for that.”
The classical crossover star was first diagnosed with a brain tumour in 2006 after experiencing blurred peripheral vision.
Born into a working-class family in Salford in the late 1960s, he said: “I haven’t  been honoured like this before in my life and I have been doing this for 35 years.”
He added: “I just want to say congratulations to you all, thank you for this wonderful award.
21 7 2025

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/student-policy-zone:
Please click on the relevant document title below to view the document.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/accessibility-statement-for-university-of-bolton-website:
This statement applies to content published on the central University website at www.bolton.ac.uk.
Other websites that also belong to The University of Greater Manchester and use bolton.ac.uk sub-domains are managed locally and will publish separate statements with information relevant to them.
These include websites of our library and research institutes, among others.
Web accessibility All pages on this site aim to be accessible to W3C AA compliance.
We want as many people as possible to be able to use our website and we are continually working towards improving its accessibility.
We follow general principles of usability and universal design, and endeavour to meet level 2 (AA) of the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.1.
Not all the guidelines can be automatically checked.
With this in mind every effort has been made to manually check university pages.
Our website will allow you to: • zoom in up to 200% without the text spilling off the screen • navigate or listen to most of the website using just a keyboard or screen reader We’ve also made the website text as simple as possible to understand.
How accessible this website is We know some parts of this website are not fully accessible.
For example: • Some sections cannot be navigated with just a keyboard • you cannot modify the line height or spacing of text • most older PDF documents are not fully accessible to screen reader software • some videos may not have captions or audio descriptions • some of our online forms are difficult to navigate using just a keyboard • there’s a limit to how far you can magnify the map on our ‘get in touch’ page Please see the Technical Information section below for more detailed information on known accessibility issues.
Making changes to your device AbilityNet has advice on making your device easier to use if you have a disability.
Also, the University’s Disability Advisory and Support Service (DASS) website offers up-to-date information for prospective students and staff with specific learning difficulties, disabilities, sensory impairments, mental health difficulties and medical conditions.
Reporting accessibility problems with this website We’re always looking to improve the accessibility of this website.
Please email websupport@bolton.ac.uk if you have an accessibility query (including about content not within the scope of the accessibility regulation), identify any problems not listed on this page, need information on this website in a different format like accessible PDF, large print, easy read, audio recording or braille: or think we’re not meeting accessibility requirements.
Please provide the web address (URL) of the page(s) in which you find the problem, a description of the issue and your name.
We will consider your request and get back to you within twelve working days.
The Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) is responsible for enforcing the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 (the ‘accessibility regulations’).
If you’re not happy with how we respond to your complaint please let us know.
If you remain unsatisfied, contact the Equality Advisory and Support Service (EASS) .
Technical information about this website’s accessibility We are committed to making our website accessible, in accordance with the the relevant accessibility regulations.
This website is partially compliant with the WCAG 2.1 AA standard, due to the instances of non-compliance and one or more of the following listed below: Non-accessible content Non-compliance with the accessibility regulations Issues with navigation, text and images • Some images do not have a text alternative, so people using a screen reader cannot access the information (WCAG: 1.1.1).
• Colour contrast may not be sufficient on some webpages which could make these pages difficult to read for some users with visual impairments (WCAG: 1.4.3).
• Our megamenus are not accessible using a keyboard so people using a screen reader may find navigating our website difficult (WCAG: 2.1.1) We are working to fix the issues above.
When we publish new content we’ll make sure our use of images meets accessibility standards.
Issues with video and audio • Not all audios or videos with audio have captions or transcriptions.
We aim to offer an alternate version of all videos and audios published on or after January 2022.
However, older videos and audios may not have an alternate version.
(WCAG: 1.2.2) • Some videos without audio that ideally should have audio descriptions do not have this (WCAG: 1.2.5).
We are working to develop transcripts or other alternative versions of all our videos and audios published on or after January 2022.
Links Some links are not labelled clearly, or contain only image with no or poor ALT text.
(WCAG 2.4.4 Link Purpose).
We will correct links as we review each page on continuous basis.
Page structure Some pages use multiple H1 tags or have a structure that doesn’t follow a logical order (WCAG 2.4.6 Headings and Labels).
We will correct this as we review each page and also correct any errors in our site templates.
Others • focus issues outstanding • 1.4.4 resize issues are outstanding • 1.4.10 reflow issues outstanding • PDF - natural language Disproportionate burden Navigation and accessing information •  There’s no way to skip the repeated content in the page header (for example, a ‘skip to main content’ option).
•  It’s not always possible to change the device orientation from horizontal to vertical without making it more difficult to view the content.
•  It’s not possible for users to change text size without some of the content overlapping.
Interactive tools and transactions •  Some of our interactive forms are difficult to navigate using a keyboard.
For example, because some form controls are missing a ‘label’ tag.
•  Our forms are built and hosted through third party software and ‘skinned’ to look like our website.
We’ve assessed the cost of fixing the issues with navigation and accessing information, and with interactive tools and transactions.
We believe that doing so now would be a disproportionate burden within the meaning of the accessibility regulations.
We will make another assessment when the supplier contract is up for renewal, likely to be in February 2022.
Content that’s not within the scope of the accessibility regulations PDFs and other documents Most downloads on the university webpages are in the Adobe Acrobat PDF format.
All PDF files require the user to have the free-to-use Acrobat reader software installed.
It’s available for download.
Alternatively, if your browser does not support this technology you can convert any PDF file into text or HTML here; https://www.adobe.com/products/acrobat/access_onlinetools.html Some of our documents which are non-essentials that were published before 23 September 2018 may not be fully accessible.
All subsequent PDF documents will comply with accessibility regulations.
Live video We do not plan to add captions to live video streams because live video is exempt from meeting the accessibility regulations.
Maps Our website has online maps which are unlikely to be fully accessible because of the assistive technologies used in their development.
An alternative format is provided in most circumstances.
Third party-content Our site uses third-party content which may not be fully accessible.
This includes content we publish on social media channels such as Twitter or You Tube, or documents hosted on the digital platform Issuu.
We are responsible for ensuring the accessibility of the content we produce, however we have no control over the accessibility of these platforms.
How we tested this website This website is regularly scanned automatically using an external service.
The scan report highlights any content that is not compliant with WCAG 2.1.
We aim to be using a mix of automated testing and manual testing of a representative sample of the site against the WCAG 2.1 AA standard.
We use AChecker - achecks to scan a representative sample of our pages for accessibility errors along with Lighthouse and manual checks.
What we’re doing to improve accessibility Making the website fully accessible will be a long process.
We are including accessibility as a fundamental part of any future websites we create.
We have an ongoing programme of work to address any accessibility issues that are highlighted by our regular scans.
We are currently auditing our websites, templates and online documents for accessibility, and finding ways to make the site more intuitive and easy to navigate.
Required changes will be made as soon as possible.
We are developing guidelines on how to create accessible content to help those colleagues working on other University websites.
Preparation of this accessibility statement This statement was prepared on 18th June 2019.
It was last reviewed on 8th September 2020.
Disclaimer We make every effort to ensure that the information published on this website is believed to be accurate at the time of posting, but the university will not accept responsibility for any errors, misdescription or subsequent alterations that may become necessary.
The university reserves the right to remove or alter the content or take down this website at any time without notice.
The information on this website relating to courses is correct at the time of publishing and every attempt is made to ensure its accuracy.
However, the information is issued for the guidance of students entering the university and does not form part of any contract.
Where this website is linked to third party websites, the university does not accept any responsibility for the contents of those websites.
Links from this website are provided for convenience only and do not imply affiliation with or endorsement by the university.
The university cannot be held responsible for the protection and privacy of any information which users have provided while visiting such websites.
The university is not responsible for the content or operation of external websites that link to this site or which are linked from this site and disclaims all liability, howsoever occurring, in respect of the content or operation of any such external websites.
Any opinions expressed on this website are the opinions of the named contributors and not necessarily the views of the university.
All pages on this site aim to be accessible to W3C AA compliance.
Our website will allow you to:
• zoom in up to 200% without the text spilling off the screen • navigate or listen to most of the website using just a keyboard or screen reader
We’ve also made the website text as simple as possible to understand.
We know some parts of this website are not fully accessible.
For example:
• Some sections cannot be navigated with just a keyboard • you cannot modify the line height or spacing of text • most older PDF documents are not fully accessible to screen reader software • some videos may not have captions or audio descriptions • some of our online forms are difficult to navigate using just a keyboard • there’s a limit to how far you can magnify the map on our ‘get in touch’ page
Please see the Technical Information section below for more detailed information on known accessibility issues.
AbilityNet has advice on making your device easier to use if you have a disability.
We’re always looking to improve the accessibility of this website.
We are committed to making our website accessible, in accordance with the the relevant accessibility regulations.
This website is partially compliant with the WCAG 2.1 AA standard, due to the instances of non-compliance and one or more of the following listed below:
Issues with navigation, text and images
• Some images do not have a text alternative, so people using a screen reader cannot access the information (WCAG: 1.1.1).
• Our megamenus are not accessible using a keyboard so people using a screen reader may find navigating our website difficult (WCAG: 2.1.1)
We are working to fix the issues above.
Issues with video and audio
• Not all audios or videos with audio have captions or transcriptions.
Links
Some links are not labelled clearly, or contain only image with no or poor ALT text.
Page structure
Some pages use multiple H1 tags or have a structure that doesn’t follow a logical order (WCAG 2.4.6 Headings and Labels).
Others
• focus issues outstanding • 1.4.4 resize issues are outstanding • 1.4.10 reflow issues outstanding • PDF - natural language
Navigation and accessing information
•  There’s no way to skip the repeated content in the page header (for example, a ‘skip to main content’ option).
Interactive tools and transactions
•  Some of our interactive forms are difficult to navigate using a keyboard.
PDFs and other documents
Most downloads on the university webpages are in the Adobe Acrobat PDF format.
Alternatively, if your browser does not support this technology you can convert any PDF file into text or HTML here; https://www.adobe.com/products/acrobat/access_onlinetools.html
Some of our documents which are non-essentials that were published before 23 September 2018 may not be fully accessible.
Live video
We do not plan to add captions to live video streams because live video is exempt from meeting the accessibility regulations.
Maps
Our website has online maps which are unlikely to be fully accessible because of the assistive technologies used in their development.
Third party-content
Our site uses third-party content which may not be fully accessible.
This website is regularly scanned automatically using an external service.
Making the website fully accessible will be a long process.
This statement was prepared on 18th June 2019.
We make every effort to ensure that the information published on this website is believed to be accurate at the time of posting, but the university will not accept responsibility for any errors, misdescription or subsequent alterations that may become necessary.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/freedom-of-information:
One of the obligations for public bodies under the Freedom of Information Act 2000 is that they produce and
          maintain a publication scheme.
This is essentially a guide to the information they routinely make available to
          the public in hard copy or in electronic format.
The purpose of these schemes is to help the public understand
          what publicly funded bodies do and how they do it.
The University of Greater Manchester has adopted the model publication scheme for higher education approved by the
          Information Commissioner’s Office.
It is publicly available on the university web site and also in hard copy
          format (A copy will be available from the university library for reference).
By following the model, it should
          mean that our scheme has a similar format to the schemes produced by other higher education institutions and
          this should make it easier for users to find information about the university and to compare information
          across the sector.
The scheme should also act as a useful reference tool for university staff to find out more
          about the university.
Any queries or requests for further information should be addressed to the Contracts and Legal Compliance
          Advisor at the following address: Contracts and Legal Compliance Advisor
          University of Greater Manchester
          Deane Road
          Bolton
          BL3 5AB
The information in the scheme can be provided in either electronic or/and hard copy.
Anyone
          requiring access to a hard copy publication can contact the Contracts and Legal Compliance Advisor.
Most
          information can be provided free of charge, but there is a fee for some hard copy information and if this is
          the case you will be notified in advance.
What about information not included in the publication scheme?
From 1 January 2005, the public have had the right, under the Freedom of Information Act 2000, to request
          information held by the university, which has not already been made available through the publication scheme.
Requests must be made in writing and, in general, the university will have 20 working days to respond.
The
          applicant has the right to be told whether or not the university has the information they are seeking and to
          have such information communicated to them.
If the information has been destroyed, the university must show
          that it has been destroyed in accordance with good business practice (a records retention schedule will be
          accepted as evidence of good practice).
A fee may be charged for information and this must be paid in advance.
A request for information may be refused if an exemption exists.
There are 23 exemptions in the
          Freedom of Information Act and include personal information (covered by the Data Protection Act), information
          which may endanger the physical or mental health or personal security of any individual, and information
          intended for future publication.
The university may also refuse to disclose information for the following
          reasons: when a requester, following prompting and assistance, does not give enough of a description of the
          information required to allow that information to be identified; when requests are vexatious or repeated; and
          if any fee charged is not paid within three months.
During the year further guidance will be offered to help staff understand more about Freedom of Information
          and the impact that it may have on the university.
For further information about Freedom of Information (including a full list of exemptions) please see the
          Information Commissioner’s website https://www.ico.org.uk.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/disclaimer:
Whilst the university makes every effort to ensure that the information published on this website is believed to be accurate at the time of posting, it does not warrant this is the case and will not accept responsibility for any errors, misdescription or subsequent alterations that may become necessary.
The university reserves the right to remove or alter the content or takedown this website at any time without notice.
This website may, from time to time, be linked to other third party websites in order to provide further information.
The university does not endorse such websites and/or their content or, accept any liability for any loss or damage suffered, howsoever occurring, in respect of the content or operation of any such linked external websites.
In the event you wish to complain about material on this site, please contact in writing.
This website may, from time to time, be linked to other third-party websites in order to provide further information.
However, the university does not endorse such websites and/or their content or, accept any responsibility for any loss or damage suffered as a result of using any information published on any of the pages on the linked third party websites.
Whilst every effort is made to ensure downloadable content is free from viruses, the university cannot accept liability for damages resulting from virus infection.
Copyright Please note that unless otherwise stated, the university, a member of staff or a student is the copyright owner of all material on this website and whilst you may use this information for your personal, non-commercial use only, it may not be published without the express permission of the copyright owner.
Applications for permission should be made to the copyright holder.
University of Greater Manchester Social Media Networks Rules Please read these rules carefully.
The rules outline what the university considers acceptable and unacceptable content and inform our approach to moderating our online presence.
We may update the rules from time to time, so please read them before posting a comment.
By posting on one or more of our sites, you agree to abide by these rules.
The University of Greater Manchester embraces the open and collaborative social media environment.
Your comments are welcome on our sites and we look forward to exchanging knowledge and ideas with you.
Rule 1: We welcome debate.
We don’t want to stop people discussing topics about which they are passionate, but we do ask users to find ways of sharing their views that do not feel hostile.
Please consider how your comment could be received by others.
You can express a strong opinion but do not forget that you are legally responsible for what you submit.
Rule 2: We acknowledge critical comments.
We welcome your opinion of articles we publish, but will not allow persistent misrepresentation of the university to be published on its social media platforms.
We will distinguish between constructive arguments and smear tactics.
Rule 3: You must not make or encourage comments that are or may be interpreted as: Defamatory, false or misleading Racist, sexist, homophobic or discriminatory against any religions or other groups Insulting, threatening or abusive Obscene or of a sexual nature Rule 4 : You must not use our sites for: Inserting links to websites or submit content that would be an infringement of copyright Promotion of any products or services or for any other commercial purpose Sponsorship, petition, campaign, scheme or investigation The university will only support commercial posts where the offer made is of genuine interest to our students; for example, discounts for NUS cardholders.
We will remove posts from organisations offering services we deem to be inappropriate.
Rule 5: Keep it relevant.
We know some conversations can be wide-ranging, but if you post something which is unrelated to the original topic it may be removed, in order to keep the thread on track.
This also applies to queries or comments about moderation, which should not be posted as comments.
Rule 6: Respect others privacy.
You must not submit confidential or private information.
For example, you must not upload telephone numbers, email addresses or other contact details of any person.
Rule 7: Comments that violate these rules may be removed.
If we do remove comments we will remove whole posts, or where necessary, whole threads.
If you are aware that content has been removed, you must not deliberately resubmit the same content.
Rule 8: We reserve the right to block anyone at our sole discretion.
Some of the reasons we may do so: Persistent violation of these rules Comments that abuse other authors, users, staff or any other individual If you are blocked, you must not attempt to submit content using someone else’s account.
If you would like to discuss the operation of our sites with us, please contact us on news@bolton.ac.uk .
Please note that unless otherwise stated, the university, a member of staff or a student is the copyright owner of all material on this website and whilst you may use this information for your personal, non-commercial use only, it may not be published without the express permission of the copyright owner.
Rule 3: You must not make or encourage comments that are or may be interpreted as:
Rule 4 : You must not use our sites for:
The university will only support commercial posts where the offer made is of genuine interest to our students; for example, discounts for NUS cardholders.
Some of the reasons we may do so:
If you are blocked, you must not attempt to submit content using someone else’s account.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/governance/transparency-information:
Provider: The University of Greater Manchester UKPRN: 10006841 For details of non-numeric values in the following tables, please see the 'Rounding and suppression' worksheet
Ethnic minorities includes students with Asian, Black, Mixed or Other ethnicities, a further breakdown of which is shown in Table 1b.
Table 1a: Percentage of classified first degrees at grade 2:1 or above by characteristic for 2021-22 qualifiers.
Table 1b: Detailed information on attainment for 2021-22 qualifiers.
The data contained in the tables in this workbook have been rounded and suppressed as follows:
Numerators and denominators have been rounded to the nearest 10.
Where the numerator or denominator rounds to 20 or less, the data are suppressed with an "N".
Percentages are rounded according to the smallest, unsuppressed denominator in a given mode and characteristic.
If the denominator rounds to:
- 50 or less: percentages are rounded to 5% - 1000 or less: percentages are rounded to 1% - More than 1000: percentages are rounded to 0.1%
"N/A" is displayed where there is no provision in a given mode or level
"DP" indicates suppression for data protection reasons.
This is applied where the numerator is two or less, or differs from the denominator by no more than two students.
Transparency 2022 information: Attainment of 2020-21 qualifiers Provider: The University of Greater Manchester UKPRN: 10006841 For details of non-numeric values in the following tables, please see the 'Rounding and suppression' worksheet Table 1a: Percentage of classified first degrees at grade 2:1 or above by characteristic for 2020-21 qualifiers.
Table 1a: Percentage of classified first degrees at grade 2:1 or above by characteristic for 2020-21 qualifiers.
Transparency 2022 information: Attainment of 2020-21 qualifiers Provider: The University of Greater Manchester UKPRN: 10006841 For details of non-numeric values in the following tables, please see the 'Rounding and suppression' worksheet Table 1b: Detailed information on attainment for 2020-21 qualifiers.
Table 1b: Detailed information on attainment for 2020-21 qualifiers.
Transparency 2022 information: Rounding and suppression The data contained in the tables in this workbook have been rounded and suppressed as follows: Numerators and denominators have been rounded to the nearest 10.
If the denominator rounds to: - 50 or less: percentages are rounded to 5% - 1000 or less: percentages are rounded to 1% - More than 1000: percentages are rounded to 0.1% "N/A" is displayed where there is no provision in a given mode or level "DP" indicates suppression for data protection reasons.
- 50 or less: percentages are rounded to 5%
- 1000 or less: percentages are rounded to 1%
- More than 1000: percentages are rounded to 0.1%
Transparency Return 2021
Transparency 2021 information: Attainment of 2019-20 qualifiers Provider: The University of Greater Manchester UKPRN: 10006841 For details of non-numeric values in the following tables, please see the 'Rounding and suppression' worksheet Table 1a: Percentage of classified first degrees at grade 2:1 or above by characteristic for 2019-20 qualifiers.
Table 1a: Percentage of classified first degrees at grade 2:1 or above by characteristic for 2019-20 qualifiers.
Transparency 2021 information: Attainment of 2019-20 qualifiers Provider: The University of Greater Manchester UKPRN: 10006841 For details of non-numeric values in the following tables, please see the 'Rounding and suppression' worksheet Table 1b: Detailed information on attainment for 2019-20 qualifiers.
Table 1b: Detailed information on attainment for 2019-20 qualifiers.
Transparency 2021 information: Rounding and suppression The data contained in the tables in this workbook have been rounded and suppressed as follows: Numerators and denominators have been rounded to the nearest 10.
If the denominator rounds to: 50 or less: percentages are rounded to 5% 1000 or less: percentages are rounded to 1% More than 1000: percentages are rounded to 0.1% "N/A" is displayed where there is no provision in a given mode or level "DP" indicates suppression for data protection reasons.
"N/A" is displayed where there is no provision in a given mode or level "DP" indicates suppression for data protection reasons.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/more/access-and-participation:
2026-27 to 2029-30
2021-22 to 2025-26
2020-21 to 2024-25
2025 - 2026
2024 - 2025
2023 - 2024

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/charitable-status:
As a higher education corporation, the university is a statutory body established under the provisions of the Education Reform Act 1988 and enjoys charitable status as an exempt charity under the Charities Act 2006.
The university’s legal name is The University of Bolton higher education corporation and its correspondence address is: The University of Bolton Deane Road Bolton BL3 5AB
The Board of Governors, who are the trustees of the charity, have paid regard to the Charity Commission’s public benefit guidance, particularly the supplementary guidance on the advancement of education.
The guidance is also included in the induction packs for new board members.
As a Higher Education Corporation (HEC), the university’s objects are derived from the powers of an HEC, as set out in section 24 of the Higher Education Reform Act 1988, and Part II of the Further and Higher Education Act 1992.
The university’s charitable objects are: provide higher education and carry out research and knowledge exchange.
The Board of Governors considers that they have complied with Section 17 of the Charities Act 2011 with regard to the guidance on public benefit published by the Charity Commission.
The paragraphs below demonstrate the public benefit arising through the university’s activities.
The university continues to demonstrate the public benefit and civic impact through its core activities as well as through connected initiatives, projects and activities: The institution strives to remove barriers to Higher Education based on its core commitment to the widening participation philosophy.
The University of Greater Manchester continues to be one of the most inclusive universities in England and its recruitment of students from underrepresented groups meets or exceeds all HEFCE benchmarks for social inclusion in admissions, especially for Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic (BAME) groups and for students with disabilities.
Following the successful launch of its innovative Undergraduate Nursing Degree programme in 2015, the university is rapidly expanding the provision in this area, contributing directly to capacity building and addressing the skills shortage in the Health Sector.
In addition to the Lancashire Teaching Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, the university has now established successful collaborations with the Royal Bolton NHS Foundation Trust, Central Manchester NHS Foundation Trust, South Manchester NHS Foundation Trust, and the Wrightington, Wigan and Leigh NHS Foundation Trust to deliver a wide range of programmes.
The university is also establishing strategic partnerships with a wide range of employers, across the industrial sectors in the North West, exemplifying the university’s growing role and contribution to the local economy.
The university is taking its rightful place as a key agent for economic, social and cultural development as part of the new Greater Manchester Northern Powerhouse.
The university is also at the heart of, and leading, the regeneration of the town of Bolton; its multi-million-pound learning infrastructure projects are transforming the physical environment of the town centre and the university is widely recognised now as both the engine and driving force for the renaissance of the town.
The university offers substantial bursaries and incentives targeted to all those alumni who wish to further their studies at the university but who have no other financial support to do so.
This reaffirms the university’s commitment to lifelong support for those who can benefit from higher education.
The university works in partnership with several public sector agencies, educational partners and community groups to improve the economic prospects and social mobility of Bolton and the North West.
The Bolton Education Zone partnership, between the university, Bolton College and Bolton Sixth Form College, continues to work actively to highlight, promote and advocate educational opportunities and progression routes in Bolton and to cooperate to facilitate these through shared activities.
The university’s Centre for Research into Health and Well-being works closely with the Council, the Bolton Clinical Commissioning Group and the Royal Bolton NHS Foundation Trust to research into and promote health education and awareness amongst the local community and, through its support for the National Forum on Health and Well-being, the same work is actively carried out across the North West.
Of particular note is the university’s close involvement in the Bolton Health Mela hosted by our Centre for Research for Health and Well-being.
The Health Mela offers health advice in a non-threatening and friendly environment and is a key event in the annual schedule of inclusive public health support.
Through its engagement with international students both here in the UK and also at its partnership centres across the world, the university demonstrates a commitment to internationalism and the bringing together of cultures through education which is also evidenced in the globalisation strand which is embedded in the curriculum of every one of its undergraduate programmes.
This is reinforced with an emphasis on employability, enterprise and innovation in a global context.
Its applied research and knowledge transfer activities support business and industry, the Further Education sector and community bodies.
In the last Research Excellence Framework (REF) the university was rated by independent international panels as delivering world-leading research in six of the seven subjects submitted.
One of the highest-rated projects for impact, in English Language and Literature, across the UK focused on how University of Greater Manchester research had helped community groups support the families of prisoners.
The university also continues to deliver Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP) projects and other applied research projects with companies in the region, directly benefiting the industry.
It supports many local organisations and charities both directly and indirectly.
For example, in 2017, the University of Greater Manchester had the honour of hosting a very special event for Fortalice, where it celebrated 40 years of providing refuge and frontline services for women, families, children and young people affected by domestic abuse.
The university also supports the Bolton Lads & Girls Club, a local charity, which has been providing a wide range of sporting and learning opportunities for young people since 1890.
It also works with other local voluntary agencies and charities such as Bolton at Home, Octagon Theatre, Bolton Rotary Club etc., to help create equality of opportunity and community cohesion in Bolton and beyond.
The university is regulated by the Office for Students (OfS); the OfS is the new independent regulator for higher education in England.
The OfS’ regulatory framework published in February 2018 will not come fully into force until 1 August 2019.
The secondary legislation that enacts the Higher Education and Research Act 2017 (HERA) makes provision for the powers and duties of the Higher Education Funding Council for England (HEFCE) (under the Further and Higher Education Act 1992) and the Director of Fair Access to Higher Education (under the Higher Education Act 2004) to be exercised by the OFS until all of its new powers are commenced.
This means that providers will be funded and regulated by the OFS from 1 April 2018 to 31 July 2019 through a combination of the powers and duties ‘carried forward’ from the previous legislation and the new HERA powers and duties.
This is called the ‘transition period’.
The OfS’ terms and conditions of funding set out the requirements placed on higher education institutions (HEIs) under the ‘carried forward’ powers.
The university continues to demonstrate the public benefit and civic impact through its core activities as well as through connected initiatives, projects and activities:
The institution strives to remove barriers to Higher Education based on its core commitment to the widening participation philosophy.
The university’s governing documents comprise of the Statutory Instrument and the Articles of Government .
Members of the Governing Body are also trustees and have the responsibilities and potential liabilities that go with trustee status.
Those charitable trustees who served at any time during a financial year and until the date the Financial Statements are formally approved as those members of the Governing Body listed in the relevant Financial Statements.
The names of the trustees on 1 June 2025, together with a list of other charities (if any) of which each trustee is then also a trustee is as follows: Name of Governor & Trustee & other charities (if any): Professor HH W Morris MA Cantab (Hons) LLD (hc) Hospital of St John and St Elizabeth Dr H Bharaj MD FRCP MBE Asian Elders Bolton Ms R Hannan BA (Hons) BPS Level A & B Dr C Austin-Behan OBE DL City of Trees Trust – Chair of Trustees Forever Manchester - Trustee General Assembly University of Manchester – General Member Board of Governors for Burnage Academy for Boys - Member Dr S Conn FCA FIPA Mr A Fawcett BA (Hons) MBA Bolton College Train’d Up Railway Resourcing Ltd Now Skills Ltd Mrs K Flood MBA PgDip Management Studies HNC Total Quality Management Bolton College Dr A Roberts EdD (hc) DSc (hc) FIET FRSA QUEST (Church of England Schools Trust)Bolton College Bolton College The Whitehorse Project Dr U Nayak MBA DSc (hc) Professor R Lewis BA (Hons) MA BPhil PGCE Med Georgian Society for East Yorkshire Ms S Hincks MS PGCE Bolton Impact Trust Charity Governance Headington Rye School The King’s School, Worcester Professor T Kennie BSc MAppSci MBA PhD FRICS CIPD EdD Ms S Johnson BA (Hons) MA Senior Fellow HEA Dr Julian Coleman Bolton College Professor Doctor Alan Walsh Bolton Wanderers in the Community Dr Greg Walker Bolton Talent Solutions Limited Communicant Member of QUEST Parochial Church Council of St Paul’s Church, London Bolton Learners Support Talent Solutions Ltd St Paul’s Knightsbridge Foundation Dr Vidya Amarapala PhD Miss J Kaur Bolton Students’ Union
The names of the trustees on 1 June 2025, together with a list of other charities (if any) of which each trustee is then also a trustee is as follows:
Name of Governor & Trustee & other charities (if any):
Professor HH W Morris MA Cantab (Hons) LLD (hc) Hospital of St John and St Elizabeth
Dr H Bharaj MD FRCP MBE Asian Elders Bolton
Ms R Hannan BA (Hons) BPS Level A & B
Dr C Austin-Behan OBE DL City of Trees Trust – Chair of Trustees Forever Manchester - Trustee General Assembly University of Manchester – General Member Board of Governors for Burnage Academy for Boys - Member
Dr S Conn FCA FIPA
Mr A Fawcett BA (Hons) MBA Bolton College Train’d Up Railway Resourcing Ltd Now Skills Ltd
Mrs K Flood MBA PgDip Management Studies HNC Total Quality Management Bolton College
Dr A Roberts EdD (hc) DSc (hc) FIET FRSA QUEST (Church of England Schools Trust)Bolton College Bolton College The Whitehorse Project
Dr U Nayak MBA DSc (hc)
Professor R Lewis BA (Hons) MA BPhil PGCE Med Georgian Society for East Yorkshire
Ms S Hincks MS PGCE Bolton Impact Trust Charity Governance Headington Rye School The King’s School, Worcester
Professor T Kennie BSc MAppSci MBA PhD FRICS CIPD EdD
Ms S Johnson BA (Hons) MA Senior Fellow HEA
Dr Julian Coleman Bolton College
Professor Doctor Alan Walsh Bolton Wanderers in the Community
Dr Greg Walker Bolton Talent Solutions Limited Communicant Member of QUEST Parochial Church Council of St Paul’s Church, London Bolton Learners Support Talent Solutions Ltd St Paul’s Knightsbridge Foundation
Dr Vidya Amarapala PhD
Miss J Kaur Bolton Students’ Union

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/governance/documents-and-reports:
Instrument of Government Articles of Government
Terms of Reference Chancellor Terms of Reference Pro Chancellor Terms of Reference Ad Hoc Comm (approved 19.11.2024) Terms of Reference Audit Committee (approved 19.11.2024) Terms of Reference Board of Governors (approved 19.11.2024) Terms of Reference Nominations Committee (approved 19.11.2024) Terms of Reference Remuneration Committee (approved 19.11.2024) Terms of Reference Resources Committee (approved 19.11.2024) Terms of Reference Senate & its Subcommittees (approved 19 June 2023) Good Practice Guide Calendar of Meetings Committees and Chairs List Membership List Senior Management Structure Rules and By-laws Anti-Bribery Policy Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement PREVENT Policy Internet Security Policy Policy On Religion Or Belief Public Interest Disclosure Policy Smoke-Free Policy Health and Safety Policy Fire Safety Policy Portable Electrical Equipment Intellectual Property Policy Disciplinary Procedure for Designated Senior Post Holders Staff Disciplinary Procedure Staff Grievance Procedure Notification to Suspend Studies Student Non-Academic Conduct and Disciplinary Policy and Procedure 2024-25 Donations Policy Protocol for the Reporting of Assurance Returns from Group Subsidiaries to the University Board Code of Practice Relating to Freedom of Speech Group Risk Management Policy Data Protection UoB COVID-19 Privacy Notice Addendum COVID-19 Asymptomatic testing privacy notice Data Protection Policy 2018 Student Privacy Notice Staff Privacy Notice Graduation Privacy Notice Legal Advice Centre Privacy Notice Board of Governors Privacy Notice Connect Privacy Notice Greater Manchester Health & Social Care Partnership Privacy Notice Records Retention and Disposal Policy Records Retention Schedule Data Breach Management Procedure Information Classification Guidance Data Privacy Impact Assessment Guidance Data Privacy Impact Assessment Data Privacy by Design and Default Guidance Information Security Policies Appropriate Policy Document – Processing Special Category and Criminal Convictions and Offences Personal Data Subject Access Request Form CCTV Footage Request Form Data Sharing Agreement – University of Greater Manchester and Bolton Students' Union
Terms of Reference Chancellor
Terms of Reference Pro Chancellor
Terms of Reference Ad Hoc Comm (approved 19.11.2024)
Terms of Reference Audit Committee (approved 19.11.2024)
Terms of Reference Board of Governors (approved 19.11.2024)
Terms of Reference Nominations Committee (approved 19.11.2024)
Terms of Reference Remuneration Committee (approved 19.11.2024)
Terms of Reference Resources Committee (approved 19.11.2024)
Terms of Reference Senate & its Subcommittees (approved 19 June 2023)
Good Practice Guide
Calendar of Meetings
Committees and Chairs List
Membership List
Senior Management Structure
Rules and By-laws
Anti-Bribery Policy
Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement
PREVENT Policy
Internet Security Policy
Policy On Religion Or Belief
Public Interest Disclosure Policy
Smoke-Free Policy
Health and Safety Policy
Fire Safety Policy
Portable Electrical Equipment
Intellectual Property Policy
Disciplinary Procedure for Designated Senior Post Holders
Staff Disciplinary Procedure
Staff Grievance Procedure
Notification to Suspend Studies
Student Non-Academic Conduct and Disciplinary Policy and Procedure 2024-25
Donations Policy
Protocol for the Reporting of Assurance Returns from Group Subsidiaries to the University Board
Code of Practice Relating to Freedom of Speech
Group Risk Management Policy
UoB COVID-19 Privacy Notice Addendum
COVID-19 Asymptomatic testing privacy notice
Data Protection Policy 2018
Student Privacy Notice
Staff Privacy Notice
Graduation Privacy Notice
Legal Advice Centre Privacy Notice
Board of Governors Privacy Notice
Connect Privacy Notice
Greater Manchester Health & Social Care Partnership Privacy Notice
Records Retention and Disposal Policy
Records Retention Schedule
Data Breach Management Procedure
Information Classification Guidance
Data Privacy Impact Assessment Guidance
Data Privacy Impact Assessment
Data Privacy by Design and Default Guidance
Information Security Policies
Appropriate Policy Document – Processing Special Category and Criminal Convictions and Offences Personal Data
Subject Access Request Form
CCTV Footage Request Form
Data Sharing Agreement – University of Greater Manchester and Bolton Students' Union

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/equality-and-diversity:
We are also passionate about the pursuit of diversity amongst our staff and student population and a supportive environment for all members of our community.
We expect that all staff and students alike will contribute to and actively support the university in working towards the elimination of discrimination and harassment and the promotion of equality of opportunity in terms of access to the university’s services, employment opportunities and support for students in their welfare and education.
Equality & Diversity Information Report 2020-21 Equality & Diversity Information Report 2019-20 Equality & Diversity Information Report 2018-19 Equality & Diversity Information Report 2017-18 Equality & Diversity Information Report 2016-17 Equality & Diversity Information Report 2015-16
Equal Opportunities Policy Student Harassment and Bullying Policy Anti-Bullying and Harassment Policy Gender Pay Gap 2021 (gov.uk) Adoption of the IHRA Working Definition of Antisemitism Pronouns and Glossary of Terms
Terms of Reference
The university has a formal structure for raising equality and diversity matters through the Equality and Diversity Committee which is the university’s principal vehicle for consultation on equality and diversity matters with responsibility for ensuring that corporate equality objectives are set and met.
To monitor and evaluate how we are delivering on equality and diversity the university collects data providing statistical analysis on our staff and student profiles and analysis of our staff and student surveys.
We collect this not only to monitor but to actively seek ways in which we can improve as a university.
This information is also published on an annual basis in our Equality and Diversity Information Report.
The university has also implemented mandatory equality and diversity training which must be completed by all employees of the university.
To ensure that all employees of the university have a good understanding of all equality and diversity matters and are able to act appropriately if they encounter an instance of bullying, harassment, victimisation or discrimination.
The university hosts events such as the recent Celebrating Diversity Day on a regular basis to raise awareness of the issues related to Equality and Diversity and also to celebrate the diversity here at the university.
Events such as these are an excellent opportunity for our staff and students to gain a better understanding of different cultures and people with different characteristics.
The university also hosts different activities which staff and students can attend to learn about different cultures such as religious festivals.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/course/HLT029-F-UOB-SX:
Get ready to make a real difference to the daily lives of vulnerable people by studying the University of Bolton's BSc (Hons) Health and Social Care degree.
Offering excellent facilities and an extensive range of work placements, we’re dedicated to helping you gain the skills, knowledge and understanding you’ll need for a rewarding career in this essential sector.
BSc (Hons)
22/09/2025
L511
Our BSc (Hons) Health and Social Care looks at health in its broad context and investigates contemporary health issues.
There’s a growing demand for health and social care workers who are not restricted by boundaries and can work flexibly to accommodate the increasingly complex health and social care needs of individuals, families and communities.
This degree will also enable you to develop a range of key transferable employability skills, including written and verbal communication skills, IT skills, the ability to work independently and in a team, research and data analysis skills, the ability to provide support and guidance, and work in complex and demanding situations.
Graduates can use this qualification as a stepping stone into a range of other careers.
For some of these roles, relevant experience and/or postgraduate study may be required.
You can apply for up to 5 courses through UCAS (at the same or different institutions) for a fee of £27.
Alternatively, if you only wish to apply for a single course at a single institution then a reduced applicant's
            fee of £22.50 is applicable.
Institution Code Name: BOLTN
Institution Code Number: B44
Tel: 0870 1122211 Web: www.ucas.com
If you have carefully considered your course and institution choices and decided that this course is the best option for
            you, you may apply directly to the University using our online application form shown below.
A direct application to the University of Greater Manchester provides the following features:
Free of charge to apply
Secure, simple and streamlined
Contact us directly for any admissions queries
Regular updates on your application directly from the University
Invites to offer holder events and taster sessions where you can meet your future tutors and get a flavour of university life
NOTE: You cannot apply both through UCAS and directly to the University of Greater Manchester.
Submitting an application to any university through UCAS during
                the same academic year will void any direct application you make to the University of Greater Manchester.
By submitting your application directly to the
            University of Greater Manchester, you agree to these terms.
If you are ready to apply directly, please select your chosen start date from the list below.
Before applying, please read the entry requirements section of this page.
If your course runs at multiple locations or has various start dates, please be sure to select 
    the correct application link from the list below.
Before beginning your application, you should have the following information to hand:
Details of the educational establishments you attended and dates
Your certificates for the qualifications you are using to gain entry to the course – you will need to enter the completion date and upload copies
Details of any employment history, including name, address, dates and role
Personal statement – this can be either input into the relevant field or uploaded separately
Details including e-mail addresses of two referees, at least one of which should be someone who can provide an academic reference
Please make sure any documents you wish to upload in support of your application are in pdf or jpeg format.
Personal statements may be word documents.
Please ensure your data is correct at each stage of the application before you proceed to the next page.
If you use the back button at any time during the application, you should check the validity of the data you have already inputted.
If you experience difficulties during the application process, contact the Undergraduate Admissions Team on 01204 903394 or admissions-team@greatermanchester.ac.uk
Apply online: University of Greater Manchester BSc(Hons) Health and Social Care -
                            
                            22 September 2025
This course is not currently accepting international online applications.
Please contact Admissions by telephone on 01204 903903 or email enquiries@greatermanchester.ac.uk
Admissions University of Greater Manchester Deane Road Bolton, BL3 5AB United Kingdom
Tel: 01204 903903 Email: enquiries@greatermanchester.ac.uk
For valued members of the University of Greater Manchester Group and progressing students, we try to make our application 
        process as simple and as fast as possible.
If you have carefully considered your course and institution choices and decided that this course is the best 
        option for you, you may apply free of charge to the University.
By selecting the appropriate link from the 
        list shown below, you will be taken directly to our online application form.
Please read the user guidance 
        before completing this, and ensure you upload all supporting documents such as certificates and your 
        personal statement when you apply.
When you are asked to add a contact email address, please ensure you add your college/university email 
        account address as well as your personal address.
If you do not add your college address as your contact 
        address, we will be unable to identify you as a partner and offer you the benefits of being part of our group.
Submitting an application to any university through UCAS during
            the same academic year will void any direct application you make to the University of Greater Manchester.
For courses starting in September, please be aware that we are required to share your information with UCAS 
        if we accept you on this course.
We will create a simplified UCAS acceptance record on your behalf and return 
        this to UCAS.
If your course runs at multiple locations or has various start dates, please be sure to select 
        the correct application link from the list below.
Details including email addresses of two referees, at least one of which should be someone who can provide an academic reference
We look forward to receiving your application and you continuing your academic journey with us!
We use a wide variety of learning, teaching and assessment methods.
These aim to help you develop the skills, knowledge and competencies you need to achieve the learning outcomes of this course, and more importantly, the values and attitudes essential to good health and social care practice that will support you to succeed in your future career.
Lectures introduce the core course content, while seminars and group-based activities allow you to explore subjects in greater detail and consider the policies and practices involved.
In tutorials, you can ask questions to ensure you understand the topics covered in lectures and seminars.
We use case studies, practical scenarios, and role-play to help you learn to apply academic theory to real-life problems, allowing you to gain insights into health and social care practice in the working environment.
You’ll also have the chance to gain practical skills in our clinical skills laboratory with simulated patients.
We’ll encourage you to use online learning resources to enhance your studies.
In addition, we offer masterclasses with practitioners from the health and social care sector, sessions with guest speakers who use health and social care services and applied work experience.
These seek to enhance employability and bridge the gap between theory and professional practice.
Our assessment methods aim to replicate activities that are required in the workplace.
For example, you’ll be expected to write reports, give presentations, create leaflets, develop your portfolio of practice, analyse care plans, review relevant literature, analyse complex cases and discuss how to manage change.
You’ll also be required to write essays and reflective accounts, take practical and written tests and get involved in group discussions.
Some assessments will contribute to your final module mark and allow you to demonstrate that you have met the learning outcomes.
In contrast, others are designed to help you identify areas that need extra attention on your part or where you need extra support from your tutors.
BSc (Hons) Health and Social Care with foundation year Full-time
4 Years
BSc (Hons) Health and Social Care Part-time
4.5 Years
HND Health and Social Care Full-time
2 Years
HND Health and Social Care Part-time
3 Years
BSc (Hons) Health and Social Care Final Year top-up Full-time
1 Year
BSc (Hons) Health and Social Care Final Year top-up Part-time
18 Months
FdA Health and Social Care (Assistant Practitioner (Health) Higher Apprenticeship Route) Full-time
FdA Health and Social Care (Assistant Practitioner (Health) Higher Apprenticeship Route) Part-time
FdA Health and Social Care (Assistant Practitioner (Health) Independent Route)  Full-time
MSc Social Care, Health and Wellbeing Full-time
12 Months
MSc Social Care, Health and Wellbeing Part-time
24 Months
MA Social Work Full-time
MSc Physiotherapy (Pre-registration) Full-time
Tracy Corbett
Programme Leader
T.Corbett@bolton.ac.uk
+44 (0)1204 903768
Jana Rozehnalova
Admissions Tutor
J.Rozehnalova@bolton.ac.uk
+44 (0)1204 903847

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/course/HLT152-F-UOB-SX:
Get ready to make a real difference to the daily lives of vulnerable people by studying the University of Greater Manchester's BSc (Hons) Health and Social Care degree at our Satellite Centre in Bradford.
Offering excellent facilities and the opportunity to gain work-based experience in a health and social care setting, we’re dedicated to helping you gain the skills, knowledge and understanding you’ll need for a rewarding career in this essential sector.
On application
L514
Please note: This course is 'Subject to Approval' and has not yet completed the University’s approvals process.
Whilst we are confident that the course will be approved, there is the possibility that the course
    may not run or may be subject to alterations.
This course is due to be validated by May 2025 after
    which we will write to all applicants who have applied for the course to let them know the
    outcome and of any changes.
In the event that a course is not approved the University
    will make reasonable efforts to offer an alternative course at the University.
Call our Clearing hotline now on 0808 281 1111  or email clearing@greatermanchester.ac.uk .
No fee information is currently available, please contact the University of Greater Manchester’s Academic Fees
    team by emailing AcademicFees@greatermanchester.ac.uk for more information.
International applications are not possible for this course As an international student you are not allowed to study this course because of the
        restrictions on your visa.
We offer a wide range of full-time courses in lots of different subjects, many of our courses start in
    September and January.
If you would like to see what courses are available please visit our Course Search .
As an international student you are not allowed to study this course because of the
        restrictions on your visa.
Apply online: University of Greater Manchester at Bradford BSc(Hons) Health and Social Care (Bradford) -
                            
                            22 September 2025
You’ll also have the chance to gain practical skills in our skills laboratory with simulated patients.
Programme Leader, University of Greater Manchester
Danielle Ellis
Bradford Satellite Nursing Centre
D.Ellis@bolton.ac.uk
+44 (0)7917 265136

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/course/CST013-F-UOB-SX:
If you're keen to make a difference, the University of Greater Manchester's Social Work England-approved BA (Hons) Social Work offers you the skills and knowledge you'll need for a successful career supporting people in complex and challenging situations.
Combining university learning, work-based practice placements and ongoing professional skills development, our expert team will help you learn to bring about positive changes for individuals, families and communities.
BA (Hons)
L550
The field of social work spans multiple career options, and many graduates choose their career path based on the types of people they want to help.
Social workers provide help and support directly to individuals, couples, families and groups, often supporting people who face a range of challenges, such as poverty, mental health issues, addiction and family breakdown.
As a social worker, you may provide one-to-one support or connect people and their families with resources in their community to help them overcome their problems.
As a graduate of this degree, you'll be able to demonstrate a wide range of transferable skills such as resilience, advanced communication and negotiation skills.
You'll also possess the ability to manage conflict and exercise authority in complex situations, manage risk to self, service users and colleagues, and enable others to achieve their goals.
Graduates can also use the qualification as a stepping-stone into a range of other careers.
Some of these roles may require relevant experience and/or postgraduate study.
Potential careers include:
This programme is approved by Social Work England.
On successful completion of this course, you will have been assessed as meeting the professional standards required by Social Work England and the professional capabilities for qualifying social workers.
As a result, you will be eligible to apply for registration with Social Work England as a Social Worker.
The Department of Health and Social Care (DHSC) offers a limited number of social work bursaries each year for students undertaking qualifying social work courses.
Undergraduate students can only apply from their second year of study.
The number of bursaries available may be less than the number of places available.
The University of Greater Manchester will provide the NHS Business Services Authority (NHSBSA) with a shortlist of those applicants who should be considered for a bursary.
Please visit https://www.nhsbsa.nhs.uk/social-work-students/ for more information.
Apply online: University of Greater Manchester BA(Hons) Social Work -
                            
                            22 September 2025
Modern social work professionals require a range of skills and values.
Our practice placement partners and tutors will help you gain experience in a range of social work scenarios designed to develop your skills in a safe and supportive environment.
The course involves a wealth of workplace learning opportunities.
You'll undertake a second-year placement of 70 days and a final-year placement of 100 days.
The University will organise and monitor your placements (please note that considerable travelling may be required and that you'll be responsible for travel and parking costs).
As you progress through the course, we'll guide and encourage you to draw on your practice placement experience while studying theory, and apply the theory learned to your practice while on placement so you can understand how the two complement each other.
Your practice placements will contribute to your overall degree outcome alongside your academic work.
We'll use a blended learning approach, combining face-to-face sessions with online and practical work.
You can expect lectures, presentations, simulations delivered by tutors, seminar discussions, small group workshops, and group and individual tutorials.
Inter-professional practitioners from the health and social care field will contribute as guest speakers so that you can learn from their first-hand live examples of current practice.
We'll use a virtual learning environment (VLE) as an accessible repository for online resources and learning packages.
Online content will form a normal part of the learning experience (for instance, podcasts, blogs, and audiovisual media), as well as interactive learning packages.
You'll also need to undertake a significant amount of personal study, including general background reading, preparing for seminar activities, working on assignments and revising for examinations.
To help support your learning, the University also offers additional study skills sessions, such as essay writing, numeracy, library skills and electronic searching.
You can also find support through our social learning community, which includes a peer-support programme and enhanced personal tutoring.
You'll also need to develop your E-portfolio, where you'll catalogue evidence of your learning through various media.
To enhance your individual journey to becoming an effective practitioner, we'll encourage you to develop reflective practice through personal development planning.
Assessment tasks are designed to ensure you achieve the learning outcomes for each module and develop the necessary skills, knowledge and behaviours required to practise as a social worker.
Assessment evaluates your achievement and helps you organise and develop your learning by revealing your strengths and weaknesses.
You can expect various assessment methods, including essays, reports, presentations, portfolios and set exercises.
We'll provide feedback on your assessments to help you improve in the future.
PLEASE NOTE: 100% attendance for practice-based learning is required, and absences or missed components of practice-based learning will have to be completed at a later date.
A minimum of 80% attendance is required for programme modules to progress and achieve the award for which you are registered.
You must attend scheduled sessions.
Please note that attendance is taken into account when making Assessment Board decisions.
You may be withdrawn due to poor attendance.
BA (Hons) Community Development and Youth Work (endorsed route) Full-time
BA (Hons) Community Development and Youth Work (endorsed route) Part-time
BA (Hons) Social Work (Degree Apprenticeship) Full-time
MA Community Development and Youth Studies Full-time
MA Community Development and Youth Studies Part-time
David Maxted
Joint Programme Leader
D.Maxted@bolton.ac.uk
Carolyn Deacon
C.Deacon@bolton.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/course/AAL002-F-UOB-SX:
Counting on a career in accountancy?
Covering the latest practices and theories of accounting, our BA (Hons) Accountancy degree offers essential training for entry into this truly prestigious global profession, along with an impressive range of maximum exemptions from professional accountancy body examinations.
N400
The University of Bolton's BA (Hons) Accountancy degree will develop your understanding of accountancy practices, commerce, industry and finance.
During your studies, you'll develop a variety of technical and transferable skills that are sought after by a wide range of business sector employers and organisations.
You’ll learn about commercial awareness, how businesses function and gain numerical and quantitative skills linked to the business context.
As a graduate, you’ll be able to solve problems, analyse data and statistics, and present information both orally and on paper.
You’ll also have good attention to detail and strong organisational ability.
Graduates can use the qualification as a stepping-stone into a range of other careers.
The course is accredited by the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA), the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales (ICAEW), the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA), the Chartered Institute of Public Finance and Accountancy (CIPFA), and the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Scotland (ICAS).
Apply online: University of Greater Manchester BA(Hons) Accountancy -
                            
                            22 September 2025
Lectures are used to introduce the core course content, while seminars allow you to explore subjects in greater detail and consider the policies and practices involved.
Tutorials give you space to ask questions to ensure you understand the topics covered in lectures and seminars.
We use case studies and practical scenarios to help you learn to apply academic theory to real-life problems, allowing you to gain insights into accountancy practice in a working business environment.
Guest lectures/presentations by visiting speakers from relevant employment areas and professional bodies give you the chance to further develop your knowledge and understanding.
In terms of assessment, you can expect time-constrained exams, essays, reports, presentations, portfolios, and others.
These contribute to your final module marks and allow you to demonstrate that you've met the learning outcomes whilst addressing the requirements of the professional bodies.
We also use other forms of assessment to help you learn, provide you with feedback and inform your development, though these do not count towards your final module mark.
During seminars, you’ll be provided with a series of structured tasks to complete to test your understanding of the topics covered; for instance, quizzes and workshop exercises such as case studies.
You’ll also receive feedback on assessment drafts.
These help to identify any areas which would benefit from extra attention on your part or where you need extra support from your tutor.
BA (Hons) Accountancy Part-time
BA (Hons) Accountancy with foundation year Full-time
BSc (Hons) Business Management Full-time
MSc Accountancy and Financial Management Full-time
MSc Accountancy and Financial Management Part-time
36 Months
MSc Entrepreneurship and Innovation  Full-time
MSc Data Analytics and Technologies   Full-time
Meksha Ragoo
Senior Lecturer in Accountancy / Programme Leader
M.Ragoo@bolton.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/course/BAM007-F-UOB-SX:
From the humble corner shop to multi-national corporations, local government to global charities, every organisation needs effective, knowledgeable and skilled managers.
Graduates of our BSc (Hons) Business Management degree also receive the CMI Level 5 Diploma in Leadership and Management.
This impressive dual-award offers an excellent start to a career with global opportunities.
N370
Our dual award BSc (Hons) Business Management course is designed to provide a broad understanding of business functions in the business and commercial world.
You'll have the opportunity to transfer to individual pathways in specific areas of business if you wish.
The course offers you a route into general management and specialist areas.
With modules covering areas such as business accounting and finance, enterprise, human resource management, company law, information systems, marketing, retail or supply chain management, you can tailor your skills and knowledge to pursue your chosen career.
The dual qualification gained on successfully completing this course is designed to enhance your employability in your preferred field of management.
In addition to nurturing academic and sector-specific knowledge, the programme supports your development of key employability skills, such as critical thinking, problem-solving and data analysis.
Overall, the course aims to give you an essential appreciation of the skills needed to thrive and adapt in the changing world of work.
Graduates can also use the qualification as a stepping stone into a range of other careers, bearing in mind that some of these roles may require relevant experience and/or postgraduate study.
Some possibilities include:
Graduates of the University of Greater Manchester's BSc (Hons) Business Management degree will receive a Level 5 Diploma in Leadership and Management from the CMI (Chartered Management Institute).
The Level 5 Diploma is the CMI's benchmark qualification and offers the quickest exemption route towards Chartered Manager (CMgr MCMI) status.
Chartered Manager status is only awarded by the CMI and is the highest status that can be achieved in the management profession.
Apply online: University of Greater Manchester BSc(Hons) Business Management -
                            
                            22 September 2025
Lectures introduce the core course content, while seminars explore subjects in greater detail.
Tutorials allow you to ask questions, ensuring you understand the topics covered in the lectures and seminars.
We use case studies and practical scenarios to help you learn to apply academic theory to real-life practical scenarios, allowing you to gain insights into contemporary practice in a working business environment.
We'll also expect you to undertake considerable guided independent study; for instance, library research and background reading, preparing for seminar and tutorial activities, and working on assignments.
Furthermore, we'll expect you to adopt work-based learning as part of your employment or during a work experience placement.
Guest lectures and presentations by various visiting speakers from relevant employment areas offer you the chance to develop your knowledge and understanding further.
Regarding assessment, you can expect time-constrained exams, essays, reports, presentations, and portfolios.
These contribute to your final module mark and allow you to demonstrate that you have met the learning outcomes.
We also use other assessment forms to help you learn, provide feedback, and inform your development.
These do not, however, count towards your final module mark.
BSc (Hons) Business Management with foundation year Full-time
BSc (Hons) Business Management (Chartered Manager Degree Apprenticeship) Part-time
The Growth Company
BSc (Hons) Digital Management and Marketing  Full-time
BSc (Hons) Business Management with Industrial Placement Year  Full-time
LLM Law Full-time
MSc International Management Full-time
MBA Business Administration Full-time
Ian Chapman
I.Chapman@bolton.ac.uk
+44 (0)1204 903774

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/course/BAM107-F-UOB-SX:
Digital marketers are in demand.
Our industry-focused BSc (Hons) Digital Marketing and Management CIM Accredited Degree aims to prepare you to take advantage of the e-commerce and marketing opportunities offered by social media, data analytics and emerging technologies.
By combining business management, digital marketing, web design and app development knowledge, we offer you the skills needed for success in this growing digital business and e-tail sector.
N700
As the University of Bolton is well-established as a provider of education across the spectrum of business management and digital technologies, we’re ideally placed to offer degree-level studies in digital marketing and management.
Advances in technology are driving innovations in marketing and retail.
The growth in new media platforms, including social media, has led to changes in how consumers interact with brands, products and services.
Consumers are demanding more personalised, interactive and entertaining marketing communications, served through constantly evolving digital and online channels via an ever-changing range of devices.
Our BSc (Hons) Digital Marketing and Management offers you skills in digital marketing, developed through a vibrant mix of training in the fundamentals of marketing and business management, data analytics, web design and app design and development.
As a graduate of this forward-thinking degree, you’ll be ready to create and manage digital marketing campaigns for the myriad of public and private sector organisations looking to promote their goods and services creatively through online and digital spaces.
During the course, you can also expect to develop a wide range of technical, professional and interpersonal skills, such as attention to detail, teamwork, communication, time management, problem-solving and lifelong learning.
Overall, you’ll be well-prepared for a career in digital marketing and management, working for an employer, an agency, or as a freelance consultant.
The University of Bolton's BSc (Hons) Digital Management and Marketing programme is a Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM) Accredited Degree.
It includes the following CIM exemptions: Level 4 CIM exemptions After graduating from the BSc (Hons) Digital Management and Marketing degree with a 2:2 classification or higher, you'll be exempt from the Level 4 Certificate in Professional Marketing module 'Applied Marketing and Planning Campaigns'.
To obtain the CIM's Level 4 Certificate in Professional Marketing or Level 4 Certificate in Professional Digital Marketing, you'll be required to pass one further elective module.
For your exemptions to be valid, you'll need to sign up to study with the CIM, send evidence of your graduation to the CIM Qualifications Team, and pass the additional unit within five years of graduation.
Level 6 CIM exemptions Additionally, after graduating from the BSc (Hons) Digital Management and Marketing degree with a 2:2 classification or higher, you'll be exempt from the Level 6 Diploma in Professional Marketing module 'Marketing & Digital Strategy'.
To obtain the CIM's Level 6 Diploma in Professional Marketing, you'll be required to pass the 'Innovation in Marketing' module plus one elective module.
Alternatively, you could pursue the CIM's Level 6 Diploma in Professional Digital Marketing, in which case you'll be required to pass both the 'Digital Optimisation' and 'The Digital Customer Experience' modules.
For both Level 6 qualifications, you'll need to sign up to study with CIM, send evidence of your graduation to the CIM Qualifications Team, and pass the additional units within five years of graduation for your exemptions to be valid.
We are also seeking professional accreditation with the Digital Marketing Institute (DMI).
Apply online: University of Greater Manchester BSc(Hons) Digital Management and Marketing -
                            
                            22 September 2025
Lectures introduce the core course content, while seminars allow you to explore subjects in greater detail through both face-to-face and online teaching sessions.
Tutorials offer you space to ask questions, ensuring you understand the topics covered in the lectures and seminars.
We use case studies and practical scenarios as a means to help you learn to apply academic theory to real-life scenarios, allowing you to gain insights into current practice in a working digital marketing environment.
You’ll also need to undertake considerable guided independent study; for instance, library research and background reading, preparing for seminar and tutorial activities, and working on assignments.
Guest lectures and presentations by a variety of visiting experts from relevant employment areas offer you the chance to further develop your technical knowledge and understanding.
We work collaboratively with industry partners to create live briefs and offer work placements that give you opportunities to experience current e-commerce and digital marketing practices first-hand.
We also use other forms of assessment to help you learn, provide you with feedback and inform your development.
FndCert(CPD) Fast-track to Higher Education Full-time
9 Weeks
Ian McDonald
I.McDonald@bolton.ac.uk
+44 (0)1204 903687

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/course/ENG018-F-UOB-SX:
Industry-standard, purpose-built workshop, laboratory and manufacturing facilities, the opportunity to apply for placements and internships with our partner race teams, manufacturers and suppliers, and lecturers who share your passion combine to make our IMechE-accredited BEng (Hons) Automotive Performance Engineering (Motorsport) degree ideal if want a career at the cutting-edge of automotive and motorsport engineering.
BEng (Hons)
779L
This course focuses on developing the knowledge, skill, and experience necessary to design, develop and deliver advanced engineering solutions at the highest levels of the motorsport or automotive industries.
In addition to technical knowledge, this programme offers you the opportunity to develop a range of key employability skills.
These include using specialist knowledge creatively and innovatively to solve problems, producing and interpreting technical solutions, and explaining design ideas.
You'll also learn to communicate effectively (via speech and writing) and possess good teamwork, project and time management, and strong decision-making skills.
Graduates can also use the qualification to enter a range of other careers.
This programme is accredited by the Institution of Mechanical Engineers (IMechE) on behalf of the Engineering Council for the purposes of fully meeting the academic requirement for registration as an Incorporated Engineer and partially meeting the academic requirement for registration as a Chartered Engineer.
Apply online: University of Greater Manchester BEng (Hons) Automotive Performance Eng (Msport) -
                            
                            22 September 2025
You'll be expected to attend formally timetabled classes, including lectures, tutorials, and tutor-led in-class exercises, and engage with case studies, laboratory activities, investigations and assignments, in groups and individually.
All these activities are designed to help you acquire and develop appropriate concepts, knowledge and skills.
Our personal tutor system underpins all our teaching and provides one-on-one support, peer support and individual care and attention.
Other teaching methods, such as open-ended projects, and design, make and test activities, provide opportunities to develop creativity and innovation skills.
These are designed to meet the professional body accreditation requirements and help you apply, assimilate, and integrate your understanding of the course material.
Personal study time is required, and we'll assess your progress through a strategic blend of project or design reports, examinations, portfolios, presentations, blogs and other assignments.
Some assessments contribute to your final module marks, while others are designed to help you identify your strengths and weaknesses, and where you need to seek extra support from course tutors.
BSc (Hons) Motorsport Technology Full-time
BEng (Hons) Automotive Performance Engineering (Motorsport) with foundation year Full-time
MSc Engineering Management Full-time
MSc Motorsport Engineering Full-time
MRes Engineering Management Full-time
Stuart Donohoe
Programme Leader and Senior Lecturer
S.Donohoe@bolton.ac.uk
+44 (0)1204 903251

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/course/CIE006-F-UOB-SX:
Civil engineers build the world according to people’s constantly evolving needs and to increasingly demanding specifications.
The University of Bolton's BEng (Hons) Civil Engineering is an exciting opportunity to develop a deep understanding of civil engineering’s key principles and applications, helping you build a rewarding career in the sector.
H206
The course is designed to help you achieve the technical knowledge to support a career as a civil, structural, geotechnical, hydraulic, or highway and transportation engineer – pretty much anywhere in the world.
You have the chance to develop your understanding of designing, creating and building structures efficiently and for making the best use of available resources and techniques.
In addition to subject-specific knowledge and skills, you’ll have the opportunity to develop employability skills that include problem-solving, analytical and research skills, critical thinking, creativity, communication, teamwork, commercial awareness, and health and safety.
Potential roles include:
This degree is accredited as: 1) fully satisfying the educational base for an Incorporated Engineer (IEng), and 2) partially satisfying the educational base for a Chartered Engineer (CEng).
A programme of accredited further learning will be required to complete the educational base for CEng.
See www.jbm.org.uk for further information and details of further learning programmes for CEng.
BEng (Hons) graduates can apply for Incorporated Engineer (IEng) professional status after the necessary practice in industry.
You’ll be encouraged to become a student member of the relevant Institution(s) and participate in local and regional activities, enabling you to network with potential employers.
Apply online: University of Greater Manchester BEng (Hons) Civil Engineering -
                            
                            22 September 2025
A significant proportion of your study experiences will mirror industry scenarios and conditions.
For example, you’ll take on an interdisciplinary group project in your final year, designed to simulate a construction project from inception to completion.
Throughout the project, you’ll effectively be a civil engineer, working within a team of other construction specialists.
Civil engineering is a diverse and multi-faceted industry, so we’ve made sure we use a wide range of teaching and learning methods to help you acquire the appropriate concepts, knowledge and skills for success.
While you’ll have plenty of opportunities to learn directly from tutors and technicians during timetabled classes, practical work and tutorials, you’ll also be expected to allocate significant time to independent and self-directed studies.
For example, we recommend you plan and commit to background reading, revisiting practical work, attending lectures and technical reviews provided by professional bodies, preparing for seminars, working on assignments and revising for exams.
That said, we’re here to guide and support you, so we’ll gladly help you devise an independent study regime to aid your success.
The course offers site visits, which provide an excellent opportunity to view state-of-the-art projects and see how your newly discovered insights and knowledge can be applied in practice.
You'll also benefit from individual and small-group tutorials and group study sessions, where you can share and develop ideas and consolidate your learning.
We assess your individual performance through a strategic blend of practical work, exams, essays, presentations, laboratory write-ups and other assignments.
Course assessments are formative and summative.
Formative assessments comprise tailored feedback to support your individual learning and development needs.
They do not contribute directly to your marks for each module in the way that summative assessments do.
However, they do help you build on your strengths, overcome any weaknesses, and contribute to your overall success.
BEng (Hons) Civil Engineering Part-time
BEng (Hons) Civil Engineering with foundation year Full-time
BEng (Hons) Civil Engineering (Degree Apprenticeship Route) Part-time
5 Years
MSc Civil Engineering Part-time
MSc Civil Engineering Full-time
MSc Civil Engineering: January Start Full-time
Henry Oti
Programme leader
H.Oti@bolton.ac.uk
+44 (0)1204 903077

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/course/ELR003-F-UOB-SX:
From electric vehicles to Raspberry Pi®, ultrasound machines to manufacturing robots, and washing machines to wind farms, electrical and electronic engineering enhances our lives enormously every single day.
The University of Bolton's IET-accredited BEng (Hons) Electrical and Electronic Engineering degree aims to educate the engineers who will lead the next phase of the digital revolution.
H350
Electrical and electronic engineers design, build and maintain electrical control systems, electrical systems for renewable energies, electric vehicles, and industrial machinery and equipment.
The rapid expansion of the technology sector over the last few decades has created a demand for those who can create, understand and alter electrical control systems.
In addition to technical knowledge, this degree offers the opportunity to develop a range of key employability skills that are highly transferrable to a wide range of areas beyond engineering, such as IT, finance and management.
These skills include using specialist knowledge creatively and innovatively to solve problems, producing and interpreting technical solutions, explaining design ideas, effective communication (spoken and written), good teamwork skills, project and time management, and strong decision-making skills.
As a graduate of this BEng degree, you'll have the knowledge and skills needed to define your own pathway to a rewarding career in electronic engineering and be qualified to pursue exciting opportunities in research and development if you wish.
Possible fields include:
The University of Bolton's BEng (Hons) Electrical and Electronic Engineering programme is accredited by the Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET) on behalf of the Engineering Council for the purposes of fully meeting the academic requirement for registration as an Incorporated Engineer (IEng) and partly meeting the academic requirement for registration as a Chartered Engineer (CEng) for intakes until the end of August 2026.
We will seek re-accreditation with the IET for start dates from September 2027.
Apply online: University of Greater Manchester BEng (Hons) Electrical and Electronic Engineering -
                            
                            22 September 2025
We use various teaching and learning methods to help you achieve your potential.
Formally timetabled classes, including lectures, guest lectures, tutorials and tutor-led in-class exercises, along with case studies, laboratories, investigations and assignments, in groups and individually, are designed to help you acquire and develop appropriate concepts, knowledge and skills.
Our personal tutor system underpins all our teaching activities and provides one-on-one support, peer support and individual care and attention.
Other teaching methods, such as coursework, projects and practical activities, provide opportunities to develop creativity and innovation skills.
These are designed to meet the professional body accreditation requirements, as well as help you apply, assimilate and integrate your understanding of the course material.
Personal study time is required, along with online learning in the form of maintaining an electronic Personal Development Plan (ePDP).
Guest lectures and participating in competitive design and make exercises will offer you the chance to develop your knowledge and practical skills further.
The taught modules are assessed individually, and we award you credits when you successfully complete each module.
Regarding assessment, you can expect time-constrained exams, essays, reports, presentations, portfolios, and others.
We also use other forms of assessment to help you learn, provide you with feedback and inform your development, though these don't count towards your final module mark.
During seminars, you'll be provided with a series of structured tasks to complete that will test your understanding of the topics covered and your problem-solving skills.
You'll also receive feedback on assessment drafts.
These will help identify any areas that would benefit from extra attention on your part or where you need additional support from your tutor.
We use a blended learning and teaching style, including online delivery and engagement where appropriate.
BEng (Hons) Electrical and Electronic Engineering with foundation year Full-time
BEng (Hons) Electrical and Electronic Engineering Part-time
BEng (Hons) Electrical and Electronic Engineering (Degree Apprenticeship) Part-time
60 Months
BEng (Hons) Electrical and Electronic Engineering (Degree Apprenticeship) Full-time
MSc Systems Engineering (Electronic) and Engineering Management Full-time
MSc Robotics, Autonomous Systems and Telecommunications Full-time
MSc Electrical and Electronic Engineering Full-time
MSc Electrical and Electronic Engineering: January Start Full-time
Akram Bati
A.Bati@bolton.ac.uk
+44 (0)1204 903525
James Gu
J.Gu@bolton.ac.uk
+44 (0)1204 903548

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/course/ART050-F-UOB-SX:
Shaped by industry, the University of Bolton’s BA (Hons) Film and Television Production undergraduate degree will help you become the “set ready” graduate the media industry requires.
It’s practice-based, with imagination and story-telling at its heart.
Our expert team will support you as you learn to develop imaginative and diverse stories that resonate with audiences and build a portfolio that showcases your skills and creative voice.
P430
The University of Bolton's BA (Hons) Film and Television Production course provides in-depth knowledge of working in film, TV and multi-platform formats.
You'll have the opportunity to develop a wide range of technical and creative skills and learn to challenge, question and explore what's possible in moving image media.
A key part of the course is your chance to benefit from creative industries placements and extracurricular opportunities to help build appealing CVs, showreels and portfolios in preparation for employment.
As a graduate, you'll possess a range of transferable skills such as creativity, communication, teamwork, managing deadlines, critical analysis, and commercial and cultural awareness.
Graduates can also use the qualification as a stepping stone into a range of other careers.
Some of these roles, may require relevant experience or postgraduate study.
Possible roles include:
Apply online: University of Greater Manchester BA (Hons) Film and Television Production -
                            
                            22 September 2025
Much of the work involved in this course is based around practical projects.
You’ll be expected to create different types of content as well as write essays, presentations and pitches.
Some online course activities are student-generated and controlled to resemble the practices you’re likely to encounter in the media industries.
We emphasise group work, activity-based assignments, workshops, demonstrations, projects, and guided independent study.
Some of the modules will be delivered more conventionally through classes, lectures, and presentations.
You’ll be taught by tutors with extensive industry experience and specialist guest lecturers.
You’ll also be expected to devote a significant amount of time to independent study, and our online resources will assist you with this.
Assignments will require time outside of lessons to complete.
Work-based learning is a key element of the course, and the completion of industry briefs and professional quality work is designed to ensure you are ready for employment when you graduate.
There are no examinations.
All assessment is through coursework.
You can expect formative assessment to help you learn and develop your knowledge and skills and summative assessment on which you’ll be graded.
Your summative assessment briefs will contain tasks such as making films, writing essays and reports, writing scripts and outlines, giving presentations and pitches, and carrying out practical exercises and work placements.
We adopt a blended learning and teaching style, including online delivery and engagement where appropriate.
MA (Specialist Title) via Creative Practice Full-time
MA (Specialist Title) via Creative Practice Part-time
Laurence Davey
Programme Leader and Admissions Tutor
L.Davey@bolton.ac.uk
Brid Andrews
Senior Lecturer
B.Andrews@bolton.ac.uk
+44 (0)1204 903300
Tony Sabanskis
Lecturer
T.Sabanskis@bolton.ac.uk
01204903237

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/course/ART053-F-UOB-SX:
Dive into the imaginative world of BA (Hons) Modelmaking and Creature Effects at the University of Bolton.
This exciting programme combines artistry, design and innovation, providing a comprehensive education underpinned by hands-on experience, digital technology mastery, and guidance from industry experts.
W730
Television shows, films, digital content, live events and theatre productions all rely on the magic of modelmaking and creature effects to enhance their storytelling.
Our BA (Hons) Modelmaking and Creature Effects course is ideal if you wish to combine design creativity, physical model-making skills, cutting-edge digital technology, and prototyping to create models and creature effects for any of these platforms.
This programme also develops transferable skills such as communication, project and time management, teamwork, and entrepreneurship, which are all needed for success in any profession.
We aim to support you in developing these attributes alongside the imagination, flair, and curiosity that will enable you to help make the unbelievable believable.
You can also use this qualification as a stepping-stone into various other careers.
Some of these roles may require relevant experience and/or further study.
Some possibilities include the following:
Apply online: University of Greater Manchester BA(Hons) Modelmaking and Creature Effects -
                            
                            22 September 2025
In this innovative BA (Hons) Modelmaking and Creature Effects programme, you can expect a blended teaching style that includes a mix of practical workshops, lectures, seminars, tutorials, self-directed learning, e-learning, and studio sessions.
Our approach focuses on both the theoretical and practical aspects of the design and creation of models and creatures.
We'll encourage you to experiment with materials and tools, and practice contemporary and long-established techniques and processes.
We'll support you as you learn to apply key principles and how theoretical underpinning improves your practice.
The programme is practice-based, encouraging active learning with a focus on practical, project-based work.
You'll collaborate with peers on group and multidisciplinary projects, simulating professional work environments.
Workshop inductions, demonstrations, activity-based assignments, and specialist technical support will help you gain hands-on practical skills and techniques.
Regular guest lectures and industry events provide opportunities to engage with and learn from respected professionals in the modelmaking and special/creature effects fields, giving you insights into real-world applications of your learning.
The course is designed to prepare you for work in an industry where drive and self-determination are key, so we place a significant emphasis on personal and independent study.
Activities such as project work, background reading, research, and creative thinking are essential.
When it comes to assessment, the programme uses various methods to evaluate your understanding and skills.
These include practical assignments, projects, case studies, written assessments, interviews, and presentations.
Most importantly, the coursework aims to simulate the professional situations you'll encounter in the industry alongside more academic studies.
BSc (Hons) Visual  Effects and Animation Full-time
BA (Hons) Special Make-up Effects for Film and Television Full-time
BA (Hons) Modelmaking and Creature Effects with foundation year Full-time
Beccy Barnes
B.Barnes@bolton.ac.uk
+44 (0)1204 903263
Jim Costello
J.Costello@bolton.ac.uk
+44 (0)1204 903451

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/course/ART052-F-UOB-SX:
Are you eager to bring characters to life through make-up, hair and prosthetics?
BA (Hons) Special Make-up Effects for Film and Television focuses on helping you develop the specialist and highly requested skills needed to impress decision-makers in make-up for film and television departments.
We offer fantastic facilities, experienced staff, and industry guest speakers to prepare you for a career in this highly in-demand creative pathway.
W710
The University of Bolton's BA (Hons) Special Make-up Effects for Film and Television promotes the knowledge and skills the industry expects from graduates wanting to embark on this highly creative career.
Throughout the course, we'll support you in gaining recognised practical skills in make-up effects and highly regarded skills in organisation, communication, and professionalism.
As this creative field continually evolves, we also focus on helping you develop curiosity and lifelong learning skills, preparing you to keep up to date with new and upcoming special make-up effects techniques.
We'll ensure you're ready to adapt by exploring many of the strategies you'll need to use in your career journey.
Graduates can use this qualification as a stepping-stone into many other careers.
Possible areas include:
Apply online: University of Greater Manchester BA(Hons) Special Make-up Effects for Film and Television -
                            
                            22 September 2025
We use a wide variety of teaching and learning methods to help you achieve your potential, and you can expect our blended style to include practical demonstrations, lectures, seminars, tutorials, self-directed learning, practical workshops, and online learning.
Lectures introduce the core course content, while seminars allow you to explore subjects in greater detail.
Practical skills and techniques are gained through technical introduction and support, workshop sessions, demonstrations, and activity-based assignments.
Tutorials allow you to ask questions, ensuring you understand the topics covered in lectures and workshop sessions.
Guest lectures and visits give you opportunities to engage with and learn from respected professionals working in areas within or relating to special make-up effects.
Our highly practical and project-based approach promotes active learning, and our specialist facilities create realistic industry-like learning environments.
Our project modules encourage you to interact and collaborate with students specialising in both your own and other areas of special and visual effects, as well as film and television production, helping to give you a taste of working on group and multidisciplinary projects.
Personal and independent study is essential, and you should expect to devote a significant amount of time to activities such as project work, background reading, preparation for seminars and tutorials, research, design and creative thought.
In terms of assessment, you can expect practical applications, coursework, portfolios investigating practice, case studies, interviews, and presentations.
As far as possible, we set project-based coursework that simulates professional situations.
These pieces contribute to your final mark and allow you to demonstrate that you have met the learning outcomes.
BA (Hons) Modelmaking and Creature Effects Full-time
BA (Hons) Special Make-up Effects for Film and Television with foundation year Full-time
Special Make-up Effects Enquiry Team
Special Make-up Effects Enquiry Team (University of Greater Manchester)
SMUFX@greatermanchester.ac.uk
Jessica Hindle
J.Hindle@greatermanchester.ac.uk
+44 (0)1204 903195
Natalie Woods
Senior Lecturer and Film FX Knowledge Exchange Co-ordinator
N.Woods@greatermanchester.ac.uk
+44 (0)1204 903389
Instagram: @ugm_makeupeffects
Special Make-up Effects, University of Greater Manchester

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/course/PSY036-F-UOB-SX:
Are you fascinated by the relationship between the mind and the brain?
Our BPS-accredited BSc (Hons) Psychology and Cognitive Neuroscience degree offers you a comprehensive blend of skills and knowledge in core psychology principles and methods, alongside training in key aspects of cognitive neuroscience.
Our experienced and highly qualified staff will guide and support you, focusing on employability throughout your studies.
C820
As a graduate of our BSc (Hons) Psychology and Cognitive Neuroscience, you'll have a sound knowledge of human behaviour and research, statistics, and writing skills.
This combination of skills can provide a foundation for many careers, particularly roles that involve working with a range of complex issues or data.
Upon successfully completing the course, you'll be able to demonstrate in-demand graduate skills such as high order analysis, research skills, problem-solving, interpersonal awareness, communication skills, the ability to develop arguments supported by relevant evidence, teamwork, and IT and data handling skills.
Graduates can use the qualification to step into a range of other careers.
Relevant experience and/or postgraduate study may be required for some of these roles.
Possible careers include:
Successful completion of the University of Bolton's BSc (Hons) Psychology and Cognitive Neuroscience degree course is approved as conferring eligibility for the Graduate Basis for Chartered Membership (GBC) of the British Psychological Society (BPS), provided the minimum standard of qualification of second class honours is achieved.
The BPS acts as the representative body for psychology and psychologists in the UK.
The GBC provides a basis for progression to society-accredited postgraduate professional training in psychology for training to become a Chartered Psychologist (CPsychol).
Apply online: University of Greater Manchester BSc(Hons) Psychology and Cognitive Neuroscience -
                            
                            22 September 2025
The overall teaching and learning strategy for BSc (Hons) Psychology and Cognitive Neuroscience is student-centred.
We use a blended approach meaning you’ll have face-to-face sessions, sometimes one-to-one, and take part in online learning.
You can expect a mix of seminars, lectures and tutorials, practical classes, laboratory workshops, videos, self-directed study, IT and library sessions, and guided study.
The University’s e-learning portal Moodle will support your online learning and provide a convenient way for you to communicate with fellow students who are studying the same modules.
We’ll also encourage you to use the internet for research.
Guest lectures and presentations by a variety of visiting speakers from relevant employment areas will offer you the chance to further develop your knowledge and understanding.
The assessment strategy is set up to help you organise and develop your learning and to evaluate your achievement.
You can expect time-constrained exams and coursework, such as essays, reports, presentations, portfolios, and others.
These contribute to your final marks and allow you to demonstrate that you’ve met the learning outcomes for the course.
Much of your assessed work is submitted online via Moodle with feedback also given through this route.
You can also use Moodle to communicate with fellow students studying the same modules as you.
BSc (Hons) Psychology, Psychotherapy and Counselling  Full-time
BSc (Hons) Criminological and Forensic Psychology  Full-time
BSc (Hons) Psychology Full-time
BSc (Hons)  Psychology and Cognitive Neuroscience Part-time
54 Months
BSc (Hons) Psychology and Cognitive Neuroscience with foundation year Full-time
MSc Psychology Full-time
MSc Social Neuroscience Full-time
Pedro Vital
P.Vital@bolton.ac.uk
+44 (0)1204 903685
Richard Jagger
R.Jagger@bolton.ac.uk
+44 (0)1204 903146

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/course/PSY003-F-UOB-SX:
Are you interested in the psychological aspects of criminological and forensics psychology?
Our British Psychological Society (BPS) accredited BSc (Hons) Criminological and Forensic Psychology degree is a dynamic course that reflects contemporary approaches to offending behaviour.
During the final year of this course, you'll engage with professional settings, providing valuable work experience for your CV.
CF84
The University of Bolton's BSc (Hons) Criminological and Forensic Psychology degree will support you in developing a deep understanding of how psychology can be applied to explain certain aspects of crime and criminal behaviour.
When you successfully complete the course, you'll be able to demonstrate graduate skills such as analysing complex information and data, investigating problems and formulating plans to solve them.
You'll also possess skills in deductive reasoning, conducting research independently, reflection, producing and presenting information accurately, and understanding social and legal issues.
Possible areas of employment include:
Successful completion of the University of Bolton's BSc (Hons) Criminological and Forensic Psychology degree course is approved as conferring eligibility for the Graduate Basis for Chartership (GBC) of the British Psychological Society, provided the minimum standard of qualification of second class honours is achieved.
The British Psychological Society is the professional body for psychologists.
Apply online: University of Greater Manchester BSc(Hons) Criminological and Forensic Psychology -
                            
                            22 September 2025
Our teaching and learning strategies are student-centred.
We use a blended approach, so you'll have face-to-face sessions, sometimes one-to-one, and take part in online learning.
During the degree, you can expect a mix of seminars, lectures and tutorials, practical workshop demonstrations, critiques, study visits, self-directed study, IT and library sessions, and guided study.
The University's e-learning portal Moodle will support your online learning and provides a convenient way for you to communicate with fellow students who are studying the same modules.
We'll also encourage you to use the internet for research.
Guest lectures and presentations by visiting speakers from relevant employment areas offer you the chance to further develop your knowledge and understanding.
Our assessment strategy aims to help you organise and develop your learning and evaluate your achievement.
Over the course of the degree, you can expect time-constrained exams and coursework, such as essays, reports, presentations, and portfolios.
These contribute to your final marks and allow you to demonstrate that you've met the learning outcomes for the course.
Much of your assessed work is submitted online via Moodle, with feedback also given through this route.
BSc (Hons) Criminological and Forensic Psychology  Part-time
BSc (Hons)  Psychology and Cognitive Neuroscience Full-time
BSc (Hons) Criminological and Forensic Psychology with foundation year Full-time
BSc (Hons) Mental Health, Wellbeing and Counselling Full-time
MSc Positive Psychology Full-time
MSc Applied Sport and Exercise Psychology Full-time
Caroline Mead
C.Mead@bolton.ac.uk
+44 (0)1204 903544

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/course/PSY037-F-UOB-SX:
Learn to promote individual psychological wellbeing and improve mental health with the University of Bolton's BSc (Hons) Mental Health, Wellbeing and Counselling degree.
Combining psychology, counselling, social and community work, law, and health care with the opportunity to gain a qualification in counselling skills, this exciting multidisciplinary course opens the door to a growing number of rewarding careers.
C830
Our BSc (Hons) Mental Health, Wellbeing and Counselling degree offers an ideal combination of subjects if you're looking for a career focused on mental health and psychological wellbeing in individuals, families or communities.
On graduation, you'll be well-prepared to enter a variety of roles working directly or indirectly to improve mental health and wellbeing.
As a graduate, you'll be able to demonstrate skills such as problem-solving, critical evaluation and independence of thought, deductive reasoning, interpersonal awareness and excellent teamwork, and communication skills.
Graduates can use the qualification as a stepping-stone into a range of careers.
Possibilities include:
When you successfully complete the module 'Introduction to Counselling Concepts' (PPC4001), you'll gain the ABC Accredited Level 2 Certificate in Counselling Skills.
Also, when you successfully complete the 'Counselling Skills' (PPC5001) module,  you'll earn the ABC Accredited Level 3 Certificate in Counselling Skills.
Apply online: University of Greater Manchester BSc(Hons) Mental Health Wellbeing and Counselling -
                            
                            22 September 2025
Our teaching and learning strategy is student-centred.
We use a blended approach, meaning you'll have face-to-face sessions, sometimes one-to-one, and take part in online learning.
You can expect a mix of seminars, lectures and tutorials, practical classes, videos, self-directed study, IT and library sessions, and guided study.
Bolton University's e-learning portal Moodle supports your online learning and provides a convenient way for you to communicate with fellow students who are studying the same modules.
Self-directed and independent study is essential if you want to reach your potential in this hugely rewarding and constantly evolving subject.
We expect you to devote significant time to activities such as background reading, preparing for seminars and assignments, writing essays and revising for exams.
Guest lectures and presentations by various visiting speakers from relevant employment areas will allow you to further develop your knowledge and understanding.
Assessments help to organise and develop your learning and evaluate your achievements.
Summative assessments contribute to your final module marks and include time-constrained exams and coursework, such as essays, practical reports, seminar and poster presentations, and portfolios.
These assessments are your chance to confirm your knowledge and understanding and demonstrate your critical and evaluation skills.
Meanwhile, you'll benefit from ongoing formative assessments throughout your degree.
These don't contribute to module marks or final grades but focus on supporting your progress, helping you build on your strengths and overcome challenges.
They're also an excellent way to help you identify and pursue the independent learning strategies that best suit your needs and preferences.
Your assessed work is submitted online via Moodle, with feedback also given through this portal.
LLB (Hons) Law   Full-time
BSc (Hons) Health and Social Care Full-time
BA (Hons) Social Work Full-time
BSc (Hons) Mental Health, Wellbeing and Counselling Part-time
BSc (Hons) Mental Health, Wellbeing and Counselling with foundation year Full-time
Laura O'Brien
L.O'Brien@bolton.ac.uk
+44 (0)1204 903653

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/course/COM054-F-UOB-SX:
Computer science is about much more than building, maintaining and repairing computers and software systems.
It's about creativity and innovation, imagining a better way to do things and making it happen.
Our BSc (Hons) Computer Science degree supports you in gaining all the practical and problem-solving skills you'll need to excel in this constantly evolving and highly rewarding field.
G370
Digital technologies are playing an ever-increasing role in all aspects of our lives.
Our BSc (Hons) in Computer Science prepares you for a career at the forefront of this continually evolving field.
Our graduates find their skills in high demand across industries ranging from finance and retail through healthcare and education to entertainment and energy.
When you successfully complete this degree, you'll possess a solid understanding of the core technologies underpinning computer science and be able to demonstrate your skills in applying computing concepts and methodologies to solve problems.
You'll have strong programming skills and valuable knowledge of databases, systems architecture and the areas you selected as options.
You'll also be able to demonstrate vital transferable skills, including teamwork, leadership, communication, time management, commercial awareness, problem-solving and negotiation.
Apply online: University of Greater Manchester BSc(Hons) Computer Science -
                            
                            22 September 2025
We understand that our students' learning needs and preferred learning styles vary, so we use a range of learning and teaching methods, including online (where appropriate).
Our team of highly knowledgeable and enthusiastic lecturers offer face-to-face sessions and one-to-one support.
We'll also assign you a dedicated personal tutor to help guide you through your studies.
Lectures introduce the core course content, while practical laboratory sessions offer practical experience and help consolidate your learning.
Tutorials allow you to ask any questions to ensure you understand the topics covered in lectures and laboratory sessions.
We use case studies and practical scenarios to help you learn to apply academic theory to real-life problems, allowing you to gain insights into computing and IT in commercial environments.
Guest lectures/presentations by a variety of visiting speakers from relevant employment areas offer you the chance to develop your knowledge and understanding further.
Regarding assessment, you can expect a combination of assessed practical demonstrations, reports, coursework, and others.
These summative assessments contribute to your final marks and are your chance to show you've met the learning outcomes for the course.
Formative assessments, on the other hand, feature throughout your studies.
While they don't contribute to your module or final marks, they inform and support your development by helping you build on your strengths, overcome any perceived weaknesses, and find the study strategies that best support your ultimate success.
We take our social, public and ethical responsibilities very seriously.
All our student project work conforms with the University's policies on ethics and uses the University's research ethics procedure before work commences.
BEng (Hons) Software Engineering  Full-time
BSc (Hons) Computing Full-time
BSc (Hons) Cyber Security Full-time
BSc (Hons) Computer Science Part-time
BSc (Hons) Computer Science with foundation year Full-time
BSc (Hons) Computer Science with Industrial Placement year Full-time
MSc Software Engineering Full-time
MSc Cloud and Network Security Full-time
Shivang Shukla
S.Shukla@bolton.ac.uk
+44 (0)1204 903034
Abdul Razak
A.Razak@bolton.ac.uk
+44 (0)1204 903476

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/course/COM001-F-UOB-SX:
The University of Greater Manchester's BSc (Hons) Computing is a practical and far-reaching undergraduate programme designed to support you with focused attention, industry insights and excellent IT resources.
Forge your own path into specialisms and potential career options with dedicated help from our expert teaching staff.
G400
With computing technologies playing a greater role in all aspects of modern life, our graduates find their skills in high demand across a wide range of industries.
The University of Greater Manchester's BSc (Hons) Computing degree combines theoretical study and practical projects.
You can learn subject-specific skills such as programming, systems, databases, computer platforms, website production and networking.
This degree also supports you to develop soft skills such as communication, leadership and organisation, all of which are highly sought after by employers.
Apply online: University of Greater Manchester BSc(Hons) Computing -
                            
                            22 September 2025
Lectures introduce the core course content, while practical laboratory sessions give you practical experience and help consolidate your learning.
Tutorials allow you to ask specific questions and discuss topics and techniques you've covered in lectures and laboratory sessions.
Case studies and practical scenarios will enable you to apply theory to practice and enjoy real-world insights into computing in commercial environments.
Small class sizes mean we get closer to you as an individual and better understand and support your learning preferences and ambitions.
Assessment-wise, you can expect a combination of assessed practical demonstrations, reports, coursework, and others.
This programme adopts a blended learning and teaching style, including online delivery and engagement where appropriate.
BSc (Hons) Computing Part-time
6 Years
BSc (Hons) Computing (Top-up) Full-time
BSc (Hons) Computing (Top-up) Part-time
BSc (Hons) Computing with Industrial Placement Full-time
MSc Artificial Intelligence Full-time

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/course/COM032-F-UOB-SX:
Our BSc (Hons) Cyber Security is ideal if you're fascinated by computers, enjoy problem-solving and want a fast-paced, challenging job.
We offer the knowledge and skills needed to anticipate and combat computer software and data threats, including hacking, theft, viruses, and other forms of cyber attack.
G310
The University of Greater Manchester's Cyber Security degree courses offer the knowledge and skills needed to implement, maintain and support the security controls that protect an organisation's computer systems and data assets from threats and hazards.
As a graduate, you'll possess a deep understanding of computer systems and how underlying infrastructure, software and data contribute to modern computing environments.
You'll also have the skills and knowledge required to identify where threats and hazards can occur in modern infrastructure, along with the skills to develop, implement, maintain and support security tools and controls that analyse, prevent and protect against attacks.
During the course, you can also expect to develop a wide range of technical, professional, and interpersonal skills, such as attention to detail, teamwork, communication and analytical skills, time management, problem-solving, and lifelong learning.
Graduates can use the qualification as a stepping-stone into various other careers.
The University of Bolton's BSc (Hons) Cyber Security degree offers you the opportunity to develop the skills to be recognised as a RedHat certified practitioner in systems administration and gain a number of other industry-relevant professional accreditations.
We were the first UK university to become a RedHat academy and offer you access to the accreditation examinations at a significantly reduced cost.
Apply online: University of Greater Manchester BSc (Hons) Cyber Security -
                            
                            22 September 2025
Learning and teaching methods use a blended style, which means you'll have face-to-face sessions and participate in online learning.
You can expect a mixture of seminars, lectures and tutorials, practical laboratory/workshop sessions, a visiting speaker programme, critiques, self-directed study and e-learning, as well as online sessions and support.
We'll help you gain practical skills through technical introduction and support, workshop sessions, demonstrations and activity-based assignments.
Throughout the course, a strong practical theme promotes active learning.
Regarding assessment, we aim to provide creative and industry-relevant ways for you to demonstrate your theoretical and practical knowledge.
You can expect assessments to involve assignments, projects, in-class tests, portfolios and presentations.
Some assessments will contribute to your final module mark and allow you to demonstrate that you've met the learning outcomes.
In contrast, others are designed to help you identify areas that need extra attention on your part or where you need additional support from your tutors.
BSc (Hons) Digital and Technology Solutions : Software Engineering (Degree Apprenticeship Route) Full-time
BSc (Hons) Digital and Technology Solutions : Network Engineering (Degree Apprenticeship Route) Full-time
BSc (Hons) Digital and Technology Solutions : Data Analyst (Degree Apprenticeship Route) Full-time
BSc (Hons) Digital and Technology Solutions : Cyber Security (Degree Apprenticeship Route) Full-time
BSc (Hons) Cyber Security with foundation year Full-time
BSc (Hons) Cyber Security with Industrial Placement Full-time
Adam Isherwood
A.Isherwood@bolton.ac.uk
+44 (0)1204 903075

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/international/january-2024-deadlines-for-applicants:
In order to give you time to apply for your visa we set application and decision stage deadlines for international applicants.
All offers are considered on academic merit and on a first come first served basis for the May 2025 intake as places are strictly limited on a select number of courses.
Please ensure you respond to requests from our Admissions Team and Branch Offices as quickly as possible and make the required tuition fee payment as soon as you are invited to do so.
Places are not reserved until payment is received.
Please also ensure that you upload all required documents when submitting your application to avoid any unnecessary delays (e.g.
IELTS, WAEC, NECO, Name Change Documents, etc)
Details will be provided at each stage so please keep an eye on email communication.
Our Branch Offices will also communicate with you via mobile/WhatsApp.
Please ensure your contact details are correct.
Application deadline – all links will be closed after this date
Friday 18 April 2025
Offer Issuance – this is the last date for the Admissions Team to issue any offer
Friday 25 April 2025
Deposit Payment & CAS Documents must be received by this date
Friday 2 May 2025
Last CAS Issued
Friday 9 May 2025

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/international/fees-and-finance:
Studying in the UK is one of the most significant financial investments you will make in your lifetime.
Therefore we strive to offer you the best value for your money by providing some of the lowest course fees and living costs of any University, by being based in the friendly town of Bolton, Greater Manchester.
You can see the fee information for all our programmes in the course profile.
The course finder function is available here.
Most of our fees for September 2024 start at £15,950 (excluding courses like MSc Physician Associate Studies and some others – please check the Fees & Funding tab on the course page).
To assist future international students, we are proud to announce a number of new International Excellence Scholarships available to full-time self-paying students* joining bachelors, taught masters, research masters and PhD study (for academic year 2024/25 – September 2024/January 2025 intakes).
Further details can be found on our scholarships page: /study/international/scholarship
The tuition fees for Postgraduate research programmes (PhD/MPhil) can also be found at our Research and Graduate School website .
If you are unsure what the cost of your prospective course is, or have any questions please don’t hesitate to get in contact by emailing international@bolton.ac.uk or contacting the Branch Offices - contact details can be found here: /study/international
Before starting University life, it's important to think about the costs you are likely to face and how to manage your money.
Remember, you'll receive your maintenance support in termly instalments, and you will need to budget for on-going costs such as:
Full information on our accommodation and associate costs can be found on the accommodation page .
Below is an example of the average cost of living for one academic year, for a full-time student living in the University's Halls of Residence, Orlando Village.
Please note if you are living in private accommodation you will need to calculate your total accommodation and transport costs.
Estimated living costs 2024/25
47 weeks
Accommodation Orlando Village (47 week contract) starting from:
£6,533.00
Food (based on average weekly spend of £40 over 47 weeks)
£1,880.00
Course related costs (books, stationary, etc)
£300.00
Clothing and footwear
£400.00
Mobile phone (based on £20 per month for 12 months)
£240.00
General living expenses including sport/leisure/socialising (estimate)
£1,000.00
TV licence (subject to rise to £169.50 on 1st April 2024)
£159.00
Total annual expenditure (predicted)
£10,512.00
* Figures given are estimates only.
Transport costs are excluded as this depends on the proximity of your accommodation to the University and whether or not you will return to your home country during vacation time.
Orlando Village packages can be checked on www.orlandovillage.co.uk

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/study/international/scholarship:
The University of Greater Manchester is always striving to build upon the strong international community that is already enjoying Bolton life.
To assist future international students, we are proud to announce a number of new International Excellence Scholarships available to full-time self-paying students* joining bachelors, taught masters, research masters and PhD study (for academic year 2024/25).
The maximum level scholarship extends to £6,000 for the duration of 3-year bachelors and PhD courses and £3,000 for 1 year/18 months masters courses (including research masters).
As a sign of our continued commitment to a globally inclusive campus, all full-time self-paying international students will be eligible to be considered for the Bronze scholarship.
The level of the International Excellence Scholarships is broken down into three bands (Gold, Silver and Bronze) based on the academic ability of the applicant.
*Government or employer sponsored students will not be eligible for this scholarship.
The University reserves the right to withdraw the scholarship if CAS documents indicate a sponsorship award.
*The scholarship entitlement for year 2 and year 3 will be subject to passing all modules in the preceding year
*Final assessment of scholarship eligibility will be made by the Branch Offices and Admission’s Staff and are made at the discretion of the University.
The relevant amount of scholarship will be deducted at point of payment i.e.
you will pay the tuition fee minus the scholarship amount.
These scholarships shall extend to courses starting in September 2024.
There is no separate application form requirement .
International students will be automatically assessed for these scholarships at the point of application.
The deadline for being considered for these scholarships will follow the same admissions deadlines.
If you wish to know the criteria for a country specific qualification, then please get in touch with our Branch Offices:
African applicants can contact our Africa Branch Office: contact details can be found on this page: /international/afbo
Middle Eastern or Central Asia Applicants (including Pakistani Applicants) can contact our Middle East and Central Asia Branch Office: contact details can be found on this page: /international/mecabo
South Asian Applicants can contact our South Asia Branch Office - contact details can be found on this page: /international/sabo
Applicants from countries not listed on the above webpages may write to: enquiries@bolton.ac.uk
More and more students from overseas are choosing to study at Bolton.
Students from more than 100 countries are proud to call Bolton their home.
We are proud to offer the International Excellence Scholarship to full-time self-funded students* joining taught masters courses in September 2023.
The scholarship is worth £1,000 and will be awarded to students with exceptional academic results/achievements (usually a 1st class honours degree or equivalent).
The scholarship will be deducted at point of payment i.e.
Final assessment of scholarship eligibility will be made by Admissions Team and are made at the discretion of the University.
There is no separate application form requirement.
*Students sponsored by third party (e.g.
government, employer) are not eligible for this scholarship.
International students are eligible to qualify for the Alumni Scholarship Discount if they have previously studied at the University of Greater Manchester.
This entitles the award-holder for a £1,000 fee waiver if they meet our criteria.
The award is confirmed for the 2023/24 academic year.
The University of Greater Manchester has some of the most affordable student fees in the UK and the cost of living in Bolton is lower than most parts of the UK.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/study/international/online-application-steps:
International students can make direct applications on our website.
After clearing, Home/EU students can also use this link (before and during clearing, applications need to go through UCAS – visit https://www.ucas.com/further-education/ucas-progress/apply-through-ucas-progress for an in-depth guide on UCAS applications).
Note that Home/EU students applying for postgraduate courses can always use the direct application links.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/international/accommodation-and-campus-life:
Campus life offers you all the facilities you need to enjoy University life.
The University of Bolton is proud of its diversity and international appeal; perfect for making ‘friends for life’.
With a student body of around 6,000 full-time students you will get the best of all worlds at Bolton, learning at a compact, modern and friendly University where no one feels anonymous, in a thriving town close to the big metropolitan and vibrant cities of Manchester and Liverpool.
Our main campus is only a 10-minute walk from Bolton town centre.
Orlando Village is the preferred and only Halls of Residence recommended by the University of Bolton.
The facility provides 381 single study, self-catering bedrooms and are popular with international students.
It is a 10-minute walk away from our campus, close to both bus and rail links.
For the full breakdown of what is included in the Halls of Residence, contract, methods and how to apply, please visit www.orlandovillage.co.uk
Our Students' Union Office can advise you of how to search for private accommodation and what to look for when entering into a contract with a private landlord.
Organising private accommodation would mean contacting the landlord of the property to make arrangements.
You may wish to look at the UKCISA site for information and advice for international students finding accommodation in the UK.
The University of Bolton is not only a great place for students who want to have a positive learning experience, but also those who like to participate in a variety of sports.
The campus hosts the £31 million sports complex, Bolton One, which houses a 25m swimming pool, 15m tall climbing wall and newly refurbished gym.
Whether you wish to play sport competitively, or just to keep fit, there are many free activities at the University of Bolton.
The Student Union can also help you find a team or society if you wish, find out more information here .
The University caters to all major religions, and we have our own Chaplaincy on-campus.
There is also a quiet room, prayer room and resource area.
There are many places of worship close by including: churches; mosques and temples.
For more information see our chaplaincy webpage.
The International Society at the University of Bolton aims to bring Bolton's international students and interested UK students together in a social and recreational environment.
It's a great way to make new friends and see more of the North of England and the rest of the UK.
The weather in Bolton is constantly changing!
From June to August, it can be sunny and warm (25º C/77º F).
However, from September through to May, you should be prepared for rain (not every day, of course!), but make sure you have an umbrella.
Winter can be quite cold (0º C/32º F).
You'll need warm clothes like jumpers, jackets, coat, hat, scarf and gloves.
Bolton winters can get cold, and you should be prepared with the right clothes; fleece/jumper.
A waterproof jacket or raincoat is essential for the days when there is rain.
The town's train station is just a 10-minute walk from the University.
It's a 20-minute train journey to Manchester stations and only 40 minutes to Manchester International Airport.
Bolton has excellent travel links.
There are frequent buses to the heart of Manchester, Salford and MediaCity and the Trafford Centre Shopping Mall.
Bolton is just over 10 miles away from Manchester and is part of the county of Greater Manchester.
A train to London will take around 2.5 hours
Visit http://www.traveline.info or https://tfgm.com/ for public transport information and journey planning.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/international/your-country-entry-requirements:
Click on your country below to find information about our authorised referral partners and entry requirements specific to your country.
To see when we may be visiting your region, please look at the Come Meet Us page .
For entry requirements to our MBCHB Medicine course starting in September 2025 please click the links below: Academic Requirements Language Qualifications
For entry requirements to our MBCHB Medicine course starting in September 2025 please click the links below:
Academic Requirements
Language Qualifications

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/international/university-of-bolton-why-we-are-the-right-choice:
Choosing which University to go to in the UK is not an easy decision and should not be rushed.
Every University in the UK is different and will have various appeals.
We have a range of programmes to suit different student needs and interests; you can improve your English with one of our Pre-Sessional English programmes, or our International Foundation Programmes which start in January each year.
We have Foundation Programmes, Bachelor’s, Pre-Masters Semesters, Master’s and MPhil/PhD courses.
The main intakes for Bachelor’s and Master’s programmes are January and September.
Here at Bolton, we have something to benefit every type of student, below are the reasons that make the University of Bolton an excellent place for you to study.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/international/afbo:
The Africa Branch Office is responsible for each country within Africa.
The University of Greater Manchester advises all applicants to utilise the service of this Branch Office to ensure a speedy response to enquiries and a quick turnaround of your admission.
The staff will be the first and only point of contact for all African Applicants and will manage the entire admission’s process from application to enrolment.
Email address for the Africa Branch Office: afbo@bolton.ac.uk (please quote your student number if you have already made an application).
Days/hours of operation: Monday to Friday 9am to 5pm
Alternatively you can email the staff below.
(Please only message 1 member of staff.
Their response may be delayed in peak periods)
Staff:
Mr Hamza Nourredine Admissions Counsellor
Email: hn6ext@bolton.ac.uk
Mobile/WhatsApp: +212 688 435996
Ms Hauwa Mohammed Admissions Counsellor
Email: hm10ext@bolton.ac.uk
Mobile/WhatsApp: +234 706 502 5820
Mr Anass Lamsouari Digital Marketing and Admissions Officer
Email: al26ext@bolton.ac.uk
Mobile/WhatsApp: +212 616 417054
Mr Amine Nacir Admissions Counsellor
Email: an13ext@bolton.ac.uk
Mobile/WhatsApp: +212 622 609705
Mr Aqib Adamu Partnerships Manager
Email: maa2ext@bolton.ac.uk
Mobile/WhatsApp: +234 706 501 0280
Ms Maimuna Tumsia Admissions Team Leader
Email: mm36ext@bolton.ac.uk
Mobile/WhatsApp: +234 903 016 8683
Mr Ayoub Nacir Admissions Team Leader
Email: an12ext@bolton.ac.uk
Mobile/WhatsApp: +212 610 340 682
Ms Marwa Baghtoul Admissions Counsellor/Digital Marketing Executive
Email: mb42@bolton.ac.uk
Ms Rhita Abou El Marai Admissions Assistant
Email: TBC
Mobile/WhatsApp: TBC

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/international/mecabo:
MECABO fully manages all applications from Pakistan, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, Armenia, Afghanistan, UAE, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Kuwait, Qatar, Oman, Iran, Iraq, Lebanon, Turkey, Azerbaijan, Jordan, Syria, and the Rest of the World (excluding countries such as India, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Nepal, and the Africa region).
All enquiries should be emailed to: mecabo@bolton.ac.uk
Days/hours of operation: Monday to Saturday, 9am to 5pm (Pakistan time)
Alternatively, you can email the staff below, please only email one member of staff.
Mr Daniyal Raza Pirani Senior Admissions Manager
Email: dp13ext@bolton.ac.uk
Mobile/WhatsApp: +92 3102722127
Mr Osama Shahid Admissions Manager
Email: os6ext@bolton.ac.uk
Mobile/WhatsApp: +92 3037778605
Mr Muqdar Nawaz Student Recruitment Executive
Email: mn7ext@bolton.ac.uk
Mobile/WhatsApp: +92 3057284384
Mr Daniyal Kirmani Student Recruitment Executive
Email: dak3ext@bolton.ac.uk
Mobile/WhatsApp: +92 3272950799
Mr Hamza M.
Abbasi Student Recruitment Officer
Email: hm14ext@bolton.ac.uk
Mobile/WhatsApp: +92 3141199949
Mr Muhammad Ali Khan Student Recruitment Officer
Email: ma47ext@bolton.ac.uk
Mobile/WhatsApp: +92 3095272743
Mr Sarosh Ahmad Student Recruitment Executive
Email: sa31ext@bolton.ac.uk
Mobile/WhatsApp: +92 3275601556

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/international/sabo:
The South Asia Bolton Office (SABO) is responsible for India, SriLanka, Bangladesh and Nepal.
The University of Greater Manchester advises all applicants to utilise the service of this Bolton Office to ensure a speedy response to enquiries and a quick turnaround of your admission.
The staff will be the first and only point of contact for all Applicants from the region and will manage the entire admission process from application to enrolment.
Email address for the South Asia Bolton Office Office: sabo@bolton.ac.uk (please quote your student number if you have already made an application).
Days/hours of operation: Monday to Saturday, 9 am to 5.30 pm
You can email on sabo@bolton.ac.uk or Call on +91 96113 77036 (7 lines)
You could even WhatsApp Shivani or Nikitha for assistance.
(Please do mail only one counsellor).
They will respond to your query at the earliest.
Do provide the following applicant details when connecting with them
Name Date of Birth Student Code Intake: Course:
Ms Shivani Kulkarni Admissions Counsellor
Mobile/WhatsApp: +91 96069 99415
Ms Nikitha Sreedharan Admissions Counsellor
Mobile/WhatsApp: +91 96069 99416
Ashok Philip Branch Office Manager
Mobile/WhatsApp: +91 96069 99417
Email: sabo@bolton.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/student-life/fees-and-funding/payments:
This secure online payment facility allows you to pay invoices or make payments on account to the University of Bolton.
For students, it also allows you to see the balance on outstanding invoices.
Home Students Tuition Fees Click Here to pay current or prior year tuition fees.
The payment amount is open so you can make a part payment of an invoice, make a payment on account or set up a Recurring Card Payment on current years fees.
Click Here to pay for an outstanding invoice in full and set up a Recurring Card Payment on current years fees.
You can also see the balance on any outstanding invoices.
International Students International Payments by Flywire University of Greater Manchester has partnered with Flywire to accept payments from international students worldwide.
Easily and securely make education payments in your own currency, using local payment methods from the safety and convenience of your home.
With real-time tracking and Around-the-clock multilingual support, millions of students and families around the world trust Flywire for payment processing.
International Payments by EasyTransfer International students from India, Nigeria, Malaysia and China now have the option to pay with EasyTransfer.
The University of Greater Manchester has partnered with EasyTransfer as a payment method for international tuition fee payments.
This quick, safe and secure service allows you to make payments in your local currency easily with low fees and transparent exchange rates with a fast turnaround on the funds being received by the university.
You can pay your tuition fee deposit, instalment or even the full fee!
EasyTransfer's team of payment specialists will guide you step by step and give you peace of mind that your full payment is delivered to the University.
Other Student Payments Click Here to pay for a bicycle loan or bicycle purchase.
University of Greater Manchester has partnered with Flywire to accept payments from international students worldwide.
International students from India, Nigeria, Malaysia and China now have the option to pay with EasyTransfer.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/study/international/english-language-requirements:
Acceptable English Language Tests – Undergraduate and Postgraduate
These tests must have been taken within 2 years of the start of the course.
European qualifications (English component - obtained within the last 4 years)
International Regional qualifications obtained no more than 4 years before the proposed start date of the course.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/international/uob-in-your-country:
We want you to have the opportunity to meet us face-to-face and ask any questions you might have about studying at the University of Bolton.
We regularly attend recruitment events across Europe, the Middle East, East Asia, Central and South Asia and Africa.
These events will give you the opportunity to ask about:
The events we will be attending in 2023 will be listed here soon.
If you would like to know more or when we are next visiting your home country, please contact us:
Email: International@bolton.ac.uk Tel: +44(0)1204 903 110

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/study/international/university-of-the-republic-of-san-marino:
We are very proud to announce that University of Greater Manchester have signed a Memorandum of Understanding with The University of the Republic of San Marino (in Italian: Università degli Studi della Repubblica di San Marino).
The Università degli Studi della Repubblica di San Marino (University of the Republic of San Marino) is the main university in San Marino, which also includes the Scuola Superiore di Studi Storici di San Marino (Graduate School of Historical Studies), a distinguished research and advanced international study centre governed by an international Scientific Committee coordinated by the emeritus historian Luciano Canfora.
The University of the Republic of San Marino also delivers a number of programs in collaboration with the University of Modena and Reggio Emilia and the University of Bologna.
The MoU agrees to promote cooperation between both institutions in the fields of mutual interest which includes:
•  Exchange of students* •  Exchange of faculty and research members •  Exchange of staff •  Exchange of information and academic publications •  Development of joint research projects •  Development of joint teaching and outreach programs •  Promotion of courses, lectures and symposia
*Subject to Admissions/Progression guidelines & protocols, immigration compliance requirements and ECCTIS approved qualifications.
This MoU forms the basis and confirms the intention of both universities to collaborate and help enrich and nourish the minds of the students of both institutions.
We are eager to warmly welcome the students and staff!
We will welcome and prioritise all applications as part of our collaboration with the University of the Republic of San Marino.
This chart details the admissions process:
We are also delighted to confirm that all students will be assessed at offer stage for a scholarship of up to £3000 depending on their previous academic achievements
This link will explain the step-by-step process of how prospective students can make their application: /study/international/online-application-steps
Please note that in order for the application to be prioritised by the admissions team, please choose the University of the Republic of San Marino at Step 9 in the Agent drop down list (UniRSM)
All applications should be complete in order to be prioritised i.e.
please ensure you upload all of your previous certificates/transcripts, English Language certificate*, CV, Passport, Statement of Purpose and any other documents required as detailed in the entry requirements.
Please also note that all documents should be in English or translated by an official translator.
Please also check the entry requirements as additional documents may be required.
*Please check this link for acceptable English Language Requirements: /study/international/english-language-requirements
Contact details for the International Team:
Telephone: +441204903110 Email: international@bolton.ac.uk
*image of San Marino courtesy of IMF.org

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/student-area/graduation:
We are so pleased to be able to provide you with all the information you require for your Graduation Ceremonies in July 2025.
From registration at the Greater Manchester Business School to celebrating with you at the Albert Halls in Bolton Town Centre, during the week of Monday 14 – Friday 18 July 2025.
Find information about how to book your graduation ticket, guest tickets, academic dress, photography and information about local hotels and restaurants.
Find information on key timings for the day, registration at the University of Greater Manchester Business School, what happens at the ceremony and how to watch the livestream online.
Information on how to join the Alumni and when you will receive your certificate.
Don’t worry, have a look through our Graduation FAQs, read through our Terms and Conditions and see our Privacy Policy.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/academic-calendars:
Please note some programmes follow a different yearly structure, make sure to refer to your timetables and check with tutors if you are unsure.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/welcome-to-hr:
Our aim is to be a high-quality and transformational HR department by promoting operational and customer service excellence.
To that end, we have supported various departments to achieve customer service excellence accreditation and have helped the University achieve accreditations as a Living Wage Employer, A Best Companies (one to watch) employer, and a Disability Confident Committed employer.
We also support the Armed Forces Covenant.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/welcome-to-hr/hr-a-to-z:
The University’s Sickness Absence Policy incorporates legal requirements, UCAS guidance, best practice within the sector and the University’s values.
Any absence must be reported to your line manager by telephone during the first hour of your normal working day.
For all absences over half-a-day and up to seven days (five working days), you must complete a self-certification form.
From the 8th day of absence, a doctor’s note is required.
You will need to send this to your line manager at the first available opportunity.
For further information, please see the links below or contact your HR Administrator.
Self
    Certification Form | Return to Work Interview | Sickness Absence Policy Procedure
Key teaching and holiday dates for 2022/23.
Academic Calendar
See also: Academic Timetables
Timetabling is responsible for the planning, coordination and publication of the University’s Academic Teaching Timetable.
They are responsible for allocating all general teaching rooms, shared IT facilities and specialist space for all courses being delivered at the University.
They also manage the online attendance system and occasional room bookings.
For further information and guidance, please visit: Academic Timetables | University of Greater Manchester .
See also: Academic Calendar
Always report every incident, no matter how minor, and make sure an accident report form is filled in.
For further information please contact David Thurston, Health & Safety Manager, t: 01204 903577, e: d.thurston@bolton.ac.uk .
Accident Report Form
Adoption leave gives eligible employees the right to take leave when a child is newly placed for adoption.
Adoption leave is available to individuals who adopt or to one member of a couple where they adopt jointly.
Paid adoption leave is applicable to eligible employees.
Adoption Leave
See also: Maternity Leave; Paternity Leave
AdvanceHE is a national Professional Recognition Scheme open to all staff involved in teaching and supporting learning in HE.
The University is an accredited employer and offers Fellowship opportunities via the Staff CPD scheme, fellowship can be gained through an experiential route.
For further details, please contact Sarah Chesney S.Chesney@Bolton.ac.uk or visit Fellowship | Advance HE (advance-he.ac.uk)
See also: Higher Education Statistics Agency (HESA); LEAP Online; ORCID for Academic Staff; Personal Development, Staff Development & Induction; PhD/Professional Doctorate Policy; Teaching Qualifications
The University of Greater Manchester holiday year runs from 1 September to 31 August.
All annual leave must be agreed locally between you and your line manager prior to any leave being taken.
Annual leave for academic staff is 35 days and for professional support staff it is 26 days (five additional days are awarded on completion of five-years’ service (at the start of the next leave year)).
Bank Holidays are given in addition to the identified annual leave.
Annual leave for part-time staff or those commencing employment part way through the leave year is worked out on a pro-rata basis.
Although it is a matter of local determination for line managers to define when employees in their area should avoid taking leave, the University has identified specific periods where employees should avoid the booking of annual leave due to possible need to redeploy staff to assist with frontline activities.
The University encourages all employees to use their annual leave entitlement in any given year to ensure that they have a well-earned rest on a regular basis.
If an employee does want to carry any leave forward to the next leave year, agreement must be sought from your line manager.
Annual Leave
    Entitlement | Annual Leave: 40 Week Contracts | Academic
    Leave Memo
See also: Christmas Shutdown; Discretionary Days; Unpaid Leave
The University is pleased to confirm that we have recently signed up to the ‘Bee Seen, Get Screened’ pledge, in partnership with ‘Answer Cancer’, the Greater Manchester Screening Engagement Programme.
We are also extremely happy to be THE first University to sign up to this pledge!
This pledge guarantees that staff will be able to attend cancer screening appointments during work hours, if unable to get an appointment at a different time.
The University will also be supporting Answer Cancer’s engagement strategy by raising the profile of health and wellbeing in the workplace and empowering everyone to look after their health.
The ‘Bee Seen – Get Screened’ campaign is raising awareness of the three NHS cancer screening programmes through training, staff sessions and much more.
Answer Cancer works across Greater Manchester discussing cancer and the importance of screening with our communities.
For more information see: www.answercancergm.org.uk/bee-seen
See Also: Other Leave Entitlement
A Degree Apprenticeship lets you earn a full undergraduate or master’s degree while you work.
Typically, you’ll spend 80% of your time working and 20% training either on campus or doing project work to support your studies.
Best of all, your study is paid for by the government or your employer, so unlike a full-time degree course, you won’t have to pay for your tuition yourself and you’ll earn a competitive salary while learning.
Please click here for more information: /join-us/apprenticeships/
The University recognises the vital role that the armed forces play, the valuable contribution that reservists make to the national interest and the general community.
It also values the transferable skills developed by employees who are reservists, skills that can be of benefit to the University.
The University will assist reservists, as far as possible, for example, by taking into account unusual leave requirements or the need to amend working patterns.
The statement sets out how the University of Greater Manchester supports its employees who are reservists in the British Armed Forces and ex-British Armed Forces personnel.
The reserve forces include the Army Reserve, Royal Naval Reserve, Royal Marine Reserve and Royal Auxiliary Air Force Reserves.
Statement on the Employment of Armed Forces Personnel and Support for Reservists
See also: British Armed Forces
University of Greater Manchester Employee Benefits gives employees access to a great range of discounts on travel bookings, high-street vouchers, gift cards, cinema tickets, days out, leisure activities and day-to-day spending.
There is something for everyone with thousands of ways to save through the scheme whether you like to shop in-store or online.
To register visit: Homepage - University of Greater Manchester (employeebenefitsplatform.com) and click to join now.
You will need to enter your name and unique identifier which is your University employee number.
For further details please contact Sharon Thompson, HR Operations Manager, t: 01204 903584 e: s.thompson@bolton.ac.uk .
Stay fit and healthy at our £31m on-site leisure centre with fitness suite, 25m swimming pool, sports hall, climbing wall and a great range of classes.
It also hosts the Sport and Physical Activity Rehabilitation Centre and athlete development centre which is open to all.
University staff enjoy free term-time swimming (in the morning, lunchtime and late evening), discounted memberships and discounted lunchtime and evening fitness classes
For further details on Sports Centre Activities and how to book, please visit: Sport & Wellness | University of Greater Manchester
See also: Health & Wellbeing
As part of the University of Greater Manchester’s commitment to the British Armed Forces Covenant and to ensure that ex-armed forces personnel are not disadvantaged as a result of their service, veterans of the British armed forces applying for a job at the University will be guaranteed the offer of an interview provided that:
See also: Armed Forces Personnel & Support for Reservists
The Bistro, Café Athena and Deane Deli all serve hot and cold food from breakfast until early evening.
There is also an onside shop and cash machine located on the main campus.
Vending machines are also located throughout the campus.
See also: Cash Machine; Catering
Free staff car parking is available to employees at the University.
Your university staff ID card gives you access to the staff car park.
Car parking is on a first-come, first-served basis.
Car Parking Policy | Campus Map
See also: Cyclescheme; Public Transport
A cash machine is located within Café Athena, by the side of the Cash Office.
Catering requests should be sent to hospitality@bolton.ac.uk with the relevant catering form attached (available from Facilities).
A minimum of 24 hours’ notice must be given when requesting beverages, with a minimum of 48 hours when ordering food.
See also: Café Culture
Government help with childcare costs for parents – whether you have toddlers or teens – may be available.
For further details about tax free childcare, please visit www.childcarechoices.gov.uk .
The University closes during Christmas and New Year (12.00 noon on Friday 20 December until 8.45am on Monday 6 January 2025).
Professional Support staff are expected to save days from their annual leave entitlement to cover this period; academic staff are given the closure period on top of their annual leave entitlement
See also: Annual Leave; Discretionary Leave; Unpaid Leave
Compassionate leave of up to five days (without loss of pay) is given on the death of an immediate family member – parent/guardian, sibling, child or spouse/partner/civil partner.
Paid time off will also be granted to attend the funeral of other close relatives i.e.
grandparents.
Other Leave Entitlement
The University is committed to complying with its duties under Health & Safety and other relevant legislation with regard to the safe use of vehicles at work.
The University have introduced this process for the management and use of vehicles on University business to ensure driver safety, to minimise those risks and to actively encourage the safe use of vehicles.
Please note, any mileage claims submitted to payroll will not be authorised without the Competent Driver Audit form being completed.
Staff wishing to drive University vehicles must complete the authorised driver request form for insurance purposes.
Authorised Driver – Instructions | Authorised Driver Form | Authorised Driver Request Form (University Vehicles) | Staff Expenses (Mileage) Claim Form
See also: Salary
The guidelines have been developed to provide employees (and students) with information on the University of Greater Manchester’s expectations regarding conflicts of interest and relationships, the associated dangers of and the reporting requirements.
The document covers consensual relationships between employees and also between employees and students.
Policy on Consensual Relationships
The Cycle to Work scheme is a government initiative that allows you to save money on a bicycle and/or accessories up to £1,000 and to spread the cost of the purchase.
There are three types of package available – a ‘cyclescheme package’ to include both a bicycle and accessories, a ‘bicycle package’ only and an ‘accessory package’ only.
The three packages offer tax-savings of at least 25% whilst enabling you to spread the cost (usually over a 12-month period) and are available from over 2,000 retailers nationwide.
To register, and for further details, please visit The UK's Most Popular Cycle to Work Benefit - Cyclescheme.
Employees cycling to work can also take advantage of university facilities to park (or store) their bicycle, shower and change.
Bicycle
    Parking | Changing Facilities
See also: Car Parking; Public Transport
The University of Greater Manchester strives to ensure an environment where everyone is treated with dignity and respect.
All members of the University community have the right to a fair, welcoming and inclusive environment
Dignity at Work Policy
See also: Equality & Diversity
The University has a formal disciplinary procedure which has been agreed with the representative bodies.
Disciplinary
    Procedure | Disciplinary Procedure – Designated Senior Post
    Holder
DBS checks may be required for staff undertaking certain roles at the University.
Details of the type and level of check required are determined by the responsibilities undertaken.
In certain circumstances, if an employee (or potential employee) already has a DBS in place the University may request to undertake an “update service” check rather than a full DBS check.
For further details please visit: Disclosure and Barring Service - GOV.UK (www.gov.uk)
See also: Recruitment of ex-offenders
Academic staff benefit from up to 5 days’ discretionary leave, which is not part of their annual leave entitlement.
Members of Professional Support staff may be granted reasonable discretionary days, at their line manager’s discretion, under exceptional circumstances.
Staff are not expected to make appointments during working hours.
If it is unavoidable, time off work with pay is normally given at the line manager’s discretion (time may have to be made up), although appointments should be as early or as late in the working day as possible and notice should be given in advance to your line manager.
If follow-up treatment is required, which can only be arranged during working hours, then time off work with pay will normally be allowed.
See also: Hospital Appointments
The University has rolled out 2-factor authentication for its most important services.
In order to access your desktop computer remotely, you will need to have a locked-down computer and the DUO app to ensure that you are able to access the IT systems securely.
You can access your emails via your own desktop, laptop, IPad/tablet or mobile device via webmail – this will however also required 2-factor authentication.
For further details please visit: IT Support Services (bolton.ac.uk)
DUO – Getting Started | DUO – Application Form
See also: Flexible Working; IST Service Desk & Helpline; Working Remotely from Home
Email is an expedient communication channel through which to send messages to colleagues at the University.
However, email has become increasingly burdensome, time-consuming, less productive and less effective due to the very high volume of unnecessary and irrelevant emails staff receive on a daily basis.
In many cases internal email is being used as the primary – and sometimes only – channel of communication; this is hindering the development of a collaborative and productive work environment that the University needs.
The use of email, as the default channel, can lead to staff adopting poor practices and behaviours.
Therefore, the use of email for staff-to-staff communications should be in line with the email policy.
Internal Email (Staff-to-Staff) Use Policy and General Email Guidance for Staff
See also: IT Acceptable Use Policy
In the event of the sounding of the alarm, all persons should evacuate the building and seek the nearest emergency meeting point.
Please note, the alarm system is always tested on a Monday morning at approximately 9.00 am.
For further information please contact David Thurston, Health & Safety Manager, t: 01204 903577, e: d.thurston@bolton.ac.uk
See also: Fire Evacuation
All University colleagues will have access to a new and enhanced wellbeing support and information service from Spectrum.Life.
This service has replaced our previous EAP, VIVUP - but anyone currently using VIVUP sessions can continue to do so until their sessions have concluded.
The University is committed to providing a working environment and people management policies, procedures and practices which promote the wellbeing of colleagues at all levels in the institution and facilitates a positive work culture.
As part of this the University recognises that any EAP should be able to offer a holistic approach to wellbeing support to all staff in line with the Employee Wellbeing Statement published last year (2022).
Spectrum.Life provides a free, confidential counselling and wellbeing support service available to all our employees - available 24/7, 365 days.
Spectrum’s Information Services provision has specific and qualified experts, including financial and tax advisers for Financial Wellbeing issues and Parenting Coaches.
Spectrum’s offering also includes an extensive wellbeing app providing holistic wellbeing support from recipes, to sleep advice, daily guided meditation to live and on demand virtual exercise classes.
How to access the service
You can access the support service in a number of ways, including online or via telephone, email and WhatsApp.
To access via telephone its free on 0808 196 2016
and WhatsApp you text ‘Hi’ to 0044 7700185685
To access the online support and materials colleagues can register via the link below: https://universityofbolton.spectrum.life/login?org=BOLTON
To find out more you can join the EAP monthly information session, hosted by Spectrum.Life on the second Friday of every month at 9.30am, via the following link (Password: 009370)
https://us02web.zoom.us/j/83655530547
Information about the new service will also be published on notice boards, on LCD TV screens around campus and existing information about our EAP and other welling information will be replaced /updated due course.
Welcome to Employee Development for the University of Greater Manchester.
Employee Development aims to provide a wide range of learning and development opportunities to ensure that all staff reach their full potential.
Our development opportunities include apprenticeships, classroom and online training, leadership and management development, as well as the UoB Mentoring Academy.
The University is committed to an ongoing programme of staff development in order to enhance the professional and personal development, sector knowledge, skills and performance of all staff within the context of the University’s strategic objectives.
Employee Development Policy
The University is a Best Companies accredited employer.
As part of its employee engagement agenda, in September 2022, we launched its first ‘b-Heard’ employee engagement survey to find out how our employees feel about working at the University, what they enjoy and what they think needs to improve.
Should you have any queries regarding the ‘b-Heard’ survey please contact h.owen@bolton.ac.uk in the first instance.
For external information on the b-Heard survey please visit the following website; www.b.co.uk .
Information on progress and associated developments regarding the ‘b-Heard’ survey can be accessed in the link below:
The primary aims of the UoB Employee Forum are to ensure all employees across the institution feel that they have a voice on matters relating to their work at the university and that they understand the direction of the university through improved communication.
The university will use the Forum to inform, communicate and consult on relevant matters.
This Forum will supplement but not replace other methods and channels of communication at the university.
Matters that should be raised with line managers (such as individual grievances) will not be dealt with in the Forum.
The Employee Forum will be a self-standing body and is not formally part of the university governance structure and as such, it shall have no decision-making powers.
Introduction to the Employee Forum
See also: Inside UoB
The University is committed to promoting equality and diversity in all its endeavours and aims to provide a work, learning and teaching environment free from discrimination and unfair treatment.
This commitment is set out in the University’s Equality and Diversity Policy.
Please also feel free to visit our E&D webpage for further details: Equality & Diversity | University of Greater Manchester
Equal Opportunities Policy | Diversity Champions | Equality & Diversity Committee Terms of Reference | Equality, Diversity & Inclusion (EDI) Strategy
See also: Pronouns guide
If you have any external examining duties (for taught undergraduate or postgraduate programmes) at any other higher education institution/s then you have an obligation to provide the University with the required information.
This will give the University an overview of such commitments and enable the provision of relevant support at institutional level and within your academic department.
For further details, please visit: /Quality/EEE/External-Examiners/Taught.aspx
Any other paid external work undertaken by academic or support staff needs to be approved by your line manager and you should complete an Exclusivity of Service form
The University offers free eye-screening for all staff who use display-screen equipment in the workplace through Specsavers opticians.
eVouchers can be requested via your HR Administrator or via hr@bolton.ac.uk
A range of staff development courses are available across the wider UoB Group, particularly to those expected to achieve relevant qualifications as part of their appointment and these can be accessed by completing either an external staff development form or staff fee-waiver form.
Fee Waiver Scheme Policy | Fee Waiver Scheme Application
The University of Greater Manchester has a duty of care to ensure a safe and welcoming campus for staff, students and visitors and as such it has imposed strict controls on the ownership, possession, and potential use of firearms, imitation firearms and/or offensive weapons on University premises.
Policy on Firearms, Imitation Firearms & Offensive Weapons on Campus
The Fire Evacuation Procedure is available from David Thurston, Health & Safety Manager, t: 01204 903577, e: d.thurston@bolton.ac.uk .
See also: Emergency Alarms
Should first aid be required you should either contact the Security Emergency number on extension: 666 or via Main Reception extension: 0
A list of current first aiders / Defib responders is available from: L:\Public\FirstAid
See also: Mental Health First Aid
You will find that the University is supportive and flexible in helping your juggle jobs and everyday living, although we do not have a formal flexi-time scheme (there is a formal flexible working scheme in place for IST; other departments have informal schemes in place).
Employees who have a minimum of 26 weeks’ continuous service with the university have the right to request flexible working and have their request considered by their line manager.
Guidelines | Application Form (MS Word Version) | Flexitime Scheme (IST)
See also: Working Remotely from Home
The University has an updated formal grievance procedure which has been agreed with the representative bodies.
For any grievances which are raised from 1st December 2023  the new procedure should be used:
Grievance Procedure 1 December 2023 onwards
In addition to Bolton One, we also offer: free eye tests for staff using computers; a free 24-hour, confidential staff helpline for counselling, advice and support; discounted assessments from the Sport & Physical Activity Rehabilitation Centre.
See also: Bolton One; Employee Assistance Provider; Eye-care Vouchers; Healthcare Scheme; Sport &Physical Activity Rehabilitation Centre (SPARC); UK Healthcare
All Undergraduate and Postgraduate taught students receive a Higher Education Achievement Report (HEAR) at the end of their studies.
If you’re an academic member of staff or student facing professional support member of staff and require further information about HEAR, please visit: Higher Education Achievement Report (HEAR) | University Of Bolton .
See also: LEAP; Moodle; Personal Development, Staff Development & Induction; STEP Online
Every year, we send some of the information we hold about you to the Higher Education Statistics Agency (HESA).
HESA is a trusted source of data and analysis who collect information on Higher Education Providers (HEP) in the UK on behalf of its Statutory customers.
As a Higher Education Provider, we have a statutory requirement to report staff data.
Your HESA staff record does not contain your name, job title or contact details.
The information we provide is taken from your person and contract record which is returned under anonymized Staff HESA ID.
If you leave your employment and move to another HEP we are required to pass your HESA Staff ID number to your new employer to enable research into employment in the higher education sector.
Further details about HESA can be found on the following links:
About HESA: About HESA | HESA ,What does HESA do?
Who we are and what we do | HESA , Data Protection at HESA: Data protection | HESA ,Staff Collection Notice: Collection notices | HESA ,Higher Education: HE Staff Data | HESA
Staff will receive time off work with pay to attend.
If an employee receives treatment that necessitates further time off work, this will then be treated as sickness absence.
Any time off required for a hospital appointment should be given in advance to your line manager.
See also: Doctors / Dental Appointment
All new staff within the University must complete mandatory training.
The University recognizes that there may be exceptional circumstances when employees choose to participate in industrial action.
It has a formal policy for industrial action and a form for employees to use to declare their participation in any strike/action short of a strike.
The policy provides relevant information in relation to how the university will respond to any form of industrial action and what is expected of employees.
Industrial
    Action Policy
Inside UoB is an all-staff bulletin that is emailed to members of staff (usually on a Friday afternoon) with the aim of updating employees on news and events from around the University.
For the latest news and archives from previous months, please visit: Inside.UoB (bolton.ac.uk)
See also: Employee Forum
The IST Service Desk provides ICT support for University staff (on-site or off-campus), researchers, students and external customers.
The IST Helpdesk is located in the Peter Marsh Library and the helpline can be contact on t: 01204 903444 or e: itsupport@bolton.ac.uk .
In order to gain access to the computer network, you need to have a user ID and password.
This should be set-up on your first day as part of your induction.
Please bear in mind that it may take 24-48 for the account to be fully operational.
For Online Teaching & Learning Resources Support, Software and general IT support you can visit their help pages: IT Support Services (bolton.ac.uk)
See also: DUO App, Library Membership; Staff ID Card
The IT Acceptable Use Policy summarises the key responsibilities and required behaviour of all users of the University of Greater Manchester computer and information systems.
IT Acceptable Use Policy
See also: Email Etiquette
In the event that an employee is called for jury service or to attend court, you should advise your line manager at the earliest opportunity.
The employee should provide their line manager with a copy of the court summons and any other relevant documentation.
The employee will continue to be paid whilst on jury service at their normal rate of pay subject to the deduction of any monies received from the court in respect of loss of earnings.
The employee will receive a Certificate of Loss of Earnings or Benefit (Form 5223), which the employee should send to Finance for completion and then submit to the court to receive reimbursement, up to a limit for loss of earnings.
The employee will be paid as normal until their reimbursement has been processed, whereupon the employee is obliged to present HR and/or payroll with a receipt for the reimbursement.
Payroll will then make the appropriate deductions from the employee’s pay.
Where the line manager considers that the employee’s absence on jury service could cause substantial harm to the business, they will be asked to make an application for excusal or deferral, as appropriate.
The line manager, working with their HR Business Partner should provide the employee with a letter to support this application.
Other Leave Entitlement | Jury Service Information
If you are a new member of staff and require a key for your office, please ask your manager to contact the Facilities Helpdesk on t: 01204 903923, e: facilities@bolton.ac.uk .Please note, to report any maintenance or repairs that need to be carried out, please contact facilities: repairs-hd@bolton.ac.uk
For access to meeting/interview rooms etc., please contact the caretakers on t: 01204 903123 (Deane), t: 01204 903529 (Eagle).
For further details, please visit: LEAP Online Home (bolton.ac.uk)
See also: HEAR; Moodle; Personal Development, Staff Development & Induction; STEP Online
Staff have full access to the Peter Marsh Library including iMacs, touchscreen PC’s or laptops in our self-service Tech Zone (subject to availability).
There is free wireless network access on campus and around town via campus roam, details can be found via the IST Service Helpdesk
The library aims to provide an academic information resource, supporting the teaching, learning and research needs of the user community, in such a way as to achieve the highest professional standards in a cost-effective and user-friendly manner.
Your staff ID card will be issued by the library and will give you full access to library and printing services, as well as access to doorways and the car park.
For support and information on what the library has to offer, you can visit their help pages: Home - Home - University of Greater Manchester Library at The University of Greater Manchester
See also: DUO App; IST Service Desk & Helpline; Staff ID Card
The University is just ten-minutes’ walk from Bolton town centre and the famous Bolton Market, three supermarkets and a retail park.
We are also just 10 minutes’ walk from the rail/bus interchange with direct routes to Manchester and Manchester Airport and local bus services.
As well as the main campus, we have the Greater Manchester Business School, adjacent to the Rail and Bus Interchange, Queens Specialist Building and the University Medical School, both based in Farnworth.
The University provide a free daily minibus transport service which supports students and staff travelling between Senate House, Greater Manchester Business School, Queen’s Specialist Building, University Medical School and Orlando Halls of Residence.
Minibus Timetable | Campus Locations
Information and guidance can be found below.
For further help and support regarding maternity leave, please contact your HR Administrator.
Maternity Leave Guidance | Maternity Leave – Guide for
    Managers | Pregnancy Risk AssessmentPregnancy Risk Assessment (PDF) | Pregnancy Risk AssessmentPregnancy Risk Assessment (Word)
PREVENT Safeguarding Stay Safe Equality and Diversity GDPR Supporting Mental Health/Wellbeing Bribery Act BoxPhish Cyber Security
Menopause is a natural phase in life and for many women can be positively managed through lifestyle adjustments.
However, the University recognises that for some menopause is not always an easy transition.
Some employees may need additional support to help improve their experience at work.
The University is committed to supporting employees who are affected in any way by menopause and to support and inform Heads of School / Service so that employees reporting issues are treated fairly and given appropriate support.
Menopause in the Workplace Guidance
See also: Adoption Leave, Paternity Leave
A number of University staff a Mental Health First Aid trained.
Should mental health first aid be required you should either contact the Security Emergency number on extension: 666 or via Main Reception extension: 0
A list of current mental health first aiders is available from: L:\Public\FirstAid.
Mental Health First Aid England
See also: First Aid/Defib Responders
Moodle is the University’s e-learning portal which is easy-to-use, flexible and allows the University to provide compliance and competency training, continuing professional development and onboarding programmes (see details of training packages below).
Moodle also allows academic staff to upload course notes, paperwork etc., and receive assignments etc., from students.
For further details, please visit: University of Greater Manchester eLearning Portal
See also: HEAR; LEAP; Personal Development, Staff Development & Induction; STEP Online
MyHR is a secure web-based application which allows employees to access, review and update personal information that is held within the University’s HR and Payroll system (iTrent).
Using MyHR you can update details such as your address, telephone number, car details etc., as well as access and print your pay slips, P60, sickness record etc.
To sign in, please visit ESS - Login (bolton.ac.uk)
MyHR User Guide
ORCID (Open Research and Contributor ID), is a unique number which enables academic staff to create a digital research profile and upload links to their research publications.
Please check that HR hold this number as this is used for statutory data submissions linked to HESA and Research Excellence Framework (REF).
This can be checked or added via myHR.
For further details, please visit: ORCID
See also: AdvanceHE; Higher Education Statistics Agency; PhD/Professional Doctorate Policy; Teaching Qualifications
Overtime is not payable to staff on Grades 6 and above.
For staff on Grade 5 or below, hours in excess of 36.25 is paid at time-and-a-half (or double-time on a Sunday).
Time in Lieu may be agreed as an alternative to payment for overtime hours worked.
All overtime/time off in lieu needs to be agreed locally with your line manager.
Please note that overtime payments may impact on your pension.
Please contact Martin Evans, Pensions Officer, t: 01204 903575, e: me3@bolton.ac.uk
Academic Staff Monthly Claim for Additional Payments | Professional Staff Monthly Claim for Additional Payments | Other Leave Entitlement | Overtime Policy
New fathers are entitled to two-weeks’ off work after the birth of a child.
The first week is paid on the basis of the employee’s weekly salary; the second week is paid on the basis of Statutory Paternity Pay.
If you are having the full two-weeks off, they must be continuous.
Paternity Leave Guidance | SC3 Form
There is an annual pay award (cost of living) review each August.
Employees are automatically enrolled into a pension scheme (the scheme depends on your current role and/or your previous provider).
Full details for new starters are included as part of your appointment paperwork.
Teachers Pension Scheme | Local Government Scheme | USS Scheme
The University has a Performance Review Policy that applied to academic and professional support staff.
Reviews should be undertaken by your line manager on an annual basis.
Details of the policy and relevant paperwork can be viewed at Performance Review - HR and Staff (bolton.ac.uk)
Performance Review Policy | Academic Performance Review Guidance | Academic Performance Review Form | Professional Support Performance Review Guidance | Professional Support Performance Review Form | Professional Support (Grades 1-3) Performance Review Guidance | Professional Support (Grade 1 – 3) Performance Review Self-Assessment
In situations where an employee has struggled (for whatever reason) to perform their duties satisfactorily, the University has a Performance Improvement Plan, which has been agreed by the representative bodies.
The aim is to support an employee to resolve their issue and get them performing to their best abilities.
Performance Improvement Plan
We offer a comprehensive induction to welcome you to the University of Greater Manchester and this should be followed up by an initial PDP, which is intended to focus on the support and training that will be provided during the probationary period and the anticipated level of development into the role that is expected will be achieved at the end of that period.
A range of staff development courses are available, particularly to those expected to achieve relevant qualifications as part of their appointment and these can be accessed by completing either an external staff development form or staff fee-waiver form.
Access to the Mentoring Academy and paid study leave may be available.
Details of the Staff Teaching Enhancement Programme (STEP) can be found by visiting: Staff Development - STEP Online (bolton.ac.uk)
Fee Waiver Scheme Policy | Fee Waiver Scheme Application | Probationary Period | Probationary Review Form
See also: AdvanceHE; HEAR, LEAP Online; Moodle; PhD/Professional Doctorate Policy; Performance Review; Probationary Period/Review; PhD/Professional Doctorate Policy; Teaching Qualifications
Academic employees at the University are expected to hold a PhD/Professional Doctorate.
The policy below sets out the requirements and support available in cases where an employee has not yet completed his/her PhD/Professional Doctorate.
PhD/Professional Doctorate Policy
The Print & Post Service is located to the side of the Services & Administration Centre.
All post should be in the post room by 2.00 pm.
Any large-scale mail shots should be there by 12.00 noon.
Please contact the Print & Post room on t: 01204 903528, e: print@bolton.ac.uk
Photocopying and printing is available from any machine in the University, accessed by your staff ID card.
All appointment are subject to satisfactory completion of a probationary period.
The length of the probationary period is dependant on the grade and status of the role (e.g.
professional support roles are generally six-months, academic roles are normally twelve-months).
The University reserves the right to extend a probationary period if deemed appropriate.
Probationary Policy | Probationary Review Form
See also: AdvanceHE; PhD/Professional Doctorate Policy; Performance Review; Personal Development, Professional Development & Induction; Probationary Period/Review; Teaching Qualifications
Pronouns are the words we use to refer to people’s gender in conversation - for example, ‘he’ or ‘she’.
But not everyone identifies with the binary definitions of gender (male and female) so they may prefer gender-neutral pronouns such as 'they/them' or 'ze/zir'.
Everyone within our University community deserves to be treated with dignity and respect and so understanding their pronouns is a simple gesture which has a big impact.
Pronouns Guide
As a university employee you can benefit from savings on train travel.
The University has also partnered with Northern Rail to offer employees the opportunity to purchase annual season tickets for rail travel.
The University will purchase the ticket on your behalf and you then pay the money back through monthly deductions from your salary.
To apply, please visit: Season Ticket Application – University of Greater Manchester
Terms and Conditions
See also: Car Parking; Cycle-Scheme
The University has introduced an online e-recruitment system provided by Stonefish eRecruitment, a leading supplier to the HE sector.
The system brings numerous benefits to members of staff involved with the recruitment process such as:
Members of staff involved in the recruitment process can log in to the recruitment portal via the vacancies page on the ‘Staff’ area of the University website /staff-area or can click on the following link which takes you to the log in page https://jobs.bolton.ac.uk/ .
To log in, simply click on the ‘University Account’ login button and enter your usual user ID and network password.
Please note, log in will be authenticated using the Duo Mobile app.
If you have any questions or would like to receive a link to an online training programme, contact hr@bolton.ac.uk in the first instance.
Recruitment and Selection Policy
The University is committed to equality of opportunity for all job applicants and aims to select people for employment on the basis of their individual skills, abilities, experience and knowledge, and where appropriate, qualifications and training.
As a good employer, the University recognises its social responsibility and its position within the local community and appreciates the important role that continuity of employment can play in the rehabilitation process of ex-offenders when matched with appropriate posts.
The University will therefore consider any ex-offenders for employment on their individual merits.
The University’s approach towards employing ex-offenders differs, however, depending on whether the job is or is not exempt from the provisions of the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974.
Recruitment
    of Ex-Offenders Policy
See also: Disclosure & Barring Service (DBS); Equality & Diversity
It is the policy of the University by careful forward planning to ensure, as far as possible, security of employment for its staff.
It is also recognised that there may be changes in funding arrangements, customer needs, competitive conditions, organisational requirements, educational methods and technological developments which may affect staffing needs.
The University has a framework to deal sensitively and effectively in situations when dealing with the redundancy and redeployment of staff.
Restructuring Framework (updated 2024) | Redundancy Framework (2011)
Our multi-faith Chaplaincy supports the spritiual life of the whole University community, celebrating festivals and notable dates.
We have a multi-faith prayer room and prayer preparation facilities.
For further details, please visit: Welcome to the Chaplaincy | University of Greater Manchester
The University aims to recruit the most talented individuals in key posts in order to support its aim of being a platinum, teaching-intensive, research-informed higher education institution.
The Relocation Policy is intended to support this aim by providing assistance to senior employees who have to relocate to take up a position.
Relocation Policy
A statement on the Vice Chancellor’s Pay: University Leadership | University of Greater Manchester
Safeguarding is about protecting children and adults from the risk of harm.
It includes preventing thouse who are deemed unsuitable to work with them from doing so and being alert to, and acting upon, situations where there may be harm.
The University has a zero tolerance approach to any forms of potentially harmful behaviour
Safeguarding leaflet | Safeguarding Policy and Procedure
See also: Disclosure & Barring Service (DBS); Equality & Diversity, Personal Development, Staff Development & Induction; Recruitment of ex-offenders
The vast majority of international working trips are safe.
However, they can be made safer by observing a few simple precautions that are laid out in the information below.
In the unlikely event you do have health problems, are injured or the victim of a crime whilst you are abroad, you need to know what to do to alleviate and minimise the effects.
Prior to first travelling abroad for work, all employees are required to attend a Safe Travel Induction.
Safe Travel Induction Slides | Safe International Working – Guidance | Intent to Travel
    Form | Overseas Travel Risk Assessment Form | University of Greater Manchester Travel Cover Summary | Health & Safety – Section 17 – Managing the H&S Risks of Working Overseas
Salaries are paid on the fourth Wednesday of the month (Academic staff) or the 18th of the month (Professional Support staff).
If the 18th falls on a weekend, payment will be made on the Friday.
Academic payroll is normally brought forward in December to ensure salaries are paid before the Christmas shutdown.
Variable-hour Tutors and Temporary supply staff need to submit claim forms for payment of their salary (payment is made a month in arrears)
If you are putting in a claim for payment, overtime or any other expenses, or if you are a new employee who needs to provide us with your bank details/P46, please ensure that the paperwork is with HR by the relevant cut off date to ensure payment is made in a timely manner.
Failure to meet the relevant deadlines will result in any payment be delayed and held over to the following month.
Substantive staff increment up the pay spine of a grade on the 1 August each year (where applicable) until the maximum of the grade is reached.
Staff must have been in post as of 1 February in order to benefit from an increment the following August.
Please note senior appointments at Grade 10 (to include those at the Professorial level) or above are on a fixed salary and not subject to any automatic incrementation.
Salary Scales | Payroll
    Deadlines | Bank
    Nomination Form | Variable Hours Tutor – Claim for Fees (F9) | Temporary Supply
    – Monthly Payment Form | Academic Staff Monthly Claim for Additional Payments | Professional Staff
    Monthly Claim for Additional Payments | HMRC Form | Staff Expenses (Claim Form)
See also: Pay Award; Overtime/Time Off In Lieu
An around-the-clock security service is in operation at the University.
The Security Control Room (based in the Services & Administration Centre) can be contacted on t: 01204 903700 (for emergencies, please ring ext: 666).
Smoking on campus is allowed, provided it is outdoors and away from doors and windows.
Smoking is prohibited in all buildings and around their entrances and any open windows.
Smoking Policy
The policy applies to all staff – including sessional, student, casual and temporary staff – and is intended to cover all social media activities which directly or indirectly identifies or discusses the university and/or its staff and students.
This policy applies to all professional and personal social media communications made at any time, whether privately or publicly and from anywhere including off campus on personal devices or on campus using university devices and/or networks.
Social Media Policy
The Sport & Physical Activity Rehabilitation Centre is a physiotherapy and sports rehabilitation clinic that is open to everyone.
The Centre aims to assess and treat musculoskeletal injuries using current and evidenced treatment techniques.
The aim is to help patients manage their conditions, return to full activities and prevent re-occurance.
SPARC Pricing
It is expected that going forward schools and services will determine their workforce requirements through effective workforce planning (to include any changes to the number of posts, grades, FTE etc.) on an annual basis as part of the University Local Planning Process.
However, the university recognises that it will need an efficient process to consider ad-hoc requests to respond to resignations or changes in business needs that were not foreseen as part of the local plan.
The Staffing Committee will consider such ad-hoc requests and will oversee the intelligent shaping of the university to ensure that the workforce in our schools and services is of the right size, has the right skills, is structured effectively, is affordable, is organised and resources are fully and appropriately utilised.
Your will normally be issued with your staff ID card on your first day as part of your induction.
The staff ID card gives you access to library services, photocopier machines around the campus, access to the car park and external entrances.
Staff and students are expected to wear a lanyard with your staff ID card when on campus.
For further information, please visit: IST: IT Support Services (bolton.ac.uk) , Library Services: Home - Home - University of Greater Manchester Library at The University of Greater Manchester , or contact the IT Service Desk: t: 01204 903444 or e: itsupport@bolton.ac.uk
See also: DUO App; IST Service Desk & Helpline; Library Membership
STEP is the University’s programme of Continuous Professional Development (CPD) for academic staff.
Form more information, please visit: Staff Development - STEP Online (bolton.ac.uk)
See also: Employee Assistance Provider
The Stress Management Policy is intended to act as a framework to ensure that the relationship between colleagues at the University of Greater Manchester operates effectively for the benefit of all.
It is intended to give a basic understanding of work-related stress, how to tackle it and our respective responsibilities.
The policy aims to make clear the actions required when faced with evidence of work related stress.
The policy also aims to make clear the actions required when faced with evidence of work-related stress.
Stress Management Policy
See also: Employee Assistance Provider; Health & Wellbeing
The University of Greater Manchester offers employees a benefit to those who actively recommend and refer family members to be new students on a university-taught degree programme.
Under this scheme, the student will receive a fee reduction of 20 per cent per year.
Student Referral Discount Scheme Policy
The University of Greater Manchester Talent & Succession Planning Process supplements – and is a natural progression – to our Performance Review process.
It has been developed and implemented as a simple yet structured and fair process to enable the identification and development of future managers as well as individuals to fill other business-critical positions.
Talent Succession Planning Guide
See also: Performance Review; Personal Development, Staff Development & Induction
As a condition of employment for academic staff, you are required to have a relevant teaching qualification and achieve fellowship status of AdvanceHE.
For those employees who have joined the university without a teaching qualification, you will be expected to embark upon a “training to teach” programme.
Training to Teach Programme | Qualification Pathways
See also: AdvanceHE; Performance Review; Personal Development, Professional Development & Induction; PhD/Professional Doctorate Policy
The University recognises – for the purpose of collective bargaining – that the following Trade Unions as having bargaining rights in respect of all employees of the University: UCU (Academic staff, plus professional support staff graded 6 to 10), UNISON (Professional support staff graded 1 (LW) to 5).
For further information or to arrange to join either Union, please contact the relevant Trade Union:
UCU - Home with the email address being: ucuuniversityofgm@gmail.com (Local representative: Cat Rylance, Jodie Green, Wendy Bateman, Hector Mackie)
UNISON - the public service union with the email address being: unison.universitygm@gmail.com (local representative: Kim Florence and Marta Cuñado-Bellido)
Framework for Employee Relations – Recognition and Procedure Agreement between the University of Greater Manchester, Unison and the University and College Union (UCU).
Everyday medical expenses seem to forever be on the rise.
With Healthcare Cash Plans, contributions made via payroll can help you with a whole range of everyday medical expenses.
For further information or to apply to join the scheme, please visit: UK Healthcare Cash Plan Providers
UK Healthcare Information | UK Healthcare Application
If you have joined the University as an overseas national (excluding Irish nationals), there are a number of responsibilities that the University as your employer, your line manager and you have in regards to keeping the UKVI up-to-date with your current situation.
On an annual basis, the University will write out to all staff members working at the University via a work permit for you to confirm that your circumstances remain the same as when you were granted a visa.
The University will also email you to let you know when your current visa has three months left before expiry so that you can submit an application for Further Leave to Remain in the UK.
Failure to submit an application may result in your role being suspended.
For further information on how to obtain further leave to remain, settled/permanent residency status and how to get a share code to prove your eligibility to work in the UK, please visit: UK Visas and Immigration - GOV.UK (www.gov.uk)
UKVI Reporting Responsibilities
In unexpected circumstances, where staff have exhausted their annual leave entitlement, staff are able to request unpaid leave.
It is at the line manager’s discretion whether to recommend that approval for unpaid leave is granted.
Please note that taking unpaid leave may impact on your pension.
Please contact Martin Evans, Pensions Officer, t: 01204 903575, e: m.evans@bolton.ac.uk for further advice.
See also: Annual Leave; Discretionary Leave; Pensions
There is a long tradition of mentoring at University of Greater Manchester, and the aim of the Mentoring Academy is to strengthen the University’s mentoring provision which is available for all, in the UoB community.
The Academy is open to all new and existing employees (whether in an academic or a professional support role) and consists of a network of trained mentors who meet regularly to discuss generic themes.
It can also support colleagues to deliver excellence for standards and quality identified by both the Research Excellence Framework (REF) and Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF).
In this section you will find the guidelines, application forms and relevant toolkit documentation for the Mentor/ Mentee relationship.
The University is committed to being an inclusive supportive employer and providing staff with the opportunity to work more flexibly where possible, including working remotely from home.
Working Remotely from Home | H&S Checklist
The Academic Workload planning process is intended to provide a structure and a set of clear guidelines, which will enable an equitable, transparent and consistent approach to the allocation, and management of academic staff workloads within Faculties, Schools, Centres and Academic Areas across the University.
In developing the process, sector norms have been used to inform this guidance document and the parameters herein.
Workload Allocation Planning Framework | Guidance – Workload Allocation Planning

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/ITSupportServices/Home.aspx:
Whether it's accessing your account or using online resources, we are here to assist you.
Below are some common IT issues that students face and the support options available to help resolve them.
If you are applying for a course and have forgotten your password, please click here to use the password reset tool to regain access to your account.
If you're still experiencing issues, please contact the appropriate department for further assistance:
Appointments available between 09:30 AM – 3:30 PM
Get help with setting up Wi-Fi, troubleshooting login issues, and managing your University account access.
Secure your University account with multi-factor authentication by setting up Microsoft Authenticator or Duo Mobile.
Access eLearning resources, find Moodle help guides, and get tips for using Turnitin and other digital tools in your studies.
Zoom is a popular platform for online meetings and virtual classes.
Below are links to get started with Zoom.
Access Office 365 for email and other services.
Need help logging in or accessing documents?
The official app for the University of Bolton, providing useful information, tools, news, events and updates for enquirers, applicants, students, staff and alumni
Need to give someone outside the University access to Moodle, Turnitin, or other UoB systems?
Access Library IT FAQs, explore help guides, and find information about library resources and contact details.
Access your personal timetable, explore help guides, and find information about room bookings and CELCAT tools.
To meet Cyber Essentials certification the University is introducing extra cyber security protections.
Click here to learn how staff can access university email and data from personal computers here.
Access essential academic software such as SPSS , Nvivo , and AMOS for both students and staff .
You’ll find downloads, licence codes, and install guides in one place.
Sign in with your University account is required.
Click here to read this institution's latest QAA review report
The University is an exempt charity under the Charities Act 2006.
Disclaimer | FOI | Data Protection | Privacy and Cookies | Charitable Status | Modern Slavery
University of Bolton, Deane Road, Bolton, BL3 5AB
Tel: +44 (0)1204 900600
Email: enquiries@bolton.ac.uk
To make a Freedom of Information Request please email us at foi@bolton.ac.uk
Browser does not support script.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/student-life/careers-and-employability/higher-education-achievement-report-hear-staff:
All of our Undergraduate and Postgraduate Taught students receive a Higher Education Achievement Report (HEAR) at the end of their studies.
This report is a comprehensive record of all their university achievements, including some of the extra-curricular activities that they may have undertaken during their time at the University of Greater Manchester.
The HEAR is a digitally signed document, and replaces the traditional academic transcript and Diploma Supplement.
As well as showing academic results, the HEAR also provides information about their programme of study and grading scheme, along with any additional achievements that have been verified by the University such as extra-curricular activities, prizes, employability awards, and student union accredited roles.
All entries to the HEAR are verified by the University of Greater Manchester, so that anyone viewing it (such as future employers) can be assured of the accuracy and authenticity of the information.
Staff can engage with the HEAR by using it to:
Support students in reviewing their progress and planning for their personal development - The HEAR should be used as a continual reference point by both students and staff (e.g.
personal tutors and Careers employability advisers), to support progress review and personal and professional development planning.
Give students recognition for their extra-curricular engagement – staff can nominate activities for verification on the HEAR.
For further details about the process please email hear@bolton.ac.uk
Students need to be made aware of what the HEAR is, and how to use it, in order for it to benefit them.
Staff can help by:
Including standard text in UG student handbooks
Displaying HEAR marketing materials on notice boards, in classrooms and on Moodle sites
Presenting HEAR information in student inductions and personal tutor sessions
Including HEAR logos on relevant documents
The HEAR is now widely used across the UK with over 90 providers of higher education now issuing them.
The Higher Education Academy provides the national support for the implementation and maintenance of the HEAR.
If you want to find out more about the HEAR please visit: www.hear.ac.uk
If staff have any queries about the HEAR at the University of Bolton then email: hear@bolton.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/staff-area/professional-services/facilities:
If you would like any information regarding the Facilities department, please contact our admin team on +44 (0)1204 903 923
The following repair and maintenance services are provided by the Maintenance team:
Joinery
Plumbing
Electrical repairs
Painting and decorating
Priority is given to Health & Safety jobs.
All urgent and routine repair requests can be reported to the Maintenance & Repair Helpdesk by calling ext: 3927 or 3923 between the hours of 08:00-16:00 Monday –Friday.
When you make your call you will be asked to provide specific information about the repair.
Alternatively, you can log your request directly on Facilities Report Form - Power Apps
Please include: Site, Building, room number and a brief description of the repair.
Please do not attempt to contact any member of the Maintenance Team direct as updates can be tracked via the Helpdesk.
Once job is logged you will receive a unique number by e-mail confirming your request and confirming job completion.
Unfortunately, the Maintenance Team do not repair furniture, kettles, microwaves and fridges.
These remain the responsibility of the asset owner.
Caretaking jobs include light fitting, dealing with deliveries from and to post room and other minor tasks.
The above procedure will also apply.
Please contact the post room on ext: 3035/3015 for any postal/delivery queries.
Opening times: 08:45-17:00
The post room deals with all incoming, outgoing and internal mail, delivered to, and sent by the university and is situated behind Z block on Eagle campus.
Please note that the Post room staff will refuse all personal deliveries of packets and parcels to the university.
The Reception areas are unable to take deliveries from couriers who need to deliver a parcel to a member of staff, all deliveries are via the post room.
The university will not be held responsible for any items that have gone missing in transit.
For information on our cleaning services please click here .
Bike lockers are allocated on a first come first served basis and used by both staff and students.
Own padlock is required and bike left at owner’s risk.
Please contact facilities@bolton.ac.uk to apply.
Business cards can be ordered in batches of 250 by completing the form below and emailing to rachel@lemurcreative.co.uk along with raising a PO.
They take approx.
7-10 days to arrive, please find the form here .
Contact IT on ext.
3444 for any XMA repair requests.
Recycle boxes are located on Eagle loading bay to recycle your used XMA toners.
If additional print credit is required or to set up a new staff member with printing allowance please email k.addis@bolton.ac.uk with Head of Department’s approval and amount to be added.
For any Security related issues please ring ext: 3700.
Any lost property is held with security.
Guards patrol the campus 24/7 to ensure a safe and secure environment for staff, students and visitors.
Staff and students are required to wear ID passes at all times while on campus.
Keys can be obtained by emailing kh10@bolton.ac.uk with the below info:
Key/ room number, quantity, contact name, budget code.
The order will be placed and an emailed sent when the key arrives which then needs to be signed out from Facilities Office (Z1-06) by member of staff.
Students cannot sign out keys.
Please see Key Policy here.
Please arrange to sign a key out with Facilities if a room requires unlocking for a meeting or ad hoc class.
Please note-Caretakers do not unlock rooms.
Weekend access requests need to be made in advance by emailing kh10@bolton.ac.uk
Please email any Hospitality requests to hospitality@bolton.ac.uk
The form below needs to be fully completed including budget code.
Blank Hospitality Form
Catering locations: Eagle Bistro, Café Athena in the Mall and Deane Deli in M-Block are on site facilities.
For information on our minibus service please click here.
Should approval be given for an internal university event to take place, following the completion of an event enquiry form, please complete the event brief form .
The event brief form will need to be emailed to Karen Hunter (email: k.hunter@bolton.ac.uk and phone: 01204 903923), so your request can be looked into.
Please also email IT Support, Catering and Security with your completed event brief.
For enquiries concerning external events taking place at the university, please email: events@bolton.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/staff-area/professional-services/standards-and-enhancement:
Professor Patrick McGhee Assistant Vice Chancellor ext 3002 P.Mcghee@bolton.ac.uk
Professor Jim Nyland Academic Director J.Nyland@bolton.ac.uk
Jo Hornby Head of Quality Transformation ext 3342 j.hornby2@bolton.ac.uk
Caroline Bracewell Lead for Academic Quality ext 3854 C.Bracewell@bolton.ac.uk
Louise Ashby Lead for Academic Quality Transformation L.R.Blenkharn@bolton.ac.uk
Angela Hale Academic Quality and Standards Manager ext 3041 A.Hale@bolton.ac.uk
Linford Butler Academic Compliance Coordinator ext 3527 L.Butler@bolton.ac.uk
Danyaal Atcha Standards and Enhancement Officer ext 3988 D.Atcha@bolton.ac.uk
William Kirby Standards and Enhancement Administrator ext 3744 W.Kirby@bolton.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/catering-services:
The catering services for the University of Greater Manchester are provided by UoB Catering Services.
The catering outlets provide an affordable and varied choice of fresh foods and beverages across the campus on a daily basis Monday to Friday during semester.
On campus, you can enjoy quality food at one of the cafes serving up delicious drinks, meals and cakes providing the perfect customer experience.
The catering service provides a good choice of gluten free, halal, vegan and vegetarian foods.
Any dietary needs and or allergen concerns can be discussed directly with the Catering Manager and/or the Head Chef.
Please note the opening times of the University Medical Science building will follow in time.
* Term Time only
Healthy Choices Vending Machines providing a mixture of baked snacks and waters
Hot Drink Vending Machines
Snack Vending Machines
Cold Drink Vending Machine
K.Norton@bolton.ac.uk – 01204 903174 – Catering Manager
D.Booth@bolton.ac.uk – 01204 903174 – Head Chef

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/staff-area/event-enquiry:
Welcome to the University of Greater Manchester Event Enquiry page Please select which type of event you are interested in:
Please select which type of event you are interested in:
Internal University Events Enquiry Form
University Department Requests

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/bradford-nursing-lister-mills-170925:
The open evenings are an opportunity for applicants to meet with academic colleagues to discuss the following subject areas at Undergraduate level: Adult Nursing Trainee Nursing Associate (TNA) Wednesday 17 September 2025 5-7pm with 5-6pm slot and 6-7pm slot - Open Evening Open evenings will run from 5-7pm.
Presentation and course overview and tour of clinical areas at 5pm and 6pm.
Open days will run from 10am–4pm.
Presentation and course overview and tour of clinical areas at 10am, 12noon and 2pm.
Visitors have the opportunity to meet academic and programme teams Get involved in subject taster sessions Chat to students and staff Tour of brand-new simulation and immersive learning environments Location address University of Bolton Satellite Centre for Nursing and Midwifery Unit 8 Lister Court Lister Mill Beamsley Road Bradford BD9 4SH
The open evenings are an opportunity for applicants to meet with academic colleagues to discuss the following subject areas at Undergraduate level:
Adult Nursing Trainee Nursing Associate (TNA)
Open evenings will run from 5-7pm.
Visitors have the opportunity to meet academic and programme teams Get involved in subject taster sessions Chat to students and staff Tour of brand-new simulation and immersive learning environments
Location address University of Bolton Satellite Centre for Nursing and Midwifery Unit 8 Lister Court Lister Mill Beamsley Road Bradford BD9 4SH
Enquiries@bolton.ac.uk
+44 (0)1204 900 600

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/bradford-nursing-lister-mills-270925:
The open evenings are an opportunity for applicants to meet with academic colleagues to discuss the following subject areas at Undergraduate level: Adult Nursing Trainee Nursing Associate (TNA) Saturday 27 September 2025 10 - 4pm - Open Day with slots 10-12pm, 12-2pm, 2-4pm Open evenings will run from 5-7pm.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/university-careers-fair-2025:
Meet Talent.
Build Your Future Workforce.
Location: Chancellor’s Mall, Bolton BL3 5BJ Why Exhibit?
• Access thousands of students and recent graduates • Promote opportunities across all disciplines • Raise your profile on campus • Build your brand with future talent Who Attends?
• Students from all years and degrees • Diverse, ambitious, career-focused attendees • Open to exploring all industries What's Included?
• Dedicated stand space• Promotion in event materials • Support from our careers team • Networking with university staff and peers Be part of our biggest careers event of the year.
Spaces limited.
Secure your place now.
Questions?
Email studenthub-careers@bolton.ac.uk
Location: Chancellor’s Mall, Bolton BL3 5BJ
Why Exhibit?
• Access thousands of students and recent graduates • Promote opportunities across all disciplines • Raise your profile on campus • Build your brand with future talent
Who Attends?
• Students from all years and degrees • Diverse, ambitious, career-focused attendees • Open to exploring all industries
What's Included?
• Dedicated stand space• Promotion in event materials • Support from our careers team • Networking with university staff and peers
Be part of our biggest careers event of the year.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/student-life/careers-and-employability/higher-education-achievement-report-hear-student:
This report is a comprehensive record of all your university achievements, including some of the extra-curricular activities that you took part in during your time at the University of Greater Manchester.
Your HEAR is a digitally signed document, and replaces the traditional academic transcript and Diploma Supplement.
As well as showing your academic results, the HEAR also provides information about your programme of study and grading scheme, along with any additional achievements that have been verified by the University such as extra-curricular activities, prizes, employability awards, and student union accredited roles.
All entries to your HEAR are verified by the University of Greater Manchester, so that anyone viewing your HEAR (such as future employers) can be assured of the accuracy and authenticity of the information.
The list of verifiable achievements is reviewed and extended annually, so speak to the SU, Careers team or your personal tutors about what is included.
Your HEAR is a secure digital document which is accessed and shared electronically.
If you’re amongst the student groups able to access a HEAR then once you’ve enrolled with the University, you’ll receive an email invitation from Gradintelligence to register for your HEAR.
(Gradintelligence is the University’s technology partner for delivering the HEAR).
Once you register, you will be able to access your HEAR electronically whenever you wish and watch it develop as you progress through your time at University.
When you qualify for your final award, your HEAR will be locked.
You will however still be able to access it, and share it for as long as you wish, with prospective employers and postgraduate admissions tutors.
This can be done by sending them a digital ‘token’ to allow them to access your HEAR within a specified period.
The format of the HEAR is intended to allow you to capture and record a full picture of your time at the University.
You can use the HEAR to help build a CV or application, or allow an employer to access it online.
It doesn’t replace your CV or application but you can use your HEAR as evidence of the knowledge and experience you gain at University to help you demonstrate your skills when applying for jobs or further study.
The HEAR has been developed through a national project, so employers and other universities should know about it too.
Your name, student reference number and date of birth.
Qualification details such as name of qualification, main field of study and name of awarding institution (i.e.
the University of Bolton).
Level of study, duration, and entry requirements.
The programme structure and requirements, aims, learning outcomes and any distinctive characteristics, your individual grades/marks/credits obtained, grading scheme and your overall result.
(Only modules you have passed appear on your HEAR ).
Information on further study and professional status (if applicable).
Your verifiable co-curricular activities, awards and prizes, in three categories:
For an achievement to appear in section 6.1 of the HEAR the University has to have approved it as an eligible activity and verified your achievement.
Date of your award, Academic Registrar’s signature and University of Bolton crest.
Description of higher education in England, Wales and Northern Ireland.
You can see a sample HEAR here
You can see that the HEAR provides a fuller picture than a traditional  of your achievements whilst at University, including more detailed information about your course and University-verified co-curricular achievements.
The HEAR doesn’t replace your CV but records your academic achievements and any verifiable co-curricular achievements during your course.
CVs of course contain information that is not verified by the University, such as reflection and self-promotion, skills and attributes you possess, work experience and part-time jobs.
No.
The current system dictates that a separate HEAR is issued for each individual programme of study you have engaged with.
This is because each programme has its own title, aims, learning outcomes, content, etc, so including more than one programme would create a potentially unwieldy record and undoubtedly exceed the nationally imposed limit of 8 pages when in printed form.
A University of Bolton HEAR is only issued for study and achievement successfully undertaken at, or formally recognised by, the University of Bolton.
For example, if you started or completed a programme of study at another institution and then started a new course at the University of Bolton, your University of Bolton HEAR will ordinarily only record those studies and achievements successfully undertaken whilst at the University of Bolton.
One exception will be where your previous academic study was recognised by the University of Bolton as fulfilling some of the requirements of your University of Bolton programme of study (Recognition of Prior Learning or RPL), in which case reference to this previous study will be included on your University of Bolton HEAR.
Information on the HEAR is nationally defined and cannot normally be changed unless it is inaccurate.
However, co-curricular achievements (in section 6.1) can if you wish be blocked (once and for all time) from appearing on your HEAR.
Also, if your achievement is already showing on your HEAR then you can ask for it to be removed (again, once and for all time).
To request any of the foregoing please email: hear@bolton.ac.uk .
We do recognise that some students will not have anything additional to put in section 6.1 of their HEAR  for a range of reasons.
Remember though, it is for your benefit if your HEAR is a good showcase for your skills, attributes, abilities and experiences.
Your HEAR will be verified by the University and it could therefore be considered to be more valid than a CV.
You can continue adding verified achievements to your HEAR right up until you complete your programme of study.
To find out about potential skills gaps and how to fill them, you can talk to a range of people in the University, such as your Personal Tutor, other people in your school, as well as our Careers and Employability Service , Bolton Award staff , Volunteering staff , and Students’ Union .
Also, see below for co-curricular activities which, once completed and verified, be included in section 6 of your HEAR.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/leaponline/Home.aspx:
The aim of this tutorial is to equip learners with a critical understanding of Artificial Intelligence (AI) technologies with a focus on Generative AI (GenAI).
It seeks to build not only technical proficiency but also adaptability to apply knowledge of AI literacy in real-world context for problem-solving whilst being aware of ethical practices.
Check out the AI Literacy Framework to learn when and how to acknowledge AI tools in your assignments.
The impact of LEAP Online has been externally recognised.
In April 2018, LEAP Online received a prestigious national award: The LILAC Digital Award for Information Literacy 2018.
This was awarded by CILIP’s (Chartered Institute of Library and Information Professionals) Information Literacy Group.
Select a segment of the circle to get started.
The ASH Team is here to help you develop the academic skills needed to succeed in your studies.
We provide a wide range of services and resources to support you, whether you’re looking to improve your academic writing, referencing, research skills, or time management.
New LEAP Live workshops for students.
Got a question for the LEAP Online team?
Share this page
LEAP Online Accessibility Statement

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/library/Home.aspx:
Advanced Search Options Discover Help Guide View Saved Searches
Graduate Futures Week at Bolton University Library Elevate your career with our career resources.
Click here to find out more.
Elevate your career with our career resources.
The Polari Prize Collection The University of Bolton Library proudly announces the arrival of the Polari Prize Collection.
The University of Bolton Library proudly announces the arrival of the Polari Prize Collection.
Celebrating the 2023 T.S.
Eliot Prize at the University of Bolton Library Click here to see more about the winner of the 2023 T.S.
Eliot Prize!
Click here to see more about the winner of the 2023 T.S.
Celebrating the Winner of the 2023 University of Bolton Library Poetry Competition Click here to find out more about the announcement of the winner of the 2023 Poetry Competition, judged by Dr.
Ben Wilkinson, Jeff Dawson, and Sasha Roper.
Click here to find out more about the announcement of the winner of the 2023 Poetry Competition, judged by Dr.
Sustainability Week at the Library Engage with our LEAP Online module on climate change, enjoy a film screening on 'Doughnut Economics', and explore our comprehensive sustainability resource list.
Click here to learn more.
Engage with our LEAP Online module on climate change, enjoy a film screening on 'Doughnut Economics', and explore our comprehensive sustainability resource list.
Open Access Week 2023 The library is helping to mark Open Access Week 2023 - click here to see more information about REF 2028 and for details of a new library drop-in session to answer any OA questions you may have.
The library is helping to mark Open Access Week 2023 - click here to see more information about REF 2028 and for details of a new library drop-in session to answer any OA questions you may have.
Black History Month 2023 The University of Bolton Library is proud to support Black History Month this October.
Find out more about what's on
The University of Bolton Library is proud to support Black History Month this October.
Developer's Room closed until October The Library's Developer's Room will be closed until the 15th of October at the earliest.
Find out more
The Library's Developer's Room will be closed until the 15th of October at the earliest.
UoB academics publish new book on on applied positive psychology Dr.
Jan Macfarlane and Professor Jerome Carson have recently published a new book: Positive Psychology for Healthcare Professionals: A Toolkit for Improving Wellbeing , which is now available as an ebook from the Library.
Dr.
Librarian Sinead English appointed Chair of CILIP North West Sinead English has been appointed Chair of the North West Branch of CILIP: the Library and Information Association and recently organised a successful learning and networking event for the branch.
Sinead English has been appointed Chair of the North West Branch of CILIP: the Library and Information Association and recently organised a successful learning and networking event for the branch.
Explore the shortlisted works for the 2022 T.S.
Eliot Prize for Poetry The T.S Eliot prize is an annual award that recognises outstanding new poetry.
We're excited to have the entire shortlist - including this year's winner, Anthony Joseph's Sonnets for Albert - in stock at the Peter Marsh Library now.
The T.S Eliot prize is an annual award that recognises outstanding new poetry.
Library loans unique historical items for Gallery Oldham exhibition The Library has loaned items from its Special Collections to Gallery Oldham for their upcoming exhibition “Finding the Funny” on the local author Sam Fitton.
The Library has loaned items from its Special Collections to Gallery Oldham for their upcoming exhibition “Finding the Funny” on the local author Sam Fitton.
Portico Prize-winning novels now available The Portico Prize is a biennial award celebrating the best in northern writing.
You'll find the shortlisted novels, including the winning book Toto Among The Murderers , on our Portico Prize display .
The Portico Prize is a biennial award celebrating the best in northern writing.
New Study Pods now available!
A number of new Study Pods are available in the Peter Marsh Library and SLZ as part of the University's Campus Plus initiative.
Library supports Ethiopia's "Books for Abrehot" project We've responded to an international appeal and donated books to the Abrehot Library , a new public library in Ethiopia.
We've responded to an international appeal and donated books to the Abrehot Library , a new public library in Ethiopia.
Library stock moves We're withdrawing out of date and unused book stock at the Peter Marsh Library to create new and improved study space .
We're withdrawing out of date and unused book stock at the Peter Marsh Library to create new and improved study space .
New Scopus guide Scopus is an advanced database that helps researchers find authoritative research, identify experts and access reliable data, metrics and analytical tools.
Visit our new Scopus guide for more information
Scopus is an advanced database that helps researchers find authoritative research, identify experts and access reliable data, metrics and analytical tools.
See our Library News for more latest updates
Explore answers to more Frequently Asked Questions
Find out more about upcoming LEAP Live sessions .
Visit our Ebooks guide for more information about our different ebook platforms, and find more featured titles on your Subject Guide .
University of Bolton Deane Road Bolton BL3 5AB 01204 903094
65 Queen's Street Farnworth Bolton BL4 7DX

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/staff-development:
Welcome to Staff Development for the University of Greater Manchester.
Staff Development aims to provide a wide range of learning and development opportunities to ensure that all staff reach their full potential.
Our development opportunities include apprenticeships, classroom and online training, leadership and management development, coaching and mentoring.
If you are currently employed and want to study at the university level to improve your skills whilst still earning a full-time salary, an apprenticeship is a perfect choice for you.
Anyone can apply for an apprenticeship, regardless of qualifications or previous experience.
Apprenticeships are funded by the government and your employer, so there are no tuition fees.
The University has a variety of e-learning courses available to staff.
Please click on this link to access /elearning/
All new staff within the University must complete mandatory training within the time frame stated within your induction.
To find out more about our Coaching and Mentoring opportunities please ask your manager for more information.
STEP is the University of Greater Manchester’s programme of continuous professional development (CPD) for academic staff.
Professionally recognised by the Higher Education Authority.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/student-life/student-support/chaplaincy:
Our chaplaincy team provide free pastoral support for students and staff, irrespective of religion or belief.
The service consists of a part-time coordinating chaplain and a team of volunteers.
Please find below a list of frequently asked questions regarding Chaplaincy advice.
If you still cannot find the information you require please contact us via the website: https://www.bolton.ac.uk/Chaplaincy/

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/student-life/student-support/student-services:
The team of Student Advisors offer information, advice and guidance on a wide range of student support issues.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/staff-area/professional-services/the-finance-office:
We aim to provide an efficient and professional financial service, which includes offering advice, guidance and support to all members of the university.
We are responsible for recording all of the financial transactions relating to the university, ensuring that they comply with our current financial policies, procedures and legislation.
You can find the answers to many questions about student finances at the university by visiting our student finance webpages.
Information for prospective students can be found in the study section of this site, while current students should visit our student portal.
Many students choose to spread the cost of tuition fees.
Fees can be paid by three termly instalments or eight monthly recurring card payments.
To pay in three instalments, please contact us at creditcontrol@bolton.ac.uk .
To pay by monthly recurring card payments please visit our online payments webpage .
We offer a secure online payment facility that allows you to make payments for tuition fees, accommodation charges and other student invoices.
Instructions and our terms and conditions can be found on our online payments webpage .
If you are a supplier to the university, please review the following documents:
Please be aware of an incident of bogus orders that appear to originate from a university or other academic institutions.
These orders have been placed with suppliers with goods to be delivered to addresses other than those belonging to the university/institution.
The originating orders are usually by email addresses that, at first glance, appear to have an academic suffix similar enough to convince suppliers their origin is genuine e.g.acc.co.uk.
If you receive a request of this nature for products, please check it is a legitimate order.
If you have any concerns please contact the following email address procurement@bolton.ac.uk If there are any queries, please do not hesitate to get in touch.
The University of Bolton staff portals on SharePoint are restricted pages available to University of Bolton staff only.
The SharePoint Portals contain information on Suppliers, Business Travel, Financial Regulations, Purchasing, Insurance, etc.
Enter Staff Finance Portal
Enter Staff Procurement Portal

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/our-staff:
No staff members found.
School of Psychology and Education
School of Engineering
Institute of Management Greater Manchester
Centre of Dental Technologies
Centre for Research For Health & Wellbeing
School of Sport & Biological Sciences
Off-Campus Division
School of Education & Psychology
Bolton School of The Arts
School of Creative Technologies
Faculty of Health & Wellbeing
School of Nursing and Midwifery
National Centre for Motorsport Engineering
Centre for Clinical & Biomedical Sciences
Institute for Materials Research & Innovation (IMRI)
Sport & Biological Sciences Research Centre
School of Sport and Biological Sciences
Education
School of Education
School of Education and Psychology
Faculty of Health and Wellbeing
Nursing and Midwifery
Physiotherapy/Clinical and Biomedical Sciences/Health and Wellbeing
Greater Manchester Business School
Clinical and Biomedical Science, Faculty of Health and Wellbeing
The Centre for Advanced Manufacturing
School of Psychology
Nursing and Wellbeing
School of Clinical and Biomedical Sciences
School of Health & Society
School of Health and Society
School of Clinical & Biomedical Sciences
Central Apprenticeship Team
Dental Technology/Dental Sciences/Health and Wellbeing

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/student-life/student-support/bullying-and-harrasment:
The university will not tolerate bullying, harassment or sexual misconduct of any kind.
Please don't suffer in silence - we are here to support you.
We are passionate about the pursuit of diversity amongst our staff and student population.
We expect that all staff and students alike will contribute to and actively support the University in working towards the elimination of discrimination and harassment and the promotion of equality of opportunity in terms of access to the university’s services, employment opportunities and support for students in their welfare and education.
Bullying, harassment and sexual misconduct, may be physical, verbal or non-verbal, e.g.
by letter, e-mails, text messages, social media, or by attitude or behaviour.
If you are experiencing or witness any bullying, harassment or sexual misconduct and wish to get advice you can speak with:
• Student Advisors, 01204 903733 | studentadvisors@bolton.ac.uk • Student Liaison Officers, 01204 903229 or 01204 903540 or 01204 903541 | SLO@bolton.ac.uk • Life Lounge (Student Mental Health and Wellbeing Team), Eagle Tower 01204 903566 | lifelounge@bolton.ac.uk • Students’ Union (Hate Crime Reporting Centre), Chancellor’s Mall 01204 900850 | info@boltonsu.com
If you are experiencing or witness any bullying, harassment or sexual misconduct and the perpetrator is a member of the university community you can report such concerns via the button below.
The University aims to deal with any concerns at an early stage promptly, impartially, effectively and with sensitivity.
All allegations of bullying ,harassment and sexual misconduct will be investigated and appropriate action will be taken.
Any form of discrimination, harassment victimisation or sexual misconduct where the perpetrator is a student or member of staff that is proven may lead to the implementation of the University Student Non-Academic Conduct and Disciplinary Policy and Procedure or staff Disciplinary Processes.
For more information on how the University will deal with reports of bullying, harassment and sexual misconduct please read the University Dignity at Study Policy and Procedure on the Policy Zone
If you witness any bullying, harassment and or sexual misconduct on campus and yours or another person’s safety is at risk or an immediate intervention is required please contact security on 01204 903700 or ask any available member of staff for assistance.
If you witness or experience any of these unacceptable behaviours off campus and need assistance urgently please contact the Police in an emergency using 999 or if non-urgent 101.
Many forms of bullying, harassment and sexual misconduct could constitute a criminal offence.
If you feel you may be the perpetrator of any unwanted or unacceptable behaviours and wish to seek support please contact the Life Lounge
If you don’t wish to share any information with the University but do wish to get support you can speak with the Students’ Union or you can obtain an A-Z list of useful agencies from the Student Centre or Life Lounge.
Reporting Form

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/student-life/student-support/emergency-numbers:
01204 903666
01204 903700
999
116 123
01204 903733
Visit the Staff Search to search for your tutor or other staff at the university.
01204 903229
01204 903497
01204 903478
01204 903080
01204 903566
01204 903094
01204 903850
01204 903415

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/student-life/student-support/fire-and-evacuation:
In an emergency always call 999.
To contact Greater Manchester Fire and Rescue Service about anything else, please visit their website.
For instance, you can request a Safe and Well visit to your home for personalised fire safety advice and, if necessary, to fit your home with free fire alarms.
For contact details for any other UK Fire and Rescue Service visit the Fire Service website.
The purpose of the procedures is to ensure safe evacuation of the University's premises in the event of a fire or other emergency.
The emergency evacuation alarm is a siren.
In the event of the sounding of the alarm all persons should evacuate the buildings following the procedures set out below.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/student-life/student-support/loneliness:
Over nine million people in the UK – more than the population of London – report they are always or often lonely.
So you're not alone if you feel alone.
Loneliness is nothing to be ashamed of.
It's possible to be surrounded by people but feel isolated.
It can begin when you move away from home to study at University, if you're studying a subject that your friends and family don't understand or value, or when you feel that no-one understands you or the problems you're facing.
Sometimes it can be hard to find the confidence to approach other people.
The good news is that University is here to support you to connect with other people.
We offer a number of services that may be able to help.
Once you've gained a little confidence, campus offers a wonderful range of opportunities to meet people who share your interests.
Sometimes structured support is needed to help you deal with the underlying causes of loneliness.
The university has staff on hand to help, a successful peer mentoring scheme, or you can contact your GP for advice.
If you feel you need professional support, the university's Counselling Service is available.
Our fully qualified Counsellor offers free and confidential support.
This service is particularly useful if you're seeking short term support for homesickness, or want to speak to someone who isn't involved in your personal life or academic work.
Cognitive behaviour therapy (CBT) may be available if you have anxiety, low mood, anger, low self-esteem or other issues that would benefit from therapy that helps you manage your problems by changing the way you think and behave.
To find out more about the Counselling Service and CBT Therapy, please visit our Life Lounge webpage.
Peer Mentoring is all about students supporting each other.
During your first year at university, our trained student mentors can offer you additional one-to-one personal support to help you settle into your studies and succeed in higher education.
More information is available from our Peer Mentoring webpage or please see the Student Services
If you are seeking structured ways to meet people, build your confidence and perhaps even learn new skills, then campus offers many opportunities.
Spending some of your time doing something that benefits someone else, the local community or the environment can be a fantastic way to meet new people.
Contact our Volunteering Co-ordinator by emailing volunteering@bolton.ac.uk or calling 01204 903489.
Perhaps the most famous way to meet people on campus is through the Students' Union .
In particular, they support a wide range of societies and sports clubs.
You can find the Students' Union office in Chancellor's Mall.
Our Chaplaincy is home to Chaplains and Pastoral Assistants from different traditions, faiths and world-views.
They offer friendship and support and can help you explore beliefs and values.
You can find the Chaplaincy in Chancellor's Mall, or email chaplain@bolton.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/student-life/student-support/medicine-and-ambulance:
For emergency medical attention or to call an ambulance, please dial 999.
Alternatively, attend your local accident and emergency department if you are able.
The Royal Bolton Hospital has the nearest accident and emergency department to the university.
Only a suitably qualified person should give first aid treatment.
If you require first aid treatment , please ask either your academic supervisor or a technician who will arrange for first aid treatment to be administered.
Alternatively, ring the following emergency numbers: 666 (any internal phone) or 01204 903666 (any phone).
NHS 111 is the free number to call when you have an urgent healthcare need.
It directs you to the right local service, first time.
When should you call it?
Visit the NHS 111 website for more information about this service.
Please contact your GP or visit your local NHS walk-in or urgent care centre.
The NHS service search will allow you to find your nearest centre.
Alternatively, you can call NHS 111 for advice or visit the NHS Choices website.
Our Student Advisors have a list of doctors located close to the university Campus and Halls of Residence.
Alternatively, you can find GP surgeries by using the online NHS service search .
International students do not need private medical insurance when studying in the UK.
If you need a visa to study in the UK, it costs just £150 per year to gain access to the NHS.
You pay this fee during your visa application and it covers free medical treatment (including emergency or hospital care, should you need it) and reduced price dental care at an NHS dentist.
If you are from the European Economic Area, make sure you get a European Health Insurance Card (EHIC) before coming to the UK so that you can access NHS treatment.
Visit the European Commission's website for more information.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/student-life/student-support/mental-health-and-wellbeing:
If you need to talk to someone urgently call 116 123.
The Samaritans are available 24 hours a day, 365 days a year.
The number is FREE to call.
You don't have to be suicidal to call.
If you need support or someone to talk to, the university offers a professional Counselling Service on campus.
You can find out more by visiting our Life Lounge webpages.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/student-life/student-support/money-worries:
Financial problems can be a major barrier to your success as a student.
We have a dedicated Funding Advice Team to help you get the information you need to keep your finances on track while you study.
If you want to ask a general question, need help with budgeting or require a more detailed discussion regarding your financial situation, you can contact us.
Telephone: Karen Bentley 01204 903497 Telephone: Carol Gray 01204 903499 Email: studentfunding@bolton.ac.uk
Or you can attend one of our Funding Advice Drop-In Sessions that are held in the Student Centre, Chancellor’s Mall every Tuesday 10:00-12:00 and Thursday 14:00-16:00 – no appointment necessary.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/student-life/student-support/police:
In an emergency, please telephone 999 .
If you are deaf, deafened, hard of hearing or have a speech impairment, a text phone is available on 18000 .
You should use these numbers if:
For all other calls to the police in England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland, please telephone 101 .
If you are deaf, deafened, hard of hearing or have a speech impairment, a text phone is available on 18001 101 .
You should use these non-emergency numbers to:
For other ways to contact the Police please visit the Police.UK website.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/student-life/student-support/report-a-fault:
The Facilities team at the University of Bolton are responsible for the development, management and operation of all the University’s buildings and gardens.
We take pride in ensuring our campus provides a high quality, clean and safe environment for our students and staff.
If something is broken, leaking or in disrepair, you can report the fault or request a repair by emailing Repairs-hd@bolton.ac.uk or calling 01204 903552.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/student-life/student-support/study-worries:
Supporting you through your student journey is our main focus.
We're here because you're here.
If you have any concerns about your studies it's important that you raise them as soon as possible.
This will help us give you the help you need and prevent problems escalating.
There are multiple sources of help at the university.
Located in the Student Centre, Chancellor's Mall, our helpful team of student advisers will usually be your first point of contact.
It's their job to know just about everything about the university, and if they don't know the answer to your question, then they will know who to ask.
You can visit them in the Student Centre, phone them on 01204 903733 or email studentadvisers@bolton.ac.uk
Your personal tutor is a member of our academic staff who provides you with academic guidance and support.
They are here to help you make the most of your studies as you progress through your university career.
You can find their contact details through the university Staff Search .
If you don't know who your personal tutor is our student advisers will be able to find out for you.
Student advisers can also check staff timetables to find out when they are teaching.
Your programme leader is the senior member of the academic team responsible for your course.
You can find their contact details through the university Staff Search .
If you don't know who your programme leader is our student advisers will be able to find out for you.
A module tutor is an academic who teaches on a particular module.
Their name will usually appear on the Moodle record for that module.
If you have something on your mind that's worrying you and you'd prefer to speak to someone who's not involved in your personal life or academic work, you can arrange to see one of our student liaison officers (SLOs) .
Our SLOs run drop-in sessions and offer one-to-one appointments giving you access to information, advice and guidance on a range of academic and pastoral areas.
They also run bite-sized study skills sessions, and can help put you in touch with a student mentor.
The Library offers a wealth of information - and not just in books!
Study skills advice and tutorials are available through LEAP Online .
You can also access our online subject guides , curated by our expert subject librarians.
For personalised advice you can visit the Library Help Desk or contact your subject librarian.
Bolton Students' Union plays a vital role advising, representing and assisting students.
As well as organising fun events and supporting clubs and societies, the SU ensures that the student voice is heard through representation on staff-student liaison committees, school boards, and internal subject reviews.
The SU will support you to make an academic appeal if you want the university to reconsider a recent decision that has affected your studies.
Please contact the SU directly for advice.
You can find their office in Chancellor's Mall, phone them on 01204 900850 or email info@boltonsu.com

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/student-area/paow:
We aim to make an impact on the streets surrounding our communities.
PAOW will be the superhero that ensures Bolton will strive in being a cleaner town.
Cllr Mudasir Dean
Community will appreciate your business for being responsible and taking care of the surroundings as it helps them to be in a safer and fresher environment.
Giving confidence to customers and the community of the commitment to PAOW will encourage fewer people to litter our streets and blight our communities.
By cleaning the surrounding environment, the streets and facilities will be cleaner and will reduce pests, dirt and other hazards that can lead to social problems and business depletion.
If you have a question about PAOW, please use the details below or if you would like to get involved simply complete one of the forms opposite.
01204 903 989
https://www.instagram.com/letspaowtogether
paow@bolton.ac.uk
A676 Deane Road, Bolton, BL3 5AB
Thank you for your interest in supporting PAOW.
Please complete the following form so we can get you involved: https://share.hsforms.com/1b5Ksp9RJTlCe8f4zt0bgTQ2dcrn
We look forward to the possibility of collaborating with your business on sustainability projects and contributing to the advancement of our shared goals.
Please complete the following form so we can get you involved: https://share.hsforms.com/1hhUbr_tdSCON99hifpwxbg2dcrn
We look forward to the possibility of your support on sustainability projects and contributing to the advancement of our shared goals.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/student-area/student-safety:
Starting university marks a transformative chapter in many individuals' lives.
We encourage you to fully embrace and relish the student experience, while prioritising your safety and wellbeing.
Here, on this page, we aim to provide you with comprehensive support to help you maintain your safety throughout your studies at the University of Greater Manchester.
You will be able to find information on personal safety, financial security, safeguarding protocols, or assistance in dealing with instances of bullying, harassment, or sexual misconduct.
Remember, our dedicated Student Services Team is always here to support you.
We sincerely hope that your time at university is not just enriching academically, but also a profoundly positive and enjoyable experience.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/Academic-support:
The Academic Support Service provides administrative support and guidance too; Students, Staff (On-Campus & Off-Campus), as well as the many Services across the university, including our Partners.
The support begins before the student enrols and continues even after the student has graduated.
Timetable Queries.
Results.
Reference Requests.
Course Related Enquiries.
Liaising With Academic and Other Units Within The university.
Meet the Team The Academic Support Team supports students and staff both on campus and at our partner organisations: Administration Manager: Karen Heywood Bolton School of the Arts: Sam McCarthy Faculty of Engineering and Creative Technologies: Lyndsey Malone and Stacy Pearson Faculty of Health and Wellbeing: Lisa Snape, Lesley Woodcock, Nirvana Santacreu Perez, Yvonne Lythgoe and Michelle Newsham Faculty of Professional Studies: Sadiyya Jangharia, Tracy Williams, Safiya Matadar and Emma Southern Off Campus Division: Fazila Amirat, Tracy Toker, Elaine Sexton, Daniel Papworth and Oliver Barlow
The Academic Support Team supports students and staff both on campus and at our partner organisations:

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/student-life/student-support/student-advisors:
We invite students to come and see us to find answers to their questions.
Our designated Student Advisors are here to help and can provide you with information on a range of issues.
Here to help Our Student Advisors are here to help plus we also have a range of resources to help you get the information you need.
Our email and contact phone numbers can be found below so please get in touch with us.
Check out our Student Services Libguides page https://libguides.bolton.ac.uk/studentservices for information, resources, handy web links and documents!
Where?
The team of Student Advisors are based in the Student Centre, Chancellor’s Mall.
They are a “one stop shop” for any kind of enquiry, big or small, and are knowledgeable on a wide range of student support issues.
They are happy to help as much as possible, whether it’s answering your questions, offering information, advice and guidance, or signposting to specialist support where appropriate.
How?
The Student Advisors are available in person, by email and telephone and can refer you and make appointments for you to see specialist staff.
Private interview room facilities are available on request.
An induction loop facility for the deaf and hard of hearing is also available.
When?
Monday - Friday Student Centre 08:45-17:00 We are open all year round except for a break at Christmas.
Contacting Us You can contact us by email at studentadvisors@bolton.ac.uk , by telephone/voicemail on +44 (0)1204 903 733, or fax on +44 (0)1204 903 732.
Alternatively, you can drop in to the Student Centre and speak to us in person.
When Student Services are closed you can email us on studentadvisors@bolton.ac.uk or leave a voicemail message on +44 (0)1204 903 733 and we will get back to you as soon as possible.
Links List For a comprehensive list of Policies, Procedures and Regulations please see the Policy Zone .
A to Z of local and national services Blackbullion’s Student Wellbeing Guide Diversity How to find GPs, dentists, and emergency care Mental Health A-Z Guide To learn about Student Services policies such as ID cards, Student Services Charges, Dignity at Study policy, and more, please visit the Policy Zone .
Our Student Advisors are here to help plus we also have a range of resources to help you get the information you need.
Monday - Friday
Student Centre 08:45-17:00
We are open all year round except for a break at Christmas.
You can contact us by email at studentadvisors@bolton.ac.uk , by telephone/voicemail on +44 (0)1204 903 733, or fax on +44 (0)1204 903 732.
For a comprehensive list of Policies, Procedures and Regulations please see the Policy Zone .
To learn about Student Services policies such as ID cards, Student Services Charges, Dignity at Study policy, and more, please visit the Policy Zone .

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/life-lounge:
Click the button below to access the University of Greater Manchester Student Mental Health and Wellbeing Strategy.
The Life Lounge brings together specialist services Mental Health and Wellbeing Services, free for students to
      access, which includes: Counselling, Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (CBT), Wellbeing Advisors and Mental Health
      Advisors.
The Life Lounge also provides a quiet and relaxing space with resources to help you chill out.
The Life Lounge is a new Student Services initiative that opened in September, 2015.
The Life Lounge brings
      together specialist services, free for students to access including:
Mental Health Advisor
CBT Clinic
Counselling
The Life Lounge team has developed a fantastic Mental Health and Wellbeing Online Resource page.
You can
        access this page 24/7 365 days a year.
On the page you will find all kinds of healpful advice, guidance and
        information about mental health and wellbeing, self help guides and much more.
The team also deliver workshops
        covering common topics like improving sleep, creative writing, how to manage stress and much more.
You can find
        all this information by clicking here .
If you are a member of staff at the University of Greater Manchester and you are looking for support regarding your
        mental health and wellbeing speak to HR or contact VIVUP employee support.
Details of this can be found on the
        staff portal.
If you would like an appointment, please use our registration form.
The Life Lounge reception is staffed by a Wellbeing Advisor.
The Wellbeing Advisor is able to make you appointments for any of the following: Mental Health Advisor, Counsellor, CBT Therapist and or Wellbeing Coordinator.
Any student wishing to access the Life Lounge services for the first time will attend a triage appointment or have a triage appointment by telephone conducted by the Wellbeing Coordinator.
The Wellbeing Coordinator will work with you to identify which is the most appropriate service to support you.
In addition, the Wellbeing Coordinator working with the Wellbeing Advisor create and promote useful events and resources.
They deliver workshops that are designed to enhance your wellbeing.
The University has two fully qualified counsellors for students and the service they provide is free and confidential.
The service has a great understanding of the problems facing students today.
The service offers short-term support and is available to any student who wishes to speak with someone who is not involved in their personal life or academic work.
In order to book your first appointment with the Counsellors please complete the registration form available here .
Find services and people who can help you.
Click here.
The CBT Clinic is provided by postgraduate students completing their training in a BABCP-accredited Postgraduate Diploma in Cognitive Behavioural Psychotherapies in addition to our fully qualified CBT Therapist.
Students who provide a service are closely supervised in their practice and will be available for scheduled time slots to provide therapy in relation to anxiety, low mood, anger, low self-esteem, perfectionism, sleep problems, chronic health problems, bereavement and trauma.
In order to book your first appointment with either CBT service please complete the registration form available here .
The University employs three Mental Health Advisors whose role is to provide comprehensive mental health assessments and support for students with complex mental health needs who may be experiencing a crisis or deterioration in their mental state and/or mood.
This is in order to identify appropriate support and where there is a need indicated, signposting information to external and internal health care and support providers.
In order to book an appointment with the Mental Health Advisor for assessment please complete the single point of access referral form, available here .
The University has a number of Pets as Therapy dogs that visit the University throughout the academic year.
Students are invited to spend time with a therapy dog in effort to reduce stress, anxiety or just to spend some time with a dog if they are missing a pet.
PAT dogs are assessed by Pets as Therapy (PAT) to ensure they have the right temperament for supporting people.
For more information or to book a time to see a Pets as Therapy dog Tel: 01204 903566.
University of Bolton - Self Help Guides
Big White Wall is now Togetherall!
New name, same service.
Togetherall is available to all University of Greater Manchester Students.
The community is available 24/7!
If you ever feel alone or need to chat - Togetherall is here for you.
Togetherall also offers a wealth of resources & courses!
From managing anxiety to improving your sleep!➡️ Visit www.togetherall.com to find out more.
@wearetogetherall
The Life Lounge brings together specialist services, free for students to access including:
You can access this page 24/7 365 days a year.
On the page you will find all kinds of healpful advice, guidance and information about mental health and wellbeing, self help guides and much more.
The team also deliver workshops covering common topics like improving sleep, creative writing, how to manage stress and much more.
You can find all this information by clicking here .
If you are a member of staff at the University of Bolton and you are looking for support regarding your mental health and wellbeing speak to HR or contact VIVUP employee support.
Details of this can be found on the staff portal.
We are in the Life Lounge, T2 Eagle Tower, Chancellors Mall.
The service is open to all current students studying at the University of Bolton.
To arrange your first appointment with us, simply complete our online registration form – it just takes a few minutes.
We aim to contact you within two working days of receiving your form.
No, the service is completely free.
Tel: +44 (0)1204 903 566 (Life Lounge reception) or +44 (0)1204 903 733 (Student Services).
Email: lifelounge@bolton.ac.uk or studentadvisors@bolton.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/student-life/student-support/services-for-disabled-students:
At the University of Greater Manchester, we are committed to equality, diversity and a supportive environment for all.
We welcome both home and international students with physical and sensory impairments, mental health issues, medical conditions and specific learning difficulties.
The Equality Act 2010 defines a disabled person as ‘someone who has a physical or mental impairment that has a substantial and long-term adverse effect on his or her ability to carry out normal day-to-day activities’.
This includes HIV, cancer and multiple sclerosis.
If you are in doubt about whether you will be eligible for any support, please contact us to discuss further.
The Disability Service is based in Student Services in Chancellor’s Mall.
The Disability Advisors are available to offer confidential advice and guidance on all disability issues in relation to accessing your chosen course of study, as well as the relevant funded support such as the Disabled Students Allowance .
This advice is available via one to one appointments, through drop-in sessions, over the phone or via email.
If you would like more information about the service provided, please contact us .
There are currently over 14% of our student population at the University of Greater Manchester that have disclosed a disability or an additional learning requirement.
These students, who have provided evidence of their disability or specific learning difficulty, are accessing support such as:
We have appointments on Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Fridays that you can book in advance.
Tel: +44 (0)1204 903 478 SMS Text: 07799 657 035 Email: disabilityinfo@bolton.ac.uk
Postal Address
Disability Service Student Services University of Greater Manchester Deane Road Bolton BL3 5AB
Office opening times
Monday to Friday 8:45 – 17:00 (including vacations).
Drop-in sessions are available throughout the week please call into the Student Centre or Life Lounge for the most recent information.
If you wish to book an appointment to see one of the Disability Advisers please call: +44 (0)1204 903 733 or +44(0)1204 903 478
We look forward to meeting you!

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/student-life/fees-and-funding/scholarships-and-bursaries/university-of-bolton-hardship-fund:
Eligibility
The University of Bolton Student Support Fund – Eligibility checklist details and the full eligibility requirements can be found on the Blackbullion platform.
Applicants must have applied for and be in receipt of their full student loan entitlement and must have received their first instalment before applying to the fund.
All eligible students who apply to the Student Support Fund will be considered.
Certain groups of students will be given priority when applying to the Student Support Fund.
Students with children
Final year students
Students unable to work due to long term illness or disability (evidence of this must be provided)
How Can I Apply?
Further guidance and the online application form can be found on the Blackbullion platform.
You will be required to provide documentary evidence of your circumstances such as bank statements, sources of income, essential expenditure, partner income where applicable, childcare costs where applicable.
Assessment Of Applications
Student Support Fund applications are assessed using guidelines provided by the National Association of Student Money Advisors (NASMA).
We will look at your income and expenditure over the period of an academic year.
Applications are assessed in strict date order.
Processing Timescale
The University aims to deal with complete Student Support Fund applications within 20 working days.
If there is evidence or information missing from your application this will result in delays to your application being assessed.
For further information about the fund please contact UOBSSF@bolton.ac.uk or visit the Student Centre, located within Chancellor’s Mall, to speak with a Student Advisor.
Page last reviewed in August 2024.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/letters-council-tax-and-ID-cards:
An ID card for the duration of your course will be provided at enrolment.
If your card has been stolen and you have a crime number we will produce a replacement free of charge.
You should contact Student Services for further information.
You can read our ID Card Policy here .
If you are an international student making an application to extend your visa, please contact Student Services for more information or visit our Immigration and Welfare pages .
Should you require an official “To Whom It May Concern” letter, you can request this online.
Log in to your Student Record and click on the link under the Student Services heading.”.
Please make sure that your postal address details are correct before you submit your request.
Please indicate for what purpose you are using the letter as this will help us to provide the correct information.
Please note that requests will take approximately five working days to process and this may be longer at busy times.
There may be a charge of £5 for duplicate official letters.
Please refer to our Student Services Charges here for more information.
Should you require a letter for your bank, you can request this online.
Log in to your Student Record and click on the link under the Student Services heading.
Please make sure that your postal address details are correct before you submit your request as your letter will be posted to you.
Letters will be addressed to the branches in Bolton town centre unless you state an alternative address.
There may be a charge of £5 for duplicate bank letters.
Households where all occupants are full-time students normally don’t have to pay Council Tax.
If you do get a bill, you could apply for an exemption.
Are you eligible for a Council Tax discount?
To count as a full-time student, your course must:
You’ll get a Council Tax bill if there’s someone in your household who’s not a full-time student, but your household might still qualify for a discount.
(Source: www.gov.uk/council-tax ).
Do you live within Greater Manchester?
Greater Manchester Councils are: Bolton, Bury, Manchester, Oldham, Rochdale, Salford, Stockport, Tameside, Trafford and Wigan.
If you live within Greater Manchester we submit confirmation that you are a full-time student directly to your local council by sending them an electronic list.
We do not need to issue a paper certificate.
Please make sure that you keep your term-time address details up to date.
Follow the instructions issued by your Council on how to apply to them for your exemption/discount.
Do you live outside of Greater Manchester?
Check with your council for guidance on how to apply for an exemption or discount.
Students living outside the Greater Manchester area will need to request a Council Tax Certificate online to give to their Local Council.
Please make sure that your address details are correct before you submit your request as your certificate will be posted to you.
Requests take approximately five working days to process and may be longer at busy times.
Households where all occupants are full-time students normally don’t have to pay Council Tax

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/join-us/how-to-apply-and-admissions/criminal-conviction-disclosure/disclosure-and-barring-service:
On 1 December 2012 the Criminal Records Bureau (CRB) and Independent Safeguarding Authority (ISA) merged to become the Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS).
Disclosure and Barring Service Administrator The DBS Administrator processes applications to the DBS for students.
Students undertaking certain work based placements with children or adults at risk as part of their course or Nursing students and Initial Teacher Training (ITT) students are normally required to have a DBS before they can commence their placement.
How Can I Apply for a DBS?
To apply for an enhanced disclosure you will be sent an email with instructions on how to apply online via eSafeguarding.
If you are studying on a course where DBS is a mandatory course requirement, your DBS application will be sent to you via email once you have firmly accepted your offer to study.
If you have not received your DBS application email 2 months prior to your course start date or require a DBS for a course where the placement is not mandatory, please email DBS@bolton.ac.uk or call 01204 903484.
Overseas applicants or students who have spent time overseas If you are an applicant living outside of the UK you will not be able to complete your DBS application form until you reside in the UK as you will need to provide proof of your UK address.
Applicants/students who have lived or worked in a country outside of the UK for a period of more than four months within the last 5 years will be asked to provide further information from the relevant overseas jurisdiction, including a criminal records check or certificate of good conduct before work or study can commence.
What is the process for applying?
For new applicants You will need to submit your online application through eSafeguarding and then supporting evidence must be submitted in person via the Student Centre in order for the university to establish your identity.
A list of ID documents that we are able to accept will be included in the email sent to you with the instructions on how to apply.
Applications will be checked by the Student Advisors before being passed to the DBS Administrator for processing.
Your application is then sent to the DBS for processing.
For applicants registered with the Update Service If you have an original DBS certificate at the exact check level for your course placement you may not need to apply for a new DBS certificate.
Your certificate must meet the following criteria: You must be able to present your original DBS certificate.
You must present your original certificate in person at the Student Centre along with photographic ID.
Your certificate must be in your current name.
Your certificate must be registered with the DBS Update Service and available for us to check.
If the check is unsuccessful or shows that information has been added since the certificate was issued you will be required to apply for a new certificate.
Please note that we are unable to accept DBS certificates at a higher or lower check level than that required for your placement.
IF you already have a DBS which is at the right level for your course of study and this is registered on the Update Service you can give permission for the University to undertake an Update Service check.
Please allow five to ten working days for the DBS Administrator to perform the status check, you will be sent an email if the status check is unsuccessful and you may be required to apply for a new DBS.
For more information contact the DBS Administrator on 01204 903484 or by email: dbs@bolton.ac.uk What Is The Cost Of Applying?
For applicants or students who require an enhanced DBS you are required to submit payment of £40 with your online application.
Online Tracking The progress of your application can be tracked by logging on to your eSafeguarding account.
There will be a link to the DBS tracking service, which will tell you what stage in the process your application has reached.
If the certificate has already been printed, it will show the date the certificate was dispatched.
What do I do when I receive my DBS Certificate?
The University no longer receives a copy of your certificate from the DBS.
You are required to provide a copy of your DBS to the University, ideally within 14 days of its issue.
The University is required to see you in person when you present your original DBS certificate along with valid photographic ID.
Please present your certificate at the Student Centre, located within Chancellors Mall.
You will be asked to provide consent for the University to retain a copy of your DBS usually for no more than 6 months.
How Do I Make An Appointment To See Someone About Having A DBS Check Done?
There is no need to make an appointment to see someone about a DBS check, just come along to the Student Centre and speak to a Student Advisor or ask to speak to the DBS Administrator who is available Monday to Friday, 08:45 – 16:30.
The DBS Administrator processes applications to the DBS for students.
If you are an applicant living outside of the UK you will not be able to complete your DBS application form until you reside in the UK as you will need to provide proof of your UK address.
For new applicants
You will need to submit your online application through eSafeguarding and then supporting evidence must be submitted in person via the Student Centre in order for the university to establish your identity.
If you have an original DBS certificate at the exact check level for your course placement you may not need to apply for a new DBS certificate.
Your certificate must meet the following criteria:
For more information contact the DBS Administrator on 01204 903484 or by email: dbs@bolton.ac.uk
The progress of your application can be tracked by logging on to your eSafeguarding account.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/student-life-team:
The Student Life Team are responsible for enhancing your student experience, you are at the heart of
    everything we do!
You can get involved with events, activities and initiatives throughout the year - highlighting key days of
        importance, awareness-raising days, and fun and interactive activities.
With your feedback and participation,
        we can ensure your student experience is as full and enriching as it can be.
We work with academic staff to ensure you get the most from your personal academic tutoring experience
        and access the relevant pastoral and professional support resources, from academic support to mental
        health and wellbeing.
We also work with students to develop Peer Mentoring and Support networks.
We try to ensure all our students feel a sense of belonging at the University.
You will have the opportunity to
        feedback multiple times during your time as a student - from the Undergraduate Experience Survey (UES),
        the National Student Survey (NSS), to the Postgraduate Taught/Research Experience Survey
        (PTES/PRES)!
Your voice matters to us at every stage of your student journey.
We will make improvements
        by listening and acting on your feedback.
If you are passionate about Environmental Sustainability, the Student Life Team will be here to listen and
        build on your ideas to create a more sustainable campus.
You will have the opportunity to be involved in
        creating and organising Environmental Sustainability events, initiatives and projects.
The Student Life Team works collaboratively across the University with all services including the Students
        Union, to ensure you get the most out of your student experience.
For Student Life enquires please contact studentlife@bolton.ac.uk
For more details about Personal Academic Tutoring and Peer support, visit www.bolton.ac.uk/tutoring-and-peer-support
The Student Life Team host activities and events throughout your time as a student to enhance your student experience.
We run a mixture of fun and interactive activities, and also events to raise awareness and celebrate national days of importance.
The list below shows some of the activities that have taken place in 2022-23.
- Outdoor Cinema - Festive Fair - Sustainability Week - Free Student Trips - Student Services Marketplace - Awareness Events, such as: Mental Health Awareness Week, Black History Month, International Women’s Day, Windrush Day - Video games and Virtual Reality experience
If you have an idea for an activity or event contact studentlife@bolton.ac.uk
To register interest to BE a mentor or to RECEIVE mentoring, please contact peermentoring@bolton.ac.uk
Engagement Panel Sustainability Panel
The Student Life Team consult with students as the University creates, develops and delivers strategies and projects.
The student voice is integral to ensuring that the University is moving in the right direction when delivering these strategies.
Your voice matters to the University of Bolton, and you will be asked throughout the year to offer your feedback.
You may be invited to focus groups and student panels, asked to complete online surveys, and chat with Student Life in informal settings.
Previous ways we have done this are:
- Social media polls - Student Engagement Committee - Post-event student feedback - The National Student Survey (NSS) - Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey (PTES) - Experiences of Personal Tutoring Surveys

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/explore-our-schools/centre-for-advanced-manufacturing:
From research, development, and manufacturing to training, testing and recruitment, you’ll receive exceptional support from the Centre for Advanced Manufacturing.
Part of the £13 million National Centre Motorsport Engineering, the brand-new centre offers an extensive equipment and capability list to engineering firms across the UK, partnering with them to increase their productivity and
                            potential, and develop engineering workforces that provide the backbone of the UK’s engineering industry.
The advanced manufacturing and additive world is a fascinating and ever-changing landscape.
With innovations constantly popping up, it's hard to keep up with all of them!
‘Collaborating with CfAM has been a breath of fresh air.
Not only are they diligent, knowledgeable, and hardworking, they also have retained their ‘finger on the pulse’ of industrial challenges.
Their emphasis is on applied
                                    research which has proven immediately useful in our business.
We will continue to partner with CfAM and are motivated and excited by the potential of this long term, mutually beneficial relationship.’
'Working with Rob and the team at the Centre for Advanced Manufacturing has been a wonderful experience.
Their knowledge of the industry has allowed them to identify key challenges and position the centre with the required
                                    expertise and equipment to address these challenges through cutting edge research.
This research will provide industry with the knowledge to adopt and exploit these advanced manufacturing techniques.
In addition, the
                                    Centre will give students hands-on experience with these advanced manufacturing and qualification processes and provide them with the skills required to advance in their own careers
Xact Metal is honored to partner with the University of Greater Manchester’s Centre for Advanced Manufacturing to help equip their new additive manufacturing facility.
Through our work together, it has become clear that the team at
                                    University of Greater Manchester is a group of forward thinkers.
Led by Rob Higham, the group is positioning metal AM to support UK industrial initiatives in aerospace and high-end motor sport.
“It is great to work with people
                                    that share the same vision to best-prepare the next generation of AM technologists to meet growing industrial demands” Said CEO Juan Mario Gomez, “and they are well positioned to do so.
We anticipate large successes
                                    from this centre and look forward to supporting them in the future.”
Head of Centre
Tel:
Email:
Customer Service Excellence (CSE)
Jobs
Access & Participation
Applications, Offers and Enrolments – Transparency
                            Information

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/student-life/fees-and-funding/student-finance-information:
Re-apply for your student finance as soon as possible to make sure you have your money when you return to your course.
You can do this at: www.gov.uk/studentfinance
Re-applying for student finance is easy.
You can go online and re-apply for student finance as soon SFE tell you the applications are open.
Once they have processed your application you will receive your Student Finance Entitlement letter.
If you applied for Disabled Students’ Allowances (DSAs) last year along with your student finance, you won’t need to re-apply for DSAs every year.
If you’re applying for DSAs for the first time, you’ll need to download the form
from www.gov.uk/studentfinance , or let us know and we’ll send you a copy.
For a range of helpful tools and guidance visit: http://www.thestudentroom.co.uk/content.php?r=5659-Student-Finance
It is important to note that most students will not be expected to pay anything up front.
Every UK student studying for their first undergraduate degree is entitled to apply for a tuition fee loan.
There is also a maintenance loan available for students to help with the cost of living whilst studying.
The fees for all full-time undergraduate degree courses have been set at £9,250 per annum.
You will only start to pay back the Tuition Fee Loan and the Maintenance Loan once you have graduated and are earning over £25,000.
There is more information about how this is calculated on the Student Finance Guide .
If you are having any trouble with paying your fees please get in touch, as arrangements can be made to spread the cost of tuition fees.
If you wish to make arrangements to pay or have any other enquiries regarding payments please contact:
Financial Services Office, Chancellor’s Mall, t: +44 (0)1204 903 180 e: creditcontrol@bolton.ac.uk
For details of ways to pay and the university bank details please click here
If you have any questions or queries about your student funding, please get in touch with a member of the Funding team using the contact details below:
t: 01204 903733 e: Studentfunding@bolton.ac.uk
If you are having problems with your student funding and would like one of the Student Funding Advisors to contact Student Finance England on your behalf, you will need to set up “Third Party Consent to Share”.
This means that an advisor from the university can speak to Student Finance England regarding your application for student funding on your behalf, without the need for you to be present, to facilitate this process you must first contact Student Finance England and give permission for your information to be shared with a third party.
Contact Student Finance England: +44 (0)300 1000 607
Request to set up Third Party Consent to Share be given to “the advisory team at my university”
Create your own Consent Password
You will then need to notify the Student Funding Advisor of your Customer Reference Number, chosen Consent Password and student details.
*Third Party Consent to Share is not consent to share for bursary and scholarship purposes
SLC has launched improvements to its online account system to make it more efficient and user friendly.
You can now log in to your online account using either your Customer Reference Number (CRN) or the email address that is registered to your account.
You can also now chat to an advisor online from your online account.
Steps have also been taken to make it simpler to retrieve secret answers and passwords.
Top Tips to help you maintain your online account: You can now log in to the Student Finance account using either your Customer Reference Number (CRN) or the email address that is registered to your account.
If you don’t know your password, or secret answer you can click on the “Forgotten your password/secret answer?” links and tell us some basic information to identify your account so that you can reset your password or secret answer.
The postcode they ask for to help them identify your account is any that is registered to your account, either your home address or term time address.
When requesting a new password via email you will now receive a web address in the password and secret answer reset emails (not temporary credentials).
Keep your email up to date in your account so that you can use it to login (and to recover login details should you ever forget them).
For more information on funding from Student Finance England please visit their website: www.gov.uk/student-finance.
Please note when you are in the repayments system if you change your home address or name or have a period of residence abroad that exceeds three months you must notify the Student Loans Company of the change promptly or arrears may build up on your account which will need to be paid back on top of any regular payments you may be making at the same time as your tax and National Insurance.
Student Finance England has circulated a warning to all students who receive funding from the Student Loans Company.
Scammers are targeting students around the scheduled payment dates, September, January and April, when you may receive a lot of communications from either Student Finance England or the Student Loans Company.
Scammers are contacting students by email and text message to try to obtain their bank details.
If they succeed, they are then able to withdraw Student Loans Company funding from your bank account.
Student Finance England has advised that they will never ask a student to confirm their bank details by email or and text message.
If a student receives a suspicious message, they should report it to SLC’s Financial Crime Prevention Unit immediately by emailing FCPU_Alerts@slc.co.uk or calling the dedicated hotline on 0300 100 0059.
To help to prevent scammers getting hold of your details remove your email address if it’s online or hide it on social networking sites.
If you have already responded to an email and given your bank details change your bank account password immediately and contact the SLC’s Financial Crime Prevention Unit on the contact details shown above.
Please note this will not affect you if you do not receive funding for living costs from the Student Loans Company.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/student-life/student-support/student-services/careers-service:
We are here to help those seeking further information and advice on careers.
Take a look at the information provided below to find answers to your queries.
How Do I Make An Appointment?
Careers Advisors are available throughout the week from Monday to Friday.
If you have a quick query one of our advisors may be able to give advice immediately but if your query requires a more in-depth guidance interview, then we can make you an appointment.
Appointments are for 45 minutes, but if you require longer then please do let us know.
Where Is The Careers Service Located?
The Careers Service can be found within the Student Centre, Chancellor’s Mall.
Who Can Use The Careers Service At The University Of Bolton?
All current students can access the support and advice provided by the Careers Service.
Also, all graduates from the University of Greater Manchester can access the support for up to three years after graduation.
You will be asked to register with us by completing the necessary paperwork.
I Need To Find A Part-Time Job, Where Do I Look For Work?
You can register with our Job Shop to look for all part-time vacancies and vacation work.
We also have a number of useful guides on finding part-time work and also a list of useful links to part-time employment opportunities.
You can also come into the careers office to talk to an advisor about all of your recruitment needs from completing application forms to interview techniques.
What Kind Of Advice Can You Give Me?
The Careers Service is here to help you with any careers-related issue.
If you are unsure about what you want to do we can help you to assess what you want from a job, get you to think about your skills, motivations, interests and abilities.
We can help with the job-seeking process and help you to apply for vacancies and graduate positions.
We will not tell you what to do or write your CV for you, you must be prepared to get involved.
When Is The Careers Service Open?
The Careers Office is open from 09:00 – 17:00, Monday to Friday.
We have regular appointment slots throughout the week.
There may be less availability during vacation periods please check the website for details.
Can I Get Help With My CV, Covering Letter And Application Form?
A Careers Advisor will help you with all your job application techniques and processes.
They will check over a current CV and give you tips on how to improve it, they will help you to construct a CV and covering letter from scratch and they will happily read over any application forms to provide you with some constructive feedback.
You can also find useful documents and resources in the careers office and on the website regarding the completion of CV’s, covering letters and applying for work.
Can I Undertake A Mock Interview?
You can book an appointment with a Careers Advisor to discuss recruitment best practice and also arrange to undertake a mock interview.
On occasions, we also involve employers in this process.
I Am Interested In Volunteering, How Do I Get Involved?
We have a Volunteering Coordinator based within the Student Experience Team who can help you to explore volunteering opportunities within the university as well as on a local or national basis.
The Coordinator is available between 10:30 and 14:30 Monday to Friday (from 10:00  Wednesday).
We have a variety of opportunities to suit all interests and abilities.
To speak to the Volunteer Coordinator contact us on +44 (0)1204 903 489 or email volunteering@bolton.ac.uk.
What Information And Resources Are Available?
There is an extensive range of resources available.
This includes information specific to employment, career choice, self-employment and postgraduate study.
The Information Staff are on hand to help you to access the most appropriate information for your needs.
Many of our handouts and guides can also be accessed from a website.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/student-life/fees-and-funding/tuition-fees:
We can help you with your questions relating to tuition fees.
There is so much to Bolton for students of all kinds.
Admissions Home Clearing for International Students

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/how-to-apply-and-admissions:
Applying to the University of Bolton is simple, and we are here to help you every step of the way.
For your application to be successful you will need to meet the entry requirements for your chosen course.
General entry requirements can be found here.
In order to process your application as quickly as possible please ensure that all required sections are completed and requested documents (qualifications, references, immigration documents) are enclosed or attached.
International applicants can apply for full-time foundation, Undergraduate and Postgraduate courses via a University of Bolton representative or agent in your country .
Please visit our international applicant’s webpages for their contact details or email us on international@bolton.ac.uk .
To apply directly to the University of Bolton for Undergraduate and Postgraduate taught courses, you can find our online application form in the ‘How to Apply’ section of your chosen course.
To search for the programme you wish to study, you can use our course search function or follow the links to schools and courses via our main website.
For advice and help prior to arriving in the UK please visit the pre-arrival webpages for international applicants.
You can also contact the International Team on +44 (0)1204 903 110 or email international@bolton.ac.uk .
For further information about living and studying in the UK please contact your local British Council Office, please visit the British Council website for details.
For applicants that wish to be considered for a Postgraduate research programme, application instructions are available through our Research and Graduate School, please see the ‘ PGR: How to Apply ’ section for further information.
You will need to submit a downloadable application form to the relevant Research Coordinator.
We recommend that international students use the services of one of our representatives.
They work hard on behalf of our students to make the entire admissions process easier.
Please visit the relevant country listing to find out if there is a University of Greater Manchester representative where you live.
If we do have an in-country agent then we strongly encourage applicants to consider their services.
We can also offer guidance if needed, please email international@bolton.ac.uk for further information.
Our representatives are able to:
Our representatives offer detailed visa counselling (please note there may be a small charge for this service).

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/tutoring-and-peer-support:
At the University of Greater Manchester we recognise that support during your studies goes beyond the academic.
We are
              therefore committed to supporting you through the engagement of a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT).
They are
              key to providing a you with a positive student experience by individually supporting you based on your
              personal needs and academic achievements.
A Personal Academic Tutor provides overarching guidance which is not related to the content of
              individual modules, this includes assisting you to understand the value of feedback, aiding you
              to develop an ability to reflect on your own skills and experience, reviewing progress, planning
              professional development and understanding the value of wider engagement in extra-curricular
              activities.
Personal Academic Tutoring Student Guide
Your Personal Academic Tutor will support your overall academic and personal welfare and signpost you to
additional areas of help within the university if you need it, such as Student Services and the Students' Union .
Your PAT is there to help you identify the skills you wish to develop to make the most of your degree.
They will
            offer guidance on how to act on feedback from modules, lend a hand when you’re creating plans to help
            achieve your academic goals and will help you identify how you can enhance your future career prospects by
            supporting your personal development
It is a good idea to get to know your tutor as early as possible to discuss any early concerns you may have.
Although your tutor may be super supportive, it is always best to think about what you want to get out of the
            meeting, write notes and agree a short list of what to do next by the end of your tutorial.
These will help you
            make practical steps towards reaching your goals and by writing them down, you can review your progress
            down.
Your tutor is there to support your personal, academic and career development throughout your degree and
            can be utilised for catch-ups or to address something more serious.
At the end of your degree, your Personal Academic Tutor will often be your go-to person for references which
            will help you in future employment or further study.
“All of my tutors have explained things very well and provide good support so that we never struggle to
            understand something or struggle to complete a piece of work.
They provide us with really good materials to
            help us and always provide 1:1 support when needed.”
“Tutors are amazing.
Approachable and supportive when required, having one named point of contact really
            helped.”
For general enquiries please contact studentlife@bolton.ac.uk .
To request a Peer Mentor contact peermentoring@bolton.ac.uk .
For more details about Personal Tutoring visit our moodle area or contact personaltutoring@bolton.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/student-life/bolton-ignition-fund:
Looking for an opportunity to ignite your business idea?
Do you have an idea and need funding to start your business journey?
The Bolton Ignition Fund is a competition that gives entrepreneurial students and graduates of less than two years the chance to win the funding.
The University of Greater Manchester is proud to support our student’s ambitions; that’s why the fund offers more than just a winning prize:
Wondering how you can put yourself in contention for these awards?
Students or graduates wishing to take part will need to send in a business canvas model to support their application.**
The application closing date is the 27 March 2023 so register your interest now to avoid missing out!
For more information, please contact the Bolton Business Gateway team at boltonbusinessgateway@bolton.ac.uk .
*Please note – All students or graduates must have a ‘HOME’ status to be eligible for the Bolton Ignition Fund.
**Terms and conditions apply; to see them in detail, please Click here

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/eheap-programme:
Entry to Higher Education Apprenticeship Programme ‘EHEAP’ at the University of Greater Manchester is a ten-week course that will give you the skills and knowledge to progress to a degree apprenticeship.
This does not guarantee a place on a Degree Apprenticeship
You may be entitled to a bursary of £300 to support you while you study.
You will improve your knowledge and skills by completing projects in the following topics:
The University of Greater Manchester will allocate you a personal tutor to support you while you learn.
You will have access to student advisors, disability services, and wellbeing initiatives whilst you study.
You will be supported into a Degree Apprenticeship within, but not limited to; Youth Work, Public Health, Occupational Therapy, Nursing and Physiotherapy.
The University of Greater Manchester's professionally endorsed
                                        BA (Hons) Community Development and Youth Work (Youth Worker Degree
                                        Apprenticeship) allows you to invest in your workforce by combining
                                        university ed...
Our BSc (Hons) Digital and Technology Solutions: Cyber
                                        Security (Degree Apprenticeship Route) allows you to invest in your
                                        workforce by combining university education, work-based learning and
                                        ongoing ...
Our BSc (Hons) Digital and Technology Solutions: Data
                                        Analyst (Degree Apprenticeship Route) allows you to invest in your
                                        workforce by combining university education, work-based learning and
                                        ongoing pr...
Our BSc (Hons) Digital and Technology Solutions:
                                        Network Engineering (Degree Apprenticeship Route) allows you to invest
                                        in your workforce by combining university education, work-based learning
                                        and ong...
Our BSc (Hons) Digital and Technology Solutions:
                                        Software Engineering (Degree Apprenticeship Route) allows you to invest
                                        in your workforce by combining university education, work-based learning
                                        and on...
Our BEng (Hons) Electrical and Electronic Engineering
                                        (Embedded Electronic Systems Design and Development Engineer Degree
                                        Apprenticeship) allows you to invest in your workforce by combining
                                        university...
Our BSc (Hons) Nursing - Registered Nurse Degree
                                        Apprenticeship (RNDA) (Adult) allows you to invest in your workforce by
                                        combining higher education, work-based learning and ongoing professional
                                        develo...
Our BSc (Hons) Nursing - Registered Nurse Degree
                                        Apprenticeship (RNDA) (Mental Health) allows you to invest in your
                                        workforce by combining university education, work-based learning and
                                        ongoing profess...
Our HCPC-approved degree apprenticeship allows you to
                                        invest in your workforce by combining university education, work-based
                                        learning and professional development.
You can offer apprentices
                                        rewarding ...
Our Level 6 CMI-accredited BSc (Hons) Retail Business
                                        Management (Chartered Manager Degree Apprenticeship) allows you to
                                        invest in your workforce by combining university education, work-based
                                        learning...
The University of Greater Manchester's Social Work
                                        England-approved BA (Hons) Social Work (Degree Apprenticeship) allows
                                        you to invest in your workforce by combining university education,
                                        work-based learning and ...
Our PgDip Community Nurse Specialist Practitioner
                                        (District Nursing) degree apprenticeship allows you to invest in your
                                        workforce by combining higher education, work-based learning and ongoing
                                        profess...
Our PgDip Community Nurse Specialist Practitioner
                                        (District Nursing) with (V300) integrated non-medical prescribing degree
                                        apprenticeship allows you to invest in your workforce by combining
                                        higher edu...
Our PgDip Community Nurse Specialist Practitioner
                                        (General Practice Nursing) degree apprenticeship allows you to invest in
                                        your workforce by combining higher education, work-based learning and
                                        ongoing...
Our PgDip Community Nurse Specialist Practitioner
                                        (General Practice Nursing) with integrated V300 (Non-Medical
                                        Prescribing) degree apprenticeship course allows you to invest in your
                                        workforce by combi...
Our FdA Health and Social Care (Assistant Practitioner
                                        (Health) Higher Apprenticeship Route) combines on and off-the-job
                                        learning and development tailored to your workforce needs.
While working
                                        as a v...
Our Level 5 FdSc Nursing Associate (Higher
                                        Apprenticeship Route) allows you to invest in your workforce by
                                        combining University education, work-based learning and ongoing
                                        professional development.
Our NMC-approved PgDip Specialist Community Public
                                        Health Nursing (Health Visitor) Degree Apprenticeship allows you to
                                        invest in your workforce by combining higher education, work-based
                                        learning and o...
Our NMC-approved PgDip Specialist Community Public
                                        Health Nursing (School Nurse) Degree Apprenticeship allows you to invest
                                        in your workforce by combining higher education, work-based learning and
                                        ong...
The University of Greater Manchester's Level 6 CMI-accredited
                                        BSc (Hons) Business Management (Chartered Manager Degree Apprenticeship)
                                        allows you to invest in your workforce by combining university
                                        education, wor...
Our CMI accredited Chartered Manager Degree
                                        Apprenticeship (CMDA) allows you to invest in your workforce by
                                        combining university education, work-based learning and ongoing
                                        professional development lea...
Our JBM-accredited BEng (Hons) Civil Engineering (Civil
                                        Engineer Degree Apprenticeship Route) allows you to invest in your
                                        workforce by combining university education, work-based learning and
                                        ongoing ...
Our BSc (Hons) Construction Project Management
                                        (Construction Site Management Degree Apprenticeship) allows you to
                                        invest in your workforce by combining university education, work-based
                                        learning and on...
Our BSc (Hons) Construction Project Management (Design
                                        and Construction Management Degree Apprenticeship) allows you to invest
                                        in your workforce by combining university education, work-based learning
                                        ...
Our BEng (Hons) Electrical and Electronic Engineering
                                        (Electrical/Electronic Technical Support Engineer Degree Apprenticeship)
                                        allows you to invest in your workforce by combining university
                                        education,...
Our IMechE-accredited BEng (Hons) Mechanical
                                        Engineering (Manufacturing Engineer Degree Apprenticeship) allows you to
                                        invest in your workforce by combining university education, work-based
                                        learning an...
Our IMechE-accredited BEng (Hons) Mechanical
                                        Engineering (Product Design and Development Engineer Degree
                                        Apprenticeship) allows you to invest in your workforce by combining
                                        university education, work-...
The University of Greater Manchester's Level 7 ACCA Strategic
                                        Professional (Accountancy Professional Level 7 Apprenticeship) allows
                                        you to invest in your professional staff by combining university
                                        education, work...
Our MSc Advanced Clinical Practice (Integrated Degree
                                        Apprenticeship) allows you to invest in your workforce by combining
                                        university education, work-based learning and ongoing professional
                                        development...
Our MSc Advanced Clinical Practice (Integrated Degree
                                        Apprenticeship) (Acute Medicine) allows you to invest in your workforce
                                        by combining university education, work-based learning and ongoing
                                        profess...
Our MSc Advanced Clinical Practice (Integrated Degree
                                        Apprenticeship) (Geriatric Medicine) allows you to invest in your
                                        workforce by combining university education, work-based learning and
                                        ongoing pro...
Our MSc Advanced Clinical Practice (Integrated Degree
                                        Apprenticeship) (Mental Health) allows you to invest in your workforce
                                        by combining university education, work-based learning and ongoing
                                        professi...
Our MSc Advanced Clinical Practice (Integrated Degree
                                        Apprenticeship) (Primary Care) allows you to invest in your workforce by
                                        combining university education, work-based learning and ongoing
                                        professio...
Our MSc Advanced Clinical Practice (Integrated Degree
                                        Apprenticeship) (Respiratory) allows you to invest in your workforce by
                                        combining university education, work-based learning and ongoing
                                        profession...
Our MSc Electrical and Electronic Engineering (PG
                                        Engineer Degree Apprenticeship) allows you to invest in your workforce
                                        by combining university education, work-based learning and ongoing
                                        professional...
Our MRes Engineering Management (Postgraduate Engineer
                                        Apprenticeship Route) allows you to invest in your workforce by
                                        combining university education, work-based learning and ongoing
                                        professional deve...
The University of Greater Manchester's Level 5 FdSc Dental
                                        Technology - Higher Apprenticeship Integrated EPA programme allows you
                                        to invest in your employees by combining university education,
                                        work-based learning...
Our MSc Mechanical Engineering (Degree Apprenticeship)
                                        allows you to invest in your workforce by combining university
                                        education, work-based learning and ongoing professional development.
Our PgDip Senior Leader: Heath and Social Care (Degree
                                        Apprenticeship) allows you to invest in your leadership team by
                                        combining university education, work-based learning and professional
                                        development....
The University of Greater Manchester's MSc Systems Engineering
                                        (Electronic) and Engineering Management (Degree Apprenticeship Route)
                                        allows you to invest in your workforce by combining university
                                        education, work-...
The University of Greater Manchester's MSc Systems Engineering
                                        (Mechanical) and Engineering Management (Degree Apprenticeship Route)
                                        allows you to invest in your workforce by combining university
                                        education, work-...
Our MSc Systems Engineering (Mechatronic) and
                                        Engineering Management (Degree Apprenticeship Route) allows you to
                                        invest in your workforce by combining university education, work-based
                                        learning and ong...
In today’s fast-paced job market, traditional pathways to
                                    success are continually evolving.
One of the most promising avenues for
                                    growth is through apprenticeships
Today many employers recognise the value of
                                    apprenticeships as a powerful tool for workforce development.
However,
                                    navigating the world of apprenticeships
The demand for skilled workers with digital expertise is
                                    more important than ever in today’s remote and hybrid landscape.Companies
                                    across various sectors are seeking ways...
I chose this course
                                                as I had been working in the Civil team at Jacobs for 4 years prior
                                                and I wanted to become a qualified civil engineer on a course
                                                that was accredited by the Institution of Civil Engineers (ICE).
By choosing the apprenticeship route, I was able to gain my
                                                degree but also work towards my Incorporated Engineer (IEng)
                                                status with the ICE at the same time.
I thoroughly enjoyed the site surveying module as we went outside
                                                and used the total stations and dumpy levels.
Using the
                                                equipment outside made it much easier to understand [its]
                                                purpose as we could physically use it and see what it did.
Show
                                                        more There was a good mix of assignments, practical work and
                                                        exams, with the assignments and [practicals] also being
                                                        a mix of individual work and teamwork in groups.
[Lastly], the Moodle page is a tool that supported me
                                                        greatly throughout my apprenticeships.
If you ever need
                                                        to find anything relating to modules you will find it on
                                                        Moodle.
My main goal when starting at Jacobs was to become a
                                                        qualified Civil Engineer with IEng status and the
                                                        apprenticeship has allowed me to achieve this.
[I]
                                                        initially wanted to pass my degree and gain a 2:1,
                                                        however, due to the course, I was able to surpass this
                                                        goal and achieve first class honours.
There was a good mix of assignments, practical work and
                                                        exams, with the assignments and [practicals] also being
                                                        a mix of individual work and teamwork in groups.
I feel that by
                                                applying my newly attained professional knowledge and skills, I
                                                have a different style of management and believe that I am a
                                                more effective leader.
Embodying the values of CMI has allowed me to demonstrate
                                                integrity and effective leadership skills.
I have also developed
                                                in confidence, resilience and I’m much more agile, resulting in
                                                being more creative and innovative within my role.
The University of
                                                Bolton has exceeded my expectations.
The facilities are fantastic, with up-to-date
                                                        laboratories creating an engaging environment, conducive
                                                        to learning.
Teaching staff deliver interesting lectures,
                                                                backed up with 'real life' anecdotal
                                                                evidence.
My time on placement
                                                so far has been great!
We’ve completed different tasks such as:
                                                engaging with other agencies, running our own groups, meeting
                                                service users on campus and experiencing supervision.
I have
                                                learnt a lot up until now and only just realised how many phone
                                                calls or emails social workers must make to chase something up.
It also helps massively with our tutors on campus offering us
                                                support when needed.
I’m looking forward to tackling new
                                                challenges and roles on placement andbuild on my
                                                experience.
Undertaking the
                                                apprenticeship degree has enabled me to develop both personally
                                                and professionally.
Engaging and sharing experience with
                                                colleagues on the course has enabled me to take a different view
                                                on similar scenarios within my own role, enabling me to be more
                                                dynamic in how I approach problems.
The work life balance is
                                                tough, and that shouldn’t be underestimated, but the rewards are
                                                well worth it.
One of the most valuable aspects is mixing with
                                                people from all sectors and industries.
The challenges we see
                                                have breadth and depth, and how we approach them is so
                                                varied!
The University of Greater Manchester is ranked 1st in the Northwest for Teaching Quality and
                                is a Top 30 Ranked Guardian University.
Our industry leading tutors, and
                                award-winning student satisfaction make us the friendly uni with a big
                                reputation.
It is an impartial assessment of whether or not you have developed the skills, knowledge
                                            and behaviours outlined in the apprenticeship standard.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/course/CST002-F-UOB-SS:
The University of Bolton's professionally endorsed BA (Hons) Community Development and Youth Work (Youth Worker Degree Apprenticeship) allows you to invest in your workforce by combining university education, work-based learning and ongoing professional development.
While working as valuable members of your team, your apprentices can develop the knowledge, skills and behaviours needed to facilitate young people's personal, social and educational development.
23/09/2025
The BA (Hons) Community Development and Youth Work (Youth Worker Degree Apprenticeship) is designed to meet the integrated degree apprenticeship standard for Youth Workers (ST0522).
Developed by employers, the standard underpins a highly relevant qualification and professional development pathway that educates youth workers to actively engage young people in making sense of the issues that affect their lives, work towards improvement and respond to problems and needs through empowerment and active participation.
Graduates of this apprenticeship will be eligible for qualified youth worker status.
Many professionals work with young people, but youth work is unique in its voluntary relationship with young people – young people choose to engage with the youth work professional.
This dynamic sector needs youth workers with flexible, transversal and adaptive knowledge, skills and attitudes who can support all young people, including those facing challenges such as social disadvantage, family difficulties, housing and homelessness, loneliness and exclusion, addiction, health and wellbeing issues.
We'll help your apprentices learn how to build connections and trust with young individuals to help these young people build resilience and character and the confidence and life skills they need to live, learn, work and achieve.
In addition, employers can expect graduate apprentices to possess a wide range of transferable skills, such as presentation, oral and written communication, the ability to problem solve and work independently and deal with complex and challenging situations, advocacy and empathy, resilience, teamwork and the ability to understand and work with people from all backgrounds.
The University of Bolton's BA (Hons) Community Development and Youth Work (Professionally Endorsed) (Youth Worker Integrated Degree Apprenticeship) offers dual professional recognition.
It is professionally endorsed by the Joint Negotiating Committee (JNC) for Youth Work (as validated by the National Youth Agency (NYA) Education and Training Standards Committee).
The Endorsement and Quality Standards Board for Community Development Learning (ESB) also professionally recognises it.
Successful achievement of the BA (Hons) Community Development and Youth Work (Professionally Endorsed) (Youth Worker Integrated Degree Apprenticeship) confers professionally qualified status for youth workers in England.
Apprentices will not be expected to pay tuition fees towards this programme.
If your organisation has a wage bill of more than £3 million per annum, then it may be able to fund this apprenticeship through its Apprenticeship Levy contributions.
If your organisation does not pay the levy, it will be eligible for government support to fund apprenticeships.
This support, called co-investment, covers 95% of the apprenticeship's tuition fees, with your organisation funding the remaining 5% of the fees.
Apprentices will need to be employed by your organisation for a minimum of 30 hours per week.
Your organisation will also need to commit to sponsoring apprentices to complete this qualification.
For further information on how your organisation can access funds to support apprentices, 
    please e-mail apprentices@greatermanchester.ac.uk .
Whether you’re an employer, employee or school leaver, please visit our Apprenticeship web page for support and advice regarding apprenticeships.
There are no bursaries associated with this programme.
Please contact the programme leader for details of the application procedure.
You can find their name, email address and phone number in the Programme Contacts section of this page.
For support and advice regarding apprenticeships, please visit our Apprenticeship web page .
This degree apprenticeship offers a flexible and adaptable approach to developing skills, knowledge and behaviours required for a career working with young people and making a real difference in the lives of young people and their communities.
To make this course as beneficial as possible for you and your apprentices, we apply a range of learning, teaching and assessment methods, including online delivery and engagement where appropriate.
These are designed to fully engage apprentices, helping them to develop the skills, knowledge, self-awareness and behaviours essential to become a youth worker, with particular reference to your organisation and their place within it.
Learning focuses on your workplace environment and builds the transferable body of knowledge and skills demanded to achieve professional JNC recognition as a youth worker and apply this expertise within your organisation.
Your apprentices will spend the majority of their time gaining on-the-job knowledge and experience.
They will also spend at least six hours per week undertaking off-the-job learning, including studying at the university.
To complement lectures that introduce the course content, seminars and group-based activities allow apprentices to explore subjects in greater detail.
Tutorials enable them to clarify their understanding of the topics we cover in lectures and seminars.
We use case studies and practical scenarios to help apprentices apply their newly acquired academic knowledge to real-life situations and gain valuable insights into contemporary practice in youth work.
We'll also expect apprentices to undertake considerable guided independent study; for instance, library research and background reading, preparing for seminar and tutorial activities, and working on assignments.
Professional practitioners from the community development and youth work field will contribute as guest speakers, offering your apprentices the chance to further develop their knowledge and understanding.
Our assessment methods are varied and relevant to youth work.
For example, the course requires apprentices to submit written reports, give presentations, develop their portfolio, write essays and reflective accounts, participate actively in group discussions and undertake practical skills assessments.
Some assessments contribute to their final module marks.
Others help them identify their strengths and weaknesses, showing where they need to seek extra support from course tutors and university student services.
BA (Hons) Community Development and Youth Studies (top-up) Full-time
BA (Hons) Community Development and Youth Studies (top-up) Part-time
Andrea Walker
A.Walker2@bolton.ac.uk
+44 (0)1204 903752
Paula Connaughton
P.Connaughton@bolton.ac.uk
+44 (0)1204 903764
Joey Weber
J.Weber@bolton.ac.uk
+44 (0)1204 903708
Kevin Burke
K.Burke@bolton.ac.uk
+44 (0)1204 903698
Apprenticeship Enquiries
apprentices@greatermanchester.ac.uk
+44 (0)1204 903940

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/course/COM032-F-UOB-SS:
Our BSc (Hons) Digital and Technology Solutions: Cyber Security (Degree Apprenticeship Route) allows you to invest in your workforce by combining university education, work-based learning and ongoing professional development.
While working as a valuable part of your team, apprentices can develop the knowledge and skills needed to implement, maintain and support the security controls that protect your organisation's computer systems and data assets from threats and hazards.
The BSc (Hons) Digital and Technology Solutions: Cyber Security (Degree Apprenticeship Route) is designed to meet the Digital and Technology Solutions Professional (ST0119) degree apprenticeship standard.
Developed by employers in collaboration with higher education institutions, the standard underpins a highly relevant qualification and professional development pathway that educates cyber security specialists who possess a broad understanding of network infrastructure, software and data to identify where threats and hazards can occur, and have the skills to implement, maintain and support security controls that prevent and protect against attacks.
Employers can expect graduate apprentices to have developed a wide range of technical, professional and interpersonal skills, such as attention to detail, team working, communication and analytical skills, time management, problem-solving and lifelong learning.
We apply a range of learning, teaching, and assessment methods to make this course as beneficial as possible for you and your apprentices.
These are designed to fully engage apprentices, helping them develop the skills, knowledge, self-awareness and behaviours essential to become a cyber security specialist.
Learning focuses on your workplace environment and builds the transferable body of knowledge and skills demanded of a graduate network engineer and how to apply this expertise within your organisation.
Teaching is structured to allow day-release study.
The programme is divided into a number of modules, some based at the University while others are work-based.
Your apprentices will spend most of their time in the workplace, with a minimum of six hours per week being devoted to off-the-job training and university learning.
For the modules based at the University, apprentices will be required to attend timetabled lectures, seminars, workshops, demonstrations, practical sessions and tutorials.
The University's virtual learning environment, Moodle, will also support learning.
For the work-based modules, your apprentices will need to build a portfolio of evidence about their work and the projects they undertake in the workplace.
Crucially they must demonstrate learning in this portfolio that meets the objectives required of the module.
Your organisation will need to work with the University's academic supervisor to agree on a range of projects and activities that offer suitable development opportunities for your apprentice.
For all modules, apprentices will also be expected to allocate significant time to independent and self-directed studies.
For example, background reading, revisiting practical work, preparing for seminars, and working on assignments will support their timetabled learning and develop good habits for lifelong learning.
We assess each apprentice's individual performance through a strategic blend of assignments, projects, in-class tests, examinations and presentations.
Some assessments contribute to their final module marks, while others are designed to help them identify their strengths and weaknesses, and show where they need to seek extra support from course tutors.
In addition to the assessments associated with the degree programme, apprentices will undertake the synoptic end point assessment at the end of the apprenticeship period.
This is designed to ensure they meet all the elements of the degree apprenticeship standard, including the knowledge, skills and behaviours (KSB) requirements.
BSc (Hons) Cyber Security Part-time
MSc Cloud and Network Security Part-time
MSc Data Analytics and Technologies   Part-time
Bren Tighe
B.Tighe@bolton.ac.uk
+44 (0)1204 903556

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/course/COM030-F-UOB-SS:
Our BSc (Hons) Digital and Technology Solutions: Data Analyst (Degree Apprenticeship Route) allows you to invest in your workforce by combining university education, work-based learning and ongoing professional development.
While working as a valuable part of your team, your apprentices can develop the knowledge and skills needed to collect, organise and study data to provide and communicate new business insight for your organisation.
The BSc (Hons) Digital and Technology Solutions: Data Analyst (Degree Apprenticeship Route) is designed to meet the Digital and Technology Solutions Professional (ST0119) degree apprenticeship standard.
Developed by employers in collaboration with higher education institutions, the standard underpins a highly relevant qualification and professional development pathway that educates data analysts who possess a deep technical understanding of data quality and data analysis processes and methods, as well as a sound knowledge of data protection and legal issues, and the fundamentals of data structures, database system design, implementation, maintenance and data architecture.
Employers can expect graduate apprentices to have developed a wide range of technical, professional and interpersonal skills, such as attention to detail, team working, problem-solving, communication and presentation skills, time management, and lifelong learning.
These are designed to fully engage apprentices, helping them develop the skills, knowledge, self-awareness and behaviours essential to becoming a data analyst.
Learning focuses on your workplace environment.
We'll support your apprentices to build the transferable body of knowledge and skills demanded of a graduate data analyst and learn how to apply this expertise within your organisation.
MSc Software Engineering Part-time

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/course/COM029-F-UOB-SS:
Our BSc (Hons) Digital and Technology Solutions: Network Engineering (Degree Apprenticeship Route) allows you to invest in your workforce by combining university education, work-based learning and ongoing professional development.
While working as a valuable part of your team, your apprentices can develop the knowledge and skills needed to design, install, maintain, and support communication networks, anticipating and responding to your organisation's needs.
The BSc (Hons) Digital and Technology Solutions: Network Engineering (Degree Apprenticeship Route) is designed to meet the Digital and Technology Solutions Professional (ST0119) degree apprenticeship standard.
Developed by employers in collaboration with higher education institutions, the standard underpins a highly relevant qualification and professional development pathway that educates network engineers who possess the deep technical understanding of networks and operating systems required to secure networks and computers against internal and external threats effectively.
Employers can expect graduate apprentices to have developed a wide range of technical, professional and interpersonal skills, such as customer focus, attention to detail, teamwork, communication and analytical skills, time management, organisation and lifelong learning.
These are designed to fully engage apprentices, helping them develop the skills, knowledge, self-awareness and behaviours essential to become a network engineer.
We'll support your apprentices to build the transferable body of knowledge and skills demanded of a graduate network engineer and learn how to apply this expertise within your organisation.
The widely recognised Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) curriculum is embedded in the course.
Over three modules, apprentices will be expected to study the Cisco CCNA materials and practical exercises needed to prepare for the Cisco CCNA qualification.
Completing each of the three modules successfully will earn them a Cisco Certificate.
If they complete Cisco's final CCNA assessment, they will gain the industry-standard CCNA qualification.
The CCNA exam can be taken at the University of Bolton as we are an authorised Cisco Test Centre.
Please note, the additional cost of the CCNA examinations will need to be met by either the employer or the apprentice.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/course/COM028-F-UOB-SS:
Our BSc (Hons) Digital and Technology Solutions: Software Engineering (Degree Apprenticeship Route) allows you to invest in your workforce by combining university education, work-based learning and ongoing professional development.
While working as a valuable part of your team, your apprentices can develop the knowledge and skills to design, build, and test high-quality software solutions and respond to your organisation's needs.
The BSc (Hons) Digital and Technology Solutions: Software Engineering (Degree Apprenticeship Route) is designed to meet the Digital and Technology Solutions Professional (ST0119) degree apprenticeship standard.
Developed by employers in collaboration with higher education institutions, the standard underpins a highly relevant qualification and professional development pathway that educates software engineers who can design, build and test high-quality software solutions, and apply engineering principles to all stages of the software development process whilst ensuring security robustness is built in.
Software engineers may work at any stage of the software development life cycle.
Duties can include producing project requirements, writing algorithms, coding, testing, deployment, or maintenance.
Employers can expect graduate apprentices to have developed a wide range of technical, professional, interpersonal and business skills, such as advanced IT skills, analytical skills, communication, creativity and innovation, independence, logic, numeracy, project management and organisation.
These are designed to fully engage apprentices, helping them develop the skills, knowledge, self-awareness and behaviours essential to becoming a software engineer.
We'll support your apprentices to build the transferable body of knowledge and skills demanded of a graduate software engineer and learn how to apply this expertise within your organisation.
For the modules based at the University, apprentices will be required to attend timetabled lectures, seminars, workshops, practical sessions and tutorials.
Learning will also be supported by the University's virtual learning environment, Moodle.
BEng (Hons) Software Engineering With Foundation Year Full-time

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/course/ELR008-F-UOB-SS:
Our BEng (Hons) Electrical and Electronic Engineering (Embedded Electronic Systems Design and Development Engineer Degree Apprenticeship) allows you to invest in your workforce by combining university education, work-based learning, and ongoing professional development.
While working as a valuable part of your team, your apprentices can gain the skills and knowledge needed to design and develop electronic circuits, devices and systems for a range of industries.
22/09/2025, 26/01/2026
The BEng (Hons) Electrical and Electronic Engineering (Embedded Electronic Systems Design and Development Engineer Degree Apprenticeship) programme is designed to meet the Level 6 Embedded Electronic Systems Design and Development Engineer Apprenticeship Standard (ST0151).
Developed by employers, consultants and contractors, the apprenticeship standard underpins a highly relevant qualification and professional development pathway.
It prepares apprentices to develop the next generations of products, such as smartphones, electric vehicles, communications satellites, and smart grids, as well as bring concepts such as connected devices and smart cities into reality.
In addition to technical knowledge, this programme offers degree apprentices the opportunity to develop a range of key employability skills.
These include using specialist knowledge creatively and innovatively to solve problems, produce and interpret technical solutions, and explain design ideas.
They'll also gain experience in effective communication (spoken and written), good teamwork, project and time management, and strong decision-making.
Electrical and electronic engineering is a diverse and multi-faceted discipline, so we use a wide range of teaching and learning methods.
These are designed to fully engage apprentices, helping them develop the skills, knowledge, self-awareness, and behaviours essential to becoming an Incorporated Engineer (IEng), with particular reference to your organisation and their place within it.
Learning focuses on your workplace environment and works towards building the transferable body of knowledge and skills demanded to achieve IEng status and apply this expertise within your organisation.
They will also complete at least six hours per week of off-the-job learning, including studying at the university.
Formally timetabled classes, including lectures, tutorials, and tutor-led in-class exercises, along with case studies, laboratories, investigations and assignments, in groups and individually.
All these activities are designed to help apprentices acquire and develop appropriate concepts, knowledge and skills.
Other teaching methods, such as open-ended projects and design, make and test activities, provide opportunities to develop creativity and innovation skills.
These are designed to meet the professional body accreditation requirements and help apprentices apply, assimilate, and integrate their understanding of the course material.
Personal study time is required, along with online learning in the form of maintaining an electronic personal development plan (ePDP).
As your apprentices progress through the programme, their studies will become less structured and more open-ended in nature as they develop as independent learners.
Your organisation will need to provide each apprentice with a workplace mentor to support their development.
They will also benefit from regular visits from a University tutor.
The workplace mentor, University tutor and apprentice will work together to create the individual learning plan required to progress the apprentice's professional body membership.
For the degree element of this programme, we assess each apprentice's individual performance through a strategic blend of project or design reports, examinations, portfolios, presentations, and other assignments.
Some assessments contribute to their final module marks, while others are designed to help them identify their strengths and weaknesses, and where they need to seek extra support from course tutors.
In addition to the assessments associated with the degree programme, apprentices will undertake an end point assessment at the end of the apprenticeship period.
BEng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering (Degree Apprenticeship) Part-time
MSc Systems Engineering (Electronic) and Engineering Management Part-time
MSc Systems Engineering (Electronic) and Engineering Management (Degree Apprenticeship Route) Part-time
MSc Electrical and Electronic Engineering Part-time
Engineering Apprenticeship Enquiry Team
Your first point of contact for details on how to apply and questions about the apprenticeship
eng.apprentice@bolton.ac.uk
Zhen Qiu
Degree Apprenticeship Course Admission Tutor
Z.Qiu@bolton.ac.uk
+44 (0)1204 903830

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/course/NRS014-F-UOB-SS:
Our BSc (Hons) Nursing - Registered Nurse Degree Apprenticeship (RNDA) (Adult) allows you to invest in your workforce by combining higher education, work-based learning and ongoing professional development.
While working as a valuable member of your team, your apprentices can develop the knowledge, skills and behaviours needed to promote health and wellbeing for people and communities and give care, advice and support to sick, injured or disabled people.
15/09/2025, 19/01/2026
The University of Greater Manchester's BSc (Hons) Nursing - Registered Nurse Degree Apprenticeship (RNDA) (Adult) is designed to meet the Degree Apprenticeship Standard for Registered Nurse (ST0781).
Developed by employers, the standard underpins a highly relevant qualification and professional development pathway that educates apprentices to provide nursing care for people with complex and concurrent mental, physical, cognitive and behavioural care needs and people at the end of their lives.
Upon successfully completing the RNDA, graduates will possess the knowledge and skills needed to perform as independent, highly competent, compassionate nurses.
Employers can expect them to have a wide range of transferable skills, such as the ability to work independently, adapt to changing circumstances, work in teams and groups, and listen and respond to customers and their needs.
They will be adept at planning and time management, rational decision making, critical thinking, physical assessment, and possess excellent communication skills.
Our RNDA programme also offers a well-recognised career advancement pathway for qualified nursing associates and assistant practitioners.
It may be possible for employees who already hold an appropriate foundation degree to top up their qualifications and become adult nurses in two years or less (the maximum possible exemption is 50% of the programme).
This proven route recognises their prior learning and experience and allows them to take on full nursing responsibilities more quickly.
The course is approved by the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC).
On successful completion of the programme, graduate apprentices will be eligible to apply for professional registration with the NMC.
Successful apprentices will be awarded a BSc (Hons) Nursing (Adult) from the University of Greater Manchester and a degree apprenticeship certificate from the relevant awarding body.
Modern healthcare professionals require a range of skills and values.
Our tutors will work with your organisation to ensure your apprentices gain experience in various clinical scenarios designed to develop their skills in a safe and supportive environment.
Learning focuses on your workplace environment and builds the transferable body of knowledge and skills required to achieve professional registration with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) as an adult nurse and apply this expertise within your organisation.
Your apprentices will be supernumerary throughout the programme to enable them to achieve the NMC requirements to enter the register and fulfil the required level of off-the-job training specified for apprenticeships by the Department for Education (DfE).
The course explores the concepts of health and ill-health within the adult population and the key sciences in nursing, including the biosciences, psychology and sociology.
Topics such as assessment, care planning, law, ethics and the importance of communication with service users and healthcare colleagues are covered.
Apprentices will have the opportunity to learn about the importance of research and how its application in healthcare can transform the lives of patients and their carers, along with how to access and assess the latest research and incorporate their findings into care plans and intervention strategies.
We'll work to help your apprentices gain key transferable skills, including the ability to work independently, adapt to changing circumstances, work in teams and groups, and listen and respond to customers and their needs.
We'll also encourage them to develop planning and time management, rational decision making, critical thinking, physical assessment and communication skills during their studies.
We aim for your apprentices to grow into compassionate, kind and empathetic practitioners who respect and support patient privacy, dignity and individuality, and make safe and effective clinical decisions.
For theory-based modules, we use a blended learning approach that includes lectures, presentations, simulations delivered by tutors, seminar discussions, small group workshops, small group and one-to-one tutorials, virtual learning environments (VLE) and e-learning packages.
To help support your apprentices' learning, we'll offer additional study skills sessions covering areas such as essay writing, numeracy, library skills and electronic searching.
Inter-professional health and social care practitioners will also contribute as guest speakers, offering your apprentices the chance to further develop their knowledge and understanding.
A range of assessment methods will be used, including essays, reports, presentations, portfolios, objective structured clinical examinations (OSCE), traditional examinations, and assessment of practice within the practice setting.
Some assessments contribute to their final module marks, while others are designed to help them identify their strengths and weaknesses and where they need to seek extra support from course tutors.
BSc (Hons) Nursing (Adult) [Lancashire Teaching Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust] Full-time
BSc (Hons) Nursing (Adult) [Bolton NHS Foundation Trust] Full-time
BSc (Hons) Nursing (Adult) [Wrightington, Wigan and Leigh NHS Foundation Trust] Full-time
BSc (Hons) Nursing (Adults) [Manchester University NHS Foundation Trust] Full-time
BSc (Hons) Nursing (Adult) [Petroc College Satellite Nursing Centre] Full-time
Petroc Satellite Nursing Centre
BSc (Hons) Nursing (Adult) [Bradford Satellite Nursing Centre] Full-time
BSc (Hons) Nursing (Children) Full-time
BSc (Hons) Nursing-  Registered Nurse Degree Apprenticeship (Mental Health) Full-time
BSc (Hons) Nursing - Registered Nurse Degree Apprenticeship  Part-time
56 Months
MSc Clinical Practice Part-time
48 Months
MSc Community Public Health Nursing (top-up) Part-time
PgDip Health and Social Care Part-time
MSc Community Health Care Nursing (top-up) Part-time
MSc Nursing Post-registration Full-time
MSc Nursing Post-registration Part-time
PgDip Community Nurse Specialist Practitioner (District Nursing) Full-time
53 Weeks
PgDip Community Nurse Specialist Practitioner (General Practice Nursing) Full-time
PgDip Specialist Community Public Health Nursing (Health Visiting) Full-time
PgDip Specialist Community Public Health Nursing (School Nursing) Full-time
Chrissie Barker
C.Barker@bolton.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/course/NRS010-F-UOB-SS:
Our BSc (Hons) Nursing - Registered Nurse Degree Apprenticeship (RNDA) (Mental Health) allows you to invest in your workforce by combining university education, work-based learning and ongoing professional development.
While working as valuable team members, your apprentices can develop the knowledge, skills and behaviours needed to give care, advice and support to people with mental health needs.
15/09/2025
The University of Greater Manchester's BSc (Hons) Nursing - Registered Nurse Degree Apprenticeship (RNDA) (Mental Health) is designed to meet the Degree Apprenticeship Standard for Registered Nurse (ST0781).
Developed by employers, the standard underpins a highly relevant qualification and professional development pathway that educates apprentices to provide nursing care for people with complex and concurrent mental, physical, cognitive and behavioural care needs.
It may be possible for employees who already hold an appropriate foundation degree to top up their qualifications and become mental health nurses in two years or less (the maximum possible exemption is 50% of the programme).
Successful apprentices will be awarded a BSc (Hons) Nursing (Mental Health) from the University of Bolton and a degree apprenticeship certificate from the relevant awarding body.
Learning focuses on your workplace environment and builds the transferable body of knowledge and skills required to achieve professional registration with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) as a mental health nurse and apply this expertise within your organisation.
Your apprentices will be supernumerary throughout the programme to enable them to achieve the NMC requirements to enter the register and fulfil the required level of off-the-job training specified for apprenticeships by the Education and Skills Funding Agency.
The course explores the concepts of mental health within the population, and the key sciences in nursing, including the biosciences, psychology and sociology.
We'll also encourage them to develop planning and time management, rational decision-making, critical thinking, physical assessment and communication skills during their studies.
Tutorials give them the opportunity to clarify their understanding of the topics we cover in lectures and seminars.
We use case studies and practical scenarios to help apprentices apply their newly acquired academic knowledge to their nursing practice and gain valuable insights into contemporary healthcare.
Apprentices will also be expected to undertake considerable guided independent study; for instance, library research and background reading, preparing for seminar and tutorial activities and working on assignments.
To help support your apprentices' learning, the University offers additional study skills sessions, such as essay writing, library skills and electronic searching, and numeracy.
A range of assessment methods will be used, including essays, reports, presentations, portfolios, set exercises via multiple-choice questions, objective structured clinical examinations (OSCEs), traditional examinations, and assessment of practice within the practice setting.
BSc (Hons) Operating Department Practice Full-time
BSc (Hons) Nursing - Registered Nurse Degree Apprenticeship  Full-time
MSc Health and Social Care Part-time
MSc Advanced Clinical Practice Part-time
MSc Advanced Clinical Practice (Integrated Degree Apprenticeship) Part-time
Nursing and Midwifery Team
Email Enquiries
nursing@bolton.ac.uk
Hannah Kerry
H.Kerry@bolton.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/course/HLT049-F-UOB-SS:
Our HCPC-approved degree apprenticeship allows you to invest in your workforce by combining university education, work-based learning and professional development.
You can offer apprentices rewarding careers as registered Operating Department Practitioners.
While working as a valuable part of your team, apprentices can gain the skills and knowledge needed to provide a high standard of patient-focused care during the anaesthetic, surgical and recovery phases of a patient's surgical journey.
Operating department practice is an exciting, fast-changing field with opportunities to work across different surgical and anaesthesia specialities.
The BSc (Hons) Operating Department Practice (Degree Apprenticeship) programme is designed to meet the Operating Department Practitioner (Integrated Degree) Level 6 Apprenticeship Standard (ST0582).
This highly practical degree apprenticeship aims to develop clinical knowledge, skills and behaviours for working in operating theatres and wider perioperative settings.
After graduation, and once your apprentice has registered as an Operating Department Practitioner (ODP) with the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC), they will be able to take responsibility for a patient's welfare and personalise their care.
They will be qualified to work as part of a multidisciplinary team in any of the three phases of perioperative care – anaesthesia, surgery or recovery – or in a role that combines all these areas.
The course is approved by the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC).
On successful completion of the programme, your apprentices may apply to the HCPC to join the register for Operating Department Practitioners (ODPs).
Whilst studying this course, apprentices are not currently required to register as a member with the HCPC.
However, they must follow the HCPC's standards of proficiency and standards of conduct, performance and ethics.
Apprentices will be required to sign a declaration of ongoing fitness to practise at regular intervals during their studies.
After qualifying as an ODP, your apprentices will need to be committed to learning and always keep their skills and knowledge up-to-date.
To maintain their registration to practice with the HCPC, they will need to continue to meet the HCPC's standards of proficiency, and conduct, performance and ethics standards.
Operating department practice is a multi-faceted discipline, so we use a wide range of teaching and learning methods, including online, where appropriate.
These are designed to fully engage apprentices, helping them develop the skills, knowledge, self-awareness, and behaviours essential for success in this field.
Learning focuses on your workplace environment – your apprentices will spend the majority of their normal working week in practice gaining on-the-job knowledge and experience.
They will also be required to devote a minimum of six hours of their time per week to university learning and independent study (classified as off-the-job training).
As well as attending timetabled lectures, tutorials, discussions, demonstrations and computer-aided learning sessions, apprentices will also be expected to allocate significant time to independent and self-directed studies.
For example, building a portfolio of evidence, background reading, revisiting practical work, preparing for seminars, working on assignments and revising for exams will support their timetabled learning and develop good habits for lifelong learning.
Our friendly and supportive tutors will be here to guide them and will gladly help them devise an independent study regime focused on their individual development needs.
Your organisation will need to provide each apprentice with a workplace supervisor to support their development.
They will also benefit from regular visits from a university tutor.
The workplace supervisor, university tutor and apprentice will work together to create an individual learning plan.
For the degree element of this programme, we assess each apprentice's performance through a strategic blend of assignments, practical assessments, projects, oral presentations (including viva voce) and formal examinations.
In addition to the assessments associated with the degree programme, apprentices will undertake the end point assessment (EPA), at the end of the apprenticeship period.
Apprentices are also required to develop learning logs/professional development plans and build up a skills portfolio in preparation for the EPA.
Gina Lewis
Senior Lecturer and Joint Programme Leader
G.Lewis@bolton.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/course/BAM002-F-UOB-SS:
Our Level 6 CMI-accredited BSc (Hons) Retail Business Management (Chartered Manager Degree Apprenticeship) allows you to invest in your workforce by combining university education, work-based learning and ongoing professional development towards Chartered Manager status.
While working as a valuable part of your team, your apprentices can gain strong retail-focused leadership and management expertise, ready to tackle complex business challenges in one of the largest economic sectors.
This retail-focused programme is designed to meet the Chartered Manager Degree Apprenticeship (CMDA) standard for Leadership and Management (ST0272).
Developed by employers in collaboration with higher education institutions and the Chartered Management Institute (CMI), the standard underpins a highly relevant qualification and professional development pathway that educates retail business managers who can take responsibility for people, projects, operations and services to deliver long-term organisational success.
It's designed to educate professional managers capable of managing complexity and delivering impact at both strategic and operational levels.
Employers can expect graduate apprentices to be skilled in strategic decision-making, setting direction and achieving results, building and leading teams, clear communication, developing skills and motivating others, fostering inclusive and ethical cultures, leading change, project management, financial management, innovation, risk management, and developing stakeholder relationships.
Overall, our BSc (Hons) Retail Business Management (Chartered Manager Degree Apprenticeship) is designed to prepare apprentices to take management and leadership responsibility for setting and delivering organisational objectives through a wide range of functions relevant to retail organisations.
This programme is accredited by the Chartered Management Institute (CMI), the leading professional body for managers in the UK and Europe.
Successful apprentices will have the option to apply for professional recognition as Chartered Managers and Members of the Chartered Management Institute (CMgr MCMI).
Chartered Manager is the highest professional status that can be achieved in leadership and management in the UK.
Successful apprentices will be awarded the BSc (Hons) Retail Business Management from the University of Bolton and a degree apprenticeship certificate from the relevant awarding body.
To make this course as beneficial as possible for you and your apprentices, we apply a range of learning, teaching and assessment methods, including face-to-face and online.
These are designed to fully engage apprentices, helping them to develop the skills, knowledge, self-awareness and behaviours essential to become a Chartered Manager, with particular reference to your organisation and their place within it.
Learning focuses on your workplace environment and builds the transferable body of knowledge and skills demanded to achieve Chartered Manager status and apply this expertise within your organisation.
Tutorials allow them to clarify their understanding of the topics we cover in lectures and seminars.
We use case studies and practical scenarios to help apprentices apply their newly acquired academic knowledge to real-life problems and gain valuable insights into contemporary practice in a working retail environment.
Apprentices will also be expected to undertake considerable guided independent study; for instance, library research, virtual learning and background reading, preparing for seminar and tutorial activities, and working on assignments.
Guest lectures and presentations by a variety of visiting speakers from relevant employment areas will offer apprentices the chance to develop their knowledge and understanding further.
Our assessment methods are designed to reflect what will be required of Chartered Managers in retail business management settings.
For example, the course requires apprentices to submit written reports, give presentations, develop their portfolio, complete a work-based project, and practice interviewing and coaching skills.
We also expect them to take written exams, write essays and reflective accounts, and play an active part in group discussions.
Some assessments contribute to their final module marks, while others are designed to help them identify their strengths and weaknesses.
This shows where they need to seek extra support from course tutors.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/course/CST013-F-UOB-SS:
The University of Bolton's Social Work England-approved BA (Hons) Social Work (Degree Apprenticeship) allows you to invest in your workforce by combining university education, work-based learning and ongoing professional development.
While working as valuable members of your team, your apprentices can develop the knowledge, skills and behaviours needed to support people in complex and challenging situations and bring about positive changes for individuals, families and communities.
The BA (Hons) Social Work (Degree Apprenticeship) is designed to meet the integrated degree apprenticeship standard for Social Workers (ST0510).
Developed by employers, the standard underpins a highly relevant qualification and professional development pathway that educates social workers to provide help and support directly to individuals, couples, families and groups, and support people who face a range of challenges such as poverty, mental health issues, addiction and family problems.
Social workers may provide one-to-one support such as therapy and counselling or connect people with community resources to help them overcome their problems.
Employers can expect graduate apprentices to possess a wide range of transferable skills, such as resilience, advanced communication and negotiation skills, as well as the ability to manage conflict and exercise authority in complex situations, manage risk to self, service users and colleagues, and enable others to achieve their goals.
The Role of Social Work England Social Work England is a specialist body that regulates social workers in England so that people receive the best possible support whenever they might need it in life.
Standards Social Work England have created standards in partnership with everyone who has an interest in social work.
These standards set out the requirements that Social Work England expect social workers and social work courses to meet.
These are Professional Standards and Education and Training Standards.
On successful completion of this course, apprentices will have been assessed as meeting the professional standards required by Social Work England and the professional capabilities for qualifying social workers.
As a result, they will be eligible to apply for registration with Social Work England as a Social Worker.
These are designed to fully engage apprentices, helping them to develop the skills, knowledge, self-awareness and behaviours essential to become a social worker, with particular reference to your organisation and their place within it.
Learning focuses on your workplace environment and builds the transferable body of knowledge and skills demanded to achieve professional registration with Social Work England as a social worker and apply this expertise within your organisation.
They will also complete at least six hours per week in off-the-job learning, including studying at the university.
We use case studies and practical scenarios to help apprentices apply their newly acquired academic knowledge to real-life problems and gain valuable insights into contemporary practice in social work.
Apprentices will also be expected to undertake considerable guided independent study; for instance, library research and background reading, preparing for seminar and tutorial activities, and working on assignments.
Inter-professional practitioners from the health and social care field will contribute as guest speakers offering your apprentices the chance to further develop their knowledge and understanding.
Our assessment methods are designed to reflect what will be required of social workers in the field.
For example, the course requires apprentices to submit written reports, give presentations, develop their portfolio, complete a work-based project, and practice interviewing skills.
We also expect them to take written exams, write essays and reflective accounts, and participate actively in group discussions.
PLEASE NOTE: There is a requirement to complete 170 days of assessed practice placement learning.
100% attendance for practice-based learning is required, and absences or missed components of practice-based learning will have to be completed at a later date.
A minimum of 80% attendance is required for programme modules in order to progress and achieve the award for which an apprentice is registered.
Apprentices must attend scheduled sessions.
Apprentices may be withdrawn due to poor attendance.
Martina Kirlew
M.Kirlew@bolton.ac.uk
+44 (0)1204 903782
Natasha Hassan
Lecturer in Social Work
N.Hassan@bolton.ac.uk
+44 (0)1204 903437

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/course/NRS038-F-UOB-DS:
Our PgDip Community Nurse Specialist Practitioner (District Nursing) degree apprenticeship allows you to invest in your workforce by combining higher education, work-based learning and ongoing professional development.
While working as a valuable member of your team, your apprentices can develop the knowledge, skills and behaviours needed to provide complex care for patients and support for family members at home and in residential care homes.
PgDip
The University of Bolton's Level 7 PgDip Community Nurse Specialist Practitioner (District Nursing) degree apprenticeship is designed to meet the degree apprenticeship standard for Community Nurse Specialist Practitioner (NMC 2022) (ST1419).
Regulated by the NMC, the standard underpins a highly relevant qualification and professional development pathway that educates apprentices to care for patients with a wide range of health conditions.
This course focuses on the knowledge, skills and behaviours (KSBs) and duties required for district nurses who provide health care at an advanced level of practice to people of all ages and communities, and across different organisations and settings.
Upon successfully completing this community nursing specialist practice qualification (SPQ), graduates will possess the knowledge and skills needed to perform as independent, highly competent, compassionate district nurses.
Graduate apprentices will be able to develop, lead and manage activities that aim to promote health and social well-being, prevent health breakdown and improve ill health through working with individuals, families and communities.
They will be able to help individuals and families take control of their lives and protect vulnerable members of society by promoting social inclusion and reducing inequalities.
Employers can expect them to have a wide range of transferable skills and supporting knowledge, including leadership, communication, enquiry, advocacy, critical reflection and analysis skills.
They will be adept at planning and time management, rational decision-making, critical thinking, physical assessment, and possess excellent communication skills.
The University of Bolton’s PgDip Community Nurse Specialist Practitioner (District Nursing) programme is approved by the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC).
After successful completion of the course, apprentices will have their qualification recorded on the NMC's professional register.
Successful apprentices will be awarded a PgDip Community Nurse Specialist Practitioner (District Nursing) from the University of Bolton and a degree apprenticeship certificate from the relevant awarding body.
To achieve this postgraduate diploma, apprentices must complete 120 credits at level HE7.
Apprentices will be required to complete the four core modules listed below, which make up 80 credits towards the postgraduate diploma award.
Apprentices must also select a further 40 credits from our approved Continuing Professional Development (CPD) range.
Where an apprentice has completed relevant modules prior to attending the programme, these may be considered for RPL purposes on an individual basis.
Learning focuses on your workplace environment and builds the transferable body of knowledge and skills required to achieve professional registration with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) as a district nurse and apply this expertise within your organisation.
Your apprentices will spend approximately 60% of their time in the workplace, with the other 40% of their time being devoted to off-the-job training and university learning.
This will enable them to achieve the NMC requirements to enter the register and fulfil the required level of off-the-job training specified for apprenticeships by the Education and Skills Funding Agency.
The course explores the concepts of health and ill health within the adult population and the key elements in district nursing to meet the biological, psychological and social needs of the individual.
Topics such as assessment, care management, leadership, health promotion and evidence-based practice are covered.
We'll work to help your apprentices gain key transferable skills, including the ability to work independently and lead teams on innovative practice, adapt to changing circumstances, work in teams and groups, and listen and respond to customers and their needs.
To complement lectures that introduce the course content, apprentices can engage in seminars and group-based activities that explore subjects in greater detail.
We use case studies and practical scenarios to help apprentices apply their newly acquired academic knowledge to their district nursing practice and gain valuable insights into contemporary healthcare practice.
Inter-professional health and social care practitioners will also contribute as guest speakers, offering your apprentices the chance to further develop their knowledge and understanding in applying theory to practice.
A range of assessment methods will be used, including essays, reports, presentations, portfolios, set exercises via multiple-choice questions, objective structured clinical examinations (OSCE), traditional examinations, and assessment of practice within the practice setting.
PgDip Community Nurse Specialist Practitioner (District Nursing) with (V300)  integrated non-medical prescribing  Full-time
Nyree Kendall
N.Kendall@bolton.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/course/NRS034-F-UOB-DS:
Our PgDip Community Nurse Specialist Practitioner (District Nursing) with (V300) integrated non-medical prescribing degree apprenticeship allows you to invest in your workforce by combining higher education, work-based learning and ongoing professional development.
The University of Bolton's Level 7 PgDip Community Nurse Specialist Practitioner (District Nursing) with (V300) integrated non-medical prescribing degree apprenticeship is designed to meet the degree apprenticeship standard for Community Nurse Specialist Practitioner (NMC 2022) (ST1419).
The University of Bolton’s PgDip Community Nurse Specialist Practitioner (District Nursing) with (V300) integrated non-medical prescribing course is approved by the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) and regulated by the Royal Pharmaceutical Society (RPS).
After successful completion of the course, apprentices will have their qualification recorded on the NMC's professional register as a Community Nurse Specialist Practitioner (District Nursing) and as a nurse prescriber within the context of district nursing and V300 non-medical prescriber.
Successful apprentices will be awarded a PgDip Community Nurse Specialist Practitioner (District Nursing) with (V300) integrated non-medical prescribing from the University of Bolton and a degree apprenticeship certificate from the relevant awarding body.
Learning focuses on your workplace environment and builds the transferable body of knowledge and skills required to achieve professional registration with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) as a district nurse, and the standards for prescribing set by the Royal Pharmaceutical Society (RPS), and apply this expertise within your organisation.
This will enable them to achieve the NMC requirements to enter the register, gain the Non-Medical Independent and Supplementary Prescriber qualification, and fulfil the required level of off-the-job training specified for apprenticeships by the Education and Skills Funding Agency.
PgDip Community Nurse Specialist Practitioner (District Nursing) with (V300) integrated non-medical prescribing  Full-time
PgDip Community Nurse Specialist Practitioner (General Practice Nursing) with integrated V300 (Non-Medical Prescribing) Full-time
PgDip Specialist Community Public Health Nursing (Health Visiting) Degree apprenticeship Full-time
PgDip Specialist Community Public Health Nursing (School Nursing) Degree Apprenticeship Full-time

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/course/NRS035-F-UOB-DS:
Our PgDip Community Nurse Specialist Practitioner (General Practice Nursing) degree apprenticeship allows you to invest in your workforce by combining higher education, work-based learning and ongoing professional development.
While working as a valuable member of your team, your apprentices can develop the knowledge, skills and behaviours needed to make high-level clinical decisions in the practice setting and influence the provision of quality care.
The University of Bolton's Level 7 PgDip Community Nurse Specialist Practitioner (General Practice Nursing) degree apprenticeship is designed to meet the degree apprenticeship standard for Community Nurse Specialist Practitioner (NMC 2022) (ST1419).
This course focuses on the knowledge, skills and behaviours (KSBs) and duties required for general practice nurses who provide health care at an advanced level of practice to people of all ages and communities, and across different organisations and settings.
Upon successfully completing this community nursing specialist practice qualification (SPQ), graduates will possess the knowledge and skills needed to perform as independent, highly competent, compassionate general practice nurses.
The University of Bolton’s PgDip Community Nurse Specialist Practitioner (General Practice Nursing) programme is approved by the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC).
Successful apprentices will be awarded a PgDip Community Nurse Specialist Practitioner (General Practice Nursing) from the University of Bolton and a degree apprenticeship certificate from the relevant awarding body.
Learning focuses on your workplace environment and builds the transferable body of knowledge and skills required to achieve professional registration with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) as a general practice nurse and apply this expertise within your organisation.
The course explores the concepts of health and ill health within the adult population and the key elements in general practice nursing to meet the biological, psychological and social needs of the individual.
We use case studies and practical scenarios to help apprentices apply their newly acquired academic knowledge to their general practice nursing practice and gain valuable insights into contemporary healthcare practice.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/course/NRS040-F-UOB-DS:
Our PgDip Community Nurse Specialist Practitioner (General Practice Nursing) with integrated V300 (Non-Medical Prescribing) degree apprenticeship course allows you to invest in your workforce by combining higher education, work-based learning and ongoing professional development.
Your apprentices can develop the knowledge, skills and behaviours needed to make high-level clinical decisions in the practice setting and influence the provision of quality care.
This course is due to be validated by July 2024 after
    which we will write to all applicants who have applied for the course to let them know the
    outcome and of any changes.
The University of Bolton's Level 7 PgDip Community Nurse Specialist Practitioner (General Practice Nursing) with integrated V300 (Non-Medical Prescribing) degree apprenticeship course is designed to meet the degree apprenticeship standard for Community Nurse Specialist Practitioner (NMC 2022) (ST1419).
The University of Bolton’s PgDip Community Nurse Specialist Practitioner (General Practice Nursing) with integrated V300 (Non-Medical Prescribing) course is approved by the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) and regulated by the Royal Pharmaceutical Society (RPS).
After successful completion of the course, apprentices will have their qualification recorded on the NMC's professional register as a Community Nurse Specialist Practitioner (General Practice Nursing) and as a nurse prescriber within the context of general practice nursing and V300 non-medical prescriber.
Successful apprentices will be awarded a PgDip Community Nurse Specialist Practitioner (General Practice Nursing) with integrated V300 (Non-Medical Prescribing) from the University of Bolton and a degree apprenticeship certificate from the relevant awarding body.
Learning focuses on your workplace environment and builds the transferable body of knowledge and skills required to achieve professional registration with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) as a general practice nurse, and the standards for prescribing set by the Royal Pharmaceutical Society (RPS), and apply this expertise within your organisation.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/course/HLT132-F-UOB-AS:
Our FdA Health and Social Care (Assistant Practitioner (Health) Higher Apprenticeship Route) combines on and off-the-job learning and development tailored to your workforce needs.
While working as a valuable part of your care team, your apprentices can gain the skills, knowledge and experience essential for providing high-quality, compassionate care in complex, multidisciplinary environments.
We'll support their journey to becoming highly skilled, autonomous, accountable practitioners.
FdA
The University of Greater Manchester's FdA Health and Social Care (Assistant Practitioner (Health) Higher Apprenticeship Route) is designed to meet the Level 5 Assistant Practitioner (Health) Apprenticeship Standard (ST0215).
The standard underpins a highly relevant qualification and professional development pathway that educates apprentices ready for the role of Assistant Practitioner.
Assistant Practitioners have direct contact with patients, service users or clients and work as part of the wider health and social care team to provide high-quality and person-centred compassionate care.
Occupying the crucial gap in care delivery between a care support worker and a registered practitioner, the job title of Assistant Practitioner is applied to a wide variety of roles developed locally by employers to meet individual service needs.
Assistant Practitioners can be found working in a range of areas across health and social care, such as acute, social care services, community, physiotherapy, mental health, general practice, hospice care, genito-urinary medicine, orthopaedics, occupational therapy, cancer services, and learning disabilities, as well as in hybrid roles that cross traditional occupational areas.
To make this course as beneficial as possible for you and your apprentices, we apply a range of learning, teaching and assessment methods.
These are designed to fully engage apprentices, helping them develop the skills, knowledge, competencies, values and attitudes essential to service excellence as a health and social care Assistant Practitioner, with particular reference to their specific clinical or professional area in your organisation.
Learning focuses on your workplace environment and builds the transferable body of knowledge and skills demanded by the Assistant Practitioner role both generally and within your organisation or service area.
To complement lectures that introduce the course content, seminars and group-based activities allow apprentices to explore subjects, policies and practices in greater detail.
Tutorials help them to clarify their understanding of the topics we cover in lectures and seminars.
At the same time, we use case studies, practical scenarios and role-playing to help apprentices apply their newly acquired knowledge and theory to real-life problems and gain valuable insights into health and social care practice.
Apprentices also have the chance to develop their practical skills in our clinical skills laboratory, and we'll encourage them to use our extensive online learning resources to support their self-directed learning.
In addition, we offer masterclasses with practitioners from the health and social care sector, plus insightful sessions with guest speakers who either provide or use health and social care services to widen their views.
Our assessment methods are designed to reflect what will be required of Assistant Practitioners in your health and social care setting.
For example, the course requires apprentices to submit written reports, give presentations, develop their practice portfolio, analyse care plans, review relevant literature, analyse complex cases and discuss how to manage change.
We also expect them to write essays and reflective accounts, take practical and written tests, and play an active part in group discussions.
Some assessments contribute to their final module marks, while others help them identify their strengths and weaknesses and where they need to seek extra support from course tutors.
Alison Beard
A.Beard@bolton.ac.uk
+44 (0)1204 903843
Helen Higginson
H.Higginson@bolton.ac.uk
+44 (0)1204 903521

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/course/NRS029-F-UOB-AS:
Our Level 5 FdSc Nursing Associate (Higher Apprenticeship Route) allows you to invest in your workforce by combining University education, work-based learning and ongoing professional development.
While working as a valuable part of your team, your trainee nursing associate (TNA) apprentices can gain the skills and knowledge needed to deliver high quality, compassionate care under the direction of a registered nurse.
FdSc
16/09/2025, 20/04/2026
A nursing associate is a member of the nursing team who provides care and support for patients and service users under the supervision of a registered nurse.
The role is designed to address a skills gap between health care assistants and registered nurses.
Nursing associates are trained to work with people of all ages and in a variety of settings.
It’s intended that the role will enable registered nurses to focus on more complex clinical duties.
Once qualified and registered, nursing associates will give care in a range of settings within health and social care.
Like nurses and other health professionals, they may expand their scope of practice through further education and experience.
The Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) is the legal regulator for nursing associates.
Candidates who successfully complete the end-point assessment for this TNA apprenticeship will be able to apply to join the nursing associate part of the NMC’s register.
Successful TNA apprentices will be awarded the FdSc Nursing Associate from the University of Bolton and can apply for an apprenticeship certificate from the relevant apprenticeship certification body.
The nursing associate role is diverse and multi-faceted, so we use a wide range of teaching and learning methods.
These are designed to fully engage TNA apprentices, helping them to develop the skills, knowledge, self-awareness, values and behaviours essential to become a nursing associate, with particular reference to your organisation and their place within it.
Learning focuses on your workplace environment so that TNAs build the competencies demanded by the role and learn to apply this expertise within your organisation.
Your TNAs will spend a significant amount of their time in the workplace, with the rest of their time being devoted to off-the-job training and University learning.
This balance is designed to meet the requirements of both the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) and the Education and Skills Funding Council (ESFA).
Our tutors are research active and teaching is underpinned by rigorous research.
Teaching methods will include lectures, presentations, simulations and practise of skills in our simulation suite, seminar discussions, small group workshops, small group tutorials and one-to-one tutorials.
As well as attending timetabled sessions, TNAs will also be expected to allocate significant time to independent and self-directed studies.
For example, background reading, preparing for seminars, working on assignments and revising for exams will support their timetabled learning and help develop the skills required for lifelong learning.
Our friendly and supportive tutors will be here to guide them, and will gladly help them devise an independent study regime focused on their individual development needs.
The assessment strategy for the programme is designed to ensure that TNAs achieve the overall aims and learning outcomes of the programme, as well as the learning outcomes for individual modules.
The assessment of practice and theory contributes to the final award.
All assessments in practice (practice assessment documentation (PAD) and portfolio) must be passed before a TNA can progress to the next stage/term/year and completion of the programme.
In addition to the assessments associated with the foundation degree programme, TNA apprentices will undertake an end-point assessment, at the end of the TNA apprenticeship period.
TNAs will be assessed using a range of methods, including essays, reports, presentations, objective structured clinical examinations (OSCE), traditional examinations and assessment of practice within the practice setting.
Your organisation will need to provide each TNA apprentice with a workplace assessor to support their development.
They will also benefit from regular visits from a University or satellite nursing centre nursing lecturer or work-based apprenticeship trainer (WBAT).
The practice assessor, nursing lecturer or WBAT and TNA apprentice will work together to create the individual learning plan required to ensure the TNA’s progress.
BSc (Hons) Operating Department Practice (Degree Apprenticeship) Full-time
Kim Kelly
K.Kelly@bolton.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/course/NRS036-F-UOB-DS:
Our NMC-approved PgDip Specialist Community Public Health Nursing (Health Visitor) Degree Apprenticeship allows you to invest in your workforce by combining higher education, work-based learning and ongoing professional development.
While working as a valuable member of your team, your apprentices can develop the knowledge, skills and behaviours needed to work with families with a child aged 0 to five to identify health needs as early as possible and improve health and wellbeing.
The University of Bolton's Level 7 PgDip in Specialist Community Public Health Nursing (Health Visitor) Degree Apprenticeship is designed to meet the degree apprenticeship Standard for Specialist Community Public Health Nurse (NMC 2022) (ST1418).
Regulated by the NMC, the standard underpins a highly relevant qualification and professional development pathway that educates apprentices to assess the health needs of individuals, families, and the wider community.
This course focuses on the knowledge, skills, and behaviours (KSBs) and duties required for health visitors who provide a universal service for infants, children and families in their own homes and community settings.
Upon successfully completing the SCPHN (Health Visitor) Degree Apprenticeship, graduates will possess the knowledge and skills needed to perform as independent, highly competent, compassionate health visitors.
Graduate apprentices will be able to develop, lead and manage activities that aim to promote health and wellbeing and prevent health breakdown through working with individuals, families and communities.
They will be able to help children, young people, and families take control of their lives and protect vulnerable members of society by promoting social inclusion and reducing inequalities.
They will be adept at planning and time management, rational decision-making, critical thinking, and assessment, and possess excellent higher-level communication skills.
The University of Bolton's PgDip Specialist Community Public Health Nursing (Health Visiting) programme is approved by the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC).
After successful completion of the course, apprentices will have their names registered on part 3 of the NMC's professional register.
Successful apprentices will be awarded a PgDip Specialist Community Public Health Nursing (Health Visiting) from the University of Bolton and a degree apprenticeship certificate from the relevant awarding body.
Our tutors will work with your organisation to ensure your apprentices gain experience in various practice scenarios designed to develop their skills in a safe and supportive environment.
Learning focuses on your workplace environment and builds the transferable body of knowledge and skills required to achieve professional registration with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) as a Specialist Community Public Health Nurse (Health Visitor) and apply this expertise within your organisation.
Your apprentices will spend approximately 50% of their time in the workplace, with the other 50% of their time being devoted to off-the-job training and university learning.
The course explores the concepts of public health for children, young people, and families within a variety of communities.
Topics such as early intervention, promoting mental health and wellbeing, professional practice and leadership will be covered along with safeguarding and research.
All modules are underpinned with contemporary legislation and literature, with a focus on the benefits of interagency working to benefit communities.
We'll work to help your apprentices gain key transferable skills, including the ability to work independently, adapt to changing circumstances, work in teams and groups, and listen and respond to the needs of children, young people, and families.
We'll also encourage them to develop planning and time management, rational decision-making, critical thinking, and higher-level communication skills during their studies.
We aim for your apprentices to grow into compassionate, autonomous practitioners capable of advancing public health services whilst promoting human rights.
We use case studies and practical scenarios to help apprentices apply their newly acquired academic knowledge to their field of practice and gain valuable insights into contemporary public health provision.
A range of assessment methods will be used, including essays, reports, presentations, objective structured clinical examinations (OSCE), traditional examinations, and assessment of practice within the practice setting.
Some assessments contribute to their final module marks, while others are designed to help them identify their strengths, challenges, opportunities and barriers, and where they need to seek extra support from course tutors.
Sheryl Halliday
Programme Leader, Senior Lecturer and Admissions Tutor
S.Halliday@bolton.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/course/NRS037-F-UOB-DS:
Our NMC-approved PgDip Specialist Community Public Health Nursing (School Nurse) Degree Apprenticeship allows you to invest in your workforce by combining higher education, work-based learning and ongoing professional development.
The University of Bolton's Level 7 PgDip in Specialist Community Public Health Nursing (School Nurse) Degree Apprenticeship is designed to meet the degree apprenticeship Standard for Specialist Community Public Health Nurse (NMC 2022) (ST1418).
This course focuses on the knowledge, skills, and behaviours (KSBs) and duties required for School Nurses who provide a universal service for infants, children and families in their own homes and community settings.
Upon successfully completing the SCPHN (School Nurse) Degree Apprenticeship, graduates will possess the knowledge and skills needed to perform as independent, highly competent, compassionate School Nurses.
The University of Bolton's PgDip Specialist Community Public Health Nursing (School Nursing) programme is approved by the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC).
Successful apprentices will be awarded a PgDip Specialist Community Public Health Nursing (School Nursing) from the University of Bolton and a degree apprenticeship certificate from the relevant awarding body.
Learning focuses on your workplace environment and builds the transferable body of knowledge and skills required to achieve professional registration with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) as a Specialist Community Public Health Nurse (School Nurse) and apply this expertise within your organisation.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/course/BAM007-P-UOB-SS:
The University of Bolton's Level 6 CMI-accredited BSc (Hons) Business Management (Chartered Manager Degree Apprenticeship) allows you to invest in your workforce by combining university education, work-based learning and ongoing professional development towards Chartered Manager status.
While working as a valuable part of your team, your apprentices can gain strong leadership and management expertise ready to deliver long-term organisational success.
This BSc (Hons) Business Management programme is designed to meet the Chartered Manager Degree Apprenticeship (CMDA) standard for Leadership and Management (ST0272).
Developed by employers in collaboration with higher education institutions and the Chartered Management Institute (CMI), the standard underpins a highly relevant qualification and professional development pathway that educates Chartered Managers who can take responsibility for people, projects, operations and services to deliver long-term organisational success.
Overall, the University of Bolton's BSc (Hons) Business Management (Chartered Manager Degree Apprenticeship) is designed to prepare apprentices to take management and leadership responsibility for setting and delivering organisational objectives through a wide range of functions.
Successful apprentices will be awarded the BSc (Hons) Business Management from the University of Bolton and a degree apprenticeship certificate from the relevant awarding body.
We use case studies and practical scenarios to help apprentices apply their newly acquired academic knowledge to real-life problems and gain valuable insights into contemporary practice in a working business environment.
Our assessment methods are designed to reflect what will be required of Chartered Managers in business and management settings.
BSc (Hons) Retail Business Management (Chartered Manager Degree Apprenticeship) Full-time

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/course/HLT020-P-UOB-TS:
Our CMI accredited Chartered Manager Degree Apprenticeship (CMDA) allows you to invest in your workforce by combining university education, work-based learning and ongoing professional development leading to Chartered Manager status.
While working as a valuable part of your team, your apprentices can enhance their existing leadership and management expertise ready to deliver long-term organisational success in the health and social care sector.
The Chartered Manager Degree Apprenticeship (CMDA) programme is designed to meet the “Trailblazer” Apprenticeship Standard for Leadership and Management.
It’s designed to educate professional managers capable of managing complexity and delivering impact at both strategic and operational levels.
Employers can expect graduate apprentices to be skilled in strategic decision making, setting direction and achieving results, building and leading teams, clear communication, developing skills and motivating others, fostering inclusive and ethical cultures, leading change, project management, financial management, innovation, risk management, and developing stakeholder relationships.
Overall, the CMDA is designed to prepare apprentices to take management and leadership responsibility for setting and delivering organisational objectives through a wide range of functions.
Successful apprentices are eligible to become Chartered Members of the Chartered Management Institute (CMgr MCMI).
Successful apprentices will also be awarded the BSc (Hons) Business Management: Health and Social Care (Top-up) from the University of Bolton and a Degree Apprenticeship Certificate from the relevant awarding body.
A range of learning, teaching and assessment methods are used.
These support your apprentices to develop the academic and communication skills, knowledge, self-awareness and professional behaviours that are essential to become a Chartered Manager, with particular reference to your organisation and their role within it.
Learning focuses on your workplace environment, and builds the transferable body of knowledge and skills necessary to achieve Chartered Manager status, and apply this expertise within your organisation.
To complement lectures that introduce the course content, group-based activities allow apprentices to explore subjects in greater detail.
We use case studies and practical scenarios to help apprentices apply their newly acquired academic knowledge to real-life problems, and gain valuable insights into contemporary practice in a working business environment.
Apprentices will also be expected to undertake considerable guided independent study; for instance, library research and background reading, preparing for group and tutorial activities, and working on assignments.
For example, the course requires apprentices to submit written reports, give presentations, develop their portfolio and complete a work-based project.
We also expect them to write essays and reflective accounts, and play an active part in group discussions.
Some assessments contribute to their final module marks, while others are designed to help them identify their strengths and weaknesses, and build their personal development plan.
Sarah Holt
S.Holt2@bolton.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/course/CIE006-P-UOB-SS:
Our JBM-accredited BEng (Hons) Civil Engineering (Civil Engineer Degree Apprenticeship Route) allows you to invest in your workforce by combining university education, work-based learning and ongoing professional development.
While working as a valuable part of your team, apprentices can develop a deep understanding of civil engineering’s key principles and applications and achieve Incorporated Engineer (IEng) status.
The BEng (Hons) Civil Engineering (Degree Apprenticeship Route) programme is designed to meet the Civil Engineer degree apprenticeship standard (ST0417).
It supports students to achieve the technical knowledge required for a career as a civil, structural, geotechnical, hydraulic, or highway and transportation engineer.
Successful apprentices will be well qualified for civil engineering careers and to take on roles in areas such as sustainable construction, structural integrity, geotechnics, materials, tunnelling, marine and coastal engineering, water, waste management, flood management, transportation and the power industry.
In addition to subject-specific knowledge and skills, apprentices will have the opportunity to develop transferable skills that include problem-solving, analytical and research skills, critical thinking, creativity, communication, teamwork and commercial awareness.
The University of Bolton’s BSc (Hons) Civil Engineering degree is accredited by the Joint Board of Moderators, which includes the Institution of Civil Engineers (ICE), Institution of Structural Engineers (IStructE), Chartered Institution of Highways & Transportation (CIHT) and the Institute of Highway Engineers (IHE) under licence from the Engineering Council, as: 1) fully satisfying the educational base for an Incorporated Engineer (IEng), and 2) partially satisfying the educational base for a Chartered Engineer (CEng).
Successful apprentices will also be awarded the BEng (Hons) Civil Engineering from the University of Bolton and a degree apprenticeship certificate from the relevant awarding body.
Civil engineering is a diverse and multi-faceted discipline, so we use a wide range of teaching and learning methods.
Learning focuses on your workplace environment and builds the transferable body of knowledge and skills demanded to achieve IEng status and apply this expertise within your organisation.
As well as attending timetabled lectures, seminars, workshops, practical sessions and tutorials, apprentices will also be expected to allocate significant time to independent and self-directed studies.
For example, background reading, revisiting practical work, attending lectures and technical meetings provided by professional bodies, preparing for seminars, working on assignments and revising for exams will support their timetabled learning and develop good habits for lifelong learning.
The workplace mentor, University tutor and apprentice will work together to create the individual learning plan required to progress the apprentice’s professional body membership.
An individual learner record (ILR) will be completed on a monthly basis.
For the degree element of this programme, we assess each apprentice’s individual performance through a strategic blend of practical work, exams, essays, presentations, laboratory write-ups and other assignments.
In addition to the assessments associated with the degree programme, apprentices will undertake the two-stage end point assessment at the end of the apprenticeship period.
Stage 1 is a written report, and stage 2 comprises a presentation, interview and written examination.
BEng (Hons) Civil Engineering Full-time
MRes Engineering Management (PG Engineer Apprenticeship Route) Part-time
30 Months
Apprenticeship Leader

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/course/CSA022-P-UOB-SS:
Our BSc (Hons) Construction Project Management (Construction Site Management Degree Apprenticeship) allows you to invest in your workforce by combining university education, work-based learning and ongoing professional development.
While working as a valuable part of your team, apprentices can develop the knowledge and skills to ensure that construction projects are completed safely, on time and within budget.
The BSc (Hons) Construction Project Management (Construction Site Management Degree Apprenticeship) is designed to meet the Level 6 Construction Site Management (ST0047) degree apprenticeship standard.
Developed by employers, the standard underpins a highly relevant qualification and professional development pathway that educates future specialists in the management of building and construction projects.
Successful apprentices will be well qualified to take on roles such as construction site manager, assistant site manager, sub-agent or construction planner.
Upon successfully completing the degree apprenticeship, graduates will possess the knowledge and skills needed to perform as independent, highly competent construction site managers.
Employers can expect them to possess a wide range of transferable skills, such as the ability to work independently, adapt to changing circumstances, work in teams and groups, and listen and respond to clients and their needs.
They will be adept at planning and time management, rational decision-making, critical thinking, and have excellent communication skills.
This apprenticeship will support candidates working towards achieving Chartered Membership of the Chartered Institute of Building (MCIOB)*.
Further training and experience will be required to gain Chartered Membership.
*Please note, the University is currently seeking Chartered Institute of Building accreditation for this programme.
Construction project management is a diverse and multi-faceted discipline, so we use a wide range of teaching and learning methods.
These are designed to fully engage apprentices, helping them develop the skills, knowledge, self-awareness, and behaviours essential to becoming a construction site manager, with particular reference to your organisation and their place within it.
Learning focuses on your workplace environment and builds towards the transferable body of knowledge and skills needed to achieve membership of the Chartered Institute of Building* and apply this expertise within your organisation.
For example, background reading, revisiting practical work, attending lectures and technical meetings provided by professional bodies, preparing for seminars, working on assignments and revising for exams will support their timetabled learning and develop good lifelong learning habits.
The workplace mentor, University tutor and apprentice will work together to create an individual learning plan.
For the degree element of this programme, we assess each apprentice’s individual performance through a strategic blend of written coursework, examinations, oral presentations, time-constrained activities, practical work and portfolios.
In addition to the assessments associated with the degree programme, apprentices will undertake the end point assessment at the end of the apprenticeship period.
BSc (Hons) Construction Project Management (Design and Construction Management Degree Apprenticeship) Part-time
MSc Construction Project Management Full-time
MSc Construction Project Management Part-time
Yassin Osman
Y.Osman@bolton.ac.uk
+44 (0)1204 903840

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/course/CSA011-P-UOB-SS:
Our BSc (Hons) Construction Project Management (Design and Construction Management Degree Apprenticeship) allows you to invest in your workforce by combining university education, work-based learning and ongoing professional development.
While working as a valuable part of your team, apprentices can develop the knowledge and skills to lead, manage, and coordinate building and infrastructure projects' design and construction processes.
The BSc (Hons) Construction Project Management (Design and Construction Management Degree Apprenticeship) is designed to meet the Level 6 Design and Construction Management (ST0044) degree apprenticeship standard.
Developed by employers, the standard underpins a highly relevant qualification and professional development pathway that educates future specialists ready to lead, manage and coordinate the design and construction process on building and infrastructure projects.
Successful apprentices will be well qualified to take on roles such as architectural technologist, design manager, building information modelling (BIM) manager and construction design manager.
Upon successfully completing the degree apprenticeship, graduates will possess the knowledge and skills needed to perform as independent, highly competent design and construction management professionals.
Employers can expect them to possess a wide range of transferable skills, such as the ability to work independently, adapt to changing circumstances, work in teams and groups, and listen and respond to stakeholders and their needs.
This apprenticeship will support candidates working towards achieving Chartered Membership of the Chartered Institute of Building (MCIOB) or the Chartered Institute of Architectural Technologists (MCIAT).
*Please note, the University is currently seeking accreditation for this programme from the Chartered Institute of Building (CIOB) and the Chartered Institute of Architectural Technologists (CIAT).
These are designed to fully engage apprentices, helping them develop the skills, knowledge, self-awareness, and behaviours essential to becoming a design and construction management professional, with particular reference to your organisation and their place within it.
Learning focuses on your workplace environment and builds towards the transferable body of knowledge and skills needed to achieve membership of the Chartered Institute of Building or the Chartered Institute of Architectural Technologists*, and apply this expertise within your organisation.
BSc (Hons) Construction Project Management (Construction Site Management Degree Apprenticeship) Part-time

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/course/ELR003-P-UOB-SS:
Our BEng (Hons) Electrical and Electronic Engineering (Electrical/Electronic Technical Support Engineer Degree Apprenticeship) allows you to invest in your workforce by combining university education, work-based learning, and ongoing professional development.
While working as a valuable part of your team, apprentices can gain the skills and knowledge needed to effectively support, assemble and resolve manufacturing issues or bring product concepts to life.
The BEng (Hons) Electrical and Electronic Engineering (Electrical/Electronic Technical Support Engineer Degree Apprenticeship) programme is designed to meet the Level 6 Electrical or Electronic Technical Support Engineer (ST0024).
Developed by employers, consultants and contractors, the apprenticeship standard underpins a highly relevant qualification and professional development pathway that prepares apprentices to achieve the technical knowledge, skills and behaviours required for a career in areas of engineering, such as maintaining and improving electrical equipment and systems, electrical/electronic product design, wiring and testing electrical equipment, and assembling and testing electronic circuits.
Formally timetabled classes, including lectures, tutorials and tutor-led in-class exercises, along with case studies, laboratories, investigations and assignments, in groups and individually, are designed to help apprentices acquire and develop appropriate concepts, knowledge and skills.
For the degree element of this programme, we assess each apprentice's individual performance through a strategic blend of project or design reports, examinations, portfolios, presentations and other assignments.
BEng (Hons) Electrical and Electronic Engineering Full-time

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/course/ENG004-P-UOB-SS:
Our IMechE-accredited BEng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering (Manufacturing Engineer Degree Apprenticeship) allows you to invest in your workforce by combining university education, work-based learning and ongoing professional development.
While working as a valuable part of your team, your apprentices can gain the skills and knowledge needed to help take products from design to manufacture, ensuring that they are launched one time, at cost and to the right quality.
The BEng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering (Manufacturing Engineer Degree Apprenticeship) programme is designed to meet the Manufacturing Engineer Degree Apprenticeship Standard (ST0025).
Developed by employers, consultants and contractors, the apprenticeship standard underpins a highly relevant qualification and professional development pathway that prepares apprentices to play a pivotal role in the launch planning and smooth delivery of exciting new products or product refresh programmes.
In addition to technical knowledge, this programme offers your degree apprentices the opportunity to develop a range of key employability skills.
These include the ability to use specialist knowledge creatively and innovatively to solve problems, the ability to produce and interpret technical solutions, the ability to explain design ideas, effective communication (spoken and written), good team working skills, project and time management, and strong decision-making skills.
The University of Bolton's BEng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering holds professional accreditation by the Institution of Mechanical Engineers (IMechE) and uses UK-SPEC learning outcomes designed to meet the academic requirements leading to Chartered Engineer (CEng) status.
Please see the Engineering Council UK website for further details of UK-SPEC.
Graduates of our BEng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering will automatically meet the exemplifying academic benchmark requirements for registration as an Incorporated Engineer (IEng).
After graduation, candidates may have the option to study the University of Bolton’s MSc Mechanical Engineering, MSc in Systems Engineering (Mechanical) and Engineering Management or MRes Engineering Management, all of which are designed to fully meet the academic requirements set by IMechE and the Engineering Council to achieve CEng status.
Mechanical and manufacturing engineering are diverse and multi-faceted disciplines, so we use a wide range of teaching and learning methods.
These are designed to fully engage apprentices, helping them to develop the skills, knowledge, self-awareness and behaviours essential to become an Incorporated Engineer (IEng), with particular reference to your organisation and their place within it.
Learning focuses on your workplace environment, and works towards building the transferable body of knowledge and skills demanded to achieve IEng status, and apply this expertise within your organisation.
These are designed to meet the professional body accreditation requirements, as well as help apprentices to apply, assimilate and integrate their understanding of the course material.
For the degree element of this programme, we assess each apprentice’s individual performance through a strategic blend of project or design reports, examinations, portfolios, presentations, blogs and other assignments.
BEng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering Full-time
BEng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering Part-time
BEng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering with foundation year Full-time
MSc Systems Engineering (Mechanical) and Engineering Management  Full-time
MSc Systems Engineering (Mechanical) and Engineering Management  Part-time
MSc Systems Engineering (Mechanical) and Engineering Management (Degree Apprenticeship Route) Part-time
MSc Engineering Management Part-time
Mamadou Ndiaye
M.Ndiaye@bolton.ac.uk
+44 (0)1204 903026

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/course/ENG007-P-UOB-SS:
Our IMechE-accredited BEng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering (Product Design and Development Engineer Degree Apprenticeship) allows you to invest in your workforce by combining university education, work-based learning and ongoing professional development.
While working as a valuable part of your team, your apprentices can gain the skills and knowledge needed to use engineering techniques to bring new products to life and redesign old products.
The BEng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering (Product Design and Development Engineer Degree Apprenticeship) programme is designed to meet the Product Design and Development Engineer Degree Apprenticeship Standard (ST0047).
It prepares apprentices to support product design and development activities ranging from early concept feasibility, computer-aided design and other modelling activities and stages through to final preparation for launch and customers.
Mechanical engineering, product design and product development are diverse and multi-faceted disciplines, so we use a wide range of teaching and learning methods.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/course/NRS014-P-UOB-SS:
12/01/2026
It may be possible for employees who already hold an appropriate foundation degree to top up their qualifications and become adult nurses in three years or less (the maximum possible exemption is 50% of the programme).
BSc (Hons) Nursing (Adult) Part-time
Zena Bleasdale
Z.Bleasdale@bolton.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/course/AAL039-P-UOB-MS:
The University of Bolton's Level 7 ACCA Strategic Professional (Accountancy Professional Level 7 Apprenticeship) allows you to invest in your professional staff by combining university education, work-based learning and ongoing professional development towards an ACCA qualification.
While working as a valuable part of your team, apprentices develop the core knowledge, skills and behaviours required for successful leadership positions in accountancy and financial management.
AdvDip(CPD)
This course is due to be validated by April 2024 after
    which we will write to all applicants who have applied for the course to let them know the
    outcome and of any changes.
ACCA is ideal if you’re looking to become a chartered accountant in business or work in an accountancy, audit or tax firm.
Organisations are looking for accountancy professionals who can understand the financial needs of the organisation, and who can evaluate and propose business solutions.
The ACCA qualification is designed to equip you with the necessary knowledge and skills that you’ll need.
This programme is accredited by Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA), one of the leading professional bodies for accountants globally.
Programme structure The typical duration of this programme is three years plus EPA with approximately 500 hours of tuition, however, there are multiple entry points allowing apprentices with recognised prior learning to join the programme to complete their studies and training towards the ACCA qualification.
Apprentices study with the university one day per week during term time, which provides the opportunity to use the facilities and meet with programme staff.
Outside of term time apprentices undertake independent study and develop their knowledge and skills through practical application in the workplace.
Assessment takes place through coursework and exam and apprentices will then need to pass through the Gateway to take the End Point Assessment (EPA) in order to achieve their qualification.
With support from the employer, apprentices are required to spend 20% of paid working hours on studies and be able to evidence this.
This is a statutory requirement for apprenticeships and the funding is conditional on this being met.
Off-the-job learning includes activities which have not previously been a part of the role or furthers apprentices’ development into new areas.
Teaching and assessment The programme places emphasis on encouraging the group to explore different perspectives from their diverse backgrounds and varied experiences.
Approaches to teaching vary depending on the module, but will be practice-led and research-informed, introducing apprentices to concepts and issues from specific subject areas.
Each module has 45 hours of scheduled tuition over 15 weeks towards either June or December external examinations with the ACCA.
In addition, there is a significant number of scheduled tuition on the Strategic Business Leader module, which forms part of the EPA.
All classes will be on-campus and through face/to face teaching.
A range of summative assessment methods are used throughout the programme.
These are related to module aims and learning outcomes, and include coursework content reviews and  mock exams.
Upon completion of the qualification apprentices must complete an End Point Assessment (EPA) comprised of a portfolio of workplace evidence, demonstration of practice and professional discussion.
Applied Knowledge Modules The Applied Knowledge papers provides students with a broad introduction to the world of finance and develop your essential understanding and techniques in accounting.
These exams are: Business and Technology (BT) Financial Accounting (FA) Management Accounting (MA) Applied Skills Modules The Applied Skills papers build on existing knowledge and understanding and develop strong, broad and practical finance skills required of future strategic professional accountant in any sector or industry.
These papers are: Corporate and Business Law (LW) Taxation (TX) Financial Reporting (FR) Performance Management (PM) Financial Management (FM) Audit and Assurance (AA) Strategic Professional Modules The Strategic Professional papers prepare students for future leadership positions.
They develop the strategic vision using your unique blend of technical, ethical and professional skills.
And you can specialise in areas that best suit your career ambitions.
Students must complete both Essentials exams and choose two of the Options.
These papers are: Essentials Strategic Business Reporting (SBR) Strategic Business Leader (SBL) Options Advanced Financial Management (AFM) Advanced Audit and Assurance (AAA) Advanced Taxation (ATX) Advanced Performance Management (APM) Ethics and Professional Skills Module Students are required to complete the ACCA Ethics and Professional Skills module which develops in students the complete range of skills that employers tell us they need.
By introducing students to the full spectrum of advanced ethical and professional skills and exposing them to realistic business situations, our students are ready to shine with current employers and be really credible in the workplace.
Assessment methods 100% external examinations taken with the ACCA.
Nafisa Nalbandh
Dr, Programme Leader
N.Nalbandh@bolton.ac.uk
+44 (0)1204 903582

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/course/HLT019-P-UOB-MS:
Our MSc Advanced Clinical Practice (Integrated Degree Apprenticeship) allows you to invest in your workforce by combining university education, work-based learning and ongoing professional development.
While working as a valuable part of your team, your apprentices can develop the advanced knowledge and skills needed to manage defined episodes of clinical care independently.
MSc
The MSc Advanced Clinical Practice (Integrated Degree Apprenticeship) programme is designed to meet the Advanced Clinical Practitioner (Degree) Level 7 Apprenticeship Standard (ST0564).
Developed by employers, this apprenticeship standard underpins a highly relevant qualification and professional development pathway that supports apprentices to achieve the requisite postgraduate knowledge and skills.
Following completion of the course, students are eligible to claim a digital badge from NHSE Centre for Advancing Practice.
Currently, ‘advanced practitioner’ is not a restricted title although this issue is being explored by the professional bodies; for example, the Nursing and Midwifery Council and the Health Professions Council.
Advanced clinical practice is a multi-faceted discipline, so we use a wide range of teaching and learning methods.
These are designed to fully engage apprentices, helping them to develop the skills, knowledge, self-awareness and behaviours that are essential for success in this field.
They will also be required to devote at least six hours of their time per week to university learning and independent study (classified as off-the-job training).
Learning will also be supported by the university's virtual learning environment, Moodle.
The workplace mentor, university tutor and apprentice will work together to create an individual learning plan.
For the degree element of this programme, we assess each apprentice’s performance through a strategic blend of assignments, practical work assignments, projects, oral presentations (including viva voce) and formal end examinations.
AdvDip(CPD) Non-Medical Independent and Supplementary Prescribing for Nurses and Midwives (HE7) Part-time
26 Weeks
AdvDip(CPD) Non-Medical Independent and Supplementary Prescribing for Allied Health Care Professionals (HE7) Part-time
AdvDip(CPD) Clinical Examination Skills (HE7) Part-time
15 Weeks
AdvDip(CPD) Non-Medical Independent and Supplementary Prescribing for Pharmacists (HE7): 26 week programme Part-time
AdvDip(CPD) Diagnostics and Therapeutics (HE7) Part-time
14 Weeks
MSc Advanced Clinical Practice (Integrated Degree Apprenticeship) (Acute Medicine) Part-time
MSc Advanced Clinical Practice (Integrated Degree Apprenticeship) (Primary Care) Part-time
MSc Advanced Clinical Practice (Integrated Degree Apprenticeship) (Mental Health) Part-time
MSc Advanced Clinical Practice (Integrated Degree Apprenticeship) (Respiratory) Part-time
MSc Advanced Clinical Practice (Integrated Degree Apprenticeship) (Geriatric Medicine) Part-time
AdvDip(CPD) Respiratory (HE7) Part-time
AdvDip(CPD) Geriatric Medicine (HE7) Part-time
AdvDip(CPD) Advanced Physical Skills Assessment in a Mental Health Setting Part-time
Dian Huyton
D.Huyton2@bolton.ac.uk
Follow our School on Instagram
School of Health, Science and Society
@uogmschoolofhealth_sc_soc

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/course/HLT105-P-UOB-MS:
Our MSc Advanced Clinical Practice (Integrated Degree Apprenticeship) (Acute Medicine) allows you to invest in your workforce by combining university education, work-based learning and ongoing professional development.
The MSc Advanced Clinical Practice (Integrated Degree Apprenticeship) (Acute Medicine) programme is designed to meet the Advanced Clinical Practitioner (Degree) Level 7 Apprenticeship Standard (ST0564).
Currently, ‘advanced practitioner’ is not a restricted title although this issue is being explored by the professional bodies; for example, the Nursing and Midwifery Council and the Health and Care Professions Council.
AdvDip(CPD) Acute Medicine (HE7) Part-time
MSc Advanced Clinical Practice (Acute Medicine) Part-time

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/course/HLT110-P-UOB-MS:
Our MSc Advanced Clinical Practice (Integrated Degree Apprenticeship) (Geriatric Medicine) allows you to invest in your workforce by combining university education, work-based learning and ongoing professional development.
The MSc Advanced Clinical Practice (Integrated Degree Apprenticeship) (Geriatric Medicine) programme is designed to meet the Advanced Clinical Practitioner (Degree) Level 7 Apprenticeship Standard (ST0564).
MSc Advanced Clinical Practice (Geriatric Medicine) Part-time

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/course/HLT108-P-UOB-MS:
Our MSc Advanced Clinical Practice (Integrated Degree Apprenticeship) (Mental Health) allows you to invest in your workforce by combining university education, work-based learning and ongoing professional development.
The MSc Advanced Clinical Practice (Integrated Degree Apprenticeship) (Mental Health) programme is designed to meet the Advanced Clinical Practitioner (Degree) Level 7 Apprenticeship Standard (ST0564).
MSc Advanced Clinical Practice (Mental Health) Part-time

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/course/HLT106-P-UOB-MS:
Our MSc Advanced Clinical Practice (Integrated Degree Apprenticeship) (Primary Care) allows you to invest in your workforce by combining university education, work-based learning and ongoing professional development.
The MSc Advanced Clinical Practice (Integrated Degree Apprenticeship) (Primary Care) programme is designed to meet the Advanced Clinical Practitioner (Degree) Level 7 Apprenticeship Standard (ST0564).
MSc Advanced Clinical Practice (Primary Care) Part-time

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/course/HLT109-P-UOB-MS:
Our MSc Advanced Clinical Practice (Integrated Degree Apprenticeship) (Respiratory) allows you to invest in your workforce by combining university education, work-based learning and ongoing professional development.
The MSc Advanced Clinical Practice (Integrated Degree Apprenticeship) (Respiratory) programme is designed to meet the Advanced Clinical Practitioner (Degree) Level 7 Apprenticeship Standard (ST0564).
MSc Advanced Clinical Practice (Respiratory) Part-time

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/course/ELR010-P-UOB-MS:
Our MSc Electrical and Electronic Engineering (PG Engineer Degree Apprenticeship) allows you to invest in your workforce by combining university education, work-based learning and ongoing professional development.
While working as a valuable part of your team, your apprentices can gain the advanced knowledge and skills needed to develop innovative solutions to complex electrical and electronic engineering problems and assemble their portfolio toward achieving Chartered Engineer (CEng) status.
The MSc Electrical and Electronic Engineering (Post Graduate Engineer Degree Apprenticeship) programme is designed to meet the Post Graduate Engineer Apprenticeship Standard (ST0456).
Developed by employers in collaboration with higher education institutions and professional bodies, this apprenticeship standard underpins a highly relevant qualification and professional development pathway that supports apprentices to achieve the requisite postgraduate knowledge and skills.
The University of Bolton’s MSc Electrical and Electronic Engineering (Degree Apprenticeship) uses UK-SPEC learning outcomes and is designed to meet the academic requirements leading to Chartered Engineer (CEng) status.
We will be seeking accreditation of the MSc Electrical and Electronic Engineering (Post Graduate Engineer Degree Apprenticeship) for meeting further learning for registration as a Chartered Engineer (CEng) status from the Institute of Engineering and Technology (IET).
Electrical and Electronic Engineering is a multi-faceted discipline, so we use a wide range of teaching and learning methods.
Learning focuses on your workplace environment – your apprentices will spend the majority of their time gaining on-the-job knowledge and experience.
For example, building a portfolio of evidence, background reading, revisiting practical work, attending lectures and technical meetings provided by professional bodies, preparing for seminars, working on assignments and revising for exams will support their timetabled learning and develop good habits for lifelong learning.
The use of the University’s virtual learning environment, Moodle, will also support learning.
They will also benefit from regular reviews from a University tutor.
An individual learner record (ILR) will be completed on a monthly basis, including a record of the apprentice's off-the-job training hours.
For the degree element of this programme, we assess each apprentice’s performance through a strategic blend of reports, presentations, portfolios and other assignments.
MSc Systems Engineering (Mechatronics) and Engineering Management  Full-time
MSc Systems Engineering (Mechatronic) and Engineering Management (Degree Apprenticeship Route) Part-time
MSc Mechanical Engineering Full-time

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/course/ENG006-P-UOB-MS:
Our MRes Engineering Management (Postgraduate Engineer Apprenticeship Route) allows you to invest in your workforce by combining university education, work-based learning and ongoing professional development.
While working as a valuable part of your team, your apprentices can gain the advanced knowledge and skills needed to develop innovative solutions to complex technical engineering problems, and assemble their portfolio towards achieving Chartered Engineer (CEng) status.
MRes
The MRes Engineering Management (Postgraduate Engineer Apprenticeship Route) programme is designed to meet the Postgraduate Engineer (Degree) Apprenticeship Standard.
This apprenticeship uses UK-SPEC learning outcomes and is designed to meet the academic requirements leading to Chartered Engineer (CEng) status.
We’ll be seeking accreditation of the MRes Engineering Management for Chartered Engineer (CEng) status from the Institute of Mechanical Engineers (IMechE), the Joint Board of Moderators (JBM) and the Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET).
Engineering management is a multi-faceted discipline, so we use a wide range of teaching and learning methods.
For the degree element of this programme, we assess each apprentice’s individual performance through a strategic blend of reports, presentations, portfolios and other assignments.
In addition to the assessments associated with the degree programme, apprentices will undertake the end point assessment, at the end of the apprenticeship period.
MSc Systems Engineering (Mechatronics) and Engineering Management  Part-time

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/course/DEN001-P-UOB-AS:
The University of Bolton's Level 5 FdSc Dental Technology - Higher Apprenticeship Integrated EPA programme allows you to invest in your employees by combining university education, work-based learning and ongoing professional development.
While working as a valuable part of your team, your apprentices can gain the skills and knowledge needed to practice as qualified and registered dental technicians.
The University of Bolton's FdSc Dental Technology - Higher Apprenticeship Integrated EPA programme is designed to meet the Dental Technician (Integrated) (ST0108) apprenticeship standard.
Upon graduation from this programme, your apprentices will possess a comprehensive understanding of oral anatomy and physiology from a dental perspective, both in terms of appliance design, and the methods and technologies used to construct dental appliances to meet the patient's needs.
This FdSc course focuses on equipping your apprentices with the skills and knowledge necessary to advance your commercial activities in dental technology.
The General Dental Council (GDC) inspected the University of Bolton's FdSc Dental Technology provision in 2019 and reported that the programme is fit for purpose to develop individuals for professional registration as dental technicians.
As a graduate of this programme, your employee will be able to apply for registration as a dental care professional with the GDC.
GDC registration is a requirement to practice in this field.
PLEASE NOTE: To meet the requirements of the General Dental Council, all modules are compulsory for this course.
This programme applies blended learning, work-based training and teaching methods.
Apprentices will participate in on-campus face-to-face sessions and use online remote delivery software and the University's virtual learning environment, Moodle.
At lectures, seminars and tutorials, your apprentices will have the opportunity to learn the theory of dental technology subjects and discuss topics directly with their tutor and classmates.
Practical workshops and demonstrations will support them in building practical skills and applying the theory they have learned in all dental technology disciplines.
University staff will evaluate your apprentices' practical abilities in your working environment, and work-based mentors will play a key role in the continuing development of their skills.
Observation, evaluation and application exercises will guide your apprentices in establishing technical processes, helping them build skills in the construction of dental appliances.
Assessments include essays, reports, oral presentations, employment journals and portfolio entries, as well as practical manufacturing tasks and exams.
In keeping with the part-time nature of the course, written assessments are weighted more heavily than exams in terms of grade value compared to the dental technology undergraduate degree programme.
BSc (Hons) Dental Technology Full-time
BSc (Hons) Dental Technology (top-up) Part-time
MSc Digital Dental Technology Full-time
MSc Digital Dental Technology Part-time
BSc (Hons) Dental Technology (top-up) Full-time
Bob Biggs
B.Biggs@bolton.ac.uk
+44 (0)1204 903791
Debra Charnock
D.Charnock@bolton.ac.uk
+44 (0)1204 903287

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/course/ENG035-P-UOB-MS:
Our MSc Mechanical Engineering (Degree Apprenticeship) allows you to invest in your workforce by combining university education, work-based learning and ongoing professional development.
While working as a valuable part of your team, your apprentices can gain the advanced knowledge and skills needed to develop innovative solutions to complex mechanical engineering problems, and assemble their portfolio towards achieving Chartered Engineer (CEng) status.
The MSc Mechanical Engineering (Degree Apprenticeship) programme is designed to meet the Post Graduate Engineer Apprenticeship Standard (ST0456).
The University of Bolton’s MSc Mechanical Engineering (Degree Apprenticeship) uses UK-SPEC learning outcomes and is designed to meet the academic requirements leading to Chartered Engineer (CEng) status.
We’ll be seeking accreditation of the MSc Mechanical Engineering (Degree Apprenticeship) for Chartered Engineer (CEng) status from the Institute of Mechanical Engineers (IMechE) and the Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET).
Mechanical engineering is a multi-faceted discipline so we use a wide range of teaching and learning methods.
MSc Mechanical Engineering Part-time

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/course/HLT093-P-UOB-DS:
Our PgDip Senior Leader: Heath and Social Care (Degree Apprenticeship) allows you to invest in your leadership team by combining university education, work-based learning and professional development.
While working in your team, apprentices prepare for a career in senior management, developing skills to tackle complex, strategic business challenges in health and social care.
This Postgraduate Diploma is designed to meet the apprenticeship standard for Senior Leader (ST0480).
Developed by employers in collaboration with the Chartered Management Institute (CMI), the standard underpins a highly relevant qualification and professional development pathway that educates senior leaders who can lead, manage and direct organisations.
This qualification supports the development of professional strategic leaders in the private, public or third sector and organisations of all sizes.
Graduate apprentices will be ready to take responsibility for direction and vision, provide a clear sense of purpose and drive strategic intent.
They will be able to take into account trends and environmental influences and identify longer-term opportunities and risks.
Through inclusive leadership, they will be able to take responsibility for developing ethical, innovative and supportive cultures to deliver results.
This course is accredited by the Chartered Management Institute (CMI).
Successful completion of the PgDip Senior Leader: Health and Social Care (Degree Apprenticeship) will support apprentices wishing to pursue Chartered Manager status with the CMI.
We use a range of learning, teaching, and assessment methods to make this course as beneficial as possible for you and your apprentices.
These are designed to fully engage apprentices, helping them develop the skills, knowledge, self-awareness and behaviours essential to become a Chartered Manager, with particular reference to your organisation and their place within it.
Guest lectures and presentations by various visiting speakers offer apprentices the chance to develop their knowledge and understanding further.
Our assessment methods are designed to reflect what is required of Chartered Managers in business and management settings.
For example, the course requires apprentices to submit written reports, give presentations, develop their portfolios, and develop interpersonal skills.
We also expect them to write essays and reflective accounts and play an active part in group discussions.
PgDip Senior Leader: Health and Social Care Part-time
MBA Master of Business Administration (top-up) Full-time
32 Weeks
MBA (Global Healthcare Management) top-up Full-time

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/course/ELR001-P-UOB-MS:
The University of Bolton's MSc Systems Engineering (Electronic) and Engineering Management (Degree Apprenticeship Route) allows you to invest in your workforce by combining university education, work-based learning and ongoing professional development.
While working as a valuable part of your team, your apprentices can develop the advanced knowledge and skills needed to solve complex engineering challenges with an electronics emphasis.
The MSc Systems Engineering (Electronic) and Engineering Management (Degree Apprenticeship Route) programme is designed to meet the Systems Engineer (Degree) Level 7 apprenticeship standard (ST0107).
Developed by employers, this apprenticeship standard underpins a highly relevant qualification and professional development pathway that supports apprentices in achieving the requisite postgraduate knowledge and skills.
This course is designed to support apprentices to achieve the standard of International Council on Systems Engineering (INCOSE) systems engineering practitioner.
INCOSE is the international professional body for systems engineering.
In addition, this apprenticeship uses UK-SPEC learning outcomes designed to meet the academic requirements leading to Chartered Engineer (CEng) status.
Engineering is a multi-faceted discipline, so we use a wide range of teaching and learning methods.
These aim to fully engage apprentices, helping them develop the skills, knowledge, self-awareness, and behaviours essential for success in this field.
They will also complete at least six hours per week of off-the-job learning, including studying at the University.
As well as attending timetabled lectures, seminars, workshops, practicals and tutorials, apprentices will need to allocate significant time to independent and self-directed studies.
For example, building a portfolio of evidence, doing background reading, revisiting practical work, preparing for seminars, working on assignments and revising for exams will support their timetabled learning and develop good habits for lifelong learning.
The University's virtual learning environment, Moodle, will also support learning through online discussions and activities.
For the degree element of this programme, we assess each apprentice's performance through a strategic blend of assignments such as project or design reports, examinations, portfolios, and presentations (including demonstrations, oral and poster presentations and viva voce).
Other assessments focus on helping them identify their strengths and weaknesses, and where they need to seek extra support from course tutors.
In addition to the assessments associated with the degree programme, apprentices will undertake the end point assessment (EPA) at the end of the apprenticeship period.
Apprentices must also develop learning logs/professional development plans and build a skills portfolio in preparation for the EPA.
This programme uses a blended learning and teaching style, including online delivery and engagement where appropriate.
MSc Systems Engineering (Electronics) and Engineering Management Full-time

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/course/ENG010-P-UOB-MS:
The University of Bolton's MSc Systems Engineering (Mechanical) and Engineering Management (Degree Apprenticeship Route) allows you to invest in your workforce by combining university education, work-based learning and ongoing professional development.
While working as a valuable part of your team, your apprentices can develop the advanced knowledge and skills needed to solve complex engineering challenges with a mechanical emphasis.
The MSc Systems Engineering (Mechanical) and Engineering Management (Degree Apprenticeship Route) programme is designed to meet the Systems Engineer (Degree) Level 7 apprenticeship standard (ST0107).
As well as attending timetabled lectures, discussions, tutorials, demonstrations and computer-aided learning sessions, apprentices will need to allocate significant time to independent and self-directed studies.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/course/MRE001-P-UOB-MS:
Our MSc Systems Engineering (Mechatronic) and Engineering Management (Degree Apprenticeship Route) allows you to invest in your workforce by combining university education, work-based learning and ongoing professional development.
While working as a valuable part of your team, your apprentices can develop the advanced knowledge and skills needed to solve complex engineering challenges with a mechatronics emphasis.
The MSc Systems Engineering (Mechatronic) and Engineering Management (Degree Apprenticeship Route) programme is designed to meet the Systems Engineer (Degree) Level 7 apprenticeship standard (ST0107).
These are designed to fully engage apprentices, helping them develop the skills, knowledge, self-awareness and behaviours essential for success in this field.
As well as attending timetabled lectures, discussions, tutorials, demonstrations and computer-aided learning sessions, apprentices will be expected to allocate significant time to independent and self-directed studies.
For the degree element of this programme, we assess each apprentice's individual performance through a strategic blend of assignments, practical work assignments, projects, oral presentations (including viva voce) and formal end examinations.
Others are designed to help them identify their strengths and weaknesses, and where they need to seek extra support from course tutors.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/blogs/apprenticeships-fuelling-progress-at-network-rail-philips-inspiring-journey-with-the-university-of-bolton:
10/10/2024
In today’s fast-paced job market, traditional pathways to success are continually evolving.
One of the most promising avenues for growth is through apprenticeships, particularly those offered at the University of Bolton.
Philip Leigh ’s story serves as a compelling example of how these programmes benefit individuals and enrich the companies that invest in them.
As Philip reflects on his journey through the apprenticeship programme at Network Rail, it becomes clear that this innovative approach to education is a win-win for all involved.
Let's take a closer look at Philips's journey at Network Rail and how the University of Bolton’s apprenticeship programme helped to kick-start his career.
A Leap of Faith Philip’s journey began with a sense of scepticism about the value of formal qualifications.
Having already established a successful career as a design engineer at Network Rail, he wondered if pursuing a degree in electrical engineering through the University would truly enhance his experience.
However, the opportunity to earn a degree at little to no cost was too enticing to pass up.
“I thought, well, this isn’t costing anything, so I’m just going to go for it,” he recalls.
Little did he know how transformative this decision would be.
The University of Bolton’s Degree Apprenticeships allow students like Philip to blend practical work experience with academic learning, ensuring they gain relevant skills while contributing to their employers’ success.
This model not only enables Philip to balance his work and studies effectively but also equips him with the knowledge necessary for career advancement.
Climbing the Career Ladder Throughout his five years at Network Rail, Philip’s hard work and dedication did not go unnoticed.
He started as a design engineer and quickly seized the chance to take on an internal secondment as a senior engineer.
This experience ultimately paved the way for him to secure a permanent position as a Senior Projects Engineer.
“I’ve worked my way internally up one step, I suppose, up one band,” he explains, reflecting on his progression.
In his role overseeing low-voltage electrical and mechanical works on the Trans-Pennine Route Upgrade, Philip has achieved significant milestones in his career.
The Value of Education While Philip may have initially questioned the need for a degree, his perspective shifted as he progressed through the programme at the University of Bolton.
“I don’t regret for one minute doing the degree.
I’m so glad I’ve done it and stuck it out,” he reflects.
It’s not just about the degree itself but about the journey—the lessons learned, the challenges overcome and the example set for his children.
The University of Bolton’s emphasis on practical, hands-on learning complements this journey, allowing students to apply their theoretical knowledge directly in their workplaces.
Philip emphasises the importance of hard work and time management, noting that his mature perspective helped him navigate the challenges of balancing work, family and studies.
“I found it a lot easier now as an adult because I’m probably more engaged than I would have been at 18,” he admits, underscoring the significance of maturity in the learning process.
This recognition of personal growth highlights how apprenticeships can provide not only technical skills but also invaluable life lessons.
A Smart Move for Companies Philip’s story illustrates the immense value of apprenticeships, particularly for organisations like Network Rail.
By investing in their employees' education and career growth through programmes offered by the University, companies can foster a culture of continuous learning and improvement.
The benefits are reciprocal; as employees like Philip advance in their skills and qualifications, the organisation reaps the rewards of a more competent and engaged workforce.
The support offered by tutors and mentors throughout the apprenticeship process cannot be overstated.
Philip highlights the assistance he received from Dr.
Akram Bhatti, who provided timely feedback and encouragement.
“It was just having that support there when you needed it,” he explains, pointing to the collaborative environment that apprenticeships foster.
This level of mentorship is crucial in helping students not only succeed academically but also build the confidence and skills necessary for their professional lives.
A Bright Future Ahead As Philip looks to the future, he remains optimistic about his career path and the opportunities that lie ahead.
With aspirations to achieve chartered engineering status , he understands the importance of continuous professional development.
“ In terms of the future, probably another two to three years at the level that I’m at now,” he notes, recognising the commitment required to elevate his career further.
The University of Bolton’s commitment to providing higher-level apprenticeships aligns seamlessly with the needs of modern businesses.
By fostering a pipeline of well-trained and knowledgeable professionals, these programmes equip individuals with the tools they need to succeed in their careers while addressing the skills gap faced by many industries today.
By sharing stories like Philip’s, we’re inspiring employers and their teams to consider the vast potential of apprenticeships, bridging the gap between education and industry while propelling progress forward.
With the backing of established institutions like the University of Bolton, your possibilities are endless.
Contact the University of Bolton Apprenticeships team today on 01204 903 940, email apprentices@bolton.ac.uk or visit www.bolton.ac.uk/apprentices to learn more.
Philip’s journey began with a sense of scepticism about the value of formal qualifications.
Throughout his five years at Network Rail, Philip’s hard work and dedication did not go unnoticed.
While Philip may have initially questioned the need for a degree, his perspective shifted as he progressed through the programme at the University of Bolton.
Philip’s story illustrates the immense value of apprenticeships, particularly for organisations like Network Rail.
As Philip looks to the future, he remains optimistic about his career path and the opportunities that lie ahead.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/blogs/your-apprenticeship-faqs-answered-a-comprehensive-resource-for-employers:
Today many employers recognise the value of apprenticeships as a powerful tool for workforce development.
However, navigating the world of apprenticeships can be challenging, especially for those new to the concept.
To help you make informed decisions, we’ve compiled answers to some of the most frequently asked questions about apprenticeships.
This resource can serve as a handy guide for you and your team.
What is an apprenticeship and how does it benefit my business?
An apprenticeship is a structured training programme that combines on-the-job training with classroom-based education.
This model allows apprentices to gain practical skills while earning a wage.
For businesses, apprenticeships offer several benefits: Skilled Workforce: Apprentices gain specific skills tailored to your business needs, ensuring they can contribute effectively from day one Employee Retention: Apprentices often exhibit loyalty to employers who invest in their training, reducing turnover rates Fresh Perspectives: Young talent brings new ideas and enthusiasm, helping to drive innovation in your workplace How do I know which apprenticeship programme is right for my company?
Choosing the right apprenticeship programme depends on your business goals, workforce needs and the skills you wish to develop.
Here are some steps to guide you: Assess Skills Gaps: Identify areas where your team could benefit from additional skills or knowledge Consult with Training Providers: Reach out to institutions, such as the University of Bolton, which specialises in Degree Apprenticeships.
Our focus is on increasing undergraduate and postgraduate opportunities, ensuring we cater to a diverse range of business needs Evaluate the Curriculum: Review the structure and content of the programme to ensure it meets your business requirements Can I use apprenticeships to train adult employees or existing staff?
Absolutely!
Apprenticeships are not just for new entrants; they can be an effective way to upskill your existing employees.
Many companies use apprenticeships to help their current workforce adapt to new technologies or prepare for advanced roles.
The beauty of apprenticeships is that there’s no upper age limit, meaning they can be undertaken by: Graduates looking to enhance their skills and improve their employability Existing employees seeking to upskill and advance within their organisations Individuals wanting a change in career, eager to learn new skills in a different field Can apprenticeships help with succession planning in my business?
Yes, apprenticeships can play a crucial role in succession planning.
By investing in the development of talent within your organisation, you prepare employees for future leadership roles.
This proactive approach ensures you have a pipeline of skilled workers ready to step up as opportunities arise.
How flexible are the apprenticeship programmes?
Apprenticeship programmes are designed to be flexible, accommodating the needs of both employers and apprentices.
Programmes often include a mix of on-the-job training and off-the-job learning, allowing you to tailor the training schedule to fit your business operations.
Whether you need part-time or full-time apprentices, there are options available to suit your requirements.
What is the cost of hiring an apprentice and are there any financial incentives?
The cost of hiring an apprentice can vary based on the programme and the level of training.
However, many employers find that the return on investment is substantial due to increased productivity and lower recruitment costs.
Additionally, financial incentives may be available from government initiatives, including wage subsidies or grants to support your apprenticeship programme.
Consulting with local training providers can help you identify any available funding.
How long does an apprenticeship programme typically last?
The duration of an apprenticeship programme can vary depending on the level of training and the industry.
Most programmes range from one to four years.
At the University of Bolton, we offer Degree Apprenticeships, which often take longer due to the academic qualifications involved, but they provide a comprehensive educational experience.
What qualifications will the apprentice gain?
Upon completion of their apprenticeship, apprentices receive nationally recognised qualifications relevant to their field of study.
This could include diplomas, certificates or even degrees, depending on the level of the apprenticeship.
These qualifications not only enhance the apprentices' skill sets but also add value to your organisation by ensuring a highly trained workforce.
Our degree apprenticeship programmes are designed to align with the standards set by professional bodies in the UK, allowing them to achieve recognised credentials alongside their degree.
Your employees may also be able to join thse professional bodies and associations in addition to their degree qualification.
Does the UK Government fund apprenticeship training?
For employers who do not pay the apprenticeship levy, government support is available, but the funding arrangements differ.
Typically, the government covers a significant percentage of the training costs, which can vary depending on the age of the apprentice and the type of apprenticeship.
If your salary bill is over £3 million, you’ll contribute to the levy directly and you can use these funds to train apprentices.
Learn more here .
How do Bolton apprenticeships differ from those offered by other institutions?
Bolton apprenticeships are tailored to meet the specific needs of local businesses, ensuring that the training provided aligns with industry standards and demands.
Our programmes emphasise practical experience and are designed to develop skills that directly benefit employers.
With a focus on both undergraduate and postgraduate apprenticeships, we offer a wide range of opportunities tailored to different career stages.
By addressing these frequently asked questions, we hope to alleviate any uncertainties you may have about apprenticeships.
If you have additional questions or need further assistance, don’t hesitate to reach out!
Embracing apprenticeships could be the key to unlocking your business’s full potential and fostering a skilled, dedicated workforce.
So, why wait?
Let’s take the first step together toward a brighter future!
Talk to us at 01204 903 940, email apprentices@bolton.ac.uk or visit www.bolton.ac.uk/apprentices to learn more about your options.
For businesses, apprenticeships offer several benefits:
Here are some steps to guide you:
The beauty of apprenticeships is that there’s no upper age limit, meaning they can be undertaken by:

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/blogs/how-adult-apprenticeships-equip-employees-with-essential-digital-skills:
The demand for skilled workers with digital expertise is more important than ever in today’s remote and hybrid landscape.
Companies across various sectors are seeking ways to upskill their teams to meet the demands of modern working.
Enter adult apprenticeships—an innovative solution that bridges the gap between employers' need for competent staff and the training these apprenticeships provide.
Let's see how adult apprenticeships equip employees with essential skills in this ever-evolving digital era.
Why Digital Skills Matter Digital skills are the cornerstone of a thriving business in the 21st century.
From data analysis to digital marketing, the scope of these skills is broad and their application can significantly impact a company’s success.
But what exactly are the digital skills in demand today?
Data Literacy - Understanding data analytics tools and interpreting data to make informed decisions Digital Marketing - Skills in social media marketing, SEO and content creation that help businesses thrive online Cybersecurity Awareness - Protecting sensitive information and grasping the basics of cybersecurity is essential in a digital-first world Cloud Computing - Knowledge of cloud-based solutions for better collaboration and efficiency Software Development - Coding skills and familiarity with software development methodologies can give businesses a competitive edge As companies strive to keep pace with technological advancements, the question becomes: How can employers ensure their teams acquire these essential skills?
The Role of Adult Apprenticeships Adult apprenticeships provide an effective way to cultivate a digitally adept workforce.
They offer structured training programmes that combine theoretical learning with practical application.
This approach allows employees to earn while they learn, making it an attractive option for both individuals and businesses.
At the University of Bolton, we specialise in Degree Apprenticeships, which are designed to meet the evolving demands of the workforce.
While we offer apprenticeships at various levels, our focus is on increasing opportunities for undergraduate and postgraduate candidates.
One of the key benefits of degree apprenticeships is that they enable employees to earn a degree while gaining invaluable work experience.
As part of the programme, apprentices engage with their employers to ensure their training aligns with organisational needs, ultimately fostering a highly skilled workforce.
Who Can Participate?
A common misconception about apprenticeships is that they are only for young individuals just starting their careers.
In reality, there is no upper age limit for apprentices, meaning anyone can seize this opportunity.
Here are some groups that can benefit from adult apprenticeships: Graduates looking to enhance their skills and improve their employability Existing employees seeking to upskill and advance within their organisations Individuals changing careers, eager to learn new skills in a different field According to NTG Training, 26% of apprenticeships are started at the ‘Higher’ level, indicating that more individuals are pursuing these programmes as valid pathways to achieving their educational goals.
How Does It Work?
For employers looking to integrate adult apprenticeships into their workforce, the process is straightforward: Employment Requirement: The learner must be employed and the employer needs to agree to support the apprenticeship.
This ensures that the training is relevant and beneficial to both parties Meeting Entry Requirements: The apprentice must meet the entry requirements for their chosen degree or master's apprenticeship, ensuring participants are prepared for the challenges ahead Support from Employers: Employers play a pivotal role in apprenticeships by providing support and guidance throughout the training process, fostering an environment of growth and development Get ready for an Interactive Learning Experience: Apprenticeships at the University of Bolton, incorporate interactive and engaging learning methods.
This means apprentices won’t just be sitting in lectures—they’ll be involved in discussions, practical projects and hands-on experiences that keep them engaged and eager to learn.
Imagine your team working on real-world projects, collaborating with peers and directly applying their newfound skills to daily tasks.
Isn’t that an exciting prospect?
INVEST IN YOUR TEAM’S FUTURE So, are you ready to empower your workforce and bridge the digital skills gap?
With degree apprenticeships at the University of Bolton, your team's future is brighter than ever!
Let’s take the first step toward a skilled, confident and digitally adept workforce together.
In a world where digital skills are in high demand, adult apprenticeships present a valuable opportunity for both employees and employers.
By investing in apprenticeships, you’re not just enhancing your team's skill set; you’re also ensuring the long-term success and competitiveness of your organisation.
Talk to us at 01204 903 940, email apprentices@bolton.ac.uk or visit www.bolton.ac.uk/apprentices to learn more about our programmes.
Digital skills are the cornerstone of a thriving business in the 21st century.
As companies strive to keep pace with technological advancements, the question becomes: How can employers ensure their teams acquire these essential skills?
Adult apprenticeships provide an effective way to cultivate a digitally adept workforce.
Here are some groups that can benefit from adult apprenticeships:
According to NTG Training, 26% of apprenticeships are started at the ‘Higher’ level, indicating that more individuals are pursuing these programmes as valid pathways to achieving their educational goals.
For employers looking to integrate adult apprenticeships into their workforce, the process is straightforward:
Apprenticeships at the University of Bolton, incorporate interactive and engaging learning methods.
So, are you ready to empower your workforce and bridge the digital skills gap?

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/blogs/cmda-in-health-and-social-care-business-management:
10/10/2023
Kate Myatt Assistant Divisional Director of Nursing, Bolton NHS Foundation Trust University of Bolton At the time of enrolment on the BSc (Hons) Business Management: Health and Social Care (top-up) (Chartered Manager Degree Apprenticeship) or CMDA I had been working in a senior nursing role for around five years, with the last 15 years working within the health and social care economy.
I had carried out a variety of different roles, predominantly in a clinical Management and Leadership role.
My role as Matron has supported improved outcomes on quality, patient safety and governance as well as operationally managing services.
However, at my yearly personal development plan meeting I identified that I wanted to enhance and develop my professional knowledge and skills in these areas.
The key areas I wanted to focus on included having a greater understanding of how to lead and manage people, teams and services.
I also wanted to gain knowledge of how to successfully manage projects and quality improvements, how a project moves through planning and design stages, and how to monitor the outcomes.
I have a love for Governance as well, and wanted to learn about risk management models and reporting, risk benefit analysis and the health and safety implications poor risk management can have on organisations.
The apprenticeship has provided me with a range of professional knowledge and skills that I now use in my everyday practice.
This includes operational management, project management, leading and managing people, change management, risk management, innovation and other areas of management.
I feel much more confident in K I feel that by applying my newly attained professional knowledge and skills, I have a different style of management and believe that I am a more effective leader.
I have spent time gaining a really good understanding of my team members by identifying individual’s strengths and weaknesses and taking these into account when actions need completing, and I feel that this has resulted in a higher performing team.
The course also gave me the confidence to explore different professional opportunities.
I took on a more operational role for one of the teams I was managing, and moved portfolios to gain further experience in an area I wasn’t familiar with.
The course gave me the confidence to step out of my comfort zone.
This led me to apply for a promotion within my area of work and was successfully appointed into the Lead Governance role across the trust.
I feel that understanding the values of CMI has allowed me to demonstrate integrity and effective leadership skills.
I am most definitely much more emotionally and self-aware, particularly when dealing with difficult situations which I come across quite a lot in my new role.
I also have developed in confidence, resilience and I’m much more agile resulting in being more creative and innovative within my role.
I would recommend anyone exploring enrolling on a CMI apprenticeship to do so.
“ Embodying the values of CMI has allowed me to demonstrate integrity and effective leadership skills.
I have also developed in confidence, resilience and I’m much more agile, resulting in being more creative and innovative within my role.
“
Kate Myatt Assistant Divisional Director of Nursing, Bolton NHS Foundation Trust University of Bolton
At the time of enrolment on the BSc (Hons) Business Management: Health and Social Care (top-up) (Chartered Manager Degree Apprenticeship) or CMDA I had been working in a senior nursing role for around five years, with the last 15 years working within the health and social care economy.
I feel much more confident in K
I feel that by applying my newly attained professional knowledge and skills, I have a different style of management and believe that I am a more effective leader.
11 Oct 23

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/blogs/dawn-fletcher-wilde-senior-lecturer-school-of-nursing-and-midwifery:
11/10/2023
At the start of my CMDA journey I was working as a Service Manager – Elective Care, at the acute hospital.
Before that I had worked in mental health services at the same level having had a number of ‘manager’ posts but with nothing other than learning from predecessors.
During the course, I learned so many skills and gained so much knowledge on Management and Leadership, even in the first module, that I was soon asked to apply for a promotion into my line manager’s then role of Operational Business Manager - Diagnostic and Support Services.
I was in this role and applying my learning whilst delivering on big projects and managing very large teams, when the Covid-19 pandemic hit.
During the pandemic I led and managed teams and projects vital to continuing patient care in the NHS during the most unprecedented and challenging times.
The pandemic brought many complex operational challenges for the NHS, including data protection and legal compliance whilst working remotely.
At this point I was approached to take up a new position, as Head of Information Governance and Data Protection.
I steered the Trust through its most difficult time, advising the board on data security for both staff and patients.
During challenging times, I was able to apply my CMI knowledge, skills and behaviour to my operational knowledge to successfully lead my team and the Trust.
At the same time as the above I also studied and certified as a Data Protection Officer (C-DPO), graduated from University with first class honours and won a Governor’s Prize for Highest Academic Achievement.
This made me realise that leadership and learning are my professional passions.
It felt like fate when the opportunity arose for a Senior Lecturer in leadership programmes at the university - teaching the very course that had inspired and taught me so much.
I took a leap of faith, leaving behind my 16 years in the NHS, and in December 2021 started at the university, and haven’t looked back since.
I now deliver the CMDA programme and get direct student feedback on how my passion for the course comes through and helps with learning and understanding.
I feel very lucky and grateful for my CMI journey, it really has made me who I am today and opened up a whole new wonderful career.
10 Oct 23

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/chat-to-our-students:
You can also chat to our academic staff or our student services team

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/blogs/how-to-tackle-the-student-cost-of-living-crisis:
30/05/2023
If you study in the UK you will be aware of the current cost of living crisis that is affecting millions of people across the country, including students unfortunately.
The recent rise in prices and high inflation has resulted in many students struggling to even pay for their food which is completely unacceptable.
You may be thinking that there is nothing you can do to prevent yourself from struggling in this economy, with food bills now increased by 20%; however, that is not the case.
With planning and budgeting, you can manage your money and avoid being left with next to nothing to survive off.
In this blog, we have put together some tips to help students move in the right direction during the current cost of living crisis.
Bite Back and Squeeze More!
In this section, we will discuss how to fight high prices in basics such as food, heating, water and electricity, and even luxuries such as new clothing.
Food shopping Instead of falling victim to high food prices, don’t be afraid to try out alternatives that are cheaper.
You never know, you might end up liking the alternative more than the original product itself!
The best way to find value items for a small amount is to shop in supermarkets that offer low-cost prices, such as: - Aldi - Lidl - Asda - Tesco Don’t buy the brand, buy the product!
What we mean by this is for example if you are buying washing detergent you don’t need to buy brands like Persil or Ariel, instead, use the supermarket's own products.
When it comes down to it, the products both do the same thing but one is just 1/3 of the price!
There are also many ways to gain student discounts and deals on food by simply signing up to the following linked student discount sites: - Totum - Student Beans - UNiDAYS - International Student Identity Card Heating, Water and Electricity If you are living in a house with other students, you may realise that not only has inflation hit food, but it has majorly affected the prices of heating, water and electricity leaving many people deciding between money for food or a hot shower.
So, to save you from having to make difficult decisions, here are a few tips that should reduce how much you’re spending on these bills.
- Use libraries, student areas or cafes to study and charge your devices.
This will prevent you from having to use up more electricity at home and save you money as it’s completely free!
- Save water by giving yourself a limit to how much time you spend in the shower.
Any longer than five minutes isn’t necessary and is a waste of water, money and time!
- Waiting to wash your clothes until it’s a full load and also washing at lower temperatures will help reduce how much you spend on water, whether you use a launderette or have a washing machine where you stay.
- In the winter it can get cold, especially if you’re studying up north in Bolton.
Reduce how much you spend on heating by layering up and investing in some fluffy blankets, clothes and socks that will last throughout your student years.
Or simply turning your thermostat down by 1 degree could save you £65 or more per year!
- When it comes to electricity, the rules are pretty simple; make sure you turn everything you’re not using off!
No unnecessary lights or appliances need to be left on as you’re only going to be making your bills higher.
By following these tips, you will notice the difference in how much you spend on these things after making money-saving changes.
Luxuries and Student Discounts As a student, you should be able to treat yourself occasionally for all the hard work you put in… whether that’s by buying yourself a new piece of clothing, make-up or game that you’ve wanted since it came out!
However, the current cost of living crisis is making it harder to do these things due to students not being left with enough disposable income.
Well, if you take a look at the student discount sites that we recommended earlier, you’ll see they probably have discounts on some of your favourite brands.
These include: - Nike - Adidas - Asos - PLT - Boots - JD - Gym Shark - Oh Polly - Foot Asylum And many more exciting brands!
Did you know that you can even get discounts on things like: - Phones and other tech - Jewellery - Cinema tickets - Travel - Home appliances - Books You can also find companies that offer student discounts discretely.
Not every brand likes to display that they offer student discounts, so you won’t find it on these discount sites.
However, if you do a bit of research, you’ll be able to find those hidden gems to help you and your friends get cheaper prices.
You can also use sites like the Student Pocket Guide or Money Saving Expert that regularly upload new discounts for students that may not show up on discount sites.
If you don’t want to miss out, definitely sign up for them.
Bolton Uni are #HereToHelp Despite the money-saving tips given today, you may still find yourself in a position where you’re still struggling; and that’s ok.
You should never feel ashamed or embarrassed to reach out for help.
That’s what we’re here for.
Check out our cost of living page for further assistance by clicking here .
At the University of Bolton, we want all our students to enjoy their learning experience as well as gain a quality education.
We know that money issues can have a serious effect on students’ mental health, therefore we will do anything we can to support you from start to finish of your university journey.
If you decide to reach out for support, simply contact our Student Funding Team which can provide you with further information or book you in for a one-to-one appointment if they feel you need further help.
We also provide a drop-in service where students can come by between the times of 10:00 – 12:00 and find out if they are eligible for our Student Support Fund.
#UniAsItShouldBe, where we put our students first!
For any further information contact us at enquiries@bolton.ac.uk or 01204 900 600.
We are always happy to help.
Food shopping
Instead of falling victim to high food prices, don’t be afraid to try out alternatives that are cheaper.
The best way to find value items for a small amount is to shop in supermarkets that offer low-cost prices, such as:
- Aldi
- Lidl
- Asda
- Tesco
Don’t buy the brand, buy the product!
There are also many ways to gain student discounts and deals on food by simply signing up to the following linked student discount sites:
- Totum
- Student Beans
- UNiDAYS
- International Student Identity Card
Heating, Water and Electricity
If you are living in a house with other students, you may realise that not only has inflation hit food, but it has majorly affected the prices of heating, water and electricity leaving many people deciding between money for food or a hot shower.
Luxuries and Student Discounts
As a student, you should be able to treat yourself occasionally for all the hard work you put in… whether that’s by buying yourself a new piece of clothing, make-up or game that you’ve wanted since it came out!
- Nike
- Adidas
- Asos
- PLT
- Boots
- JD
- Gym Shark
- Oh Polly
- Foot Asylum
And many more exciting brands!
Did you know that you can even get discounts on things like:
- Phones and other tech
- Jewellery
- Cinema tickets
- Travel
- Home appliances
- Books
You can also find companies that offer student discounts discretely.
Bolton Uni are #HereToHelp
Despite the money-saving tips given today, you may still find yourself in a position where you’re still struggling; and that’s ok.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/blogs/how-to-budget-as-a-university-student:
02/06/2023
Are you a student worrying about how you are going to afford living and essentials during university?
Do not let this fear take over your thoughts.
Thousands of students around the UK will have the same concerns as you.
We know that being a student can be difficult at times when it comes to finances, especially during the cost-of-living crisis the country is currently going through.
However, there are many ways in which you can budget your money and ensure you don’t have to go without or live a restrictive lifestyle.
In this blog we are going to take a deeper look at budgeting, identifying the best ways for students to save money, enjoy themselves and reduce the stress of going without.
So, without wasting any more time, let’s get into it!
How you will receive financial support If you are worried about being left in the dark with no financial help when you start university, you shouldn’t be.
As a student in the UK, you will be entitled to tuition and maintenance loans.
This may be different if you are an international student (click the link here to check).
This means that: - Your yearly tuition fees ; which will be a maximum of £9,250 unless you are an international student, will be taken directly from the loan by the university so you won’t ever see that money - You will get maintenance loans 3 times during the academic year .
T he amount you get will vary depending on multiple factors; follow the link here to find out how much you may be entitled to - You will begin to pay the loan back in small amounts when you start earning the minimum wage required to start paying back, find out more here So, as you can see, you will receive support during your studies.
Some students may even be entitled to grants, bursaries or scholarships!
However, the maintenance loan usually comes in a large amount meaning that students can often get tempted to spend more than what they can afford.
This is why budgeting is important because students only get three instalments each year that are supposed to last three to four months.
How to budget To budget you need to consider the essentials such as: - Rent towards your accommodation – figure out how much you have to pay in rent from when you receive your current instalment up to your next instalment - Utility bills – your utility bills may be included in your accommodation agreement, however , if they are not, you will need to set aside money for them - Weekly food shops – the average weekly food shop for a student is around £25 to £40 - Course-related costs such as books – this could vary, some months you may not need to invest in any course-related costs, especially when studying with us as we supply many useful facilities and resources for our students to use - Transport costs – your accommodation might be quite a distance from the campus meaning you may need to travel to the university .
I f this is the case, look at monthly or weekly bus/train passes to see how you can save money on transport - Any other responsibilities you have – majority of the time, students are paying for their own phone bills or subscriptions; so, it is important you take these into consideration as well when budgeting Once you have figured out how much you need to set aside for your essentials, you can see how much disposable income you have to spend on personal things such as: - Clothes shopping - A night out in the town - Fun activities with friends , for example, going to the cinema, a restaurant or bowling - Days out - Sports games - New reading books Make money while studying This is a great way to have more access to doing the things you enjoy.
Making your own money while studying, even if it is a small amount, will help out a tremendous deal.
A few ways you can make money are: - Getting a part-time job - Selling clothes - Tutoring Having a few extra pennies to spare is always nice, especially when you are a hard-working student.
You deserve to treat yourself!
What if I still need support?
We take pride in constantly trying to provide a #UniAsItShouldBe experience for all our students.
That is why we make sure to offer the best support we can when students seek help.
We also know that even after calculating your budget, you could still be left without enough to get through the months and also enjoy your university experience, so we’re here to help.
You should never feel ashamed to reach out if you do find yourself in a difficult position.
Many others will be going through the same problems as you.
To help students we provide a Student Services and Life Lounge system that can support you, no matter your concern.
Click the link to find out more about how we put students’ needs first.
You may also be able to find support by checking out our Student Life section or our cost of living page , dedicated to many relatable problems that students may face.
Never suffer in silence, always reach out for help when you need it.
So, what are you waiting for?
#UseYerLoaf and choose #UniAsItShouldBe, we’re here to help.
For any further information contact us at enquiries@bolton.ac.uk or call us on 01204 903903.
How you will receive financial support
If you are worried about being left in the dark with no financial help when you start university, you shouldn’t be.
This means that:
- Your yearly tuition fees ; which will be a maximum of £9,250 unless you are an international student, will be taken directly from the loan by the university so you won’t ever see that money
- You will get maintenance loans 3 times during the academic year .
T he amount you get will vary depending on multiple factors; follow the link here to find out how much you may be entitled to
- You will begin to pay the loan back in small amounts when you start earning the minimum wage required to start paying back, find out more here
So, as you can see, you will receive support during your studies.
How to budget
To budget you need to consider the essentials such as:
- Rent towards your accommodation – figure out how much you have to pay in rent from when you receive your current instalment up to your next instalment
- Utility bills – your utility bills may be included in your accommodation agreement, however , if they are not, you will need to set aside money for them
- Weekly food shops – the average weekly food shop for a student is around £25 to £40
- Course-related costs such as books – this could vary, some months you may not need to invest in any course-related costs, especially when studying with us as we supply many useful facilities and resources for our students to use
- Transport costs – your accommodation might be quite a distance from the campus meaning you may need to travel to the university .
I f this is the case, look at monthly or weekly bus/train passes to see how you can save money on transport
- Any other responsibilities you have – majority of the time, students are paying for their own phone bills or subscriptions; so, it is important you take these into consideration as well when budgeting
Once you have figured out how much you need to set aside for your essentials, you can see how much disposable income you have to spend on personal things such as:
- Clothes shopping
- A night out in the town
- Fun activities with friends , for example, going to the cinema, a restaurant or bowling
- Days out
- Sports games
- New reading books
Make money while studying
This is a great way to have more access to doing the things you enjoy.
A few ways you can make money are:
- Getting a part-time job
- Selling clothes
- Tutoring
Having a few extra pennies to spare is always nice, especially when you are a hard-working student.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/join-us/postgraduate-courses/business-and-management:
Regent College London
Malawi Institute of Management (Lilongwe)

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/join-us/postgraduate-courses/computing:
Bolton College

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/join-us/postgraduate-courses/education:
Shockout Arts
Salford College
Aquinas College

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/student-life/fees-and-funding/scholarships-and-bursaries:
The University of Bolton is proud to offer a comprehensive financial support service.
This includes a range of bursaries and scholarships for undergraduate or postgraduate courses offered by the university.
Please note that eligibility for a Scholarship or Bursary does not equate to entitlement, and all information is correct at the time of publishing.
Please be aware that some changes may occur before or during the academic year.
Group Progression Scholarship
Care Experienced Bursary
University of Bolton Basketball Scholarship
University of Bolton Basketball Scholarship Programme
Bursaries for Initial Teacher Training (ITT) and Initial Teacher Education (ITE) Programmes
For enquiries please contact:
Rachel Young Placements & Bursaries Administrator School of Education Email: r.young@bolton.ac.uk
Masters Taught Excellence Scholarship
Northern Powerhouse Kayan Scholarship
Northern Powerhouse Racingstar Scholarship
Military Service Award 22-23
Care Experienced Bursary 22-23
Student Success Bursary 22-23
Employability Bursary
Cost of Living Support Fund 22-23
Initial Teacher Education (ITE) 14+
Initial Teacher Education (ITE) Secondary
Kingfisher Engineering Scholarship
ROKiT Group Engineering Scholarship
Care Experienced Bursary 21-22
The University of Bolton Group Progression Scholarship 2021-22
Alumni Loyalty Discount 2021/22
Bolton Master’s Bursary 2021
The Postgraduate High Achievement Award 2021/22
100 Year Anniversary of the Great War Award
Bolton Sports Bursary
Care Leavers Bursary
Vice Chancellor’s Scholarship
Masters (Taught) Excellence Scholarship
Bolton Masters Bursary
Alumni Postgraduate Bursary
Game Changer Bursary
High Achievement Bursary
BAS – Bolton Achievers Scholarship
100 Year Anniversary of the Great War Awar d
The Student Funding team are available to speak to regarding any queries about your eligibility for both government and university funding.
Please feel free to arrange an appointment using the contact details below or come along to a drop-in session to discuss your options.
Susie Collins Student Funding Advisor Tel: 01204 903497 Email: studentfunding@bolton.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/student-life/fees-and-funding/scholarships-and-bursaries/alumni-loyalty-discount-202324:
The Alumni Loyalty Discount will be awarded to full-time and part-time UK and EU Masters students, irrespective of their financial means, who progress to a University of Bolton Taught Masters Course, having first completed an undergraduate Higher Education (HE) course of study or PGCE/PGDE/PDE/Cert Ed at University of Bolton.
You must also have registered to become a member of the University of Bolton Alumni Association.
Please note: Alumni membership is automatic upon successful completion of your Undergraduate degree - for more information please visit the Alumni page .
Amount
£1,000 will be paid as a tuition fee waiver.
Part time students will receive a pro-rata discount over the duration of the course.
In order to apply you will need to demonstrate that:
You have successfully completed an undergraduate HE course of study or PGCE/PGDE/PDE/Cert Ed at University of Bolton.
There is no restriction on how long ago you completed the qualifying course.
You must be studying a full-time or part-time Taught Masters MA or MSc course at the University of Bolton.
ITT Teacher Training courses are not eligible courses for the Alumni Loyalty Discount as students on these courses are eligible to apply for undergraduate funding from the Student Loans Company.
Please note the award will be paid for full 180 credit Masters courses only, not partial Masters courses or any other type of course.
You may be eligible to receive both the Alumni Loyalty Discount and the Masters Taught Excellence Scholarship.
You must not be in receipt of any other kind of sponsorship towards your tuition fees for example from an employer.
The course of study must have commenced in September 2023 or January 2024.
Retrospective applications from students who have commenced in previous academic years will not be accepted.
Applying for the Alumni Loyalty Discount
Eligibility for the award will be assessed at point of application by Admissions.
Notification of Award
You will be notified whether your application has been successful or not via your university email address.
The invoicing department will receive confirmation from Admissions that you are eligible and will adjust your invoice accordingly.
If you defer entry onto your course of study you will be assessed for eligibility again by Admissions before commencement of your studies.
If you are not awarded a fee waiver the university has a Student Funding advice team who can advise you on possible alternative sources of funding for postgraduate study:
Funding Advisor - Susie Collins Telephone: 01204 903497 email: studentfunding@bolton.ac.uk
Terms and conditions
Awards will not be paid to students undertaking industrial or work experience on a full time ‘sandwich’ basis.
Students studying abroad also will not be eligible to receive this award.
Students studying a taught Masters at an off-campus location or partners are not eligible for this award.
Students who transfer from BEng to MEng will not be eligible to receive the Alumni Loyalty Discount.
The Alumni Loyalty Discount shall not be awarded to full or part-time students studying PhD or MPhil courses
The Alumni Loyalty Discount shall not be awarded for Research courses or Top-Up.
The Alumni Loyalty Discount will be paid for first masters courses only, not second or subsequent courses.
Payments will be permanently terminated if the student withdraws, transfers to another institution, fails their programme of study, or interrupts or suspends their studies.
Payments are subject to continuing and satisfactory attendance on the course.
Payments of the award are made entirely at the discretion of the university.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/student-life/fees-and-funding/scholarships-and-bursaries/the-masters-taught-excellence-scholarship-20232024:
The Masters (Taught) Excellence Scholarship will be awarded to full-time and part-time UK and EU Masters students, irrespective of their financial means, who progress to a University of Bolton Taught Masters Course.
There will be a maximum of four awards made in the 2023/24 academic year and applications will be considered in strict date order of receipt.
You have successfully been awarded a First-Class Honours degree from a UK or EU institution.
You must be studying a full-time 180 credit Masters (taught) MA or MSc course at University of Bolton, except for the following courses which are not eligible courses for this award:
MSc Physician Associate
All ITT/PGCE/Cert Ed courses
MSc Physiotherapy
MBA Global Educational Leadership
You may be eligible to receive both the Masters Taught Excellence Scholarship and the Alumni Loyalty Discount.
Please note that even though you may fulfil the eligibility for the scholarship this does not guarantee you will receive one due to the restricted number of awards available.
Applying for the Masters (Taught) Excellence Scholarship
Funding Advisor - Susie Collins
email: studentfunding@bolton.ac.uk
Students who transfer from BEng to MEng will not be eligible to receive the Excellence Scholarship.
The Excellence Scholarship shall not be awarded to full or part-time students studying PhD or MPhil courses.
The Excellence Scholarship shall not be awarded for Research courses or Top-Up.
*The Excellence Scholarship will be paid for first Taught Masters courses only, not second or subsequent courses.
*Please note that meeting the essential criteria does not equate to an entitlement to a scholarship.
*Payments will be permanently terminated if the student withdraws, transfers to another institution, fails their programme of study, or interrupts or suspends their studies.
*Payments are subject to continuing and satisfactory attendance on the course.
*Payments of the award are made entirely at the discretion of the university.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/blogs/is-an-mba-worth-it:
07/09/2023
Investing in this degree is a vital career step; if you want to gain an edge in today's competitive corporate world, earning an MBA is well worth the financial commitment.
A Masters in business administration is a postgraduate degree designed specifically for those with prior job experience who want to develop an in-depth understanding of business practices.
There is no question that an MBA degree can greater assist in advancing your career.
But, given that everyone's circumstances and goals are unique, is an MBA degree worthwhile?
Let us explore the rewards of this prestigious degree.
BENEFITS OF PURSUING AN MBA?
An MBA degree is a highly-respected certification, indicating a high-value skill set that many employers look for.
That's not all; here are some more bonuses for doing this degree: Enhanced Career Opportunities: An MBA opens doors to various industries and positions, including leadership and management roles.
Many top companies value MBA candidates for their advanced business knowledge and strategic thinking skills Higher Earning Potential: Individuals with an MBA enjoy higher salaries than those with only a bachelor's degree; the increased earning potential is often a result of skills and business acumen gained during the MBA programme Networking Avenues: MBA programmes often provide ample networking opportunities with fellow students, faculty, guest speakers and alumni; these connections can prove invaluable in terms of career advancement, job referrals and potential partnerships Skill Diversification: This degree covers a wide range of subjects, including finance, marketing, operations, strategy and more; this diverse skill set can make you a versatile candidate across various functional areas within an organisation Entrepreneurial Skills: If you're interested in starting your own business, an MBA can provide the knowledge needed to launch and manage a business successfully Personal Growth and Development: Pursuing an MBA involves rigorous coursework, group projects, presentations and often internships or practical experiences; these challenges can foster personal growth, increased self-confidence and improved communication skills Global Perspective: The business world has become a global village; many MBA programmes emphasise international business and provide opportunities to study abroad or interact with a diverse group of students.
This exposure can help you better understand global business dynamics Credibility and Career Switching: Obtaining an MBA from a well-regarded institution can enhance your credibility in the eyes of potential employers, clients and colleagues.
Also, for individuals looking to transition into a new industry, an MBA can help you make a successful career switch WHEN IS MBA WORTH IT?
A masters in business administration is indeed worth it: When you want to prepare your future career: In an ever-evolving professional landscape, organisations are increasingly seeking individuals with a diverse skill set that encompasses not only technical expertise but also a range of essential abilities.
From effective team management to strategic planning, an MBA equips you with the tools to navigate these demands successfully.
Also, an MBA degree provides an opportunity to develop and hone influential skills; in today's challenging business world, the ability to influence stakeholders from diverse backgrounds is a prized asset.
FINAL THOUGHTS: So, if you're considering taking the plunge into higher education for professional advancement, there's no doubt that an MBA degree can provide a solid return on investment.
It's a decision that can broaden your horizons and give you a competitive edge in the job market.
Ready to embark on this transformative journey?
With a commitment to academic excellence and practical learning, the University of Bolton offers a range of MBA programmes designed to cater to your specific career goals.
To learn more about Bolton University's courses, contact us at enquiries@bolton.ac.uk.
Or call +44 1204 903142 to speak to a member of the team.
That's not all; here are some more bonuses for doing this degree:
Enhanced Career Opportunities: An MBA opens doors to various industries and positions, including leadership and management roles.
Many top companies value MBA candidates for their advanced business knowledge and strategic thinking skills
Higher Earning Potential: Individuals with an MBA enjoy higher salaries than those with only a bachelor's degree; the increased earning potential is often a result of skills and business acumen gained during the MBA programme
Networking Avenues: MBA programmes often provide ample networking opportunities with fellow students, faculty, guest speakers and alumni; these connections can prove invaluable in terms of career advancement, job referrals and potential partnerships
Skill Diversification: This degree covers a wide range of subjects, including finance, marketing, operations, strategy and more; this diverse skill set can make you a versatile candidate across various functional areas within an organisation
Entrepreneurial Skills: If you're interested in starting your own business, an MBA can provide the knowledge needed to launch and manage a business successfully
Personal Growth and Development: Pursuing an MBA involves rigorous coursework, group projects, presentations and often internships or practical experiences; these challenges can foster personal growth, increased self-confidence and improved communication skills
Global Perspective: The business world has become a global village; many MBA programmes emphasise international business and provide opportunities to study abroad or interact with a diverse group of students.
This exposure can help you better understand global business dynamics
Credibility and Career Switching: Obtaining an MBA from a well-regarded institution can enhance your credibility in the eyes of potential employers, clients and colleagues.
Also, for individuals looking to transition into a new industry, an MBA can help you make a successful career switch
WHEN IS MBA WORTH IT?
A masters in business administration is indeed worth it:
When you want to prepare your future career: In an ever-evolving professional landscape, organisations are increasingly seeking individuals with a diverse skill set that encompasses not only technical expertise but also a range of essential abilities.
FINAL THOUGHTS:
So, if you're considering taking the plunge into higher education for professional advancement, there's no doubt that an MBA degree can provide a solid return on investment.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/blogs/5-benefits-of-earning-a-masters-degree-in-nursing:
Undergraduate nursing programmes may equip you for a successful career in the industry, and most organisations just demand a bachelor's degree for nurses.
However, like with almost any other sector, a master's degree helps professionals progress in their careers by allowing to take on more challenging and higher-paying roles.
Whether you're a seasoned nurse looking to enhance your skill set or a newcomer aspiring to make a remarkable impact, a masters in nursing can benefit both of you.
Let’s explore how this advanced education can open doors from expanded career opportunities to heightened clinical proficiency.
ADVANCED CLINICAL EXPERTISE AND SPECIALISATION In the UK's healthcare system, where specialisation and advanced practice are highly valued, a masters in nursing offers a direct route to gaining in-depth clinical expertise.
Whether you aiming for a nurse practitioner, clinical nurse specialist, or nurse anaesthetist, a masters in nursing programme season you with the specialised skills and knowledge needed to excel in these roles.
This level of prowess allows you to deliver more targeted and effective care, making a notable impact on patient outcomes.
DIVERSE CAREER PATHWAYS The UK nursing landscape has evolved significantly, with an increasing demand for advanced practice nurses and nurse leaders.
With a masters in nursing degree , you unlock a wide array of career opportunities that might not be accessible with just a bachelor's degree.
In addition to roles within hospitals and clinics, you can explore opportunities in academia as a nurse educator, contribute to policy making or even venture into private practice as an independent nurse practitioner.
NURSE PRESCRIBING AUTHORITY A significant benefit of a masters in nursing is the potential to obtain nurse prescribing authority.
This means that as a qualified nurse prescriber, you can independently advise medications for patients, which not only enhances your autonomy in patient care but also contributes to more sound healthcare delivery.
4.
HIGHER EARNING POTENTIAL AND RECOGNITION As with many other occupations, gaining an advanced degree can glaringly boost your salary; although greater compensation is not always guaranteed, advanced education demonstrates that you have far-reaching skills that nurses without a masters in nursing do not have, especially if you pick a speciality.
Registered nurses, on average, receive a salary of roughly £25,367, but masters in nursing graduates can receive an annual income of around £37,000.
A masters in nursing can also help you advance to higher-level roles in the sector, which are frequently better compensated.
A masters in nursing education, leadership, or nursing informatics can benefit you in advance to more senior roles at a hospital; these higher-level positions typically come with higher pay.
5.
LEADERSHIP IN TELEMEDICINE AND E-HEALTH With a master's in nursing, you can take a pioneering role in the expanding fields of telemedicine and e-health.
Your advanced skills will enable you to conduct remote patient assessments, offer diagnoses through virtual consultations, and add value to the development of electronic health record systems.
This expertise positions you as a leader at the intersection of healthcare and technology, driving forward the use of digital solutions to provide efficient, accessible, and patient-centred care.
FINAL WORDS: A masters in nursing holds immense potential within the UK healthcare landscape; with the power to deepen expertise and expand career options, this educational journey is invaluable.
If you're ready to embrace the above-mentioned benefits and undertake this transformative path, consider the University of Bolton .
Our masters in nursing programmes are tailored to arm you with specialised skills and practical experience, positioning you for success in the evolving healthcare sector.
ADVANCED CLINICAL EXPERTISE AND SPECIALISATION
In the UK's healthcare system, where specialisation and advanced practice are highly valued, a masters in nursing offers a direct route to gaining in-depth clinical expertise.
DIVERSE CAREER PATHWAYS
The UK nursing landscape has evolved significantly, with an increasing demand for advanced practice nurses and nurse leaders.
NURSE PRESCRIBING AUTHORITY
A significant benefit of a masters in nursing is the potential to obtain nurse prescribing authority.
HIGHER EARNING POTENTIAL AND RECOGNITION
As with many other occupations, gaining an advanced degree can glaringly boost your salary; although greater compensation is not always guaranteed, advanced education demonstrates that you have far-reaching skills that nurses without a masters in nursing do not have, especially if you pick a speciality.
LEADERSHIP IN TELEMEDICINE AND E-HEALTH
With a master's in nursing, you can take a pioneering role in the expanding fields of telemedicine and e-health.
FINAL WORDS:
A masters in nursing holds immense potential within the UK healthcare landscape; with the power to deepen expertise and expand career options, this educational journey is invaluable.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/blogs/how-do-i-advance-my-business-career-with-a-master-in-business-administration:
13/09/2023
Are you ambitious and looking to take your business career to the next level?
In a world of competitive markets, technological advancements, and a rapidly evolving global economy, staying ahead of the curve is a must!
One of the ways you can do this is by acquiring a Master in Business Administration (MBA).
Why take a Master in Business Administration?
There are a number of reasons why it makes sense to go down this route.
So, let’s explore them further.
Broaden your skillset A business MBA will enable you to develop the strategic thinking skills required to thrive in today’s global economy.
You’ll gain knowledge and skills you can then apply in almost any business, such as: ● Understanding how business and management practices can be improved ● Developing creative and systematic approaches to underlying business issues ● Developing awareness of management and leadership practices With this, you not only become a more competent professional but a more versatile one.
Expand your professional network MBA programs attract students from diverse backgrounds and industries.
This provides you with an excellent opportunity to network with like-minded professionals who could turn out to be valuable connections in the future.
But that’s not all!
Business schools like ours here at the University of Bolton have strong alumni networks , which can be a significant advantage when looking for job opportunities or business partnerships.
Enhance your leadership abilities An essential part of a Master in Business Administration is developing leadership and managerial skills.
You will learn how to lead teams, make strategic decisions, and manage conflicts through case studies, group projects, and class discussions.
Increase your earning potential It's no secret that MBA graduates usually earn higher salaries than those with an undergraduate degree only.
Furthermore, many businesses will demand a Master’s Degree if you want to apply for a senior-level position.
Experience personal development benefits Advancing your business career with an MBA is not only about professional growth but also personal development.
You can expect: Improved confidence Better decision-making Increased resilience Enhanced communication skills Other ways to advance your business career While a Master’s should be your first port of call, there are some other things you can do to advance your career.
Building and maintaining a strong professional network is crucial for career advancement.
Attend industry events, join professional associations, and engage with your peers on social media platforms like LinkedIn.
Clearly defined goals can serve as a roadmap for your career advancement.
Set SMART goals for your career development and create a plan to achieve them.
SMART goals are Specific, Measurable, Achievable, Relevant, Time-bound A mentor can be great for valuable insights, guidance, and feedback to help you navigate your career path.
Look for a mentor who has experience in your desired field or industry.
Of course, they also need to be willing to invest time in your development.
Advance your business career at The University of Bolton Are you ready to take the next step in advancing your business career?
With the Master in Business Administration (MBA) at the University of Bolton, you will gain a well-rounded education in various aspects of business management.
You will also have the opportunity to expand your professional network, enhance your leadership abilities, and increase your earning potential.
Bolton is a vibrant area with a rich history.
Come and study in a diverse and inclusive environment that welcomes students from all over the world.
Contact us at enquiries@bolton.ac.uk or give us a ring at 01204 903903.
Take control of your future today!
Broaden your skillset
A business MBA will enable you to develop the strategic thinking skills required to thrive in today’s global economy.
You’ll gain knowledge and skills you can then apply in almost any business, such as:
● Understanding how business and management practices can be improved
● Developing creative and systematic approaches to underlying business issues
● Developing awareness of management and leadership practices
With this, you not only become a more competent professional but a more versatile one.
Expand your professional network
MBA programs attract students from diverse backgrounds and industries.
Enhance your leadership abilities
An essential part of a Master in Business Administration is developing leadership and managerial skills.
Increase your earning potential
It's no secret that MBA graduates usually earn higher salaries than those with an undergraduate degree only.
Experience personal development benefits
Advancing your business career with an MBA is not only about professional growth but also personal development.
You can expect:
Improved confidence Better decision-making Increased resilience Enhanced communication skills
While a Master’s should be your first port of call, there are some other things you can do to advance your career.
SMART goals are Specific, Measurable, Achievable, Relevant, Time-bound
A mentor can be great for valuable insights, guidance, and feedback to help you navigate your career path.
Are you ready to take the next step in advancing your business career?

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/blogs/should-i-get-my-masters-in-healthcare-management:
You don’t need us to tell you that health care is more than a career choice.
It’s a commitment to making a difference in other people’s lives.
If you’re reading this, you’ve probably already taken the first steps on this rewarding journey.
Now, you may be wondering, “What’s next?” How do I take my career to new heights?
The answer is an MSc in Community Health Care Nursing .
So, let’s delve a little bit deeper.
Unlock a world of opportunities with an MSc in Community Health Care Nursing An MSc in Community Health Care Nursing allows you to explore ethical principles, moral concepts, and values in health and social care.
You can then select a topic to research in-depth for your dissertation.
You’ll be guided in linking practice, theory, and research during this course.
You’ll also have great opportunities to use and enhance your leadership, service delivery, decision-making, and critical analysis skills.
Ultimately, you’ll get the skills you need to unlock a world of opportunities.
You’ll become a leader in your community: someone who can influence health and care policies and improve the lives of countless individuals.
Moreover, the advanced skills and knowledge you acquire will empower you to provide better care to your patients and to make a meaningful impact on your community.
It’s not just about professional growth; it’s about personal development too Embarking on this journey is not only about career advancement; it’s also an opportunity for personal growth.
You’ll build skills that are invaluable in daily life, such as: ● Building resilience - The complexities of community health care challenge students to adapt, innovate, and persevere.
Through the highs and lows of hands-on training and rigorous academic study, you’ll build a resilience that serves you not just professionally but in every facet of life.
● Cultivating empathy - Being at the forefront of community health means interacting with diverse populations, understanding their unique challenges, and responding with care.
This journey enhances your ability to connect, understand, and empathise more deeply.
● Global perspective - This program introduces students to global health trends, issues, and solutions.
This wider lens encourages you to appreciate diverse cultures, practices, and health solutions, fostering a broader worldview.
● Leadership and teamwork - Beyond managing teams and collaborating in interdisciplinary settings, an MSc program nurtures leadership qualities.
You’ll learn the importance of leading with compassion, integrity, and vision.
● Self-awareness and reflection - This MSc program emphasises reflective practices, allowing students to introspect, recognise their strengths, understand areas for improvement, and continually evolve as holistic healthcare providers.
● Lifelong learning - With a Master’s Degree, you embrace continuous learning.
This drive to stay updated and the hunger for knowledge becomes integral to your personal and professional lives.
Ultimately, you’ll emerge as a more confident, capable, and well-rounded individual.
Elevate your nursing career with a MSc Community Health Care Nursing at the Uni of Bolton!
● We’re recognised for academic excellence and a student-centric approach ● Enjoy hands-on experience through practical training and community engagement ● Our curriculum is aligned with the latest healthcare trends and community needs What will you learn?
● Advanced nursing practices tailored for community health care ● Multidisciplinary teamwork and leadership skills ● Global health perspectives and cutting-edge research methodologies Don’t miss out on the opportunity to shape the future of health care!
If you have any questions about Bolton University or life in the North West, simply drop us a message at enquiries@bolton.ac.uk or give us a ring at 01204 903903.
Now, you may be wondering, “What’s next?”
How do I take my career to new heights?
Unlock a world of opportunities with an MSc in Community Health Care Nursing
An MSc in Community Health Care Nursing allows you to explore ethical principles, moral concepts, and values in health and social care.
Embarking on this journey is not only about career advancement; it’s also an opportunity for personal growth.
You’ll build skills that are invaluable in daily life, such as:
● Building resilience - The complexities of community health care challenge students to adapt, innovate, and persevere.
● We’re recognised for academic excellence and a student-centric approach
● Enjoy hands-on experience through practical training and community engagement
● Our curriculum is aligned with the latest healthcare trends and community needs
What will you learn?
● Advanced nursing practices tailored for community health care
● Multidisciplinary teamwork and leadership skills
● Global health perspectives and cutting-edge research methodologies
Don’t miss out on the opportunity to shape the future of health care!

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/blogs/is-a-msc-mechanical-engineering-degree-necessary:
Are you thinking about whether you should take an MSc Mechanical Engineering degree?
Whether you’re fresh out of your undergraduate course or have been working as a mechanical engineer for several years now, you may be wondering whether it’s time to further your education.
Is it worth it?
In this blog post, we’ll explore the benefits of taking a Master’s Degree in mechanical engineering and some of the jobs that require this qualification to help you determine whether or not this is the right move for you.
What are your career goals?
This is the first question you need to ask yourself.
There’s no denying that a MSc Mechanical Engineering will present you with more career possibilities.
If you want to work in advanced Research and Development (R&D), especially in sectors where cutting-edge technologies are being developed, an MSc can give you a deeper understanding of complex topics.
Furthermore, a master's program can allow you to specialise in certain areas, such as robotics, computational mechanics, renewable energy , etc., which might only be touched upon lightly in a bachelor's program.
Jobs that require a Master’s in Mechanical Engineering While many jobs in the mechanical engineering field do not strictly require an MSc degree, having an advanced degree can provide a competitive edge or be necessary for specific specialised roles.
Here are some jobs that might either require or strongly prefer candidates with an MSc in Mechanical Engineering: ● Advanced Systems Engineer ● Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD) Analyst ● Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD) Analyst ● Consulting Engineer ● Controls Engineer ● Faculty Positions ● Finite Element Analyst (FEA) ● Project Manager ● Renewable Energy Systems Designer ● Research Scientist/Engineer ● Specialised Design Engineer ● Thermal Analysis Engineer The benefits of taking a Master’s Degree in Mechanical Engineering Not only do you need to consider the career opportunities that will come your way, but you need to think about the personal and professional growth you’ll gain.
So, let’s delve into the further benefits of an MSc in Mechanical Engineering: ● Personal growth and knowledge - Beyond career and economic considerations, many students pursue a master’s degree for personal satisfaction and the desire to delve deeper into academic topics.
● Networking opportunities - Graduate programs often offer opportunities to connect with professionals, professors, and researchers who can provide guidance, mentorship, and potential job or collaboration opportunities.
● Global mobility - In some regions or countries, having a master's degree might make it easier to find a job or acquire a work visa.
Come and enjoy #UniAsItShouldBe at the University of Bolton If you’re ready to further your studies and do an MSc in Mechanical Engineering, there’s nowhere better than the University of Bolton.
Our course addresses all the competencies set out by the UK-SPEC and Engineering Council and supports you in achieving Chartered Engineering (CEng) status.
Plus, we offer flexible study options, with 12-month, 18-month, and 24-month options available so you can study at a pace that suits you.
With renowned lecturers like Dr Md Ismil Hossain , Professor Peter Myler , and Dr Brian Williamson as part of the team, you can rest assured you’ll be learning from the very best.
If you have any questions about your career future or studying at the University of Bolton, simply drop us a message at enquiries@bolton.ac.uk or give us a ring at 01204 903903.
While many jobs in the mechanical engineering field do not strictly require an MSc degree, having an advanced degree can provide a competitive edge or be necessary for specific specialised roles.
Here are some jobs that might either require or strongly prefer candidates with an MSc in Mechanical Engineering:
● Advanced Systems Engineer
● Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD) Analyst
● Consulting Engineer
● Controls Engineer
● Faculty Positions
● Finite Element Analyst (FEA)
● Project Manager
● Renewable Energy Systems Designer
● Research Scientist/Engineer
● Specialised Design Engineer
● Thermal Analysis Engineer
Not only do you need to consider the career opportunities that will come your way, but you need to think about the personal and professional growth you’ll gain.
So, let’s delve into the further benefits of an MSc in Mechanical Engineering:
● Personal growth and knowledge - Beyond career and economic considerations, many students pursue a master’s degree for personal satisfaction and the desire to delve deeper into academic topics.
If you’re ready to further your studies and do an MSc in Mechanical Engineering, there’s nowhere better than the University of Bolton.
31 Oct 23
31 May 23

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/blogs/what-can-i-do-with-a-msc-biomedical-engineering:
Biomedical engineering (BME) is an industry that’s growing rapidly.
With companies like Johnson & Johnson and Olympus Medical employing people in this field, it certainly helps to do everything you can to stand out from other candidates.
This is where an MSc Biomedical Engineering degree comes in.
In this blog post, we’ll explore some of the exciting careers you can have when armed with a Master’s in Biomedical Engineering.
Graduating with an MSc in Biomedical Engineering As a graduate of MSc Biomedical Engineering , you’ll be ready to take advanced roles in the medical and biomedical industries.
Many graduates aim to achieve Chartered Engineer (CEng) status , and the master’s degree at the University of Bolton is designed to meet the academic requirements needed for professional registration.
You can then move into research and development roles, academia, medical device development, testing, or quality assurance.
Careers include: ● Consultancy ● Manufacturing ● Materials science ● Mechanical engineering ● Project management ● Product management ● Quality management ● Research and development ● Teaching and education ● Test engineering ● Tissue engineering Fascinating career possibilities with a Master’s in Biomedical Engineering 1.
Becoming a Robotic Prosthetics Pioneer Imagine helping someone run, dance, or even walk after believing they never would again.
With your MSc Biomedical Engineering, you could be at the forefront of developing next-gen prosthetics that replace and enhance human capabilities.
Brain-computer interfaces Remember when controlling gadgets with just a thought was something only seen in films?
That's changing, and fast!
As a BME specialist, you could design devices that allow paralysed individuals to communicate or even help restore memories.
Talk about having superpowers!
Revolutionising healthcare with personalised medicine Why go for a one-size-fits-all solution when you can tailor-make treatments?
Dive into the world of genetics and help develop treatments suited for individual genetic makeups.
It's like having a personal stylist, but for medicine!
Travel and collaborate Biomedical engineering is not just about being stuck in a lab.
Many companies and research institutions around the globe are on the hunt for brilliant minds like yours.
Be ready to jet-set around the world, collaborating with diverse teams and cultures.
Sustainability advocate Be a superhero for both humans and our planet!
With your expertise, you can also create eco-friendly medical solutions, reduce hospital waste, or develop sustainable healthcare tech.
6.
Entrepreneurial spirit ignited Have you got a groundbreaking idea?
Why not start your own venture?
The healthcare tech sector is booming, and the world is hungry for innovations.
With your MSc, you're not just an engineer but a potential game-changer in the business world.
Take your career to the next level with an MSc Biomedical Engineering Getting an MSc in Biomedical Engineering might sound like a giant leap, and sure, there will be challenges.
But the possibilities are enormous!
The chance to impact lives, to innovate, to travel, and to constantly learn – it's exhilarating.
Here at the University of Bolton, our MSc in Biomedical Engineering aims to give you all the skills and knowledge you need to develop engineering solutions for biology and medicine.
You can check out the programme specification here .
Dive into the world of biomedical engineering and craft a future that's not just fulfilling for you but for countless others who will benefit from your expertise.
As a graduate of MSc Biomedical Engineering , you’ll be ready to take advanced roles in the medical and biomedical industries.
Careers include:
● Consultancy ● Manufacturing ● Materials science ● Mechanical engineering ● Project management ● Product management ● Quality management ● Research and development ● Teaching and education ● Test engineering ● Tissue engineering
Becoming a Robotic Prosthetics Pioneer
Imagine helping someone run, dance, or even walk after believing they never would again.
Brain-computer interfaces
Remember when controlling gadgets with just a thought was something only seen in films?
Revolutionising healthcare with personalised medicine
Why go for a one-size-fits-all solution when you can tailor-make treatments?
Travel and collaborate
Biomedical engineering is not just about being stuck in a lab.
Sustainability advocate
Be a superhero for both humans and our planet!
Entrepreneurial spirit ignited
Have you got a groundbreaking idea?
Getting an MSc in Biomedical Engineering might sound like a giant leap, and sure, there will be challenges.
27 Apr 22
21 Apr 21
18 Dec 23

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/blogs/why-leadership-is-important-in-education-and-how-a-masters-in-educational-leadership-can-help:
“Before you are a leader, success is all about growing yourself.
When you become a leader, success is all about growing others.” — Jack Welch, American Business Executive.
Previous Chairman and CEO of General Electric Here at the University of Bolton, our Masters in Educational Leadership can help you to do precisely that: grow yourself so that you can then grow others.
After all, leadership is one of the most critical skills for anyone who wants to work in education.
This is about more than managing a classroom.
It’s about being the person to inspire positive change!
But leaders are born, not made, right?
Well, we tend to differ!
Anyone can become a great leader.
It’s all about acquiring the necessary skills and then applying them successfully.
We recommend checking out this “ Great Leaders Are Made, Not Born ” post.
It takes you through six steps successful people take to become better leaders.
It shows you that a leader can certainly be made.
Why is leadership important in education?
There are several reasons why leadership is vital in education: Set a clear vision Influential leaders can craft a clear and compelling vision for the educational institution they work for, whether a school or university.
This vision helps guide the actions and decisions of all the institution members.
Ignite the spark in others You can inspire others as a great leader.
Inspire your students to be the best they can be!
Inspire other staff members to create a positive learning environment!
Steer the ship and make important decisions Leaders are responsible for making essential decisions that affect the educational institution as a whole.
These decisions can relate to the likes of: ● Hiring staff ● Allocating resources ● Implementing new programs Create a positive learning environment Once you’re armed with good leadership skills, you’ll be able to create a positive learning environment conducive to learning.
You can ensure classrooms are safe, supportive, and inclusive for all students.
Effectively navigate the winds of change Education is an evolving field, and leaders need to implement changes effectively.
This can include adopting new teaching methods, integrating technology, or enforcing new policies.
Uphold high standards Educational leaders are accountable for the performance of the institution.
So, you need to make sure the school or university you work for meets its goals and objectives.
If it isn’t, you’ll need to make changes!
Unlock your leadership potential at The University of Bolton Are you passionate about education?
Do you dream of being a leader who makes a real difference?
If so, the University of Bolton’s Masters in Educational Leadership is tailor-made for you!
Why choose Bolton University?
● Ranked No.1 for Student Satisfaction* ● Dedicated support team for international students ● State-of-the-art facilities ● Career-focused learning About the course Our Masters in Educational Leadership is designed to equip you with the knowledge, skills, and confidence required to be an effective leader in the education sector.
Whether you’re a teacher aspiring to move into a leadership role or an existing leader looking to enhance your skills, this course will provide you with the tools needed to excel.
Let’s create a brighter future, together!
Contact us at enquiries@bolton.ac.uk or ring us at 01204 903903 if you’d like to know more.
*Complete University Guide - Student Satisfaction - Northwest - 2023, 2022, 2021, 2020, 2019.
When you become a leader, success is all about growing others.”
— Jack Welch, American Business Executive.
Previous Chairman and CEO of General Electric
Here at the University of Bolton, our Masters in Educational Leadership can help you to do precisely that: grow yourself so that you can then grow others.
There are several reasons why leadership is vital in education:
Set a clear vision
Influential leaders can craft a clear and compelling vision for the educational institution they work for, whether a school or university.
You can inspire others as a great leader.
Leaders are responsible for making essential decisions that affect the educational institution as a whole.
These decisions can relate to the likes of:
● Hiring staff
● Allocating resources
● Implementing new programs
Once you’re armed with good leadership skills, you’ll be able to create a positive learning environment conducive to learning.
Education is an evolving field, and leaders need to implement changes effectively.
Educational leaders are accountable for the performance of the institution.
Are you passionate about education?
● Ranked No.1 for Student Satisfaction*
● Dedicated support team for international students
● State-of-the-art facilities
● Career-focused learning
About the course
Our Masters in Educational Leadership is designed to equip you with the knowledge, skills, and confidence required to be an effective leader in the education sector.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/blogs/what-can-i-do-with-a-masters-in-psychology:
Starting a journey towards higher education not only enriches one's knowledge but also paves the way for a promising career trajectory.
For those captivated by the intricate workings of human behaviour and cognition, a master's in psychology not only offers a deeper understanding but also brings the promise of higher earnings and an array of professional possibilities.
According to recent data, graduates in the UK with a master's in psychology earn an average of £4,300 more per year than graduates with a bachelor's degree only, marking a remarkable 17.6% increase.
In this blog, we will dig into how a master's in psychology amplifies career prospects that await graduates armed with this advanced degree.
CLINICAL AND COUNSELLING ROLES The most well-known path for psychology graduates is clinical and counselling psychology: with a master's in psychology, you can work as a licensed professional counsellor, marriage and family therapist, or substance abuse counsellor.
These roles involve providing therapeutic support to individuals, couples and families with various mental health challenges.
A master's in psychology offers a solid foundation to help clients overcome personal difficulties, manage emotions and develop coping strategies.
SCHOOL PSYCHOLOGY School psychologists play a crucial role in the educational system as they collaborate with teachers, parents and administrators to support students' academic success and emotional well-being.
A master's in psychology can lead to careers in schools, where you can assess and address students' learning and behavioural issues, design intervention plans and build a positive and inclusive learning environment.
INDUSTRIAL AND ORGANISATIONAL PSYCHOLOGY Delving into the corporate sector, industrial and organisational psychology offers exciting career opportunities: professionals in this field focus on enhancing workplace productivity, employee satisfaction and administrative efficiency.
With a master's in psychology , you can work in areas such as human resources, talent management and organisational development.
By understanding human behaviour in the context of work, you contribute to building a harmonious and productive work environment.
FORENSIC PSYCHOLOGY Forensic psychology is an enthralling path for those intrigued by the intersection of mind and law.
This field involves applying psychological principles to legal and criminal justice settings, as a forensic psychologist, you might work in areas like criminal profiling, courtroom consulting, or assessing mental competency in law cases.
With your expertise, you play a part in the justice system by providing insights into human behaviour, mental disorders and decision-making processes.
RESEARCH AND ACADEMIA A master's in psychology also lays the foundation for a career in research and academia; you can pursue further studies, such as a Ph.D.
or Psy.D., and become a psychologist-researcher or university professor.
Engaging in research allows you to add to the advancement of psychological knowledge, discover specialised areas of interest and guide the next generation of psychologists.
HUMAN SERVICES AND NON-PROFITS The desire to positively impact society often leads graduates to work in human services and non-profit organisations.
These organisations focus on addressing various social issues, such as poverty, homelessness, domestic violence and addiction.
With your expertise in psychology, you can curate and implement programmes that support vulnerable populations, advocate for policy changes and create a more equitable society.
7.
SPORTS PSYCHOLOGY If you have a passion for both psychology and sports, a master's in psychology can lead to a career in sports psychology.
You can work with athletes, coaches and teams to enhance performance, manage stress and develop mental resilience.
Whether helping athletes overcome performance anxiety or working with coaches to build effective leadership strategies, your insights can play a pivotal role in the field of sports.
FINAL WORDS: As we've explored the multifaceted avenues available to master's in psychology graduates, from clinical and counselling roles to academia, industry and beyond, it's evident that this qualification offers unique and rewarding career paths.
Are you ready to take the next step toward an enriched career in psychology?
Consider the University of Bolton's Master's in Psychology programme, where expert faculty, cutting-edge curriculum and a supportive learning environment converge to empower you on your journey.
Join us at the University of Bolton to enjoy (as you may already be in) a fulfilling career in the fascinating world of psychology.
CLINICAL AND COUNSELLING ROLES
The most well-known path for psychology graduates is clinical and counselling psychology: with a master's in psychology, you can work as a licensed professional counsellor, marriage and family therapist, or substance abuse counsellor.
SCHOOL PSYCHOLOGY
School psychologists play a crucial role in the educational system as they collaborate with teachers, parents and administrators to support students' academic success and emotional well-being.
INDUSTRIAL AND ORGANISATIONAL PSYCHOLOGY
Delving into the corporate sector, industrial and organisational psychology offers exciting career opportunities: professionals in this field focus on enhancing workplace productivity, employee satisfaction and administrative efficiency.
FORENSIC PSYCHOLOGY
Forensic psychology is an enthralling path for those intrigued by the intersection of mind and law.
RESEARCH AND ACADEMIA
A master's in psychology also lays the foundation for a career in research and academia; you can pursue further studies, such as a Ph.D.
HUMAN SERVICES AND NON-PROFITS
The desire to positively impact society often leads graduates to work in human services and non-profit organisations.
SPORTS PSYCHOLOGY
If you have a passion for both psychology and sports, a master's in psychology can lead to a career in sports psychology.
As we've explored the multifaceted avenues available to master's in psychology graduates, from clinical and counselling roles to academia, industry and beyond, it's evident that this qualification offers unique and rewarding career paths.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/blogs/is-a-masters-degree-in-mechanical-engineering-worth-it:
In a world where career paths are increasingly shaped by education, the choice to take up a master's in mechanical engineering carries significant weight; the deliberation over its value, considering the commitment of time, effort and resources, is critical.
A master's in mechanical engineering can undoubtedly allow working professionals to broaden and deepen their skills and knowledge in a variety of disciplines that include aerospace, automotive, biomedical, automation and fluid mechanics.
This blog delves into the key aspects of the worth of a master's in mechanical engineering.
EVALUATING THE WORTH OF MASTER’S IN MECHANICAL ENGINEERING: There is no doubt that investing in your professional growth is vital; there are several options for engineers, and completing a mechanical engineering master's degree is one of the most appealing.
Here are some of the main reasons why earning an advanced degree may be worthwhile: A master’s in mechanical engineering is the ideal way to get specialised engineering knowledge.
Enroling in a master's in mechanical engineering programme keep you updated on industry advancements; you learn how to leverage new technologies and methodologies to modernise product development and testing approach.
If you have past expertise in the subject, you may strengthen your knowledge by collaborating with other students with diverse engineering backgrounds.
The coursework may also motivate you to do mechanical research, providing you with another option to sharpen your abilities and progress professionally.
A master’s in mechanical engineering can help you advance in your career or industry.
A master's in mechanical engineering can demonstrate to potential employers that you are qualified for higher-level work.
The degree helps you develop in the sector more rapidly, allowing you to achieve professional objectives and use the unique abilities you learned in the class sessions.
When seeking an internal promotion or a competitive external career, a master's degree can help you stand out from the crowd.
A master’s in mechanical engineering can increase your earning potential.
As the degree validates your knowledge in the subject, this will justify a higher wage.
When aiming for higher-level engineer positions, including the certificate on your CV might benefit pay negotiations: although you may have spent a significant amount on your master's education, the future increase in your salary will make the initial investment worthwhile.
A master’s in mechanical engineering can help you get ready for a doctorate or Ph.D.
degree.
As a graduate student, you can prepare for a higher education certificate by conducting field research.
If you first obtain a master's degree, you will be able to determine whether you want to continue your studies beyond that level.
For example, if a doctorate programme demands a particular number of hours of work experience or study, a master's degree could serve as a replacement and help you get admission.
The decision to go for a master's in mechanical engineering is multi-faceted and subjective; while it demands a considerable investment of resources and time, the benefits can be substantial.
A master's degree offers specialised knowledge, improved career prospects, research opportunities, industry relevance, networking possibilities and the chance to align with your passion.
FINAL WORDS: Pursuing a master's in mechanical engineering at the University of Bolton offers a valuable opportunity to widen expertise and build up career prospects.
With unique knowledge, a supportive academic community and a focus on practical skills, the programme empower you to excel in the ever-progressing field of mechanical engineering.
The University's commitment to industry relevance and hands-on learning ensures that your investment in this degree will likely yield significant returns as you step confidently in your career.
EVALUATING THE WORTH OF MASTER’S IN MECHANICAL ENGINEERING:
There is no doubt that investing in your professional growth is vital; there are several options for engineers, and completing a mechanical engineering master's degree is one of the most appealing.
Here are some of the main reasons why earning an advanced degree may be worthwhile:
A master’s in mechanical engineering is the ideal way to get specialised engineering knowledge.
Pursuing a master's in mechanical engineering at the University of Bolton offers a valuable opportunity to widen expertise and build up career prospects.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/join-us/how-to-apply-and-admissions/criminal-conviction-disclosure:
The University understands that accessing education is key to enabling people with criminal records put the past mistakes behind them, so they can become positive members of society; and so, we welcome applications from ex-offenders.
Having a criminal conviction will not necessarily prevent an applicant being successful in securing a place at the University although there may be requirements for some courses and careers – this is highlighted as part of our online course information.
Suitable applicants would not be refused a place at the University because of offences which are not relevant and do not make them a risk to staff or other students.
Details of the lawful justification for processing this data can be found in the Student Information Policy Zone
As part of the University’s duty of care and associated fiduciary duties to its staff, students and wider community we ask all applicants to disclose relevant unspent criminal convictions at the point they accept their offer.
Relevant offences may include offences against the person, whether of a violent or sexual nature, or offences involving the unlawful supply or use of controlled drugs or substances.
If the course involves regular contact with children or vulnerable adults, the University would consider it a high risk to enrol anyone who has been convicted at any time of any the following  offences: murder; manslaughter; rape; other serious sexual offences; grievous bodily harm or other serious acts of violence; serious class A drug related offences; robbery; burglary; theft; deception or fraud.
Applicants who accept an offer of a place on courses that are exempt under the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act (1974) are required to declare any convictions, cautions, reprimands and final warnings that are not protected i.e.
eligible for filtering under the ROA (1974) at the point they accept their offer.
Courses within the following subject areas are classed as ‘exempt’ and therefore require declaration as above:
Applicants should note that for some courses where a placement is optional then a DBS check will be required prior to commencement.
Further advice and guidance on whether your cautions and convictions are eligible for filtering can be found using the Unlock calculator, see here .
Alternatively, you can contact Nacro Resettlement Advice Service on tel: 0300 123 1999, by email at helpline@nacro.org.uk , or website .
Applicants on courses ‘exempt’ from the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974, whose circumstances change in the period between application and enrolment must declare such changes to the Admissions Team prior to enrolment so that these can be taken into consideration.
In the first instance only, FORM A – Initial Disclosure Form should be completed and returned to ccr@bolton.ac.uk
In the event that relevant information (whether in relation to previous convictions or otherwise) is declared by an applicant during the application process or obtained through the DBS check, the University will carry out a risk assessment in accordance with the Student Admissions Policy which can be found in the Student Policy Zone .
It will consider the following (non‐exhaustive) factors before reaching a decision on whether to permit the applicant to commence study:
Where these factors present a conflict to the University’s duty of care and associated fiduciary duties, the University reserves the right not to make an offer to study (or to withdraw an offer to study made in advance of a criminal conviction declaration and not disclosed prior to enrolment) where it considers it has lawful basis to do so.
It is important that suitable applicants are not refused a place at the University because of offences which are not relevant and do not make them a risk to staff, students or the wider community.
The process therefore includes an initial assessment by the Executive Director, Strategy, Brand and Future Students and the Safeguarding Champion in Marketing, Recruitment and Admissions, including checking whether a conviction is spent, relevant, exempt or filtered before moving to a three stage Risk Assessment process as follows:
Stage 1 requires the completion of an initial declaration form by the applicant and initial assessment by the Executive Director, Strategy, Brand and Future Students, the Safeguarding Champion in Marketing, Recruitment and Admissions and the relevant Head of School.
This may recommend approval to proceed or move to Stage 2.
Stage 2 asks the applicant for a Disclosure Statement which includes contextual information and requests for further information from 3rd party organisations involved in the applicants’ rehabilitation (if applicable).
This information will be reviewed by the same panel as in Stage 1 plus any potential placement provider.
This may recommend approval to proceed or move to Stage 3.
Stage 3 During this stage the documentation must be reviewed by the original review panel in Stage 1 and 2, plus the Registrar, PVC (Academic) and Head of Student Services (or the Student Mental Health & Wellbeing Manager, in the absence of the Head of Student Services).
This panel may recommend approval to proceed or recommend that the application is rejected on grounds of high risk.
During this Stage, the panel may require further information from the applicant, 3rd parties or a full interview be carried out by the University Counsellor/Deputy Safeguarding Officer.
Appeal – an applicant may appeal the decision via the Complaints and Appeals Process for Applicants, the final stage of which includes a review by an external appeal officer nominated by the Vice Chancellor.
For information and transparency, you may review all forms and process documents used by the University in carrying out a Risk Assessment.
Form A Initial Disclosure Form
Form B Risk Assessment Hazard Form
Form C Applicant Disclosure Statement
Form D Risk Assessment Interview Record
Form E Outcome of Risk Assessment
Form F Appendix 1 Example Interview Questions
Form G Panel Decision
In the first instance only,  Form A – Initial Disclosure Form should be completed and returned to ccr@bolton.ac.uk .
For further confidential advice on when to declare, whether your convictions are ‘unspent’ and how to complete a Disclosure Statement please contact Nacro Resettlement Advice Service on tel: 0300 123 1999, or by email at helpline@nacro.org.uk or visit the Nacro website at www.nacro.org.uk .
If you need any advice on the University’s process please contact ccr@bolton.ac.uk or telephone 01204 903394.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/research-programmes/research-admissions:
Research degrees offer you the opportunity to develop and demonstrate your ability to undertake research that makes an original contribution to knowledge in given field.
A postgraduate research degree is a specialised set of work, which you undertake in collaboration with the University of Bolton.
Applying for a research degree is in some sense rather like applying for a job, unlike applying for a postgraduate taught programme.
When you start a research degree you will become a valued researcher in an academic department; we welcome passionate, inquisitive students who are ready to progress their academic careers with a PhD or MPhil.
The application involves:
To apply for a research degree you should have the following as a minimum:
Upper second class honours degree (2:1) in a relevant subject; we welcome equivalent qualifications from overseas and the EU (see UK NARIC for information on recognised equivalencies)
If English is not your first language you will also normally need to obtain an IELTS certificate having a minimum overall score of 6.5 within the last 2 years and with no individual component score below 6.0.
This must be completed at an IELTS test centre authorised by UKVI to run IELTS tests for UK visa and immigration purposes.
For PhD programmes, a postgraduate qualification and/or some research training or relevant professional development is desirable
For more information and subject specific requirements, please contact Research-Admin@bolton.ac.uk or +44 (0)1204 903 883.
To be sure that we can support your specialism, you must first contact the Research Coordinator for the academic area that covers your subject.
The Research Coordinator will advise on whether or not your subject specialism and the nature of your intended research fits within the university’s research activity.
Here is a list of our research coordinators:
Research Centre
Subject Area
Research Coordinator
Telephone
Email
Coronial Law
Dr Alicia Danielsson
+44 (0)1204 903 918
A.Danielsson@bolton.ac.uk
Islamic Finance
Dr Emir Camdzic
+44 (0)1204 903 162
E.Camdzic@bolton.ac.uk
Mass Observation & Worktown Studies
Prof Jill Marsden
+44 (0)1204 903 238
J.Marsden@bolton.ac.uk
Business, Accounting, Management
Dr Imran Akhtar
+44 (0)1204 903 407
I.Akhtar@bolton.ac.uk
Institute for Materials Research & Innovation
Materials Research & Innovation
Professor Baljinder Kandola
+44 (0)1204 903 517
B.Kandola@bolton.ac.uk
School of the Arts
Art & Design English & Creative Writing Photography Theatre & Performance
+ 44 (0)1204 903 238
Dr Celestine Iwendi
+44 (0)1204 903 016
C.Iwendi@bolton.ac.uk
Professor Robin Simmons
+44 (0)1204 903 219
D.Bacova@bolton.ac.uk
Built Environment & Civil Engineering
Dr Henry Oti
+44 (0)1204 903 077
Engineering
Professor Peter Myler
+44 (0)1204 903 661
P.Myler@bolton.ac.uk
School of Health, Science & Society
Medical, Biomedical & Life Sciences Sport, Performance, Recovery & Rehab Advanced Clinical Practice, Research Coordinator Physician Associate and Medical Practice
Dr Rameez Tariq
+44 (0)1204 903 945
R.Tariq@bolton.ac.uk
Law
Dr Ike Uhumuavbi
+44 (0)1204 903 942
I.Uhumuavbi@bolton.ac.uk
Schhol of Nursing & Midwifery
Dr Amanda Costello
A.Costello@bolton.ac.uk
Dr Robin Bailey
+44 (0)1204 903 141
R.Bailey2@bolton.ac.uk
For Off-campus enquiries please contact Professor Christian Harrison tel: +44 (0)01204 903 126 or email: C.Harrison2@bolton.ac.uk .
Please note: if you are unable to see your subject specialism or require any guidance please contact the Research team on Research-Admin@bolton.ac.uk or +44 (0)1204 903 883.
Your research proposal is an integral part of the application process, so it is certainly worth investing time and energy into.
It needs to outline the nature of your proposed study and give some indication of how you will conduct your research.
Through your research proposal your colleagues want to know whether they can work with you and whether your ideas are focused, interesting and realistic.
Try to impress them!A successful research proposal should include the following:
A clear working title for your research project
A clear statement about what you want to work on and why
Examples of key literature, key people, key research findings that will support your research
An outline of your intended research methodology and approach
An indication of your strategy and timetable for the project
A list of key references which support your proposal
A more detailed guide on writing your research proposal can be downloaded here.
As part of the application process for all research degrees, there will be an interview with the Research Coordinator from an Academic School or the proposed Director of Studies.
If you are not based in the UK the interview may be on the phone or online.Invitation to interview does not guarantee you will be offered a place.
The university also reserves the right to request a portfolio of appropriate work or administer any other test to determine an applicant’s suitability for study prior to their enrolment with the university.
Please note: we are unable to offer start dates that are different from the ones listed below.
Apply By Date
25 th May 2023
1 st March 2023
21 st September 2023
23 rd June 2023
22 nd January 2024
20 th November 2023

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/research-programmes/research-centres:
Research at the University of Bolton is driven by our ‘Teaching Intensive, Research Informed’ strategy.
We offer research in the following academic subject areas based in academic Schools & Centres and supported by our Research & Graduate School.
Please visit the research sections of our academic Schools & Centres web pages further information about the research themes and the staff research expertise that we provide in each subject area.
The Research & Graduate School manages all research degree students and researcher development across the University of Bolton.
Our attention is focused on meeting research degree student requirements through comprehensive researcher development programmes, Lecturer in Theory and Context PhD student with the Centre for Worktown Studies.
BA (Hons) Textiles & Surface Design graduate “After some time working in industry as a Heritage Consultant, I was asked to deliver some modules at the University, which I relished and I loved the idea of coming back.
Once working here, I knew I wanted to be part of the Bolton community full-time, to commence my academic career here and work towards my PhD.”
Depositing work in an institutional repository does not preclude making research available via more traditional routes.
Rather, it provides an additional means of enabling access to research and, moreover, increases the discoverability of the research, as repositories are indexed by search engines such as Google and Google Scholar.
The aim of the Postgraduate Research Students Society is to bring together research students at the University of Bolton, and share knowledge, information and experience amongst researchers.
The University of Bolton is dedicated to delivering world-leading research and applying its discoveries to generating enterprise and outcomes which benefit local communities as well as the knowledge economy.
Panel Chairs on the Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2014 agreed that six of the seven subjects submitted by the University of Bolton demonstrated world-leading research, whilst the seventh was deemed to be of internationally excellent standard.
As well as a Master of Philosophy (MPhil) and a Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) degree by thesis, the University of Bolton provides the opportunity for you to undertake your postgraduate research degree by different routes including, MPhil and PhD by Practice, MPhil and PhD by Publication and Professional Doctorates.
We are committed to helping researchers reach their full potential, at both a personal and professional level.
Find out more about our postgraduate research degrees (links to Study > PGR > Postgraduate research degrees), postgraduate scholarships (links to Study > PGR > Fees, loans and scholarships) and our support for postgraduate research students.
(links to Study > PGR > Life as a postgraduate research student)
We’re committed to helping researchers achieve their full potential.
The Research & Graduate School offers a comprehensive research degree student development programme that includes:
an induction programme to life at the university and as a research degree student
weekly workshops to enhance your research skills delivered by research staff from across the university
research methods seminars and workshops
online resources available through our virtual learning environment for all workshops and training programmes
progress monitoring and development review
annual research degree student conference hosted by the Postgraduate Research Students Society
annual Research Summer School
As well as engaging with University of Bolton workshops, seminars and research events, we encourage all researchers to make use of the VITAE Researcher Development Planner and the VITAE Researcher Development Framework.
As a member of VITAE, University of Bolton research degree students benefit from the VITAE researcher development insight and expertise.
Erasmus+ is the EU programme for education, training, youth and sports for 2014-2020.
It includes learning mobility of individuals, cooperation for innovation and exchange of good practice, and support for policy reform.
The Research & Graduate School encourages research students and staff to participate in the Erasmus+ scheme, and experience living, studying and/or working in a different European country.
The aim of the Postgraduate Research Students Society (PGRSS) is to bring together research students at the University of Bolton, and share knowledge, information and experience amongst researchers.
The members of the PGRSS are research degree students across all disciplines at the University of Bolton.
Membership is free and details of how to join are provided below.
The Society President and Officers are elected annually by members of the PGRSS for a period of one year.
The following are the current officers of the society: President: Md Ismil Hossain Vice-President: Lisa Williamson Vice-President 2: Nor Syarmilla Secretary: Hanan Almadani Joint-Secretary: Roshan Panditharathna Treasurer:  Phoebe Nebo
The PGRSS organises academic conferences for research degree students, various social events throughout the year, provides support and feedback mechanism for research degree students.
Membership is open to all University of Bolton postgraduate research degree students.
To join please email your full name, student ID and university email address to the PGRSS email (*protected email*).
Please use the subject line ‘Request to join the PGRSS’ in your email.
“Be curious, help to find a solution, and contribute to enhance our effective research environments for a better world”, Md Ismil Hossain.
We strongly encourage you to take advantage of the Researcher Development Programme of training events arranged by the university’s Research & Graduate School.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/research-programmes/research-degrees:
A postgraduate research degree is your chance to create original work and advance knowledge in your academic field.
You’ll have the opportunity to make new discoveries, challenge conventional wisdom, and make a real impact in your subject.
We have 20+ areas of research and welcome applications from students interested in pursuing research degrees in these areas.
We also welcome businesses interested in working with us on Knowledge Transfer Partnerships.
At the University of Bolton we’re proud to be ‘Teaching Intensive, Research Informed’.
We value the impact that research brings to society and academia, and we embed research throughout our teaching.
Research degrees offer you the opportunity to develop and demonstrate your ability to undertake research into an area of personal or professional interest.
For PhD the research must be original, i.e.
it must make a contribution to knowledge in the field.
Different routes are offered in different subjects.
If you are considering a research degree now or in the future, you should contact the relevant Research Coordinator in the first instance.
This will help inform you of the types of research specialism that we are able to support.
A list of the Research Coordinators in each academic area can be found on the Research Admissions page .
The university continues to be committed to excellence in research and encourages graduates in all disciplines to consider studying for a PhD, the highest award conferred by the university, or an MPhil.
To this end, the university offers the opportunity to study for a PhD or MPhil in any subject area where we have relevant research expertise, in discussion with the Academic Group, Research Institute or Research Centre.
Master of Philosophy (MPhil)
Master of Philosophy (MPhil) in Innovation
LLM by Research
Doctor of Philosophy (PhD)
By thesis
By published work
By practice (route a/b)
This programme is designed for those whose work involves them in innovative and advanced professional or creative practice and enables them to receive academic credit for that work, assuming it is at doctoral level.
There are two potential routes depending on how much evidence of professional or creative practice the candidate has.
To find out more about the entry requirements and how to apply for a research degree, please visit the Research Admissions page or contact the Research & Graduate School on Research-Admin@bolton.ac.uk or +44 (0)1204 903 883.
For information about funding and tuition fees for research degrees, please click here .
As a research degree student, you’ll have all of the benefits of being part of the University of Bolton.
You’ll have the option to stay in our student accommodation, you can join all of the Students Union sports clubs and societies and you’ll have access to the same student services.
As well as this, you will be part of the Research & Graduate School (R&GS) , be able to take advantage of our excellent Researcher Development opportunities and have the option to be involved with the Postgraduate Research Students Society .
Studying for a research degree is an intensive and demanding commitment; that is why, across the university, considerable practical and academic support is offered to all research students.
During your studies you will be supported by a supervisory team who will guide you in the development of your project.
They will offer advice and encouragement at every stage, helping you to develop increasing independence as you gain knowledge of your field.
You will also broaden your knowledge of research training by attending and/or engaging with the university’s postgraduate research student development programme and related research seminars hosted on campus or at national or international conferences.
We will ensure that you have access to all the materials you need to undertake your research.
The small and friendly environment of the university means you will have ready opportunities to share ideas and concepts.
We also offer office facilities as well as first-rate IT services, campus-wide wireless and the option of remote access to all university systems.
At the outset of your research degree you will determine your area of study and develop an outline of your research project with a supervisor who has expertise in the proposed area.
You will then carry out the agreed research programme, under supervision and with regular progress monitoring according to your supervisors’ and the university’s requirements.
Successful completion of your research degree will require you to satisfactorily present and defend a thesis (or equivalent) in oral examination.
Theses may be submitted for examination either in a permanently bound form or in a temporarily bound form which is sufficiently secure to ensure that pages cannot be added or removed.
Following the award of the degree the Research Degrees Administrator shall require an electronic version for submission to the University’s institutional repository (UBIR) and to the British Library.
For further details of the binding, form and presentation of the thesis, please refer to the Research Degree Regulations.
The University of Bolton library provides a thermal and a comb softback binding service for students.
Comb binding has a plastic spine and thermal binding has a hard metal spine.
Both types of binding have a clear plastic front and back cover.
Please see the Library web pages at https://libguides.bolton.ac.uk/facilities/binding for a full explanation of binding services including hardback binding.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/research-programmes/research-events:
The Research and Graduate School organises a series of training events mapped out to the Researcher Development Framework in support of research skills development.
These events are open to all postgraduate research students and staff.
The events cover the following dimensions of the Vitae RDF :
A.
Knowledge and intellectual abilities
B.
Personal effectiveness
C.
Research governance and organisation
D.
Engagement, influence and impact
Once we have received your booking, we will confirm your place via your email.
If you do not receive a confirmation email before the date of the event, kindly contact: ResearchEvents@bolton.ac.uk
We look forward to seeing you soon.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/research-programmes/research-funding-and-tuition-fees:
Studying for a research degree is a uniquely rewarding experience that can change your life as well as your career.
Don’t let issues surrounding funding prevent you from studying a research degree, there are many avenues to explore when funding your tuition fees and your living costs whilst you study.
Please see below for indicative information about the annual tuition fees (1) payable by postgraduate research students.
Home and EU/EEA Students who are eligible to pay ‘Home’ fees.
On-campus or UK-based Distance Learning
Outside the UK (2)
FT
PT
PhD
£8500
£4250
£7975
£3988
MPhil
PhD by Published Work or Practice (Route A – retrospective)
n/a
£4250 (4)
PhD by Published Work or Practice (Route B – prospective)
MPhil/PhD Opposition Studies
£15,950
International students
On-campus
Distance learning
Click here to download the Postgraduate Research Annual Tuition Fees for new students 2024/25
The fees for the Centre for Islamic Finance are £15,950 per year for all Home/EU/International Full Time students and £7975 per year for all Home/EU/International Part Time students
Writing up students (3)
£500 for all Home/EU and International students in their first writing up year, doubling in each subsequent year
Notes
(1) Tuition fees for students admitted under individual or collective collaborative arrangements with external organisations will normally vary from those presented here.
Tuition fees may also be supplemented by additional charges or fees as agreed with the student or sponsor.
(2) 'Outside the UK' means that the student spends the majority of their time outside the UK and therefore includes most of those 'split site' and 'distance learning' arrangements where students are primarily or wholly based overseas.
(3) Route A students are not normally eligible for the writing up fee but will usually be charged the annual tuition fee pro rata for any period of registration which exceeds the normal period for this route.
Writing-up status must be confirmed in writing by a student's supervisor before any writing-up fee will be sanctioned.
(4) This fee (like any other fee) may be subsidised by the student's Academic Group, resulting in a transfer between the relevant Academic Group budgets.
- See more at: http://www.bolton.ac.uk/Research/Prospective-Students/Tuition-Fees-for-Postgraduate-Research-Degrees.aspx#sthash.FOfimBb0.dpuf
The UK government introduced doctoral loans in September 2018.
Non-means tested loans of up to £29,390 are available to eligible students under the age of 60 as a contribution towards the costs of completing a doctoral qualification.
Eligible students ordinarily resident in England will be able to take their loan to any UK university with degree awarding powers.
Individuals ordinarily resident in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland are not eligible for loans.
The repayment rate for the loans is currently 7.9%.
For students also with a masters loan, repayment will be taken through one single postgraduate loan repayment of 7.9%.
Repayment will be made concurrently with repayment of any undergraduate student loans.
The repayment threshold is currently £21,000.
To find out more information about this, please visit www.gov.uk/doctoral-loan .
The Research Councils UK (RCUK) is a Government Body made up of seven UK research councils.
They are responsible for, among other things, managing the distribution of investment funds into research each year, which totals around £3 billion.
Some of these funds are available to individual research students; more information can be found on the Research Councils UK website .
Ainsworth Travel Scholarships Scheme (2018): This scheme aims to provide support for research-related academic travel for registered PhD students of the University of Bolton.
The scheme will provide a small number of travel grants up to a maximum of £500 per applicant.
Reasonable costs associated with travel such as accommodation and subsistence should be bid for as part of the award.
Find out more here .
We offer a small number of studentships for University of Bolton graduates and exceptional candidates who want to apply for a postgraduate research degree.
Studentships will be advertised here as they become available.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/research-programmes/research-and-graduate-school:
The Research & Graduate School (R&GS) manages all research degree students and researcher development across the University of Bolton.
This page contains information about postgraduate research degrees, research development and the Postgraduate Research Students’ Society.
The Research & Graduate School offers support for all research degree students to enhance their experience as a researcher and to make the most of researcher opportunities at the university.
Other responsibilities include:
Setting out a code of practice for standards and expectations for research degrees
Ensuring that these standards and expectations are met
Raising awareness of funding opportunities
Providing funding to support research student activities such as conference and workshop attendance
Supporting a friendly, stimulating research community and environment
Acting on student feedback provided by the Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES)
Sensing in carbon fibre composites for early detection of fire
Designing carbon fibre –reinforced epoxy composites with improved structural retention on exposure to fire and/or impact
http://Part-time MPhil Studentship available
As well as a Master of Philosophy (MPhil) and a Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) degree by thesis, the University of Bolton provides the opportunity for you to undertake your Postgraduate Research Degree by different routes including, MPhil and PhD by Practice, MPhil and PhD by Publication and Professional Doctorates.
Read more about Postgraduate Research Degrees at the University of Bolton.
The University of Bolton is committed to the highest level of researcher development at a personal and professional level to allow researchers to reach their full potential.
The Research & Graduate School offers a comprehensive Research Degree Student Development Programme that includes:
An induction programme to life at the university and as a research degree student
Weekly workshops to enhance your research skills delivered by research staff from across the university
Research methods seminars and workshops
Online resources available through our virtual learning environment for all workshops and training programmes
Progress monitoring and development review
Annual research degree student conference hosted by the Postgraduate Research Students Society
Annual Research Summer School
As a research degree student at the University of Bolton, you will be encouraged to engage with the workshops, seminars and research degree student conference.
As well as engaging with University of Bolton workshops, seminars and research events, the Research & Graduate School encourages all researchers to make use of the VITAE Researcher Development Planner and the VITAE Researcher Development Framework .
The University of Bolton strives to apply the terms of the Concordat to support the career development of researchers, commonly known as the Researcher Development Concordat .
This  is an agreement between stakeholders to improve the employment and support for researchers and researcher careers in higher education in the UK.
It sets out three clear principles of environment and culture, employment and professional, and career development.
The principles are underpinned by obligations for the four key stakeholder groups, funders, institutions, researchers and managers of researchers to realise the aims of the Concordat .
The Research & Graduate School organises a series of training events mapped out to the VITAE Researcher Development Framework in support of research skills development.
These events are open to all postgraduate research students, and staff.
Click here for our research events and booking form.
The Research & Graduate School encourages research students and staff to participate in the Erasmus+ scheme .
The PGRSS:
Organises academic conferences for research degree students
Organises various social events throughout the year
Provides a support and feedback mechanism for research degree students
Membership is free and is open to all University of Bolton postgraduate research degree students.
Please visit the Bolton Student Union website for more information.
The University of Bolton is dedicated to delivering world-leading research.
Our research generates a positive impact on business and the community, as well as contributing to the knowledge economy.
Seven areas of our research are considered ‘world-leading’ or ‘internationally excellent’ according to the latest Research Excellence Framework, including Creative Writing, Engineering & Psychology.
Further information about the Research Excellence Framework can be found here.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/research-programmes/research-and-research-funding:
STRIVE Awards 2020 Student Transition: Research, Innovation, Values and Enhancement Aims: (a) To enhance supported transition for students in all areas of their educational journey including to further study and employment both within and across institutions (b) To foster inter-institutional team working across the the group and/or partnership network.
(c) To promote an evidence-based approach to improving academic and/or service achievement and create opportunities for group and partnership staff and students to engage in research and development projects.
Guidance for projects:
The weblink to make a bid via the application portal is https://bit.ly/3bNLIvl Deadline for submissions is 22 June 2020 at 23:59 Below are details from Dr Julian Coleman, Dean Off Campus Division, the support OfCD can provide in terms of brokering project ideas and teams; Getting Connected with Colleagues across the University, the Group and Partnership Network - If you are a UoB staff member, (or staff member from one of the College/University Group) and have an idea for a project that would benefit from the involvement of one or more of our wider partner institutions, please contact Julian Coleman (JLC1@bolton.ac.uk) with a few lines on the project.
Please also say whether you have a specific partner in mind (and do feel free to discuss ideas with existing partner contacts) or that you are more open to suggestions as to partners that could contribute and benefit.
In Off Campus, we will put you into contact with colleagues at our partners to work up the proposal.
- If you are a staff member at one of our collaborative partners and have either a specific idea for a project, or a more general interest to be involved in the sort of projects that were discussed at the briefing, please let your Partnership Manager know.
If you would copy me in (JLC1@bolton.ac.uk) we will ensure you are put into contact with appropriate colleagues at the University to get involved.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/research-programmes/researcher-development:
The Research and Graduate School offers a comprehensive Research Degree Student Development Programme that includes:
an induction programme to life at the university and as a research degree student.
weekly workshops to enhance your research skills delivered by research staff from across the university.
research methods seminars and workshops.
online resources available through our virtual learning environment for all workshops and training programmes.
progress monitoring and development review.
annual research degree student conference hosted by the Postgraduate Research Students Society.
annual Research Summer School.
As well as engaging with the University of Bolton workshops, seminars and research events, the Research and Graduate School encourage all researchers to make use of the VITAE Researcher Development Planner and the VITAE Researcher Development Framework .

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/research-programmes/studentships-and-scholarships:
The University of Bolton will advertise a number of funding initiatives for postgraduate research degrees throughout the year, including studentships and scholarships through the university and its partners.
The following Research Intern Posts are available:
Novel Inorganic Environmentally Sustainable Flame Retardants for Polymers
The University of Bolton - Institute for Materials Research & Innovation
Applications are invited for a PhD studentship, available from 1 September 2021 in the ‘Fire Materials Research' team based at the Institute for Materials Research & Innovation (IMRI)/ School of Engineering at the University of Bolton.
This project, in collaboration with an industrial partner aims to develop and characterise novel inorganic compounds, which can be used as flame retardants in specific polymers.
This also involves assessing their role as potential synergists alongside a range of conventional flame retardants used for the selected polymers and to optimise component ratios for the best performance.
Applicants should have a minimum 2.1 class undergraduate degree or a relevant Masters degree or equivalent experience in a relevant Physical Sciences/Engineering discipline.
Fire Materials Research Team has a strong national and international reputation, and is supported by access to state-of-the-art infrastructure including materials processing and flammability testing facilities, clean room, nanomaterials characterisation, textiles and composites laboratories, complemented by a suite of materials modelling capabilities.
Most of the work is funded by industry and UK research council (eg EPSRC, Innovate UK), EU etc and so is addressing real problems in the polymer and polymeric composite sectors.
Collaborative activities with industry are performed through the Knowledge Centre for Materials Chemistry (KCMC).
KCMC and its partners will offer active support to the Studentship where appropriate.
Prospective candidates can contact Professor Baljinder Kandola (Tel: 01204 903517, email: B.Kandola@bolton.ac.uk ) for an informal discussion relating to this opportunity.
The student will receive UK/EU tuition fees and a tax free bursary of at least £15,609 per annum for 3.5 year duration of the project.
International applicants may apply but will be expected to pay the difference between the UK/EU and International Fee Rate.
Closing date for applications is 31 July 2021 .
Application forms and further details are available via the following link: http://www.bolton.ac.uk/Quality/QAEContents/ResearchDegreesAndStudents/Documents/Word/AppformforAdmission.doc
Candidates are asked to submit the application form, as well as a covering letter and a paper of approximately 1000 words describing your relevant experience and ideas regarding the research to be carried out.
Please submit all of the above to Professor Baljinder Kandola via email: B.Kandola@bolton.ac.uk
The University of Bolton strives to achieve equality of opportunity
Job Advert
Over the coming academic year, there will be a number of targeted investment initiatives in research to strengthen our Teaching Intensive, Research Informed (TIRI) agenda and the quality of our submission for REF2021.
In order to help colleagues plan ahead, the deadlines for the main initiatives have now been decided and are highlighted below.
This scheme aims to provide support for research-related academic travel for registered PhD students of the University of Bolton.
All students directly registered for a PhD at the University of Bolton and are based at the University, whether FT or PT who are not also FT or permanent members of staff are eligible to apply.
Applicants must have an ORCID number to complete the application process
Applicants must have fully completed their Postgraduate Skills Record, including their ‘Annual Research Progress Report and Action Plan (Mandatory Submission 4)’ document to demonstrate continued progress on their PhD programme
Applications can be for any travel/academic visit which has direct relevance to the quality of the applicant’s PhD or associated research outputs
Examples of proposals which might be accepted are:
Contribution to costs associated with conference attendance in the UK
Contribution to costs associated with presenting a peer-reviewed paper at a conference in the UK, or exceptionally, overseas.
In all cases, the paper must be presented and published in conference proceedings.
Contribution to costs associated with visits to universities in the UK or exceptionally overseas where research related to the applicant’s PhD is being carried out
Contribution to costs associated with fieldwork visits to collect data relevant to PhD studies
Contribution to costs associated with visits to libraries, archives or other curated collections relevant to PhD studies
Only one award will be made per applicant but any applicant can make up to two applications
Each successful applicant will be required to
Provide a brief report of their visit/research travel
Data collected must be made accessible in accordance with the Research Data Management Policy
Upload a copy of any conference paper to the UBIR (University of Bolton Institutional Repository)
All funds must be spent and claimed by 31 July 2019
Applications must be made using the online application portal which can be found at:
https://bolton.onlinesurveys.ac.uk/ainsworth-travel-scholarship-application-portal-2019
Bids received after the deadline will not be eligible
Bids will be received by a panel will be chaired by Executive Dean – Research & Graduate School.
Other members will be:The Panel reserves the right to place conditions on the award
Added value to the quality of the PhD
Added value to the employability and research profile of the applicant
Added value to the reputation of the University – via the REF or otherwise
Overall Value for Money
The panel will view favourably applications to support the presentation of work that has previously been presented within the University.
It is a condition of receiving an award that the applicant gives a presentation on their research at the TIRI Conference in 2019.
Launch 15 June 2018
Deadline for applications: 5pm on Friday 6 July 2018
Announcement of successful applicants: 23 July 2018
The scheme is named after the first Chair of the Committee which met on 1 July 1825 and eventually established the Mechanics’ Institute of Bolton, which became the University of Bolton.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/research-programmes/university-of-bolton-institutional-repository-ubir:
An institutional repository aims to capture, store and preserve the intellectual output of a university and make it available for free on the internet.
This typically includes journal articles, conference proceedings, book chapters and reports, but this is by no means an exhaustive list.
Copyright restrictions can mean that it is not possible to include the publisher’s version of a piece of research.
However, many publishers will allow the archiving of non-publisher formatted versions of research (known as the pre-print in some cases) in repositories.
In all cases, the repository includes the bibliographic details of the research so readers are able to establish the publication in which the research has been published.
The University of Bolton’s Institutional Repository is called UBIR and is available here .
UBIR accepts all intellectual output of the university and includes selected PhD theses as well as journal articles, book chapters, conference proceedings, poster presentations, photographs and reports.
Email any version of your paper you may have along with full bibliographic details to ubir@bolton.ac.uk and we will do the rest.
If you are planning to submit research for REF 2021 , then you need to take note of the following taken from the HEFCE policy on open access, “To be eligible for submission to the post-2014 REF, authors’ final peer-reviewed manuscripts must have been deposited in an institutional or subject repository on acceptance for publication”.
This policy comes into force on 1st April 2016 and applies to journal articles and conference papers only.
Between 1st April 2016 and 1st April 2017, you will have three months following acceptance of publication to ensure your research is uploaded to a repository.
This three month grace period will be reviewed in 2016.
You can comply with this requirement by having your work deposited in UBIR, the University of Bolton Institutional repository.
ORCID is a registry of unique identifiers for researchers and scholars that is open, non-proprietary, transparent, mobile, and community-based.
ORCID provides a persistent digital identifier that distinguishes you from every other contributor and supports automated linkages among all your professional activities.
Learn more about setting up your ORCID iD .
An ORCID is an identifying number unique to each researcher.
Registering for an ORCID means that your research outputs are easily connected and identified to you.
Over 6.5 million researchers now have an ORCID.
If you have publications on the University’s repository, UBIR, you can import them into your ORCID profile.
This guide provides instructions as to how to import your publications from UBIR into your ORCID profile.
Quick start guide – ORCID – Importing works from UBIR

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/research-programmes/jenkinson-schemes:
The University is pleased to announce that the portal for the Jenkinson Awards 2021 is now open for applications.
The criteria and guidance for making a bid to this fund are contained within the notes at the start of the portal.
Funding of up to £5k is available for each bid.
The deadline for submissions is 11:59pm on 1 June2020.
The portal through which bids can be made can be found at: https://bolton.onlinesurveys.ac.uk/university-of-bolton-jenkinson-awards-2020-application-por

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/blogs/new-page-afrom-strategy-to-success-building-your-career-in-business:
29/02/2024
This journey begins with the crucial decision of selecting the right business degree programme, laying the foundation for navigating the intricate business world.
From this starting point, we'll delve into the strategic steps that unfold, leading to success in the ever-evolving and dynamic landscape of the business realm.
Let's take a closer look at the journey of a business student.
Choosing the right degree Your voyage towards a career in business embarks by choosing the right degree.
Whether it's a bachelor's in business administration or a specialised field like Marketing or Finance, your degree becomes the foundation of your business acumen.
It's the strategic map that outlines the terrain you'll navigate in the business world.
Internships Internships are your first taste of the professional world.
They provide hands-on experience, allowing you to apply theoretical knowledge to real-world scenarios.
These opportunities not only enhance your practical skills but also introduce you to the nuances of office dynamics.
Internships are like a trial run for your career, helping you identify your strengths, areas for improvement and as importantly your likes.
Networking Networking becomes the wind in your sails as you progress in your career in business .
Attend industry conferences, join professional groups and connect through platforms like LinkedIn.
Building a robust network opens doors to potential mentors, job opportunities and valuable insights.
It's not just about what you know but also who you know that can propel your career forward.
Job Hunting Crafting a compelling resume and cover letter is akin to preparing your ship for a voyage.
Tailor your application materials to highlight how your education and internship experiences uniquely qualify you for the position.
Job hunting is a strategic endeavour, requiring you to navigate through job boards, company websites and networking connections to find the right opportunities.
Accepting Challenges In the unpredictable waters of the business world, challenges are inevitable.
These obstacles, whether they be project setbacks or unexpected market changes, are opportunities for growth.
Embrace challenges with a solution-oriented mindset, demonstrating your ability to adapt and overcome adversity.
Each hurdle navigated becomes a testament to your resilience and strategic thinking.
Continuous Learning The business landscape is ever-changing, with technological advancements and market trends shaping its contours.
Embrace a mindset of continuous Personal Professional Development plan learning to stay ahead.
Attend workshops, pursue relevant certifications and consider advanced degrees to deepen your knowledge.
A commitment to lifelong learning ensures that your skills remain sharp and your strategies remain relevant.
Leadership Opportunities Leadership opportunities arise as you progress in your career.
Whether it's leading a team or spearheading a crucial project, dive into these roles with confidence.
Effective leadership involves guiding your team and cultivating a collaborative and innovative work environment.
Your ability to lead becomes a key factor in your career trajectory.
Mentorship In the vast sea of business, having a mentor is like having a seasoned navigator by your side.
Seek out mentors who can offer guidance, share their experiences and provide valuable insights.
Learning from those who have sailed these waters before can help you avoid storms, make informed decisions and navigate your career with a more profound understanding.
Setting Sail for Entrepreneurship For those with an entrepreneurial spirit, the ultimate destination may be starting your own business.
Armed with accumulated knowledge and experiences, entrepreneurship is like charting your course through unexplored waters.
It demands strategic thinking, risk-taking and the ability to adapt to unforeseen challenges.
Entrepreneurship in your career is about turning your innovative ideas into tangible success.
Celebrating Milestones As you navigate through your business career, take time to acknowledge and celebrate your achievements.
Whether it's successfully completing a challenging project, earning a promotion, or achieving a long-term goal, these milestones are essential markers of your progress.
Celebrating achievements not only boosts morale but also fuels your motivation for the continued journey ahead.
It's a way of recognising your hard work and setting the stage for even greater successes in the future.
FINAL THOUGHTS In conclusion, the University of Bolton's Business Degree Programmes offer a transformative journey, equipping students with practical skills for real-world success.
Emphasising networking, resilience, continuous learning and leadership opportunities, the programmes provide a holistic approach to career development.
With innovation at its core and a commitment to celebrating milestones, the University sets the stage for a confident and successful career in business.
Contact us on 01204 903903 or email us at enquiries@bolton.ac.uk and choose the University of Bolton for your journey from strategy to success.
Choosing the right degree
Your voyage towards a career in business embarks by choosing the right degree.
Internships
Internships are your first taste of the professional world.
Networking
Networking becomes the wind in your sails as you progress in your career in business .
Job Hunting
Crafting a compelling resume and cover letter is akin to preparing your ship for a voyage.
Accepting Challenges
In the unpredictable waters of the business world, challenges are inevitable.
Continuous Learning
The business landscape is ever-changing, with technological advancements and market trends shaping its contours.
Leadership Opportunities
Leadership opportunities arise as you progress in your career.
Mentorship
In the vast sea of business, having a mentor is like having a seasoned navigator by your side.
Setting Sail for Entrepreneurship
For those with an entrepreneurial spirit, the ultimate destination may be starting your own business.
Celebrating Milestones
As you navigate through your business career, take time to acknowledge and celebrate your achievements.
FINAL THOUGHTS
In conclusion, the University of Bolton's Business Degree Programmes offer a transformative journey, equipping students with practical skills for real-world success.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/blogs/legal-disputes-that-have-hit-the-sports-headlines-in-2023:
27/03/2023
Of course, this is not always the case, and there have been many stories in the headlines already this year; from Manchester City’s financial fair play breaches to Ivan Toney’s betting, and Gary Lineker’s social media outburst, to the dislike of the BBC!
This blog explores both the definition of sports law and examples of current players and pundits that have recently been in the news.
What is Sports Law?
Sports law is a series of rules that apply to athletes and the sports they play.
It touches on several matters: - Employment law - Finance and insolvency of sports clubs - Player contracts and transfers - Immigration laws for foreign players and staff - Health and safety regulations at stadiums and training facilities - Sponsorship contracts - Discrimination law - Sports injury and compensation Essentially, the aim of sports law is to ensure fairness, equality, and accountability in the sporting world.
For example, the current ‘Fight Against Racism’ campaign that is seeing football players take a knee before the start of every match in support of equality.
Now, let’s explore some of the legal disputes that current sports teams, players, and pundits are facing… Gary Lineker’s Twitter Storm Sports fans might have witnessed something strange last week as the BBC’s Match of the Day was broadcasted without any presenters, pundits, or commentary for the first time ever.
This was done in solidarity with Gary Lineker who has been suspended by the BBC off the back of a tweet he released expressing his negative views of the government’s Illegal Migration Bill.
Of course, as with everyone in the public eye, there’s a limit on what you can and can’t share on social media due to the influence that it would have in the digital world; but this is revolutionary in the sports law world due to the support that Lineker himself is receiving.
The BBC has claimed that he will be forced to take a step back from the show until an agreed and clear position has been reached on his use of social media.
Ivan Toney’s Betting Scandal Premier League fans will be aware of the legal issues that Brentford striker Ivan Toney has been facing regarding betting rules.
By law, footballers are prohibited from placing bets on matches or competitions due to their own involvement in the season, as it’s deemed as something they can influence.
Toney, however, was first charged in November 2022 for conducting 232 breaches of the Football Association’s betting rules; bets that were allegedly placed between February 2017 and January 2021.
Since then, that figure has increased to 262 breaches.
As punishment, the striker is tipped to serve a lengthy sideline ban after accepting the charges.
This is something that would come as a major blow to his team, due to the Premier League club making a surprise push towards the European spots this season.
Manchester City Financial Fair Play Breaches You’ll probably be aware of Manchester City’s league domination over recent years.
However, this year they have started to hit the headlines for different reasons.
The main one is that they have made 30 breaches of UEFA’s financial fair play rules between 2009 and 2022.
12 of these instances occurred between 2010 and 2016 where the club appeared to lie about how much they are paying players.
As a result, City is currently facing severe disciplinary measures that could result in UEFA bans or even relegation.
How the University of Bolton Can help you Get into Sports Law As part of the LLB Law degree, we offer a specific module focussing on giving students a thorough understanding of sports law.
Upon successful completion of this module, students are expected to: - Analyse the nature and features of sports law with reference to its development - Evaluate the legal implications of the commercialisation of sporting events - Appraise and apply legal knowledge to complex sports law problems, and also be able to reflect and evaluate, as well as draw logical conclusions utilising relevant legal authority Additionally, as a member of the Bolton School of Law, you will benefit from: - Access to our Legal Advice Centre, which gives students the chance to spend a semester studying alongside experienced legal practitioners in a clinic that offers free public legal advice - Access to our dedicated Moot Court, where students gain a practical and interactive learning experience by taking part in mock trial negotiations - A course that has been voted number one in the UK for Student Satisfaction* - Endless support and resources in our dedicated Law Library - Our strong industry connections with local law firms and legal service providers The support from the University of Bolton could be a great investment in your sports law future.
Take the first step to following your passion by clicking here to read about the course in more detail.
To speak to a member of the team, please email us at enquiries@bolton.ac.uk or call us on 01204 903807.
Come and enjoy #UniAsItShouldBe!
*Complete University Guide – Student Satisfaction UK - 2023
It touches on several matters:
- Employment law
- Finance and insolvency of sports clubs
- Player contracts and transfers
- Immigration laws for foreign players and staff
- Health and safety regulations at stadiums and training facilities
- Sponsorship contracts
- Discrimination law
- Sports injury and compensation
Essentially, the aim of sports law is to ensure fairness, equality, and accountability in the sporting world.
Now, let’s explore some of the legal disputes that current sports teams, players, and pundits are facing…
Gary Lineker’s Twitter Storm
Sports fans might have witnessed something strange last week as the BBC’s Match of the Day was broadcasted without any presenters, pundits, or commentary for the first time ever.
Ivan Toney’s Betting Scandal
Premier League fans will be aware of the legal issues that Brentford striker Ivan Toney has been facing regarding betting rules.
Manchester City Financial Fair Play Breaches
You’ll probably be aware of Manchester City’s league domination over recent years.
How the University of Bolton Can help you Get into Sports Law
As part of the LLB Law degree, we offer a specific module focussing on giving students a thorough understanding of sports law.
Upon successful completion of this module, students are expected to:
- Analyse the nature and features of sports law with reference to its development
- Evaluate the legal implications of the commercialisation of sporting events
- Appraise and apply legal knowledge to complex sports law problems, and also be able to reflect and evaluate, as well as draw logical conclusions utilising relevant legal authority
Additionally, as a member of the Bolton School of Law, you will benefit from:
- Access to our Legal Advice Centre, which gives students the chance to spend a semester studying alongside experienced legal practitioners in a clinic that offers free public legal advice
- Access to our dedicated Moot Court, where students gain a practical and interactive learning experience by taking part in mock trial negotiations
- A course that has been voted number one in the UK for Student Satisfaction*
- Endless support and resources in our dedicated Law Library
- Our strong industry connections with local law firms and legal service providers
The support from the University of Bolton could be a great investment in your sports law future.
31 Mar 22
29 Aug 24

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/blogs/8-study-tips-for-your-msc-health-and-social-care-degree:
05/01/2022
This subject is extremely hands-on and won’t just take place in a classroom.
For instance, if you’re doing a part-time master’s degree at the University of Bolton, you’ll be juggling work and study at the same time.
We also have a number of professional development doctorates that require a 60,000 word thesis while you continue to work.
Whatever type of course you’re interested in, having a good study technique is key.
So here are some study tips to help you out!
1) Use a week view planner When you’re juggling classes, practical modules and work experience, it’s important to have a decent planner.
A basic diary will not do.
Invest in a good week view planner instead, and try to plan everything at least one week ahead.
2) Organise your travel in advance Need to travel to an upcoming work placement?
Plan your travel in advance so you don’t end up being late.
Remember, high traffic times can make getting to your location harder, so factor that in or do a dry run if you’re using public transport.
3) Pack your bag the night before Whether you’ve got a class or a placement day, make sure your bag is all packed and ready the evening before.
For classes, make sure you have plenty of stationery and something to make notes with.
4) Type up your notes after class When it comes to studying theory, it’s important to have easy-to-understand notes.
To make sure you are taking everything in, type up your scribbles as soon as you get home.
5) Share notes with others There’s a lot to learn during a master's degree in health and social care, and the likelihood is you won’t be able to jot down 100% of the things discussed in class.
So buddy up with someone whom you can share your notes with to fill those missing gaps.
6) Form a study group Teaming up with others is a great way of improving your studies.
Group study is just as important as self-study, and the former can help you enhance your learning while exercising your collaboration skills.
7) Ask questions in class By contributing more in class, you can fully immerse yourself in your health and social care degree.
It’s important to ask questions if you need clarification, and if there’s a chance to share your ideas with others, do so.
8) Make time for friendship Finally, the most successful students often have a good support network.
Making friends on your course will help you study better and feel more confident about what you’re doing.
This is also a fantastic way of building professional connections, because you never know who you might be working with in the future.
Are you interested in doing a master's degree in health and social care?
As a leading Greater Manchester university that ranks 1st in the UK for Student Satisfaction in Health Studies*, there’s nowhere better to begin your journey than the University of Bolton.
To find out more about applying for a health and social care degree in 2022, see our available courses.
*Complete University Guide 2022
28 Aug 24
25 Feb 22
22 Aug 23

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/blogs/why-your-accounting-degree-should-be-acca-approved:
23/04/2025
One of the most important factors for prospective accountants should be whether their degree is accredited by the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA).
For students looking to gain a clear advantage in a competitive field, an ACCA-recognised degree from the University of Greater Manchester delivers exactly that.
What is the ACCA?
ACCA is one of the world’s largest and most respected professional accounting bodies, with over 24,000 members and 540,000 students across 178 countries.
Employers in the UK and worldwide recognise ACCA as the gold standard in accountancy, and a degree in line with their guidelines immediately signals to potential employers that your education and background meets rigorous standards.
It shows that your knowledge has not just been assessed by your university, but also against the professional expectations of the industry.
This credibility can make an incredible difference when applying for graduate roles, internships or training.
An accelerated path to professional accreditation One of the most practical benefits of such a degree is exemption from a number of ACCA exams.
Typically an undergraduate degree in accounting will grant exemptions from up to nine ACCA papers, depending on the modules you’ve already completed and the grades you received.
This means graduates can move much more quickly towards full ACCA membership, saving you a lot of time and money in the process, as without these exemptions each ACCA paper would require separate study and exam fees.
That process alone can take several additional years to complete.
Starting your professional qualifications during your degree course significantly shortens how long it will take you to become a fully qualified accountant.
At the University of Greater Manchester, accounting graduates of our programme meeting ACCA standards leave university with far more than just a degree.
They leave with progress towards becoming a chartered accountant.
Accounting is a profession which is constantly evolving with changes in technology, regulation and global business practices, and courses which meet ACCA requirements are regularly reviewed to align with these developments.
The ACCA works closely with universities like ours to ensure course content remains up to date with current industry needs, ranging from financial reporting standards to digital accounting tools to sustainability reporting.
We ensure that our students aren’t just learning theory for the sake of passing exams — they are developing skills that are directly applicable to the modern workplace.
Employers increasingly expect graduates to be supremely comfortable with topics such as data, FinTech and ethics, all of which are embedded within the modules of our ACCA-approved degree.
Ready to take the next step?
To find out more about how an ACCA-accredited accounting degree at the University of Greater Manchester can help you thrive in the world of accounting, get in touch with our team today by calling us on +44 (0)1204 900 600 or sending an email to enquiries@bolton.ac.uk .
One of the most practical benefits of such a degree is exemption from a number of ACCA exams.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/explore-our-schools/institute-for-materials-research-and-innovation:
IMRI is a multi-disciplinary centre designed to cultivate research and innovation activities in collaboration with industry and other academic institutions.
The Institute leads the UK and is internationally known for its strong applied materials science and engineering applications through the development of novel smart and multifunctional composite materials (fibres, fabrics, films, foams and particles) at nano/micro levels, as well as associated processing technologies that strive to contribute to futuristic solutions and new horizons within the global marketplace.
Research areas:
Development of fire retardant strategies
Development of novel fire safe materials, including fibre-reinforced composites, and processing technologies
Development of new test methods for heat/fire induced mechanical property evaluation of composites
Predictive modelling of thermal decomposition / burning behaviour of polymers/composites
Mechanical property retention on exposure to heat/fire
Contact Information
Prof.
Baljinder Kandola Tel: +44 1204 903517 E-mail: B.Kandola@bolton.ac.uk
Biosensors based on FBAR & SAW platforms
SAW based microfluidics & Lab-on-chip devices
Advanced triboelectric nanogenerator for renewable energy and self-powered wireless sensing
Passive & active wireless sensors and microsystems
Flexible, transparent & biodegradable electronics
BioMEMS, healthcare & medical devices
Jack Luo Tel: +44 1204 903523 E-mail: J.Luo@bolton.ac.uk
Reduced thermal distortion in components
Embedded tandem micro-sensing and actuating systems
Predictive modelling of sealing systems and adaptive structures
Dental healthcare and medical composites
Personal protective wearable systems
Impact and crash absorption structures
Embedded smart antiballistic systems
Peter Myler Tel: +44 1204 903661 E-mail: P.Myler@bolton.ac.uk
Find out about the IMRI's breakthrough creation combining fibres to create a new and unique type of wound dressing.
The new technique has been patented and there are plans to go into production shortly.
I realised my passion had always been rooted in education: helping young ...
By Finn Chapman, BA (Hons) Creative WritingHi, I’m Finn Chapman, and I’m in the final stretch of my Creative Writing degree at the University of Greater Manchester.
This summer, I’ll be graduating—and as I reflect on the p...
By Ewan Bagot – Final Year Student, BSc Motorsport TechnologyI’m Ewan Bagot, a final-year Motorsport Technology student at the University of Greater Manchester.
My journey into this exciting field began long before I arrived h...
Within the NHS, paediatric nursing is a distinct and vital discipline, and UK c...
UK biomedical engineering degrees are pivotal in this evolution, preparing graduat...
Student Mehnoor makes it fantastic FIVE as she joins super siblings who all grad...
21 Jul 25
World-renowned tenor Russell Watson sings to students as he is awarded honorary ...
18 Jul 25
Head of Research & Enterprise
Reader and Programme Leader of Biomedical Engineering
Professor and SME STEM Champion
Professor

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/explore-our-schools/centre-for-leadership-and-empowerment:
We develop leaders from diverse backgrounds through impactful research, engagement, applied education and collaboration .
To be a centre of excellence that provides new insights and unique perspectives to leading and empowering people.
We research new forms of leadership with a focus on ensuring gender equality, inclusivity, diversity, well-being and empowerment.
We foster leadership development by our bespoke education programmes and promote outstanding engagement with industry and community.
Research excellence
Industry & community engagement
Applied education
Collaboration
We live in uncertain times propelled by complex systems, a cycle of global recessions, climate change and the ever-increasing use of technology.
To entertain these internal and external challenges, leaders and their leadership is put to test, and people continue to look up to their leaders for solutions.
Under these deep uncertain conditions, timely, legitimate, effective and forward-thinking response is expected from leaders.
In such dynamic and diverse organisational contexts, we need leaders that can combat challenges and provide an equitable and inclusive experience for their followers.
The Centre for Leadership & Empowerment is one of the four research centres for excellence in the Greater Manchester Business School that provides new insights and approaches to leading, managing and empowering people.
We research new forms of leadership and management with a focus on ensuring gender equality, inclusivity, diversity, wellbeing and empowerment.
We are a diverse community of academics and practitioners with expertise in a range of fields including leadership, human resource management, organisation studies, organisational behaviour, culture, psychology, philosophy, gender, organisational sustainability, resilience, management education, anthropology and mainstream management studies.
Drawing on our extensive research and evidence-based practice, we support individuals, teams, groups and organisations looking to develop their ability to thrive and succeed in a dynamic and turbulent environment.
We work with businesses, enterprises, companies, charities, government, academic institutions and a range of organisations from the private, public and third sector across the globe to develop and deliver programmes that enhance their leadership capability.
We specialise in developing capable, confident and visionary leaders that challenge conventional wisdom which is important in the creation of social, environmental and economic value within organisations.
“Leadership is a personal journey and leaders need to commit to developing their own skills.”
Our research provides new insights into leadership, leadership development and empowerment.
We connect with the industry and community to address real-world challenges.
We provide bespoke leadership development programmes for several organisations and our centre members contribute to a wide range of undergraduate, postgraduate and professional courses.
We take a collaborative approach in the centre.
We work with businesses, enterprises, companies, charities, government, academic institutions and a range of organisations to provide a range of services including consultancy, research and evaluation.
Lecturer in Business and Management
Associate Lecturer - Criminal Justice
Senior Lecturer/ UG Accountancy Programme Leader
Associate Lecturer
Programme Leader MSc Entrepreneurship and Innovation
Gulnaz Brennan stands at the helm of the SheInspires Network, where her unwavering commitment revolves around empowering women, amplifying their voices, and ensuring their safety.
Her world is dedicated to inspiring positive change, and she finds immense joy in lighting the spark of inspiration in the hearts of countless individuals.
A passionate advocate for women's empowerment and celebration, Gulnaz wears the hat of an accomplished author.
Through her narratives, she weaves tales of triumph, resilience, and empowerment that resonate deeply with her audience.
With over two decades of experience in the education sector in the UK and abroad, she has become a stalwart figure, making significant contributions to the field.
Gulnaz is not only the creative mind behind lifestyle books and the community newspaper ChaiTimes but has also launched a national women's magazine, BEE, adding another dimension to her impactful storytelling.
Jackie Hyde is the Owner-Managing Director at Stanmore Insurance Brokers Ltd.
Since 1962, Stanmore Insurance Brokers have been providing personal and professional insurance to North West businesses.
Offering protection, peace of mind, and superior quality of service in the face of ever-changing market conditions.
Jackie has worked at Stanmore for 35 years and joined as an Account Handler, working her way through to owning the business.
Stanmore is an award-winning commercial insurance broker who aim is to change the perception of insurance for the better.
Stanmore is also home to a dedicated children’s day care nursery insurance scheme, dot2dot, who insure over 3,000 nurseries across the UK.
Jackie sits on the fundraising boards of various charities and community interest organisations and is an avid supporter of females so they maximise their true potential, which includes sponsoring a number of awards.
In 2017, 2020 & 2022 Stanmore was named Schemes Broker of the Year at Insurance industry awards.
Also in 2022, Jackie was named one of the insurance industry’s Elite Women by Insurance Business Magazine.
Jack is an award-winning social entrepreneur based in the United Kingdom.
He possesses vast experience in international development, finance, and edtech.
In his current role as Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer of Rural Inclusion, a social enterprise supporting rural communities in over seven countries, he leads a team across the UK, Sub-Saharan Africa and Latin America to develop innovative projects on training and research to support smallholder farmers, microentrepreneurs, refugees and host communities become more resilient and prosperous.
Jack regularly travels in Sub-Saharan Africa and Latin America, and collaborates with community-based organisations, international development partners, academic institutions and financial institutions.
He is also the host of a development podcast called The Social Impact Journal, where he meets with founders, academics and development practitioners to discuss important topics surrounding the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
Michelle Howard is a sought-after speaker, trainer, contributor and consultant who helps businesses grow and succeed.
With over 25 years of experience in the corporate and public sector, Michelle has helped business leaders across the UK and beyond to implement strategies that have resulted in better strategy, improved performance, enhanced customer and employee satisfaction, and reduced costs.
Her career began as a Chartered Marketer working within Legal 500 Law Firms, a title she has held for over 20 years.
It progressed to the public sector where Michelle built up expertise implementing strategic and change initiatives and leading transformational projects, often developing strategic practices which were recognised for their contribution to national best practice.
With an award-winning record of building long-term relationships, Michelle brings her strategic marketing and her leadership knowledge to the forefront of all that she does to help businesses to develop.
She has led and contributed to substantial partnerships which have led to business success.
This includes a partnership between education, health, local government, and third sector organisations which won a Guardian Newspaper Innovation in Partnership Healthcare Award.
Judges praised it for its innovation and contribution to the future of both education and healthcare.
“Business models and performance impact of business incubators: a study of Nigeria.” International Journal of Business and Systems Research [Accepted]
A Study of Agricultural Companies Development in Nigeria: A Systematic Literature Review.
International Journal of Agricultural Science, 7.
ISSN: 2367-9026
“Entrepreneurial leadership development in teams: a conceptual model.” International Journal of Entrepreneurship and Innovation
“Entrepreneurial leadership skills and competencies: a systematic literature review” International Review of Entrepreneurship [Accepted/In press]
“Challenges and competencies of entrepreneurial leaders in driving innovation at DIY laboratories.” Technology Analysis & Strategic Management, 33(10), 1132-1146
“Entrepreneurial leadership measurement: a multi-dimensional construct.” Journal of Small Business and Enterprise Development 27 (4), 659-679
“Effect of pandemic and lockdown on the performance and
                                operations of farmers’ markets in Southwest, Nigeria”.
International Journal of Business and Emerging Markets.
ISSN
                                1753-6227
“Income inequality among entrepreneurs in Ondo state,
                                Nigeria”.
International Journal of Business and Globalisation, 24(1), 19-38
“Leading the way: the entrepreneur or the leader?”.
Journal of Small Business & Entrepreneurship, 35(6), 890-906.
Using semi-structured interviews to research entrepreneurial leadership [Video].
Sage Research
                                Methods.
For innovation in universities, we must stop ineffective traditional paradigms.
The Guardian
                                Nigeria.
Christian Harrison: How I became a professor at 35.
The Nation.
Who can voters trust in Scottish politics?
The Herald.
Why young people in every sphere – not just business and politics – should learn to lead, The
                                Conversation.
Contextualising African Studies: Challenges and the Way Forward (New
                                Frontiers in African Business and Society).
Emerald Publishing Limited.
"Introduction to the Contextualizing African Studies: Challenges and the Way
                                Forward", Harrison, C.
and Omeihe, K.O.
(Ed.) Contextualizing African Studies: Challenges and the Way Forward
                                (New Frontiers in African Business and Society), Emerald Publishing Limited, Bingley [In Press]
“Developmental Strategy for Agriculture in Nigeria”, Harrison,
                                C.
(Ed.) Contextualizing African Studies: Challenges and the Way Forward (New Frontiers in African
                                Business and Society), Emerald Publishing Limited, Bingley [In Press]
“Contextualising Entrepreneurship: A call for more African Research”, Harrison, C.
and Omeihe,
                                K.O.
(Ed.) Contextualizing African Studies: Challenges and the Way Forward (New Frontiers in African Business and
                                Society), Emerald Publishing Limited, Bingley [In Press]
A de facto referendum could work for the SNP – but it's a huge risk, The Herald.
Entrepreneurs know that failure is sometimes necessary – here’s what we can learn from them,
                                The Conversation.
What's so bad about changing your mind?, The Herald.
Whoever leads the Yes or No campaigns could tip balance on independence, says Christian
                                Harrison, The Herald.
"Challenges Faced by Entrepreneurs in Nigeria: A Study of the Retail Pharmacy Sector", Omeihe,
                                K.O.
and Harrison, C.
(Ed.) The African Context of Business and Society (New Frontiers in African Business and
                                Society), Emerald Publishing Limited, Bingley, pp.
189-213
How Ukraine's heroic President Zelenskyy shows the world what a real leader looks like, The
                                Herald.
Five rules for effective leadership in difficult times, The Conversation.
Four Key Rules for Successful Leadership, The Conversation.
Making Sense of Leadership: A Critical Insight into Leadership and Management Research,
                                Switzerland, Palgrave MacMillan.
Traditional Paradigms of Leadership: A Critical Insight into Established Theories and Concepts,
                                Switzerland, Palgrave MacMillan.
Modern Paradigms of Leadership: A Critical Insight into Contemporary Theories and Concepts,
                                Switzerland, Palgrave MacMillan.
Emerging Paradigms of Leadership: A Critical Insight into Developing Theories, Switzerland,
                                Palgrave MacMillan.
“CSR reporting: a review of research and agenda for future
                                research”.
Management Research Review, 43(11), 1395-1419.
"Systematically reviewing servant leadership", European Business
                                Review, 33(3), 465-490
“The role of the entrepreneurial leader: a study of Nigerian
                                SMEs”.
International Journal of Entrepreneurship and Small Business, 49(2), 187-215
The African Context of Business and Society.
(New Frontiers in African
                                Business and Society).
"Introduction to the African Context of Business and Society: The way
                                Forward", Omeihe, K.O.
(Ed.) The African Context of Business and Society (New Frontiers in African
                                Business and Society), Emerald Publishing Limited, Bingley, pp.
1-9
"Defining Authentic Leadership: A Developing Economy Perspective", Omeihe,
                                K.O.
31-54
“Entrepreneurship: an assimilated multi-perspective review”.
Journal of Small
                                Business & Entrepreneurship, 31(1), 43-71
“Developing a conceptual framework of entrepreneurial leadership: A
                                systematic literature review and thematic analysis”.
International Review of Entrepreneurship, 17(3), 347-384
"Resilience in healthcare supply chains: a review of the UK’s response to the
                                COVID19 pandemic".
International Journal of Physical Distribution & Logistics Management, 53(3), 297-329
“Developing resilient supply chains: lessons from high-reliability organisations”.
Supply Chain Management: An International Journal, 25(1), 77-100
“Leadership: the complexities and state of the field”.
European Business Review,
                                30(5), 514- 528
Leadership Theory and Research: A Critical Approach to New and Existing Paradigms,
                                Switzerland, Palgrave MacMillan.
“Entrepreneurial leadership in a developing economy: a skill-based
                                analysis”.
Journal of Small Business and Enterprise Development, 25(3), 521-548
“Entrepreneurial leadership in retail pharmacy: developing economy
                                perspective”.
Journal of Workplace Learning, 28(3), 150-167
“Entrepreneurial leadership: a systematic literature review”.
International
                                Review of Entrepreneurship, 14(2), 235-264
The influence of women leaders and their Authentic
                                Leadership trait in India’s Automobile Industry.
In British Academy of Management 2023 Conference Proceedings (Vol.
2023).
ISBN 978-0-9956413-6-5 British Academy of Management.
Entrepreneurial leadership: A study of Black Minority Ethnic SMEs in
                                the UK.
ISBN 978-0-9956413-6-5
                                British Academy of Management.
Stars in the making: The rise of UK migrant entrepreneurs.
In British
                                Academy of Management 2023 Conference Proceedings (Vol.
ISBN 978-0-9956413-6-5 British Academy of
                                Management.
Innovation strategies of SMEs’ entrepreneurial leaders: evidence from Pakistan.
In
                                British Academy of Management 2022 Conference Proceedings (Vol.
2022).
British Academy of Management.
Crisis leadership and leadership styles: before, during and after.
In British
                                Academy of Management 2022 Conference Proceedings (Vol.
Authentic leadership repair within a developing economy context.
Authentic entrepreneurial leadership within the Igbo
                                trade apprenticeship system.
In British Academy of Management 2022 Conference Proceedings (Vol.
British
                                Academy of Management.
“A study of agricultural companies’ development in Nigeria: a
                                systematic literature review”.
British Academy of Management (BAM), Annual Conference, BAM Conference in The
                                Cloud, Lancaster.
“Entrepreneurial leadership (EL): an investigation of entrepreneurial competition on
                                EL’s competencies development”.
British Academy of Management (BAM), Annual Conference, BAM Conference in
                                The Cloud, Lancaster.
“Leading during crisis: a Scottish higher education perspective”.
British Academy of Management
                                (BAM), Annual Conference, BAM Conference in The Cloud, Lancaster.
“Leadership and the consequences of morality”.
British Academy of
                                Management (BAM), Annual Conference, BAM Conference in The Cloud, Lancaster.
“Distributed leadership in SMEs: a review, critique and new directions”.
British
                                Academy of Management (BAM), Annual Conference, BAM Conference in The Cloud, Lancaster.
“Authentic leadership skills within a developing economy context”.
British Academy of Management (BAM), Annual Conference, BAM Conference in The Cloud, Lancaster.
“Authentic leadership: a systematic literature review”.
British Academy
                                of Management (BAM), Annual Conference, BAM Conference in The Cloud, Lancaster.
The Rise or Fall of Authentic Leadership.
In Academy of
                                Management Proceedings (Vol.
2021, No.
1, p.
13926).
Briarcliff Manor, NY 10510: Academy of Management.
“Distributed leadership in the tourism industry: a study of Dubai”.
“Ethical leadership in the public sector: an African perspective”.
British Academy
                                of Management (BAM), Annual Conference, BAM Conference in The Cloud.
“National economic policy and corporate sector development: a study
                                of South-western Nigerian agricultural companies’ development”.
British Academy of Management (BAM), Annual
                                Conference, BAM Conference in The Cloud.
“Innovative development in Africa: cluster and triple helix
                                approach”.
British Academy of Management (BAM), Annual Conference, BAM Conference in The Cloud
“Challenges faced by entrepreneurs in a developing economy: a study in the retail sector”.
British
                                Academy of Management (BAM), Annual Conference, BAM Conference in The Cloud.
“Servant leadership: the skills of those who serve”.
“Leadership and the changing world of work: a review, a critique and new
                                directions”.
British Academy of Management (BAM), Annual Conference, BAM Conference in The Cloud.
“Authentic leadership moments: the impact of authentic leadership behaviours in
                                an emerging economy context”.
British Academy of Management (BAM), Annual Conference, BAM Conference in The
                                Cloud.
“Distributed leadership in the tourism industry”.
British Academy of Management
                                (BAM), Annual Conference, BAM Conference in The Cloud.
“Distributed leadership: systematic literature review”.
British Academy of
                                Management (BAM), Annual Conference, BAM Conference in The Cloud
“Significance of guidance and counselling in entrepreneurial
                                development and women empowerment in federal capital territory Nigeria”.
Centre for African Research on Enterprise
                                and Economic Development (CAREED), Annual Conference, Paisley.
“Small and medium enterprises (SMEs) and
                                macroeconomic policy environment in Nigeria”.
Centre for African Research on Enterprise and Economic Development
                                (CAREED), Annual Conference, Paisley.
“The effectiveness of risk management strategy on business
                                performance: A knowledge management perspective”.
British Academy of Management (BAM), Annual Conference,
                                Birmingham.
“Leadership
                                skills in higher education: a study of Scotland”.
“Leadership in
                                higher education: A study of the west of Scotland”.
Learning, Teaching and Research Conference Annual Conference,
                                Paisley.
“Ethical leadership: the way forward”.
In British Academy of Management
                                2018 Conference Proceedings [565] Bristol: British Academy of Management.
“Ethical leadership: an effective and efficient leadership approach for the
                                Nigeria public sector”.
In British Academy of Management 2018 Conference Proceedings (Vol.
2018).
[567] Bristol:
                                British Academy of Management.
“Female entrepreneurs
                                and their contribution to the Egyptian economy”.
23-23.
Centre for African Research and Economic Development
                                (CAREED), Annual Conference, Paisley, United Kingdom.
Servant leadership: a thematic analysis.
In British Academy of
                                Management 2018 Conference Proceedings [800] Bristol: British Academy of Management.
Servant leadership: the skills of those who serve.
In British Academy
                                of Management 2018 Conference Proceedings [551] Bristol: British Academy of Management.
“The entrepreneurial leadership paradigm: a thematic analysis”.
British Academy of
                                Management (BAM), Annual Conference, Warwick.
“Entrepreneurial leadership: Scotland, skills, and SMEs”.
" An investigation of the role of transformational leadership behaviours: a case study
                                on Sainsbury’".
British Academy of Management (BAM), Annual Conference, Warwick.
“Delphi methodology: from nuclear science to
                                humanitarian disaster management”.
“Entrepreneurial leadership in the retail pharmacy sector of a developing economy”.
International
                                Council for Small Business (ICSB), World Conference on Entrepreneurship, New Jersey/New York.
"Measures to improve humanitarian supply chain and logistics operations for
                                beneficiary agencies".
British Academy of Management (BAM), Annual Conference, Newcastle.
“Entrepreneurial leadership in retail pharmacy: a developing economy perspective”.
University of
                                the West of Scotland (UWS), Research Conference, Paisley.
"Entrepreneurial leadership: where are we in the field?".
British Academy of
                                Management (BAM), Annual Conference, Portsmouth.
“Entrepreneurial leadership in a developing economy: The retail pharmacy sector”.
Institute for Small Business & Entrepreneurship (ISBE), Annual Conference, Manchester.
British Academy of Management (BAM), Annual Conference, Belfast.
International Council for
                                Small Business (ICSB), World Conference on Entrepreneurship, Dublin.
“Entrepreneurial leadership in the retail pharmacy sector of a developing economy.
a study in
                                Nigeria”.
British Academy of Management (BAM), Doctoral Consortium, Liverpool.
Health visitors’ domestic violence routine questioning tool: An exploration of
                                women’s experience, effectiveness and acceptability.
International Journal of Health Promotion and Education.
Vol
                                42, Issue 1, pages 14-22
Vol
                                42, Issue 1, pages 14-22 This paper won best paper award (2004) for the above research based on professional impact – the
recommendations were implemented nationally along with academic requirements.
Adolescents and intimate partner violence: Evaluating a brief school-based
                                education programme: International Journal of Health Promotion and Education.
Vol 45, (1) 17-23.
The above paper resulted in DV educational programmes being introduced to the curriculum (PSHE) within high
                                schools.
Women’s Attitudes and Behaviours: Providing Women with a voice.
Scarman Trust:
                                Millennium Commission.
Pre-Hospital Emergency Service Evaluation: Safeguarding Domestic Violence Victims.
Boston: Boston EMS.
Professor Christian Harrison Professor of Leadership & Enterprise c.harrison2@bolton.ac.uk
Centre for Leadership and Empowerment, Greater Manchester Business School, University of Greater Manchester, Great Moor Street, Bolton BL1 1SW cle@bolton.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/explore-our-schools/bame:
The Centre establishes a need for organisations to take steps to boost social mobility and equality of
opportunity.
The Centre will add value and inform local, national and international stakeholders in
the following ways:-
The Rt Hon Justine Greening has been a vocal advocate for diversity and equality in education and entrepreneurship,
and her initiatives in these areas have been widely recognized.
As the former Secretary of State for Education and Minister for Women and Equalities in the UK, Greening has
championed policies and programs aimed at promoting social mobility, narrowing the attainment gap, and supporting
entrepreneurs from underrepresented groups.
In particular, her Social Mobility Pledge encourages businesses and universities to take concrete actions to increase
social mobility and diversity within their organizations.
The pledge has garnered support from over 450 organizations,
including some of the UK's largest employers.
Greening has also been a strong advocate for apprenticeships, arguing that they provide an excellent opportunity for
young people from all backgrounds to gain valuable skills and experience.
She has pushed for reforms to the
apprenticeship system to make it more accessible and inclusive, including the introduction of degree apprenticeships.
Overall, the Rt Hon Justine Greening's initiatives have helped to raise awareness and drive progress towards a more
diverse and inclusive education and entrepreneurship landscape.
The launch of the new Centre for research in BAME
Education and Entrepreneurship is a welcome addition to this ongoing effort.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/explore-our-schools-and-centres/school-of-education/cherp:
The Centre of Higher Education Research and Practice (CHERP) at the University of Greater Manchester is dedicated to advancing excellence in teaching, learning, and assessment.
The Centre plays a central role in overseeing teaching observations, delivering impactful CPD, and providing Advance HE-accredited offerings, including the Professional Recognition Experiential Scheme and the PGCert in Teaching and Learning in Higher and Professional Education.
Through strategic collaborations with our partner institutions, CHERP creates innovative CPD provisions that promote the exchange of best practices and support the ongoing professional development of HE educators.
This dynamic approach helps shape a culture of continuous improvement and academic excellence across the higher education sector.
We invite you to explore our website to discover the full range of opportunities and resources we offer for professional growth and development.
Take a look through the range of CPD series below, each focused on key themes to support your ongoing professional development in higher education.
A special thank you to Regent College London and Burnley College for their collaboration and for generously sharing their CPD packages with our partner community.
These resources are designed to help you connect with others and grow in your role as an educator.
We hope you find them valuable as you continue to develop your expertise.
Advance HE Member Benefit Activities
Programme Leader Network
The Resilient Researcher
TIRI-AE Online Teaching & Learning Chats
Disability Inclusion
AI Essentials for HE Educators
New to Teaching Drop-ins
English for Academic Purposes (EAP)
Regent College London (RCL) Academic Staff Development (ASD) Programme
Burnley College CPD
PGCert Teaching and Learning in Higher Education and Professional Education
Professional Recognition Experiential Scheme (PRES)
The Greater Manchester Way
Bolton Council Mental Health (MH) and Wellbeing Training Programme
Advance HE will have activities on offer across three global themes throughout the 2025-26 academic year including;
Education for the future – rethink, redesign, recreate
Governing and leading transformation in a complex landscape
Support for recognition and inclusion
Member benefits offered by Advance HE for the 2025-26 membership year can be found here: Member Benefits 2025-26
Advance HE offers a refreshed portfolio of programmes, conferences and events for 2025-26, designed to support you in tackling today’s higher education challenges: Programmes, Events and Conferences 2025-26
To explore available session dates and to book a place, please visit: Buy tickets – Programme Leader Network
To explore available session dates and to book a place, please visit: Buy tickets – The Resilient Researcher
To explore available session dates and to book a place, please visit: Buy tickets – TIRI-AE Online Teaching & Learning Chats
Our Disability Inclusion CPD schedule is delivered by a diverse team of colleagues with expertise in accessibility, inclusive teaching practices, and supporting neurodiverse learners.
This programme equips lecturers with practical strategies and insights to help create inclusive learning environments that support all students.
Each session, delivered by Zoom, will feature Top Tips for Lecturers on addressing a wide range of disability profiles.
To explore available session dates and to book a place, please visit: Buy tickets – Disability Inclusion
To explore available session dates and to book a place, please visit: Buy tickets – New to Teaching Drop-ins
To explore available session dates and to book a place, please visit: Buy tickets – AI Essentials for HE Educators
Welcome to English for Academic Purposes
Sign up here for practical CPD sessions delivered through the Centre for Higher Education Research and Practice (CHERP), designed to develop and enhance your practice.
For questions, contact Kat Cridland, Lead for EAP ( k.cridland@bolton.ac.uk ).
This series of CPD sessions will be delivered by Burnley College in collaboration with the University of Greater Manchester in order to share CPD across the organisations.
To explore available session dates and to book a place, please visit: Buy tickets – Regent College London Academic Staff Development (ASD) Programme
If you're currently employed in teaching and learning in higher or professional education, then this Advance HE-approved programme may be for you.
If you're employed at the University of Greater Manchester, then this programme is ideal if you have relevant experience, and aspire to gain a teaching qualification and professional recognition.
For more information and to apply:
Part-Time on campus PgCert Teaching and Learning in Higher and Professional Education
Part-Time PgCert Teaching and Learning in Higher and Professional Education (Online)

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/welcome-to-hr/university-strategy/campus:
Over the last decade, the University has had a major redevelopment programme creating new and exciting facilities for study and recreation.
In early 2012 we opened a moot Law Court and Bolton One, as well as a purpose-built, £31 million health, leisure and research centre, in partnership with NHS Bolton and Bolton Council.
It is home to premier teaching and research activity, including flagship health and sports courses and services which are open to everyone.
These include an Athlete Development Centre, Sport and Physical Activity Rehabilitation Centre, climbing wall, Centre for Research for Health & Wellbeing and a Clinical Simulation suite.
In late 2017, the Business School was re-branded the Institute of Management and opened its state-of-the art facilities adjacent to Bolton’s transport inter-change.
It is now known as the Greater Manchester Business School.
There is also a purpose built £10 million National Centre for Motorsports’ Engineering.
In August 2018, the University acquired Bolton College which provides vocational training (particularly BTEC qualifications) to some 10,000 learners.
This transaction was the first of its kind in England and, coupled with the formal acquisition of Alliance Learning Limited, allows for a ‘one-stop-shop’ within the University Group for Apprenticeships all the way from Level 2 to Level 7.
We believe this will be of significant benefit to students and employers.
The University acquired the outdoor activity charity, The Anderton Centre, in March 2019, contributing further to the growth and of the University, and aiding student recruitment, retention and employability.
The University continues to invest and further develop its estate and has ambitious plans for its future, including the development of the Bolton College of Medical Sciences in conjunction with Bolton NHS Trust, building commenced in late 2022.
The development of the Bolton Education Zone as a clearly differentiated quarter of Bolton has resulted in the regeneration and transformation of the town.
The University aims to continue to contribute the economic development of the town of Bolton and the wider region, as it will continue to be an engine for regional growth through education, training and knowledge exchange.
The University is, therefore, very well placed to embark on the next stage of its evolution, to consolidate and develop its existing areas of strength and to identify, invest in and grow new centres of potential excellence aligned with industry needs.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/welcome-to-hr/university-strategy/mission:
We will capitalise on our regional strength to build a national and international brand by enhancing the quality, reputation and perception of the organisation.
This aim will be achieved through consolidation, focus, differentiation and the creation of value through teaching, learning and knowledge exchange.
The University and all its programmes will present a distinctive competence and unique excellence.
As an organization striving for the highest quality in all we do, we will offer our students the very best teaching intensive experience underpinned and informed by high quality research

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/welcome-to-hr/university-strategy/tiri-agenda:
The University of Greater Manchester has strategically positioned itself as a “Teaching Intensive, Research Informed (TIRI)” University.
The fundamental principle of this approach is to provide high quality intensive teaching and individualised support to our undergraduate (UG) and post-graduate (PG) students across the academic disciplines of the University.
The intensive teaching is sustained by rigorous research that informs both the content and delivery of the curriculum.
The TIRI strategy places the students at the centre of “everything we do” at the University and aims to develop distinctive academic strengths and competitive advantage in the sector.
The core purpose of the TIRI agenda is to provide excellent teaching and unparalleled learning experience to our students.
By developing ‘Platinum Courses’, a focused set of academic market-relevant disciplines, the University has attracted a critical mass of high quality national and international students.
The TIRI approach aims to achieve the overall excellence in teaching and student learning through the following key elements: excellent academic staff; state-of-the-art course curriculum and content design; innovative teaching delivery methods and processes; rigorous research underpinning the teaching; high quality facilities and learning environment; robust quality assurance systems and processes; and outstanding student support and experience throughout the student life cycle.
In 2017 the University was awarded a Silver rating under the Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF).
All the academic and professional support units across the University are aligned towards this overarching approach.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/news/heraldry-expert-who-designed-new-university-of-greater-manchester-coat-of-arms-awarded-honorary-doctorate:
17/07/2025
William Hunt was honoured as Doctor of Letters (DLitt) in recognition of his outstanding contribution to Heraldry.
William helped to design the University’s new coat of arms, following its change of name from the University of Bolton in December.
He told the audience of graduands and their families at the ceremony at Bolton Town Hall: “When the University changed its name it asked for new arms to be granted to reflect its connection with Manchester.
“My new design can be seen on the front of your programme.
The bees which symbolise industry and teamwork come from the crest of the city of Manchester and the cogs allude to the fact that the University started life as Bolton Mechanics Institute in 1824.
“For the crest I kept the elephant which came from the crest of the borough of Bolton.
The elephant is supporting the Rod of Asciepius, the symbol of medicine to reflect the medical work that you now do.” William served for 26 years in the Honourable Artillery Company, a special forces unit of the Territorial Army, ultimately as a Staff Officer at Headquarters London District in the rank of Major.
In 1992, he was appointed Portcullis Pursuivant of Arms, one of Her Majesty's Officers of Arms at the College of Arms.
At the College, he was promoted to the office of Windsor Herald of Arms in 1999, but, as required in the Royal Household, was obliged to retire in 2017 at the age of 70.
He continues to work at the College, now as a Research Assistant.
He told the audience of students from the School of Arts and Creative Technologies: “Graduates, may you - like your elephant - never forget the good times that you have spent here and the friends you have made.”
The elephant is supporting the Rod of Asciepius, the symbol of medicine to reflect the medical work that you now do.”
William served for 26 years in the Honourable Artillery Company, a special forces unit of the Territorial Army, ultimately as a Staff Officer at Headquarters London District in the rank of Major.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/news/pink-floyd-drummer-and-bolton-wanderers-fc-backer-receives-honorary-doctorate-from-university-of-greater-manchester:
16/07/2025
A founding member of one the most famous rock bands in the world, who also helped to rescue Bolton Wanderers from a financial crisis, received an honorary doctorate from the University of Greater Manchester.
Nick Mason, former drummer with Pink Floyd, received the honour of Doctor of Arts (Hon DArts) in recognition of his outstanding contribution to entertainment and local sport.
Nick is also part of Football Ventures (Whites) Limited, the consortium that saved Bolton Wanderers from potential liquidation in August 2019.
Members of the audience in the Albert Hall in Bolton Town Hall gasped when his name was announced during the ceremony on the second day of the University of Greater Manchester’s graduation ceremonies, which saw students from the nursing and midwifery programmes receiving their degrees.
After leaving school, Nick spent five years training to become an architect, but his career and life went in a wildly different direction when his studies were interrupted and he became a founding member and drummer of Pink Floyd.
Nick told students and their families: “Whatever you are doing, follow your dreams, but in between learn something else, because you can always be certain it will become useful somewhere.
“For me, I trained as an architect and ended up with a bad lot in a rock and roll band.
But I’ve used almost everything I learned at college somewhere in the music business.
“So, as I say, learn Russian, learn to cook, or, you know, make cheese biscuits - whatever, there will always be something there for you!” Before he left the microphone, he joked: “And if you need the recipe for the cheese biscuits, see me afterwards!” Nick’s involvement with the world-famous band spanned several decades from 1965-1995.
Their album, ‘Dark Side of the Moon’, was in the American hit parade continuously for 30 years, and ‘The Wall’ stayed at number one for 14 consecutive weeks in the USA.
He has been the only constant member since the band's formation in 1965, and the only member to appear on every Pink Floyd album.
His band Saucerful of Secrets was formed in 2018 and is still playing today.
Before the ceremony, as he posed for photographs with Pink Floyd fans, he said: “It’s is gratifying and humbling that the music we created means so much to people.
It just shows the extreme power of music.
“I was so surprised to receive this honour from the University today, but also thrilled - it is quite special.
“The whole Bolton experience has been special for me.
I know little about football but it has been great to be involved and to see the club progress.
I must say a big thank you to (Chairman of BWFC) Sharon Brittan.” Financed by his musical career Nick has pursued another great passion – motorsport and he has published two books, One entitled ‘Passion For Speed’ co-written with motoring journalist Mark Hales, featuring 21 of Nick’s cars spanning the 20th Century and ‘Inside Out’, a personal history of Pink Floyd.
“So, as I say, learn Russian, learn to cook, or, you know, make cheese biscuits - whatever, there will always be something there for you!”
Before he left the microphone, he joked: “And if you need the recipe for the cheese biscuits, see me afterwards!”
Nick’s involvement with the world-famous band spanned several decades from 1965-1995.
I must say a big thank you to (Chairman of BWFC) Sharon Brittan.”
Financed by his musical career Nick has pursued another great passion – motorsport and he has published two books, One entitled ‘Passion For Speed’ co-written with motoring journalist Mark Hales, featuring 21 of Nick’s cars spanning the 20th Century and ‘Inside Out’, a personal history of Pink Floyd.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/news/hiv-charity-boss-honoured-by-university-of-greater-manchester:
14/07/2025
Darren Knight, Chief Executive of the Manchester-based George House Trust, was made a Doctor of the University (DUniv) in recognition of his outstanding contribution to community and charity.
Darren, who lives in Westhoughton, and is the former Chief Executive of Bolton CVS, said he was “bowled over to be offered this amazing accolade”.
Darren received the honour from the University’s Assistant Vice Chancellor (Postgraduate Developments), Professor Mohammed Abdel-Haq, in the Albert Hall inside Bolton’s magnificent Town Hall.
Professor Abdel-Haq said: “In a few minutes’ time you will be able to say that you are the proud recipient of a degree from the University of Greater Manchester!
“This is the first graduation ceremony since we changed our name in December 2024, so it makes today an extra special occasion.” Students from the University’s School of Engineering and National Centre for Motorsport Engineering (NCME), as well as the School of Education, were also awarded their degrees.
Darren said: “To everybody who is receiving a degree today, well done to you, you are bloody amazing!” George House Trust is a user-led HIV support charity working with vulnerable and marginalised communities, It is committed to ensuring that people living with HIV have access to the information and support they need to live healthy and confident lives.
Addressing the graduands and their families, Darren said: “In 2025 there is still the same impact of HIV stigma on people and communities – fear, shame, blame, discrimination, homophobia, racism, sexism, inequity.
“I want you to repeat after me – HIV is completely preventable; HIV is a treatable, manageable, long-term condition; HIV is my responsibility.
“You are now all HIV activists, along with me.
Thank you!” Darren has held a variety of roles in the voluntary and community sector over the last 20 years.
He said: “Volunteering makes such a positive difference, so to everybody embarking on a career for the first time today make sure you give your time to community and if you are already in your career, give more time.” Before he was CEO of Bolton CVS, Darren was a Development Manager at Shelter.
He is the Chair of Bolton’s Octagon Theatre and has been on the board since 2020.
“This is the first graduation ceremony since we changed our name in December 2024, so it makes today an extra special occasion.”
Students from the University’s School of Engineering and National Centre for Motorsport Engineering (NCME), as well as the School of Education, were also awarded their degrees.
Darren said: “To everybody who is receiving a degree today, well done to you, you are bloody amazing!”
George House Trust is a user-led HIV support charity working with vulnerable and marginalised communities,
It is committed to ensuring that people living with HIV have access to the information and support they need to live healthy and confident lives.
Thank you!”
Darren has held a variety of roles in the voluntary and community sector over the last 20 years.
He said: “Volunteering makes such a positive difference, so to everybody embarking on a career for the first time today make sure you give your time to community and if you are already in your career, give more time.”
Before he was CEO of Bolton CVS, Darren was a Development Manager at Shelter.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/news/outstanding-secondary-head-receives-honorary-doctorate-from-university-of-greater-manchester:
Professor Geoff Ashton was made Doctor of Education (EdD) in recognition of his outstanding contribution to Education.
Geoff has been judged by Ofsted to be an outstanding secondary head on two occasions and is regarded as an expert in the present educational landscape.
He described the award as a “great honour” and went on to say that recruiting teachers currently was “very very difficult”.
He encouraged the students to consider training to be teachers.
“I say to you or any of your friends, if you would like to inspire young people, break down barriers to learning, identify and fuel potential, have a positive impact on society, support young people with specific needs, believe in collaboration, be a role model, have patience and resilience and most of all have a sense of humour, I would ask you to seriously consider training as a teacher,” he said.
Geoff was an Education Adviser to the Secretary of States for Education for 15 years until 2019 and has been responsible for the successful educational structures and deliverables of more than 130 academies, 11 UTCs, two studio schools and six free schools.
A Director of seven companies, Geoff was a governor of Wigan University Technical College and a Founder Board Member of Wigan Youth Zone.
He is presently a trustee/director of two Multi Academy Trusts in Northern England.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/news/university-of-greater-manchester-students-celebrate-awards-evening-at-creative-arts-show-launch:
11/06/2025
The awards, covering a wide range of arts disciplines, were hosted by Sam Johnson, Head of the University’s School of Arts and Creative Technologies and heralded the launch of a public exhibition of students’ amazing work.
She said: “It’s a huge pleasure to introduce this awards ceremony and it’s lovely to see so much fantastic work coming together.” As well as the awards, which were presented Dr Bill Webster, the University’s Group Vice President, by visitors were treated to displays of work created by students, including textile design, fine art, photography, film and SFX makeup and models.
Students, their families and guests toured the displays which feature work from programmes including Animation and Illustration; Fashion; Film and Media Production; Fine Art; Graphic Design; Photography; Special Make-Up Effects for Film and Television; Special Effects for Film and Television; Special Effects Model Making for Film and Television; Textiles and Surface Design; Visual Effects and Animation.
Ged Young, Programme Leader BA (Hons) Fine Art, said: “This year’s Creative Show truly showcases the hard work and determination of our final year students.
“Our industry partners always support our graduates and the awards they offer give our students a real platform for the start of their creative careers.” Louise Garman, Co-Director of neo:artists, said: “It gave me great pleasure not only to hand out prizes of two-month residencies for three Fine Art graduates and two from the Photography course, but to see the amazing end of year show.
Judging by the high standard of the work, all the graduates have a bright future ahead of them.” Julie Levy at Hive Artists, said: “We have made two awards this year to Fine Art students who we feel show great potential.
Both Emma Mather and Monica Hamakami showed a level of dedication and skill in their work that caught the eye of the Hive directors amongst what was a diverse and vibrant show.
‘We are delighted to be working with Emma and Monica over the coming year.” Hive also selected three Photography students to work with and have offered a combination of exhibition opportunities and mentoring to Jane Barker, Sindija Malakorska and Patricia Janek.
Dr Steph Dermott said: “It is always exciting to work with a new group of award-winning students to see how they will develop over the year.” The Creative Show will be open to the public until 20 June, from 10am to 4pm daily (excluding Saturday and Sunday), but will be open during the open day on Saturday 14 June.
School of the Arts: Creative Arts Show Prize Winners 2025 ANIMATION + ILLUSTRATION Kent's Bank Station Library Award - Eimear Fowler JD Studios – Joe Blundell The 10ticks Creative Award - Tovia Makoji-Stephen ENGLISH + CREATIVE WRITING And Other Stories: Finn Chapman Drama Prize: Emily Francis English Essay Prize: Kiera Egars DIGITAL MEDIA + CONTENT CREATION Digital Media and Content Creation Prize – Oliver Tyler FASHION GFW NEXT Fashion Trend [Shortlist recognition] Award: Rebecca Flanagan Outstanding Student Progression Award: Rita Abutu GFW trailblazer sustainability collection award and The GFW Jimmy Choo scholarship awards: Mel Sidebotham The Fashion Collection Award: Mel Sidebotham FILM AND MEDIA Outstanding Major Project Film: Meeka Roche and Finn Woodthorpe Outstanding student Award - Alex Vanzandt FINE ART Neo Artists Graduate Residency Award: Daisy Mai Hilton Neo Artists Graduate Residency Award: Zaiming Wang Neo Artists Graduate Residency Award: Anna Yvonne Varetto Hive Artists Exhibition Development Award: Emma Mather Hive Artists Mentorship Award - Monica Hamakami GRAPHIC DESIGN Prevent Breast Cancer: Jess Horrobin HSP Leigh: Lucy Vaughan Beyond Vision: Matthew Atherton Bolton & Leigh Railway 200: Masha Lambova PHOTOGRAPHY The Rising Light Award: Ivy Sellers Beyond the Frame Award: Grace Schofield Neo Artists Graduate Residency: Heidi Jones & Mai Hem Davis Hive Artists Award: Patrycja Janek Hive Artists Award: Sindija Malakovska Hive Artists Award: Jane Barker TEXTILES + SURFACE DESIGN Surface Print Fine Wallpapers - Wallcovering Award: Emily Goulding-Ellison AVA CAD CAM - Digital Design: Emily Goulding-Ellison, Chantal Turner Bluecoat Display Centre, Liverpool - Exhibition Award: Sarah Boon, Azel Davies, Isobel Nethercoat Design Collaboration - Entrepreneurship Mentoring Award: Caitlin Smith SPECIAL MODELMAKING EFFECTS FOR FILM AND TV MMFX Studentship Award: Gabe Ross MMFX Studentship Award: Rachel Reggione National Film and Sci-Fi Museum Award: Yuliarn Vassiljev Nuffy's Model Shop Award: Keira Gore SPECIAL EFFECTS FOR FILM AND TV Neill Gorton Award: Emily Watson SPECIAL MAKE-UP EFFECTS FOR FILM AND TV Stan Winston Award: Sydni Nolan
She said: “It’s a huge pleasure to introduce this awards ceremony and it’s lovely to see so much fantastic work coming together.”
As well as the awards, which were presented Dr Bill Webster, the University’s Group Vice President, by visitors were treated to displays of work created by students, including textile design, fine art, photography, film and SFX makeup and models.
“Our industry partners always support our graduates and the awards they offer give our students a real platform for the start of their creative careers.”
Louise Garman, Co-Director of neo:artists, said: “It gave me great pleasure not only to hand out prizes of two-month residencies for three Fine Art graduates and two from the Photography course, but to see the amazing end of year show.
Judging by the high standard of the work, all the graduates have a bright future ahead of them.”
Julie Levy at Hive Artists, said: “We have made two awards this year to Fine Art students who we feel show great potential.
‘We are delighted to be working with Emma and Monica over the coming year.”
Hive also selected three Photography students to work with and have offered a combination of exhibition opportunities and mentoring to Jane Barker, Sindija Malakorska and Patricia Janek.
Dr Steph Dermott said: “It is always exciting to work with a new group of award-winning students to see how they will develop over the year.”
The Creative Show will be open to the public until 20 June, from 10am to 4pm daily (excluding Saturday and Sunday), but will be open during the open day on Saturday 14 June.
ANIMATION + ILLUSTRATION Kent's Bank Station Library Award - Eimear Fowler JD Studios – Joe Blundell The 10ticks Creative Award - Tovia Makoji-Stephen
ENGLISH + CREATIVE WRITING And Other Stories: Finn Chapman Drama Prize: Emily Francis English Essay Prize: Kiera Egars
DIGITAL MEDIA + CONTENT CREATION Digital Media and Content Creation Prize – Oliver Tyler
FASHION GFW NEXT Fashion Trend [Shortlist recognition] Award: Rebecca Flanagan Outstanding Student Progression Award: Rita Abutu GFW trailblazer sustainability collection award and The GFW Jimmy Choo scholarship awards: Mel Sidebotham The Fashion Collection Award: Mel Sidebotham FILM AND MEDIA Outstanding Major Project Film: Meeka Roche and Finn Woodthorpe Outstanding student Award - Alex Vanzandt
FINE ART Neo Artists Graduate Residency Award: Daisy Mai Hilton Neo Artists Graduate Residency Award: Zaiming Wang Neo Artists Graduate Residency Award: Anna Yvonne Varetto Hive Artists Exhibition Development Award: Emma Mather Hive Artists Mentorship Award - Monica Hamakami GRAPHIC DESIGN Prevent Breast Cancer: Jess Horrobin HSP Leigh: Lucy Vaughan Beyond Vision: Matthew Atherton Bolton & Leigh Railway 200: Masha Lambova PHOTOGRAPHY The Rising Light Award: Ivy Sellers Beyond the Frame Award: Grace Schofield Neo Artists Graduate Residency: Heidi Jones & Mai Hem Davis Hive Artists Award: Patrycja Janek Hive Artists Award: Sindija Malakovska Hive Artists Award: Jane Barker TEXTILES + SURFACE DESIGN Surface Print Fine Wallpapers - Wallcovering Award: Emily Goulding-Ellison AVA CAD CAM - Digital Design: Emily Goulding-Ellison, Chantal Turner Bluecoat Display Centre, Liverpool - Exhibition Award: Sarah Boon, Azel Davies, Isobel Nethercoat Design Collaboration - Entrepreneurship Mentoring Award: Caitlin Smith SPECIAL MODELMAKING EFFECTS FOR FILM AND TV MMFX Studentship Award: Gabe Ross MMFX Studentship Award: Rachel Reggione National Film and Sci-Fi Museum Award: Yuliarn Vassiljev Nuffy's Model Shop Award: Keira Gore
SPECIAL EFFECTS FOR FILM AND TV Neill Gorton Award: Emily Watson
SPECIAL MAKE-UP EFFECTS FOR FILM AND TV Stan Winston Award: Sydni Nolan

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/news/sports-rehab-students-and-staff-in-media-spotlight:
Sean Devlin and students Josh Walsh and Aram Giglio provided sports massage to drivers before and after the race.
ITV4 covered the event and interviewed Sean live when he stressed the importance of therapeutic modalities and how they can support driver comfort and performance.
Meanwhile, Steve Rawes, Lecturer in Sport Rehabilitation and Strength & Conditioning, was interviewed on BBC Radio 5 Live on Bank Holiday Monday afternoon during Liverpool FC’s parade of the premier league trophy Steve was featured alongside John Brewer, former FA Head of Performance, to discuss the performance management strategies required at elite level which has led to Liverpool’s success this season.
The full interview can be found on BBC Sounds (between 16:40-16:50 on Monday 26 May).
Motorsport students from the National Centre of Motorsport Engineering (NMCE) also attend the British Touring Car Championships annually supporting driver’s trackside at the Snetterton race track.
This is a fantastic collaboration between the world of motorsport and the University of Greater Manchester.
Find out more about the degrees offered in Motorsport and Sports Rehabilitation .

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/news/university-of-greater-manchester-course-opens-doors-for-disadvantaged-learners-looking-for-careers-in-care-and-community-sectors:
02/06/2025
The University of Greater Manchester is urging students of all ages from disadvantaged backgrounds to consider applying for a free 10-week course which prepares them to take up a degree apprenticeship or study in Higher Education.
The Entry to Higher Education Apprenticeship Programme (EHEAP) will provide learners with skills in areas including: • English for HE, academic writing and research • Employability and careers development • Sustainability and cultural capital • Wellbeing, resilience and personal development It provides a pathway into a career in the health, care, or youth and community sectors, with the aim of progressing into a degree apprenticeship.
Vanessa Peace, Outreach Practitioner for the University’s Apprenticeships, said that the programme was designed for those without Level 3 qualifications.
It aims to fully prepare learners to progress to a degree apprenticeship or further undergraduate study.
Every learner receives personalised guidance from a dedicated personal tutor and has access to student and wellbeing advisors.
Degree apprenticeships ideal for learners to progress onto include: • Physiotherapy (new degree apprenticeship in development) • Occupational Therapy (new degree apprenticeship in development) • Public Health (new degree apprenticeship in development) • Youth Worker • Registered Nurse The University offers a £300 bursary to help learners with costs while enrolled on the foundation course.
Vanessa said: “While we cannot guarantee acceptance into a degree apprenticeship, we aim to provide as much assistance as possible, including opportunities to interview for roles within the youth and community, health, or care sectors.
“Upon completion of the course, learners earn 60 credits, which enables them to progress with the University of Greater Manchester.” At a recent EHEAP Open Event the programme’s impact was highlighted – the first cohort of seven learners have received conditional offers for undergraduate degrees in midwifery, physiotherapy, dental technology, and social work.
Vanessa said: “This is an incredible achievement and testament to their hard work and determination.
We’re now looking ahead to welcoming our next cohort of around 30 learners in June, and can’t wait to see what they go on to achieve.” Twenty year old Moroccan student Firdaus Amarsil’s ambition is to train as an orthodontist and is nearing the end of the EHEAP scheme.
She said: “I have always been passionate about medicine, especially in the field of dentistry, with a particular interest in becoming an orthodontist.
“This interest in helping others led me to enrol on the EHEAP programme, as it offers a clear pathway towards achieving my professional goals.
“The exposure, support, and opportunities the EHEAP course offers are unmatched, and I highly encourage anyone with big dreams to join." Student Giedre Ferreira, 36, who came to the UK from Lithuania 14 years ago, said: “I initially enrolled in classes to improve my English.
I got married, but I always wanted to continue my education.
“I dropped out of school when I was 16 but later returned and completed my education at 19.
When I found the EHEAP course, I saw it as a great opportunity to take a step towards university.
“The amazing tutor and assistants helped me and now I know exactly what I want to study.
I also get mentoring and coaching sessions and have access to all the student services available.
I couldn’t be happier.” For more information or to register your interest for EHEAP, please visit: EHEAP Programme | University of Greater Manchester
The Entry to Higher Education Apprenticeship Programme (EHEAP) will provide learners with skills in areas including:
• English for HE, academic writing and research
• Employability and careers development
• Sustainability and cultural capital
• Wellbeing, resilience and personal development
It provides a pathway into a career in the health, care, or youth and community sectors, with the aim of progressing into a degree apprenticeship.
Degree apprenticeships ideal for learners to progress onto include:
• Physiotherapy (new degree apprenticeship in development)
• Occupational Therapy (new degree apprenticeship in development)
• Public Health (new degree apprenticeship in development)
• Youth Worker
• Registered Nurse
The University offers a £300 bursary to help learners with costs while enrolled on the foundation course.
“Upon completion of the course, learners earn 60 credits, which enables them to progress with the University of Greater Manchester.”
At a recent EHEAP Open Event the programme’s impact was highlighted – the first cohort of seven learners have received conditional offers for undergraduate degrees in midwifery, physiotherapy, dental technology, and social work.
We’re now looking ahead to welcoming our next cohort of around 30 learners in June, and can’t wait to see what they go on to achieve.”
Twenty year old Moroccan student Firdaus Amarsil’s ambition is to train as an orthodontist and is nearing the end of the EHEAP scheme.
“The exposure, support, and opportunities the EHEAP course offers are unmatched, and I highly encourage anyone with big dreams to join."
Student Giedre Ferreira, 36, who came to the UK from Lithuania 14 years ago, said: “I initially enrolled in classes to improve my English.
I couldn’t be happier.”
For more information or to register your interest for EHEAP, please visit: EHEAP Programme | University of Greater Manchester

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/our-staff/dr-julian-coleman:
Coleman began his working life as a civil engineer, moving latterly into logistics and supply chain management.
He worked for a number of years at the Warwick Manufacturing Group (WMG), a ‘close to business’, education, research, and knowledge exchange centre at the University of Warwick.
Julian commenced work at the University of Bolton in 1995 as a Senior Lecturer.
His expertise in supply chain, and passion for collaboration led him to develop a number of international partnerships to deliver post graduate Supply Chain programmes with University partners in Malaysia, Malawi, Botswana, Zambia and Raz Al Kaimah.
He became Dean of the University Off Campus Division, overseeing the growth of the University's collaborative provision until moving to become Assistant Vice Chancellor for Academic Operations in 2020.
The focus of Julian's work now is Knowledge Exchange, working with colleagues across the University to embed and expand our engagement with practice and industry partners.
He is committed to providing relevant, value adding, supportive expertise to the private, public, and third sector.
He is also passionate about facilitating an environment at the University in which staff are supported to engage in effective Knowledge Exchange.
j.l.coleman@bolton.ac.uk
+44 (0)1204 903678

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/our-staff/professor-harni-bharaj-md-frcp-mbe:
Professor Harnovdeep Singh Bharaj is a Consultant Physician in General Medicine, Diabetes, Endocrinology and Metabolism at Bolton NHS Foundation Trust and was formerly a clinical lecturer at the University of Manchester.
Professor Bharaj pioneered the role of lay educator and diabetes support nurses for South Asians and developed a twilight multidisciplinary clinic for young people with diabetes and a nurse-led diabetes clinic; both initiatives improved access and reduced inequalities in health care delivery.
Professor Bharaj is a Member of the Greater Manchester Structured Patient Education Steering Group; a Member of the Diabetes UK Community Education Insight Advisory Group, and Chair of the North West Youth Diabetes Steering Group.
Professor Bharaj was awarded an MBE in January 2021 in recognition of his services to people with diabetes in the South Asian community

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/our-staff/mr-andrew-fawcett-mba-ba:
Andrew was until recently the Executive Director of the Greater Manchester Provider Network which represents the interests of over 100 colleges and skills providers.
Prior to this, he held senior positions with the Skills Funding Agency and Learning and Skills Council.
Andrew is committed to improving the skills and employment system in Greater Manchester.
He is a Member of the Board of Governors at Bolton College and chair of the Audit Committee.
He is currently an independent consultant working with a number of further education colleges and independent training providers helping them to improve their training programmes.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/our-staff/dr-andrew-roberts-fiet-frsa:
Andrew is the Managing Director of Avoira, a Bury based technology company.
In 2011, he received a Highly Commended Certificate for his outstanding contribution to telecommunication from HRH The Duke of Edinburgh as part of the Prince Philip Medal awards.
Andrew is the Chair of Governors at Bolton College, a past Governor of 24 years for a local primary school and a trustee of a charity for young people.
He is also a Trustee and Vice Chair of Quest, a Multi Academy Trust of which the University is a Member.
He chairs the Bury Business Leaders Group and is Bury Local President of the Greater Manchester Chamber of Commerce.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/our-staff/kate-flood:
Kate is the former Chief Commercial Officer for Hill Biscuits Ltd and previously held the role of Commercial Director for Park Cakes (Bolton) Ltd.
Kate completed her Masters in Business Administration at the University of Bolton and studied for a Diploma in Total Quality Management at Salford University.
Kate has over 30 years’ experience in the food industry with a wealth of industry knowledge from people development, leadership, lean, change management, finance, strategic business planning, safety, health and the environment.
Kate is a Member of the Board of Governors at Bolton College.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/our-staff/stephen-l-conn:
Stephen qualified as a Chartered Accountant in 1970 and was made a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales in 1979.
He worked for Deloitte in Australia as a Chartered Accountant for two years before returning to the UK where was made a Partner with Harry L Price and subsequently Ernst & Whinney.
Stephen qualified as an Insolvency Practitioner in 1988 and was made a Fellow of the Insolvency Practitioners Association.
He is also a Fellow of the Association of Business Recovery Professionals (R3).
In 1989 Stephen set up his own Company specialising in Corporate Rescue and Recovery, which in 2002 he merged with the Begbies Traynor Group and latterly worked at CG & Co based in Manchester.
In July 2022, Stephen was awarded an Honorary Doctorate in Business Administration (Hon.DBA) for his services to the University.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/our-staff/ms-rachel-hannan:
Rachel is an entrepreneurial Director with a broad range of experience as an advisor to and member of Boards and senior management teams across the public, private and third sectors.
She is experienced in operating with a strong commercial focus allied with high level communication, influencing and stakeholder management skills.
She combines a clear strategic focus, the ability to work effectively within complex environments and a pragmatic and solution orientated approach.
Her key skills and experience include company start-up, growth and exit; strategic planning; and ‘angel’ investing’.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/our-staff/professor-hh-william-morris-ma-cantab-hons-lld-honoris-causa:
Independent Member and Chair of the Board of Governors.
Member of the Resources Committee, Nominations Committee and Remuneration Committee.
Professor His Honour William Morris was, until his retirement, the Resident Judge of the Crown Court in Bolton, and was appointed Honorary Recorder of Bolton by the town's local authority.
William took his degree at Cambridge University where he studied law and fine arts.
This range of studies mirrors the broad spread of his interests which include art, leading to his having an art gallery in Bolton.
His career in law lead to him becoming a judge in 1995.
In 2008 he received an Honorary Doctorate (Doctor of Laws) (LLD) from the University for his outstanding contribution to law.
William became a trustee of St John and St Elizabeth, a private hospital in London, early in 2020.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/our-staff/professor-roger-lewis-ba-ma-bphil-pgce-ma:
Statutory Co-opted Member and Member of the Audit Committee.
Roger retired from his position as Regional Consultant with the Higher Education Council for England (HEFCE) in 2009.
From June 2010 until December 2013 he was Chief Executive Officer for Yorkshire Universities (YU), before retiring for the second time.
He continues to work for YU in the capacity of Associate, responsible for projects including student engagement and the civic, place building role of universities.
After graduating from Cambridge Roger entered teaching, becoming particularly interested in “distance education”.
He worked for The Open University from its inception and remains very interested in open learning.
He achieved several of his own qualifications by this route including BA and BPhil from The Open University, PG Certificate of Education from the University of London and several business credits via the Open College.
He has written many books and learning resources for students, lecturers and those responsible for setting up new educational systems.
Titles include “How to write essays”, “How to write flexible learning materials” and “How to plan and manage an E-learning programme”.
In 1992 Roger was appointed BP Professor of Learning Development at the University of Lincolnshire and Humberside, working on the development of a “new learning environment” and the first employment-based skills course in the country.
Roger was appointed as Regional Consultant for HEFCE in 1998 where he had national responsibilities, as well as covering the northern regions.
Roger is also active in a voluntary capacity with a number of organisations, as Chair of both the Friends of Beverley Minster and the Georgian Society for East Yorkshire.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/our-staff/dr-uday-nayak-mba:
Dr Nayak is the quintessential entrepreneur with varied experience in banking and aviation.
A true team builder, he co-founded the Veling Group in 2002 and successfully led Veling into various uncharted territories.
This included aircraft leasing, arranging JOLCO’S, and Sale & Leasebacks on its first A380 – in essence, he was the engine that powered the company.
In 2018, he left Veling to form Kayan Aviation Group, he brings with him his wealth of experience to Kayan which he intends to nurture along with his capable team.
Uday is an alumnus of Harvard Business School having completed the Owner, President Management Programme and has an honorary doctorate from the University of Bolton for his contributions to philanthropy and aviation.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/our-staff/dr-carl-austin-behan-obe-dl:
Dr Carl Austin-Behan joined the RAF at aged 19 before being forced to leave due to his sexuality.
During his service he was added to the 1996 Queen’s Birthday Honours list for his exceptional service, which included saving a pilot from a burning aircraft as well as other remarkable endeavours.
Carl went on to serve with Greater Manchester Fire & Rescue Service between 1998 and 1999 before setting up a promotions company and has been successful in a wide range of areas including business, charity, community, and politics.
He has raised money for numerous worthy causes including the HIV/AIDS, Manchester Children’s Hospital, Alzheimer’s UK.
In 2005 Carl was appointed Chair of Manchester’s Gay Village Business Association and between 2008 and 2011 he was a member of the Greater Manchester Police Independent Advisory Group, supporting LGBT issues.
In 2010 Carl set up VA Clean, of which, he is Managing Director.
In 2016, Carl became the first openly gay Lord Mayor of Manchester leading to unshakeable action for the LGBTQ+ community and help in raising over half-a-million pounds for the ‘We Love Manchester’ charity.
In 2018 Carl became LGBT Advisor to the Mayor of Greater Manchester, Dr Andy Burnham, and in December 2019 he was appointed to be a Deputy Lieutenant of The County of Greater Manchester.
He was awarded an OBE in the 2020 Queen’s New Year’s Honours List for services to Charity, LGBTQ+ Equality and to the Community across Greater Manchester.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/our-staff/sam-johnson-2:
As Head of the School of Arts and Acting Head of the School of Creative Technologies, Sam Johnson oversees a broad range of dynamic subject areas associated with the booming Creative Industries sector.
She also works closely with the Off-Campus Division to support partnership development and collaboration with influential external organisations such as Shockout Arts and Backstage Academy and has enjoyed the opportunity to be involved in the validation and coordination of prestigious international collaborative projects which have helped to extend the global reach of the University.
Having undertaken several roles within the University, including Principal Lecturer for Quality Enhancement and University Learning and Teaching Fellow, Sam is well-versed in the importance of full compliance with University policies and procedures which protect and enhance the value of our academic awards.
Sam represents the University on many cultural and educational strategy groups and committees across Bolton and the North West.
She is also a Senior Fellow of the Higher Education Academy and is working closely with key colleagues in the development of the University's REF2021 research submission.
Sam very much valued her 3 year term as a Parent Governor at Thornleigh Salesian College and during this time came to appreciate the significance and core responsibilities of an educational Governing Body.
She is whole-heartedly committed to the University's inclusive approach to widening access and participation and to facilitating life-long learning across the wider University Group.
Sam is also a passionate advocate of Arts for All and is an active proponent of the Arts and Wellbeing agenda.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/our-staff/sue-hincks:
Up until her recent retirement, Sue was the Headmistress of the Bolton School Girls’ Division, a role she had held since 2011.
Whilst there, she led significant reforms to teaching, learning and assessment policies and implemented changes to the structures and staffing to increase student academic enrichment activities.
Sue’s previous roles include Deputy Head at The King’s School (Worcester); Head of MFL at Gresham’s School (Norfolk), and teaching posts at Marlborough College and The King’s School (Peterborough).
Sue was educated at Magdalen College, Oxford University where she achieved a First Class Honours MA in Modern History & Modern Foreign Languages.
Sue remains committed to the achievement and welfare of all students from diverse backgrounds.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/our-staff/tom-kennie:
Tom is a founding director of Ranmore Business Management Consultancy and has worked with over 150 universities globally on a range of leadership, management and governance projects and programmes.
Prior to establishing Ranmore over 20 years ago he spent 6 years as Director of Human Resources for an international firm of property advisors and prior to this was Group Head of Learning and Development for Balfour Beatty.
He has also been a full-time academic spending 8 years as Head of Surveying in the School of Civil Engineering at the University of Surrey and 4 years at the University of Technology in Kingston, Jamaica.
In his earlier career he worked as a chartered surveyor in the construction and offshore oil and gas sectors.
Tom was the co-founding programme director of the UK Leadership Foundation for HE  ‘Top Management Programme’ (TMP), a leadership development programme for members of senior leadership teams in universities.
He is also programme director of the International Association of Universities (IAU) on-line ‘Leading Globally Engaged Universities (LGEU) + programme.
He is regularly involved in supporting teams to review and refresh their strategic priorities and plans.
He has also conducted a number of reviews of governance for several UK universities.
Tom studied at the University of Glasgow) and subsequently qualified as a Fellow of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (FRICS); he is a Chartered member of the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CMIPD) and is also a member of the Institute of Management Consulting (Certified Management Consultant (CMC)).
He was appointed in 2016 as an Honorary Senior Fellow of the LH Martin Institute at the University of Melbourne.
In 2019 he was also appointed as an Honorary Visiting Professor at the University of Bolton in the field of Higher Educational Leadership.
Tom has also just concluded co-authoring, with Professor Robin Middlehurst, a book on the theme of ‘Leadership Transitions in Universities’ – Arriving, Surviving and Thriving at the Top’ recently published by Routledge.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/our-staff/professor-dr-alan-peter-walsh-llb-hons-d-univ-hc:
Professor Dr Alan Walsh qualified as a Solicitor of the Supreme Court on the 1 December 1975.
He was a Solicitor with Russell & Russell Solicitors from the 1 December 1975 and became a Partner in the Firm in January 1977 becoming joint Senior Partner in 1983 until his retirement in 2010 after 37 years of continuous service, to become a full-time Coroner.
From 2013 he became an HM Area Coroner and on the 3 January 2019 was appointed HM Senior Coroner (acting) for Manchester West and continued to act in that role until September 2020.
In 2015 Alan was awarded an Honorary Doctorate by the University of Bolton for services to the University, the legal profession, the town and the Community.
In 2020 Alan was appointed a Visiting Professor in Coronial Law at the University of Bolton and Chaired the Law Board of the Centre for Contemporary Coronial Law, which is the only Centre for Coronial Law in England & Wales.

New sentences found on https://bolton.ac.uk/our-staff/saad-mehmood:
I’m honoured to join the Board of Governors at the University of Greater Manchester.
I recently completed my MSc in Entrepreneurship and Innovation at the University’s Business School, and I currently serve as President of the Students’ Union.
As both a recent graduate and an active representative of the student body, I’m passionate about innovation, inclusion, and making sure the student voice is heard in key decisions.
I look forward to contributing to the University’s ongoing growth and success through this new role.