# Site: https://www.bristol.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 499
# --------

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk:
We're sorry but the programme search does not work without JavaScript enabled.
Please enable Javascript to continue.
Visit us on campus or attend an online event to find out about the student experience at Bristol.
Find live talks or watch on-demand, chat with our expert staff and students, explore our virtual tours and find out more about the courses we offer.
We serve and work with the wider community of Bristol to benefit us all.
Bristol is famous for its independent spirit, thriving art scene and alternative culture.
See for yourself.
Shaping ideas together: Introducing the Mumbai Enterprise Campus.
We're ranked 51st in the world
QS World University Rankings 2026
We're ranked 8th in the UK
QS World University Rankings 2026 (UK)
One of the 5 most targeted by top UK recruiters
High Fliers Research 2024
We’re a top 5 UK university for research quality
Times Higher Education REF 2021 quality ratings
Our academics and students regularly make the headlines.
From life-changing research to enterprising partnerships, major awards to charitable endeavours, Bristol is bursting with inspiration.
University of Bristol, Beacon House, Queens Road, Bristol, BS8 1QU, United Kingdom
Information for

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study:
Find out all you need to know about studying with us at Bristol
Find out about studying at Bristol, including Study Abroad and our International Foundation programmes.
Bristol is a vibrant, diverse city with an independent, creative culture.
Explore the harbourside, green spaces, buzzing centre and more.
New student at Bristol?
Plan your next steps and find out what support is available to help you settle into student life.
We offer accommodation to suit all students, from Clifton townhouses to large halls of residence in the city centre.
We’re expanding our vision with our new campus in Mumbai – a vibrant space for world-class education, collaboration and innovation.
Sign up to find out more and access a printed or digital prospectus.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/undergraduate:
View courses by subject
Our course vacancies will open on Thursday 14 August.
Find guidance to help you apply to Bristol and information about how your application will be assessed.
Everything you need to know about our student accommodation.
We will support you on your Bristol journey, from application to arrival and beyond.
Our outreach and widening participation offer provides programmes and opportunities to students from underrepresented backgrounds.
Discover why Bristol is an exciting place to live.
From the independent boutiques to boats-turned-pubs floating on the water, our colourful city has something for everyone.
Order a prospectus and sign up for updates to discover more about student life at Bristol.
university to declare a climate emergency
bristol.ac.uk/green
most cultural and creative city in the UK
European Commission 2019
most targeted by top UK recruiters
best university in the UK

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/visits:
Our open days will be taking place on Friday 13 June, Saturday 14 June and Saturday 1 November 2025.
If you hold an offer to study at Bristol, you'll be invited to an exclusive offer holder event.
Explore Bristol with our virtual tours and discover more about studying here with our online events.
We attend a variety of events organised by UCAS and schools and colleges across the UK, including virtual exhibitions, workshops and presentations.
Come to a mature student information session to find out more about studying at Bristol.
Join current students for a tour of Clifton campus.
We run and attend a range of postgraduate events during the academic year.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/students/new:
Find out what support is available to help you settle into student life.
Find out what you need to do before you arrive.
Register to become part of our University community.
Find out what you need to do when you arrive.
Activities and resources to get you ready to start your studies.
Our dedicated teams are here to help you throughout your time at university.
What you need to do to move in smoothly.
Information for incoming Study Abroad students.
The Bristol SU is here to help you get the best out of student life.
Make the most of your time at Bristol.
Download from Google Play or the App Store .
Read our blog.
Top tips for enjoying your student life at Bristol.
#YourBristolStory #StartBristolUni

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate:
Browse all programmes
Book an online event, take a campus tour, or access on-demand webinars to find out more about postgraduate study at Bristol.
Read guidance on how to complete our online application form, or log in to continue an existing application.
Discover where a postgraduate degree from Bristol could lead and how we support your development.
University of Bristol alumni and current undergraduates can get 25% off postgraduate tuition fees.
Eligibility criteria applies.
Support for our community of postgraduate research students, from funding advice and skills training to researcher development.
With our central location, outstanding facilities and active Students' Union, at Bristol you can enjoy the best of student life.
7th in the UK for graduate employability
QS Graduate Employability Rankings 2022

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/search:
Find out about the University of Bristol's PhD in Accounting and Finance, including entry requirements, supervisors and research groups.
Find out about the University of Bristol's PhD in Advanced Composites, including entry requirements, supervisors and research groups.
The Advanced Quantitative Methods (AQM) pathway is designed to foster research that pushes the boundaries of quantitative methodologies in the social sciences.
Find out about the University of Bristol's PhD in Aerosol Science, including entry requirements, supervisors and research groups.
Find out about the University of Bristol's PhD in Aerospace Engineering, including entry requirements, supervisors and research groups.
Find out about the University of Bristol's PhD in Anthropology and Archaeology, including entry requirements, supervisors and research groups.
Find out about the University of Bristol's PhD in Biochemistry, including entry requirements, supervisors and research groups.
Find out about the University of Bristol's PhD in Biological Sciences, including entry requirements, supervisors and research groups.
Find out about the University of Bristol's PhD in Cellular and Molecular Medicine, including entry requirements, supervisors and research groups.
Find out about the University of Bristol's PhD in Chemistry, including entry requirements, supervisors and research groups.
Find out about the University of Bristol's PhD in Civil Engineering, including entry requirements, supervisors and research groups.
Find out about the University of Bristol's PhD in Classics and Ancient History, including entry requirements, supervisors and research groups.
Find out about the University of Bristol's PhD and MPhil in Comparative Literatures and Cultures, including structure and supervisors.
Find out about the University of Bristol's EngD in Composites Manufacture, including entry requirements, supervisors and research groups.
Find out about the University of Bristol's PhD in Computer Science, including entry requirements, career prospects and research groups.
Find out about the University of Bristol's PhD in Creative Writing, including entry requirements, supervisiors and research groups.
Find out about the University of Bristol's Doctor of Educational Psychology (DEdPsy) research degree, including career prospects and supervisors.
Find out about the University of Bristol's PhD in Disability Studies, including entry requirements, career prospects and research groups.
Find out about the University of Bristol's PhD in Earth Sciences, including entry requirements, supervisiors and research groups.
Find out about the University of Bristol's PhD in East Asian Studies, including entry requirements and key themes.
Find out about the University of Bristol's PhD in Economics, including entry requirements, supervisiors and research groups.
Find out about the University of Bristol's PhD in Education, including entry requirements, career prospects and research groups.
Find out about the University of Bristol's Education (Part time only), including entry requirements, supervisors and research groups.
Find out about the University of Bristol's PhD in Electrical and Electronic Engineering, including entry requirements and research groups.
Find out about the University of Bristol's PhD in Engineering Mathematics, including entry requirements, career prospects and research groups.
Find out about the University of Bristol's PhD in English Literature, including entry requirements, supervisors and research groups.
Find out about the University of Bristol's PhD in Exercise, Nutrition and Health, including entry requirements, supervisors and research groups.
Find out about the University of Bristol's PhD in Film and Television, including entry requirements, supervisors and research groups.
Find out about the University of Bristol's PhD in French, including entry requirements, supervisors and research groups.
Find out about the University of Bristol's PhD /  EngD in Future Innovation in Non-Destructive Evaluation, including entry requirements, supervisors and research groups.
Find out about the University of Bristol's PhD in Geographic Data Science, including entry requirements, supervisors and research groups.
Find out about the University of Bristol's PhD in Geographical Sciences (Human Geography), including entry requirements, supervisors and research groups.
Find out about the University of Bristol's PhD in Geographical Sciences (Physical Geography), including entry requirements, supervisors and research groups.
Find out about the University of Bristol's PhD in German, including entry requirements, supervisors and research groups.
Find out about the University of Bristol's PhD in Global Challenges and Transformations, including entry requirements, supervisors and research groups.
Find out about the Great Western Four+ Doctoral Training Partnership, a multidisciplinary training environment for postgraduate students in NERC sciences.
Find out about the University of Bristol's PhD in Health and Wellbeing, including entry requirements, supervisors and research groups.
Find out about the University of Bristol's PhD in Hispanic, Portuguese and Latin American Studies, including supervisors and research groups.
Find out about the University of Bristol's PhD in History, including entry requirements, supervisors and research groups.
Find out about the University of Bristol's PhD in History of Art, including entry requirements, supervisors and research groups.
Find out about the University of Bristol's PhD in Innovation and Entrepreneurship, including entry requirements, supervisors and research groups.
Find out about the University of Bristol's PhD in Italian, including entry requirements, structure and research groups.
Find out about the University of Bristol's PhD in Law, including entry requirements, structure and research groups.
Find out about the University of Bristol's LLM in Banking and Finance Law, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's LLM in Commercial Law, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's LLM in Company Law and Corporate Governance, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's LLM in Employment, Work and Equality Law, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's LLM in General Legal Studies, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's LLM in Health, Law and Society, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's LLM in Human Rights Law, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's LLM in International Commercial Law, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's LLM in International Law, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's LLM in International Law and International Relations, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's LLM in Law, Environment, Sustainability and Business, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's LLM in Law, Innovation and Technology, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MA in Anthropology, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MA in Chinese-English Audiovisual Translation, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MA in Chinese-English Translation, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MA in Comparative Literatures and Cultures, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MA in Composition of Music for Film and Television, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MA in Creative Innovation and Entrepreneurship, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MA in Creative Writing, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MA in Digital Business Innovation, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MA in Digital Media Innovation, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MA in English Literature, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MA in Environmental Humanities, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MA in Film and Television, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MA in History, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Join our MA History of Art programme to study a broad range of art periods and methodologies, with opportunities for hands-on curatorial work.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc, PGCert and PGDip in Immersive Arts (Virtual and Augmented Reality) including structure and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MA in Law, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MA in Medieval Studies, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MA in Music, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MA in User Experience Design and Innovation, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's PhD in Management, including entry requirements, structure and research groups.
Find out about the University of Bristol's PhD in Mathematics, including entry requirements, structure and research groups.
Find out about the University of Bristol's PhD in Mechanical Engineering, including entry requirements, supervisors and research groups.
Find out about the University of Bristol's PhD in Medieval Studies, including entry requirements, supervisors and research groups.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MRes in Economics, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MRes in Education, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MRes in Health Sciences Research, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Accounting and Finance, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Accounting, Accountability and Sustainability, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Accounting, Finance and Management, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Gain in-depth knowledge of composite materials and their applications in aerospace, automotive and more.
Study at the cutting-edge Bristol Composites Institute.
Explore the MSc Advanced Microelectronic Systems Engineering at Bristol, focusing on digital and analogue design, signal processing and emerging technologies.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Aerial Robotics, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Aerospace Engineering, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Applied Neuropsychology, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Gain specialist knowledge in banking regulation, supervision, and risk management.
Prepare for a career in the financial services industry.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Bioinformatics, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Biomedical Sciences Research, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Biorobotics, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Business Analytics, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Innovation and Entrepreneurship, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc by research Global Environmental Challenges, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc by research Neuroscience, including entry requirements, supervisors and research groups.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Climate Change Science and Policy, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Clinical Neuropsychology, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Explore MSc Communication Networks and Signal Processing at Bristol, focusing on network architectures, optical communications and wireless access.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc conversion programme in Computer Science, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Conflict Resolution and Peacebuilding, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Cyber Security (Infrastructures Security), including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in  Cyber Security (Software Security), including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Data Science, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Data Science for Business, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Dental Implantology, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Development and Security, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Digital and Technological Society, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Digital Health, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Study at the University of Bristol and become a leader in seismic risk assessment and disaster management.
Access state-of-the-art facilities and field trips.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in East Asian Development and the Global Economy, including structure and career prospects.
Join the MSc Economics programme at Bristol to develop skills in economic analysis, policy-making, and research.
Study at a top 10 UK university (QS 2025).
Join the MSc Economics and Finance programme at Bristol to develop expertise in financial markets, corporate finance and economic analysis.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Economics with Data Science, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Equip yourself with practical skills in economics, finance, and management.
Ideal for careers in consultancy, banking, or management roles.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Education (Inclusive Education), including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Education (Leadership and Policy), including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Education (Learning, Technology and Society), including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Education (Mathematics Education), including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Education (Neuroscience and Education), including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Education (Open Pathway), including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Education (Policy and International Development) including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Apply mathematical and engineering principles to solve real-world problems in AI, medicine, and sustainability.
Explore our MSc Engineering with Management programme, focusing on strategic business management, risk analysis and sustainable engineering practices.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Environmental Modelling and Data Analysis, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Environmental Policy and Management, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Epidemiology, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Finance and Investment, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Financial Technology, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Financial Technology with Data Science, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Gender and International Relations, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Geographic Data Science and Spatial Analytics, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Global Development and Environment, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Global Health Policy, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Global Operations and Supply Chain Management, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Global Wildlife Health and Conservation, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Health Economics and Health Policy Analysis, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Human Geography: Society and Space, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Study at the University of Bristol and gain insights into employment relations, global HR management and the evolving nature of work.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Immersive Technologies (Virtual and Augmented Reality), including structure and career prospects.
Study MSc International Business and Strategy: Global Challenges and gain expertise in international business, strategic management and sustainability.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in International Development, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in International Relations, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in International Security, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Internet of Things with AI, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Interpreting, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc and PGCert in Leading Strategic Change, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Management, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Join our MSc Management (CSR and Sustainability) programme and develop critical skills in business ethics, stakeholder management, and sustainable practices.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Management (Digitalisation and Big Data), including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Join our MSc Management (Entrepreneurship and Innovation) programme.
Learn about business innovation, entrepreneurial strategies and sustainable enterprise.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Management (International Business), including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Management (International Human Resource Management), including structure and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Management (Marketing), including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Management (Project Management), including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Marketing, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Mathematical Sciences, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Medical Statistics and Health Data Science, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Molecular Neuroscience, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Nuclear Science and Engineering, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Nutrition, Physical Activity and Public Health, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Optical Communications and Signal Processing, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Optoelectronic and Quantum Technologies, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Oral Medicine, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Palaeobiology, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc and Postgraduate Certificate in Perfusion Science, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Policy Research, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc conversion programme in Psychology of Education, accreddiated by the British Psychological Society,
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Public Health, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Public Policy, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc, PGCert and PGDip in Reproduction and Development, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Robotics, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Science Communication for a Better Planet, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Join our MSc Scientific Computing with Data Science programme and study machine learning and high-performance computing to solve scientific problems.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Social and Cultural Theory, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Social Innovation and Entrepreneurship, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Social Science Research Methods (Management), including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Social Science Research Methods (Politics), including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Social Science Research Methods (Sociology), including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Social Work, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Social Work Research, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Society, Politics and Climate Change, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Socio-Legal Studies, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Sociology, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Structural Engineering, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc, PGCert and PGDip in Translational Cardiovascular Medicine, including structure and entry requirements.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Water and Environmental Management, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's MSc in Wireless Communications and Signal Processing, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's PhD in Music, including entry requirements, supervisors and research groups.
Find out about the University of Bristol's PhD in Oral and Dental Sciences, including entry requirements, supervisors and research groups.
Find out about the University of Bristol's Postgraduate Certificate in Clinical Neuropsychology Practice, including structure and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's Postgraduate Certificate in Clinical Oral Surgery, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's Postgraduate Diploma in Clinical Neuropsychology, including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's PG Diploma in Theoretical and Practical Clinical Neuropsychology, including structure and entry requirements.
Find out about the University of Bristol's PGCE in Education (Secondary) including structure, entry requirements and career prospects.
Find out about the University of Bristol's PhD in Philosophy, including entry requirements, supervisors and research groups.
Find out about the University of Bristol's PhD in Physics, including entry requirements, supervisors and research groups.
Find out about the University of Bristol's PhD in Physiology, Pharmacology and Neuroscience, including entry requirements, supervisors and research groups.
Find out about the University of Bristol's PhD in Politics, including key themes and entry requirements.
Find out about the University of Bristol's PhD in Population Health Sciences, including entry requirements, career prospects and research groups.
Find out about the University of Bristol's PhD in Religion and Theology, including structure, entry requirements and supervisors.
Find out about the University of Bristol's PhD in Russian, including entry requirements, supervisors and research groups.
Find out about the University of Bristol's PhD in Social Policy, including entry requirements, supervisors and research groups.
Find out about the University of Bristol's PhD in Social Work, including entry requirements, supervisors and research groups.
Find out about the University of Bristol's PhD in Sociology, including entry requirements, supervisors and research groups.
Find out about the University of Bristol's PhD in Sociotechnical Futures and Digital Methods, including entry requirements, supervisors and research groups.
Find out about the University of Bristol's South West Biosciences Doctoral Training Partnership, including structure and entry requirements.
Find out about the University of Bristol's PhD in Superconductivity, including entry requirements, supervisors and research groups.
Find out about the University of Bristol's PhD in Sustainable Futures, including entry requirements, supervisors and research groups.
Find out about the University of Bristol's PhD in Technology Enhanced Chemical Synthesis, including entry requirements, supervisors and research groups.
Find out about the University of Bristol's PhD in Theatre and Performance, including entry requirements, supervisors and research groups.
Find out about the University of Bristol's PhD in Translation, including entry requirements, supervisors and research groups.
Find out about the University of Bristol's PhD in Translational Health Sciences, including entry requirements, supervisors and research groups.
Find out about the University of Bristol's PhD in Veterinary Sciences, including entry requirements, research groups and career prospects.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/visits-open-days:
Find upcoming events, book student-led campus tours and explore on-demand resources to discover why Bristol is a great choice for postgraduate study.
Book an online event to learn about postgraduate funding, accommodation, careers and more.
Find our schedule here for upcoming postgraduate fairs we'll be attending.
Attend a Zoom meeting with a current postgraduate student to find out more about life at Bristol .
Book your place to join us for a tour of the Clifton campus.
Our next postgraduate open day will take place on 11 March 2026.
Learn more about the accessibility of our University facilities .

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/international:
Find information for prospective international students applying to study at the University of Bristol, including our courses and programmes, entry requirements, and international scholarships.
Discover more about the University and why you should choose Bristol for your international study.
Find out about the courses and programmes at Bristol, including undergraduate, postgraduate, foundation and short-term study.
Find out how to apply to Bristol as an international student with our region-specific information.
Find out about tuition fees, fee status, cost of living and scholarship opportunities for international students.
Visit our Student Visas webpages to find out how we can help you with your visa.
Explore our University accommodation options and find out how to apply for student housing.
Find information for new and current international students.
Guidance for agents supporting students to apply to Bristol.
Find out how to contact the University of Bristol's International Office and related teams.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/accommodation:
Everything you need to know about our accommodation, from our pastoral support and security, to room types and catering facilities.
Find out how to apply for University accommodation from how to register, to receiving an offer and securing your student home.
If you are already living in University accommodation, here are some useful links and information in relation to your tenancy:
Information and resources on finding accommodation in Bristol's private sector .

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/mumbai-enterprise-campus:
Designed for innovation.
Built on inclusion.
Driven by collaboration.
in the world
in the world for Data Science and AI
QS World University Rankings by Subject 2025
University of the Year
The National AI Awards 2024
At the University of Bristol, we’ve never believed that progress happens in isolation.
Our greatest achievements, in research, in education and civic impact, are born of collaboration.
It’s through partnership, across disciplines, cultures and communities, that we challenge assumptions, push boundaries and build a better world.
That’s why we’re proud to announce the launch of our Mumbai Enterprise Campus , a bold new step in our journey of global partnership and innovation.
Set in one of the world’s most vibrant and creative cities, the campus will bring together students, researchers and industry leaders to shape a better future for people and planet.
It’s a place designed not just to teach, but to connect.
Not just to deliver world-class education, but to co-create new ideas, new solutions and new futures, with and for Mumbai.
This is more than a new campus.
It’s a shared endeavour between two cities alive with energy, imagination and ambition.
Explore our three-year undergraduate courses.
Our courses are taught in person in English.
Course content will be adapted to local provision and subject to change.
Explore the power of data to shape a better world.
On this course, you'll combine mathematics, statistics and computing to uncover insights that drive real-world change.
Understand the forces shaping our world — and how to influence them.
This course blends rigorous training in economics, mathematics and data with the freedom to explore your interests, from behavioural science to global finance.
Bring economics to life through the lens of data.
This innovative course equips you with the analytical tools of economics alongside the programming and data skills to tackle real-world challenges.
From visualising complex trends to solving tomorrow’s problems, it’s a degree designed for curious minds and creative thinkers.
Explore our one-year postgraduate programmes.
Our programmes are taught in person in English.
Build deep expertise in the ideas and tools that drive global finance.
You’ll explore asset pricing, corporate finance, and the quantitative methods shaping tomorrow’s markets.
This is a programme for future-focused financial thinkers, ready to lead in an evolving industry.
Step into the future of creative storytelling.
This course blends artistic practice with emerging technologies to help you design powerful immersive experiences — from VR and AR to interactive media.
You’ll gain the technical skills, industry insight and creative confidence to shape the next wave of culture and connection.
Join the forefront of the fintech revolution.
This course combines financial innovation with data-driven insight, giving you the skills to design, assess and implement emerging technologies.
From machine learning to blockchain, you’ll explore how data is reshaping the way we spend, save and invest.
Join our mailing list to receive updates on University of Bristol's Mumbai Enterprise Campus and find out when our courses and programmes are open for applications.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/university:
Bristol is one of the most popular and successful universities in the UK, ranked 51st in the world in the QS World University Rankings 2026 .
Bristol SU is our active union that looks after students’ interests and co-ordinates a huge range of activities.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/research:
At Bristol we do things differently.
We bring all we are to deliver bold answers to big questions.
for excellence in research across all subjects ( Research Excellence Framework 2021 )
of research internationally excellent (Research Excellence Framework 2021)
in the UK for spin-outs companies, (Knowledge Exchange Framework 2023)
subjects ranked in world top 100 ( QS World University Rankings by Subject 2023 )
Find out about our research and connect with experts in your field.
Discover how we can work together for greater impact.
Discover how to pursue an exciting future as a research student.
Results of 2025 QS World Sustainability Rankings are in.
Bristol ranked 12th in the world and 5th in the UK.
Temple Quarter Research Hub is the latest operational facility in the Temple Quarter Enterprise Campus.
Faster, more accurate cancer diagnoses and new clean-energy innovations are some of the key breakthroughs now closer to reality as the UK’s most powerful AI supercomputer launches in Bristol.
The Perivoli Africa Research Centre (PARC) represents the University of Bristol’s cross-disciplinary commitment to championing transformation in research collaborations with Africa to advance global science and the achievement of the continent’s own aspirations.
Find out how our institutes position us among the world's leading universities.
Search journal papers, conference materials, theses and other research outputs.
Hire our state-of-the-art facilities and benefit from our expert technical support.
Explore our vision, strategy, and support for research culture.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/business:
Through access to world-leading research and academics, talented students and cutting-edge facilities we can help your organisation thrive.
Business support, innovative new ideas and technologies that will help you thrive.
Build your talent pipeline, recruit interns or graduates and raise your profile.
Collaborate with research experts to gain competitive advantage.
Gain access to our laboratories, equipment, flexible workspaces and wifi.
Contact us to discuss how we can work together.
Find out more about the University's catalyst for innovation.
For support with innovation, enterprise and partnerships.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/news:
With GCSE results released this week, and their potential significance, are there any factors that could affect how well students perform?
A new study published today [19 August] has found that heavy periods and period pain in teenage girls are linked to lower GCSE grades and more time off school.
A University of Bristol scientist who helped develop a key breakthrough in binding glucose which could lead to improved treatment for people with diabetes has been awarded the 2025 Royal Medal for Applied Sciences from the Royal Society.
Researchers studying how hypertension increases the risk of heart attacks and strokes have discovered a remarkable way in which the body adapts to hypertension by developing a set of “new senses”.
The next generation of an artificial heart valve made from a new plastic material could be a step closer to bedside.
The research, led by the Universities of Bristol and Cambridge, demonstrated that the polymer material used to make the new artificial heart valve is safe following implant in an animal model for six months.
A team of quizzers from the University of Bristol will face Cardiff University on University Challenge in a high-stakes showdown of general knowledge and quick thinking.
“Prioritise making time for what makes you happy,” says Professor Chrissie Thirlwell, who as well as being a Medical Oncologist and Head of the University of Bristol Medical School, is about to embark on the latest in a 20-year journey across the world’s seas as she raises money for a charity close to her heart.
The University of Bristol has received a top accolade in the Daily Mail University Guide, being named Research University of the Year 2026 for ‘constantly pushing at the boundaries of human knowledge’.
Forty-four per cent of deaths of children under 11 years of age involved in falls from windows or balconies in England occurred among children living in the country’s most deprived areas, a new report has found.
Are you interested in working with animals?
Animal lovers in Withywood, Hartcliffe and surrounding areas looking for information about career and training options in the animal care and veterinary industry are invited to a FREE community event this week.
Pioneering research has uncovered a cunning way to curry favour with diners’ food choices, so they’re more likely to select meals which have a much lower carbon footprint and reduced fat content.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/people:
Loading…

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/students:
Get in touch if you need more help
Register and find out what support is available to
                help you settle in to student life.
Log into your University of Bristol email account.
Feedback
University of Bristol Beacon House Queens Road Bristol, BS8 1QU , UK Tel: +44 (0)117 928 9000 Contact us
More social media

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/staff:
The structure of the academic year changed in September 2024.
0117 331 1223 (112233)
Non-emergency security issues: 0117 928 7848 (87848)
We have been focusing our efforts on a number of key areas which we know are important to you.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/alumni:
We explore incredible places on Bristol's campus, spend a day in the life of a Bristol academic, and learn some life lessons from author David Nicholls.
Learn about our inspirational alumni, discover Alumni Award winners and read alumni stories.
Explore and celebrate the many ways that the University of Bristol's community of alumni and friends make a difference.
There are plenty of ways to contribute to your University, whether you have 30 minutes or a few hours to spare.
Make a one-off or regular donation, or gift in your will.
Support our students, scholarships, campuses, health and wellbeing, medical breakthroughs.
Find old friends, join alumni networks, attend events or get career advice.
Upcoming events in the UK and around the world, organised by the University or by fellow alumni.
Catch up on the alumni blog and Nonesuch magazine.
Let us know your current contact details so you can get news and updates from Bristol.
Read more about our advisory boards and committees.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/visits/open-days:
Our next undergraduate open day will take place on Saturday 1 November 2025.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/visits-open-days/online-events/sessions:
Learn more about postgraduate student life at Bristol with our online sessions.
Postgraduate accommodation
Tips for finding accommodation in Bristol and advice on how to navigate available options.
Postgraduate students give you a tour of their campus
Join us for a virtual tour, followed by an interactive Q and A with our current students as they show you around our campus and the city of Bristol.
Postgraduate careers and employability
Learn how our Careers Service can support you during your time at Bristol and beyond followed by an interactive Q and A with our expert panellists.
Postgraduate taught admissions
Advice and top tips for making your application to postgraduate taught programmes followed by an interactive Q and A with our expert panellists.
Postgraduate student disability and wellbeing services
Learn how our Disability Services and Wellbeing Services teams can support you through your time as a postgraduate student .
How is studying at postgraduate taught level different?
- Developing your study skills
Learn about the step up from undergraduate to postgraduate followed by an interactive Q and A with our expert panellists .
Joining our postgraduate student community
Find out about the benefits of and support within our student community.
Progress to postgraduate taught study at Bristol
Hear first-hand from our current students what it's like to be a postgraduate at the University of Bristol.
Funding for postgraduate taught study
Tips for navigating postgraduate funding decisions and advice on opportunities available followed by an interactive Q and A with our expert panellists.
Student Union, active life and sport at Bristol
Learn about the activities and sport offerings that enhance student life at Bristol.
Why study a postgraduate taught degree at Bristol?
Find out why you should consider the University of Bristol for postgraduate taught study followed by an interactive Q and A with our current postgraduate students.
Watch an on-demand talk with an academic expert in your subject of interest.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/university/for-bristol:
You can study short courses and return-to-study courses, online and in-person.
Take part in public consultations and research studies, volunteer with us or donate to the University's collections and medical research.
Find events at the University that are open to everyone.
You can use our sports facilities and libraries, access free clinics, and find rooms and spaces for hire.
Visit some of our buildings and gardens and see public art on display.
View job vacancies and get job application support.
We are one of the biggest employers in Bristol.
The University works with a wide range of non-profit organisations from small community and voluntary groups and social enterprises to large public sector bodies.
You can:
Working with University of the West of England, City of Bristol College, Bristol City Council, and the City Office to bring positive benefits to the city of Bristol.
As a global civic institution we can make a positive impact locally, nationally and globally by enabling and facilitating conversations and driving action to address the challenges ahead.
We are committed to making progress against the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goals by working together, locally and globally, to deliver on a shared, sustainable future.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/city:
With a vibrant culture, a strong sense of community and endless opportunities to try new things, Bristol is a brilliant place to live, work and study.
Moving to university isn't only about finding the right course.
It's about finding the right place to call home.
Get to know Bristol and discover what our city can offer you.
We've done our best to capture Bristol's unique and vibrant atmosphere in these pages, so you can get a taste of student life in this remarkable city.
Get to know Bristol's central neighbourhoods and see how our campus integrates with the city.
Find out about the support on offer to help you make the most of your life in Bristol.
Whether you're headed to a lecture or the airport, find the best ways to get across Bristol.
Our students love living in Bristol, and many stay here after graduation.
The city's vibrant atmosphere and spirit make Bristol a popular place to call home and pursue a career.
Hear from one of our students about their life in Bristol, and what the city means to them.
largest city in the UK
Centre for Cities
best student city in the UK
QS Best Student Cities 2023
greenest city in the UK
The Guardian 2021
Artwork by Olivia Brotheridge

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/news/2025/june/qs-rankings-2026.html:
Press release issued: 19 June 2025
This also means that Bristol has ranked eighth best university in the UK – a rise of one place from the previous rankings.
QS World University Rankings 2026 by global higher education analyst QS Quacquarelli Symonds feature 1,501 universities across 106 countries, including 90 in United Kingdom.
Other areas that were rated and saw improvements for the University of Bristol included academic reputation, citations per faculty and employment outcomes.
And for Sustainability – which assesses universities’ social and environmental impact - Bristol has been rated as 12 th in the world.
Professor Evelyn Welch, Vice-Chancellor and President of the University of Bristol, said: “Three years ago when we launched our strategy that will take us to 2030 we challenged ourselves to be firmly established among the world’s top 50 great universities, and the top 10 in the UK.
“Today, I am pleased to note that our achievements have been recognised by the QS rankings which now place us 51 st in the world, and eighth in the UK as well as 12 th globally for sustainability.
“Of course, rankings are only one measure of achievement, and they can easily fall as well as rise.
But it is good to see that we are now much better known internationally for the new knowledge we create and the difference we make to peoples’ lives at every level.”

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/university/rankings-reputation:
Bristol consistently ranks in the world's top 100 and UK's top ten universities in league tables that draw on information about both research and teaching excellence.
We are one of the most popular UK universities, attracting on average eight top-quality applicants for every place, and our graduates are among the most sought-after by employers across the globe.
Over 40 per cent of our teaching programmes are accredited by professional bodies, who consistently acknowledge the excellence of our research-rich curriculum, our learning environment and our learning outcomes.
The review processes undertaken by these bodies are extremely detailed and are conducted by leading academics and practitioners.
For more information please see our Professional Statutory and Regulatory Bodies page .

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/news/2024/march/bristol-graduates-targeted-top-employers.html:
Press release issued: 25 March 2024
The ‘ Graduate Market in 2024 ’ report surveyed 100 of the most successful organisations in the UK – from Microsoft to Morgan Stanley – to give a snapshot of the graduate jobs market.
It found that Bristol graduates were the fifth most targeted of UK universities.
It also found that graduates at these top 100 organisations could expect to earn a median starting salary of £34,000 in 2024.
The highest graduate wages could be found at investment banks, where graduates started on a median salary of £55,000.
The 100 firms surveyed are from a list compiled by The Times newspaper.
They include Google, the Civil Service, Amazon, Pfizer, HSBC, Tesco, Unilever, the NHS, the BBC, Mercedes Benz and the Bank of England.
Bristol routinely scores highly in the annual Graduate Market report.
Stuart Johnson, Director of Careers and Skills at the University of Bristol, said: “It’s fantastic to see our graduates once again being recognised as great hires for top companies.
“Bristol has placed in the top-10 for more than 10 years, and the top-five for all but two of those years.
“I think that’s testament to the talent and creativity of our students, and also to our fantastic staff who teach and support them during their time at Bristol.”
Each year around 350 employers come to the University of Bristol to recruit students and build their skills.
Students can sign up for the Get Hired careers fair here .
This year saw the launch of Bristol Skills Profile , a “gamechanger” initiative that helps students build, track and evidence their skills to employers.
Stats show that 94% of the University’s graduates are in employment or further study 15 months after graduation.
The University’s Careers Service provides extensive support to students, including help getting jobs, access to internships (including some funded by the University) and funding and expertise to set-up their own businesses.
According to the Graduate Market in 2024 report, which is compiled by High Fliers , the universities with the most sought after graduates were: Birmingham, Manchester Nottingham, Leeds, Bristol , Warwick, UCL, Southampton, Durham, Exeter.
Cambridge placed 13 th and Oxford 15 th .
Students in the University's Wills Memorial Building
Stuart Johnson, Director of Careers and Skills at the University of Bristol

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/news/2022/may/ref-2021.html:
Press release issued: 12 May 2022
The results of the latest Research Excellence Framework (REF), published today, highlight the outstanding quality and impact of Bristol's research across all subjects and disciplines.
REF 2021 is a UK-wide assessment of university research carried out by the four UK higher education funding bodies.
Its aim is to secure the continuation of a world-class, dynamic and responsive research base across the full academic spectrum within UK higher education.
Overall, 57% of the University's research achieved the top 'world-leading' 4* rating, compared to a sector average of 41%.
A further 37% of Bristol's research was judged to be 'internationally excellent' and received the 3* rating.
The Times Higher Education has calculated each university's Grade Point Average (GPA) across the four rating categories to compare research quality across 157 UK institutions.
On this basis, Bristol was ranked fifth, a rise of six places from 11th when the results of the last REF were published in 2014.
Submissions included research outputs, examples of the wider impact of research and evidence about the research environment.
This material was assessed by a series of expert panels comprising UK and international researchers, external users of research and experts in interdisciplinary research.
Bristol's world-leading research covered key areas such as population health, environmental science, computer science, social sciences, arts and engineering - addressing some of the most important challenges facing society and our planet.
Professor Hugh Brady, Vice-Chancellor and President of the University of Bristol, said: "These results are truly outstanding and reinforce Bristol's position as a world leader in research.
It's especially rewarding to see exceptional performances across the full breadth of disciplines we cover, with high proportions of world-leading research in every faculty and strong performances across the board.
"These results wouldn't be possible without the immense efforts of all our staff, not only our fantastic researchers but those who support them on a daily basis.
I am incredibly proud of this collaborative effort and thank everyone for their contribution, particularly in light of the difficulties caused by the pandemic in recent years.
"It's humbling to think of the impact our research has both in the UK and around the world, making a real difference to people's lives.
For this to be confirmed in REF 2021 gives us a real vote of confidence as we look to the future and focus on working together to find lasting solutions to society's pressing problems.
"Importantly, this world-leading research feeds directly into our curriculum, ensuring our students have direct access to the latest scientific discoveries, technological advances and research methodologies during their time at Bristol."
The REF provides a robust and thorough assessment of the quality of universities' research in all disciplines, providing accountability for public investment in research and demonstrating the benefits of that investment.
For the first time, the assessment included the submission of all staff with significant responsibility for research, meaning the results provide a unique insight into the quality of research conducted across the sector.
The University of Bristol's full REF results are available here .
Wills Memorial Building

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/clearing:
Explore our Clearing 2025 course vacancies:
Discover how to apply to the University of Bristol through Clearing—from finding courses to accepting your offer and getting ready to join.
You can apply online but if you have questions about our course vacancies, please contact us:
UK applicants : 0117 394 1649
International applicants : international-office@bristol.ac.uk
Please note: The University is closed on Monday 25 and Tuesday 26 August and phonelines will be closed, but you can still apply online and email us during this period.
We guarantee University accommodation for any student who joins us through Clearing in 2025.
Terms and conditions apply.
Clearing allows students who have received their school leaving qualifications to apply to available undergraduate courses at universities across the UK.
You may have heard it referred to as ‘late admissions’, ‘supplementary enrolment’ or ‘open applications’.
Clearing runs from mid-July to September and provides the chance for you to find a university place if your results are different to what you expected, your circumstances have changed or you haven’t applied yet.
Clearing can help you find a course or university that’s the best fit for you, even if it’s not one that you've considered before.
You can only apply through Clearing after you have received your exam results.
You can use Clearing if you:
The Clearing process is open to both home (UK) and international students.
Visit our fee status page if you are unsure whether you are a home or international student.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/news/2025/august/anthony-davis-royal-medal.html:
Press release issued: 27 August 2025
Professor Anthony Davis , Professor of Supramolecular Chemistry, has received the honour for his work on glucose-binding molecules.
Professor Davis’ work focuses on designing molecules which can perform specific tasks, acting like mini-machines.
Inspired by nature
Since living systems rely on highly evolved molecular machinery, Scientists often look to biology for inspiration.
Carbohydrates such as glucose are central to many of these natural processes, and the molecules that can recognise and attach to them play a vital role.
Professor Davis’ laboratory at the University of Bristol has been trying to mimic these natural molecules, partly to help understand how they work, but also to provide tools which can moderate biological processes.
The group chose to focus on glucose because of its key role in diabetes – a condition that affects over half a billion people worldwide.
They set out to design a glucose sensor that could one day be built into systems to support safer diabetes management.
Their early designs struggled to bind strongly to glucose while avoiding interference from other molecules.
However, after many years of research, the team succeeded in developing GluHUT – a synthetic glucose receptor that overcomes these challenges and shows excellent performance in both strength and selectivity.
Professor Davis said:
“ I’m delighted that our work has been recognised, and very grateful to all who contributed to three decades of research in Dublin and Bristol.
I’m also pleased to receive the award as an applied scientist.
It is especially satisfying that work which began as curiosity-driven, with little hope of application, eventually produced results of real practical benefit.”
Sir Adrian Smith, President of the Royal Society, said:
“The recipients of this year’s medals and awards have all made outstanding contributions to science and its applications for the benefit of humanity.
“They have done so through by furthering our understanding of the processes that govern the world around us, changing the practices of academia to build a more robust and inclusive research environment, and engaging new audiences.
“Celebrating these diverse contributions is core to the Society’s mission and I offer my congratulations to all the 2025 recipients.”
Commercial success; the creation of spin-outs Ziylo and Carbometrics
This work led to the creation of two companies.
The first, Ziylo, was founded in 2014, and acquired in 2018 by global healthcare company Novo Nordisk in a deal worth up to $800m.
The second, Carbometrics , was founded following the acquisition of Ziylo and is using the glucose-binding molecules originally developed in Professor Davis’ lab to improve sensors for continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) devices, used to manage diabetes.
The research also led to Science Creates – a pioneering deep tech ecosystem, which opened its first Bristol-based incubator in 2017 to provide lab space for Ziylo and which is still home to Carbometrics.
The University of Bristol has produced over 90 active spin-out companies with strengths from quantum to biotech, which places it sixth among UK institutions ( Spotlight on Spinouts 2025 ).
Many of these businesses have chosen to stay in the Bristol city-region, which is supported by two Science Creates incubators and the award-winning SETsquared Bristol , Engine Shed and Quantum Technologies Innovation Centre .
This dynamic environment will receive a significant boost in 2026, with the opening of the Bristol Innovations Zone at the heart of the University’s new Temple Quarter Enterprise Campus and of a third Science Creates incubator .
A new film created by the University of Bristol charts the decades-long journey of Professor Davis’ research, from initial discoveries and setbacks, to eureka moments and commercial success, which helped provide a catalyst for Bristol’s thriving deep tech ecosystem.
The film features in-depth interviews with Professor Davis, Dr Harry Destecroix, Founder of Ziylo and Science Creates and Dr Andy Chapman, CEO of Carbometrics.
Professor Davis is the recipient of one of only three Royal Medals awarded by the Royal Society annually.
They were founded by HM King George IV in 1825 and previous winners include biochemist Frederick Sanger and Francis Crick, one of scientists who helped uncover the helical structure of DNA molecules.
Professor Anthony Davis has been awarded the Royal Medal for Applied Sciences by the Royal Society
Image credit: University of Bristol

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/news/2025/august/blood-pressure-study.html:
Press release issued: 26 August 2025
The study, conducted by experts in Translational Health Research at the University of Bristol and published today (Tuesday 26 August) in ‘ Circulation Research’ , could have important implications for developing new therapies to counter the elevated risk of cardiovascular events among people diagnosed with high blood pressure.
Prior to this study, it remained unknown why people on antihypertensive medications were able to successfully reduce their blood pressure and yet remained at high risk of a major cardiovascular event even where they adhered to medication protocols and observed a healthy lifestyle.
Researchers from Bristol Medical School surmised from these studies – one drawing on a large European populace, the other focused on Korea – that hypertension in these cases may have been merely a symptom rather than the underlying cause of a life-threatening heart attack or stroke.
The answer, as discovered by this latest study, lies in the brain, specifically abnormal activity in the sympathetic nervous system, which is responsible for the body’s flight or fight response to stress.
In healthy individuals, this system oversees a variety of functions including elevating the body’s blood pressure and heart rate as a normal response to exercise.
However, according to earlier research in a separate study, hypertensive patients’ sympathetic activity does not decrease at rest and is on average 1.5X greater compared to those without hypertension.
In order to pinpoint why that is the case, Bristol’s Professor David Murphy worked with Professor Julian Paton from the University of Auckland turned to the mechanism controlling sympathetic activity in an experimental model of hypertension.
“One such mechanism is the arterial chemoreflex which continuously monitors our blood for oxygen and sends a powerful signal to the brain to stimulate breathing and make our heart pound, say when we dive or start running out of breath under water,” explains Dr Audrys Pauza, who contributed to the study as part of his PhD and is a lead author on the paper.
“We found that instead of acting as a quiescent monitor of blood oxygen as it ordinarily does, that very same reflex becomes continuously active in hypertension, leading to chronically elevated sympathetic nerve activity.
We found that one of the reasons for this is that the arterial chemoreflex develops new senses to respond to hormone signals circulating in the bloodstream as a result of hypertension.”
The study is the first to describe how the arterial chemoreflex is activated by the melanocortin system, which is traditionally associated with skin pigmentation and the body’s response to stress.
Crucially, the Bristol study adds to the body of work showing that when this reflex is inhibited in hypertensive state, both blood pressure and sympathetic activity is reduced.
This work opens an unprecedented opportunity to finally temper the overactive sympathetic drive that fuels cardiovascular risk in hypertension.
Audrys now aims to translate these pre-clinical findings to patients living with hypertension, and to ascertain exactly why the arterial chemoreflex becomes sensitive to melanocortin hormones.
“Initiated during my time in Bristol, this study has been a major catalyst for my career and I’m delighted to see the results finally published,” said Audrys, who undertook part of the research during his BHF-funded 4-year PhD programme at Bristol.
He has since relocated to New Zealand, where he continues his research with support from the National Heart Foundation of New Zealand, the Health Research Council, and the Partridge Family Foundation.
Paper
“Melanocortin System Activates Carotid Body Arterial Chemoreceptors in Hypertension ” , by Audrys Pauza et al, published in ‘ Circulation Research ’ , the flagship journal of the American Heart Association.
Image shows the carotid body, the organ that develops ‘new senses’ in hypertension.
In green are the chemosensory cells that senses the blood, in white is the blood vessel network perfusing the organ, and in magenta are the nerves that transmit signals sensed by the green cells to the brain

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/news/2025/august/artifical-heart-valve.html:
Press release issued: 20 August 2025
The study, funded by the British Heart Foundation (BHF) is published today [18 August] in the European Journal of Cardio-Thoracic Surgery .
Currently, patients who need heart valve replacements face trade-offs.
Mechanical heart valves are durable but require lifelong blood thinners, while biological (animal tissue) heart valves are more natural but tend to wear out more quickly.
The new kind of artificial heart valve made from a special plastic called SEBS might offer the best of both worlds — but the safety of these new material must be confirmed before they can be tested in humans.
In this new study, researchers tested a research-grade prototype of a new heart valve made entirely from SEBS polymers in a preclinical cardiac surgery model that mimicked how these valves might perform in humans.
The team implanted the prototype polymeric artificial heart valve in seven sheep, which was carried out by an independent preclinical facility in Paris, France.
The animals, and their wellbeing, were then monitored over six months, to examine potential long-term safety issues associated with the plastic material such as mineral build up (calcification), material dissolving, blood clots, damage of the heart tissue in contact with the material, cancer, cell death, liver or kidney failure, nutrition and weight and other issues as determined by the regulator.
The research found after six months there was no evidence of harmful calcification (mineral buildup) or material deterioration; blood clotting or signs of cell toxicity.
Animal health, wellbeing, blood test results and weight gain overtime were all stable and normal, and the prototype heart valve functioned well throughout the testing period, with no need for blood thinners.
Raimondo Ascione , NHS Adult Cardiac Surgeon, Professor of Cardiac Surgery and Translational Research and Director of the Translational Biomedical Research Centre (TBRC) at the University of Bristol, clinical lead on the project and corresponding author, said: “Currently 1.5 million patients around the world require heart valve replacements every year.
More than 35 million patients’ heart valves are permanently damaged by rheumatic fever and with an ageing population this figure is predicted to increase four to five times by 2050.
“Our findings could mark the beginning of a new era in artificial heart valve being made from the new plastic material — one that may offer safer, more durable and more patient-friendly options for patients of all ages, with fewer compromises.”
Geoff Moggridge, Professor of Chemical Engineering Science at the university of Cambridge and biomaterial lead on the project said: “We are pleased that the new plastic material has been shown to be safe after 6 months of testing in-vivo.
“Confirming the safety of the material has been an essential and reassuring step for us, and a green light to progress the new heart valve replacement toward bedside testing.”
The researchers early bench results suggest that their artificial heart valves made from SEBS could feature excellent durability and hemo-compatible i.e.
without the need for lifelong blood thinners.
While this is still early-stage research and limitations of the small sample size, the findings are a major hurdle toward future human testing.
The next step will be to  develop a clinical-grade version of the SEBS polymer heart valve and test it in a larger preclinical trial before seeking approval for a pilot human clinical trial.
‘ Material safety of styrene-block-ethylene/butylene-block-styrene copolymers used for cardiac valves: 6-month in-vivo results from a juvenile sheep model ’ by Raimondo Ascione, Joanna R Stasiak, Daniel Baz-Lopez, Marta Serrani, Geoff Moggridge in the European Journal of Cardio-Thoracic Surgery.
More than 1.5 million patients with diseased heart valves need heart valve replacement treatment globally each year.
There are two artificial heart valve replacements currently available, but both have limitations either in durability or in biocompatibility.
Biological valves are made from fixed pig or cow tissue and are robust with patients not needing life-long blood thinning tablets.
However, they only last eight to ten years before failing.
Mechanical valves have very good durability, but they have poor biocompatibility.
Patients must take daily blood thinning drugs to prevent life threatening blood clot complications.
BHF grant (SP/15/5/31548)
An National Institute for Health and Care Research (NIHR) Invention for Innovation (i4i) programme Product Development Awards (PDA) funded the non-animal testing in line with ISO standards of the polymer artificial heart valve.
This includes the design and development of the polymer heart valve, and analysis of the structure and properties of the polymer material.
NIHR i4i PDA (NIHR203377).
About the British Heart Foundation (BHF) It is only with donations from the public that the BHF can keep its lifesaving research going.
Help us turn science fiction into reality.
With donations from the public, the BHF funds ground-breaking research that will get us closer than ever to a world free from the fear of heart and circulatory diseases.
A world where broken hearts are mended, where millions more people survive a heart attack, where the number of people dying from or disabled by a stroke is slashed in half.
A world where people affected by heart and circulatory diseases get the support they need.
And a world of cures and treatments we can’t even imagine today.
Find out more at bhf.org.uk
SEBS polymer artificial heart valve prototype
Image credit: Professor Raimondo Ascione, University of Bristol

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/news/2025/august/periods-gcse-results.html:
Press release issued: 19 August 2025
The study, led by the University of Bristol working with the University of Exeter, aimed to address a gap in research about the impact of periods on educational attainment.
Published in npj Science of Learning , the study examined data from 2,698 girls aged 13 to 16 in the Children of the 90s study that was linked to school attendance and GCSE exam results from the Department for Education.
The study, funded by Wellcome , found that more than a third of girls (36%) reported experiencing heavy or prolonged bleeding and that this group missed 1.7 additional days of school per year and had 27% lower chance of achieving five GCSE passes on average.
More than half of girls (56%) reported menstrual pain, which was associated with missing 1.2 additional days of school per year and 16% lower chance of achieving five GCSE passes.
Additionally, girls who experienced heavy or prolonged bleeding and menstrual pain were more likely to be persistently absent from school.
The authors suggest that the missed school days due to menstrual symptoms are unlikely to be the only reason for the impact of menstrual symptoms on GCSE results.
Instead, they say this is likely to align with existing research showing how symptoms can impact concentration at school.
Gemma Sawyer , a PhD student at the University of Bristol, who conducted the research, said: “Our large-scale study provides the most convincing evidence to date that menstrual symptoms are associated with lower attendance and attainment.
This work supports what young people have reported struggling with in previous studies.
“More education and support may help improve the menstrual health of adolescents and reduce inequalities in education outcomes.”
The researchers found the link between menstrual symptoms and education applied while controlling for several factors, including maternal education, financial difficulties, ethnicity, and age of starting menstruation.
The authors discussed their findings with a focus group of teenage girls as part of the research, who shared their personal challenges, including difficulty focusing while on their period, restricted toilet access, embarrassment and stigma, and insufficient period product provision.
Gemma Sharp , Professor of Epidemiology at the University of Exeter, who supervised the research, said: “We know from previous research that heavy and painful periods can impact attendance and concentration, and this study tells us that there’s also a link with attainment.
It’s clear that people are capable of functioning at a high level regardless of their cycle, but we need a society that’s better set up to support them, particularly if they are experiencing heavy bleeding and pain.”
A team of researchers, led by Professor Gemma Sharp, has secured $4.5 million in funding from Wellcome Leap , obtained with support from regional university alliance, GW4.
It will fund new research to tackle the widespread and often overlooked issue of heavy menstrual bleeding in women.
Professor Sharp will use data from Bristol’s Children of the 90s and Born in Bradford cohorts to investigate the biological factors underlying heavy bleeding.
This research forms part of the $50 million Missed Vital Sign programme — a global initiative aimed at earlier identification of heavy menstrual bleeding and the development of faster, more personalised care for women around the world.
‘Associations of adolescent menstrual symptoms with school absences and educational attainment: analysis of a prospective cohort study’ by Gemma Sawyer et al.
in npj Science of Learning [open access].
Gemma Sawyer’s PhD is examining the relationship between menstrual symptoms and socioeconomic disadvantage.
About Children of the 90s Based at the University of Bristol, Children of the 90s , also known as the Avon Longitudinal Study of Parents and Children (ALSPAC), is a long-term health research project that enrolled more than 14,500 pregnant women in 1991 and 1992.
It has been following the health and development of the parents, their children and now their grandchildren in detail ever since.
It receives core funding from the Medical Research Council, the Wellcome Trust and the University of Bristol.
About cohort studies Cohort studies are a type of longitudinal research that follow the same group of people throughout their lives, charting health and social changes and untangling the reasons behind them.
The UK has more birth cohort studies than any other country in the world and they play a pivotal role in measuring the health and wellbeing of society.
About Wellcome Wellcome supports science to solve the urgent health challenges facing everyone.
We support discovery research into life, health and wellbeing, and we’re taking on three worldwide health challenges: mental health, infectious disease and climate and health.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/feedback:
Tell us about any issues you've found on this webpage, such as broken links or missing images.
Or you can browse our list of useful contacts if you want to find someone else at the University.
University of Bristol Beacon House Queens Road Bristol, BS8 1QU, UK Tel: +44 (0)117 928 9000 Contact us

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/contacting-people:
Contact University staff and main services.
Get help with contacting a student.
Find emergency support.
Search the public staff contact directory.
No sign-in required.
Sign in to the University contact directory to search for students, staff, and to access all search options.
Main switchboard: +44 (0)117 928 9000
For questions about courses, accommodation, events, and other frequently asked topics.
If you’re worried about a student, and unable to contact them directly, find out how we can help.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/connect:
More videos on our YouTube channel .
Find an academic by searching our research profiles .

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/library:
Staff intranet
Advanced search
Book a study desk Sign in to My Library Account
Get help with subject-related enquiries and advice about library resources.
We look after a range of locally, nationally and internationally significant cultural collections.
These range from large scale public art to more traditional paper-based materials and are located across the University’s locations.
Most materials are accessible to the public: you can consult the collections we care for by appointment, visit our exhibition spaces during our opening hours, or discover them as you walk through our grounds.
Borrow books with your phone, book study spaces, and more!
Discover the support we provide for disabled learners, part time learners, and those with caring/parental responsibilities.
A collection of non-academic resources to support your wellbeing: Bristol Reads, audiobooks, and film subscriptions.
Browse our calendar for sessions to develop your library, research, and study skills.
Open access publishing - find out about Open Access, REF and funder requirements, funding and payment details.
Managing research data - our Research Data Service can help you plan, manage and share research data.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/sport:
Join us for one or more virtual or in-person events and be part of the #WeAreBristol community.
We provide a comprehensive programme of lessons and coaching for adults and children.
Sign up to activities online using your unique booking account, including fitness classes, lessons and events.
Flexible memberships for students, staff and our community.
Choose the access you need, for the activities you want.
Manage your activity bookings, find on-demand classes, get facility updates, news + more, on the University of Bristol Active app.
Read our blog for top tips, active insights, student club highlights and more from our active community.
‌
The University of Bristol is an inclusive and caring campus where diversity is celebrated, antisocial attitudes and behaviours are challenged, and where there is no place for racism, discrimination, harassment, or abuse.
We are committed to creating an inspiring community where all members, from all backgrounds, have a positive and enriching experience.
We are continuously working to ensure that we are a place where everyone feels able to be themselves and to be their best, and w e encourage everybody in our community to be an active bystander and speak up if they see or hear something that's not right.
Stand Up Speak Out is our campaign to encourage students, staff and our wider community to take action against bullying, harassment and other forms of unacceptable behaviour they may experience or witness.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/research/faculties.html:
Our three faculties are home to world-class research across a wide range of disciplines.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/research/impact-stories:
Our researchers have an impact on our communities, our health and our planet by making what seems impossible, possible.
Explore our research impact case studies and find out how Bristol knowledge is shaping our world.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/research/assessment:
The results of the latest Research Excellence Framework (REF 2021, published May 2022), highlight the outstanding quality and impact of Bristol's research across all subjects and disciplines.
This outstanding performance is a result of the immense efforts of the University's staff, not only our researchers but all those who support them on a daily basis.
The Times Higher Education calculated each university's Grade Point Average (GPA) across the four rating categories to compare research quality across 157 UK institutions.
Bristol submitted outputs and impact case studies to 28 REF units of assessment, covering the work of almost 1,500 full-time equivalent members of staff.
The REF is a UK-wide assessment of university research carried out by the four UK higher education funding bodies.
It will achieve this in the following three ways:
REF 2021 submissions included research outputs, examples of the wider impact of research and evidence about the research environment.
The details of Bristol's performance in previous REF and Research Assessment Exercises are available:
Find out more about our world-leading research.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/research/engagement.html:
Engaging with the public about our research and teaching is an integral and exciting part of academic life at Bristol.
It ensures our work has impact and relevance beyond the University's walls and that society's values and opinions inform our research.
Public Engagement One Cathedral Square Trinity Street College Green Bristol BS1 5DD
Email: cpe-info@bristol.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/maps:
Find out how to reach us.
Explore our campus and the city of Bristol.
Bristol is accessible by car, train, bus, and plane.
The University is centrally located and easily reached by public transport, or on foot from all parts of the city.
Visit AccessAble for information about the accessibility of our campus and facilities .
Students and staff can access detailed building maps and directions via the Visit University of Bristol app.
Download from Google Play or the App Store .
Join us for a campus tour.
Or book ahead on one of our University open days.
Learn more about the city at the heart of our university.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/university/visit:
Take a virtual tour of our campus and the city of Bristol.
Go to one of our online events and find out what it's like to study at the University.
Find up-to-date campus building information and access guides.
Wander in and enjoy art installations in these tranquil, award-winning gardens, open to staff, students and the public for free all year round.
Royal Fort Gardens are located in the main University campus, a short walk from the top of Park Street.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/events:
Our public events are open to all: students, staff, alumni and the wider community.
Submit an event .

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/university/governance/universitycommittees/boardoftrustees:
The Board of Trustees is the University's supreme governing body and board of charity trustees.
It operates within the framework provided by the Charter and Statutes and the legal and regulatory framework to which the University is subject.
The primary responsibilities of the Board of Trustees are set out in Ordinance 1 .
All Board members are expected to comply with the role description and code of conduct as set out in Ordinance 1.
Find out more about board membership and diversity monitoring.
The following people attend meetings of the Board of Trustees:
Other members of University staff may be asked to attend for relevant items.
Post-holder: Michael Flay, Director of Governance and University Secretary Email: michael.flay@bristol.ac.uk Telephone: +44 (0) 117 45 54881
The Board of Trustees has several committees which undertake specific responsibilities.
F‌ind out committee meeting dates and paper submission deadlines .
There are currently no vacancies.
View paper submission deadlines
View paper submission guidance .
Reports from this year will be added as they become available.
Download agendas and minutes from previous Board of Trustees meetings.
The University maintains a register of interests of members of the Board of Trustees, members of the Committees of the Board of Trustees, members of the University Executive Board and members of the Board of any University Subsidiary.
The Register of interests (PDF, 156kB) is available for inspection under the Freedom of Information Act 2000.‌
If you have any queries in relation to the register of interests, email governance@bristol.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/alumni/give-back:
Your financial support helps Bristol in so many ways , from supporting current students to pioneering research.
Find out how donations are used across the University.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/jobs:
Find a job working with one of Bristol's leading employers.
Work-life balance, pensions, discounts, wellbeing and more.
Find temp work across the University through our Temporary Staffing Service.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/index:
University home > A-Z index
This index is a comprehensive listing of faculties, departments, research centres,
services, information sources and many other aspects of the University.
To find course and programme information, please see our undergraduate
course finder or postgraduate programme finder .
To suggest additional entries
    or to report an error,
    please read the guide to the University of Bristol a-z index .
University of Bristol Beacon House Queens Road Bristol, BS8 1QU, UK Tel: +44 (0)117 928 9000

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/index/0:
University home > A-Z index > #

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/index/a:
University home > A-Z index > A

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/index/b:
University home > A-Z index > B

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/index/c:
University home > A-Z index > C

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/index/d:
University home > A-Z index > D

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/index/e:
University home > A-Z index > E

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/index/f:
University home > A-Z index > F

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/index/g:
University home > A-Z index > G

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/index/h:
University home > A-Z index > H

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/index/i:
University home > A-Z index > I

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/index/j:
University home > A-Z index > J

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/index/k:
University home > A-Z index > K

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/index/l:
University home > A-Z index > L

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/index/m:
University home > A-Z index > M

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/index/n:
University home > A-Z index > N

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/index/o:
University home > A-Z index > O

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/index/p:
University home > A-Z index > P

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/index/q:
University home > A-Z index > Q

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/index/r:
University home > A-Z index > R

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/index/s:
University home > A-Z index > S

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/index/t:
University home > A-Z index > T

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/index/u:
University home > A-Z index > U

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/index/v:
University home > A-Z index > V

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/index/w:
University home > A-Z index > W

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/index/x:
University home > A-Z index > X

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/index/y:
University home > A-Z index > Y

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/index/z:
University home > A-Z index > Z

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/index/full:
University home > A-Z index > Full

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/style-guides/web/policies:
An overview of how the University website is managed and our compliance with legal requirements relating to the web.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/help:
Please see our contacts page .
At Bristol, there's always someone to talk to.
Access support and services on everything from studying and exams to relationships and student life.
To report a broken link or an issue with a web page, please use the 'Feedback' link at the bottom of the page in question.
We are continuously improving the accessibility of our web pages .
If you have difficulties accessing any pages, please use the 'Feedback' link at the bottom of the page in question.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/style-guides/web/policies/legal/terms:
These terms apply to the entire content of this website.
If you do not accept these terms, please do not use this website.
The University of Bristol (the 'University') may update these terms from time to time and any changes will be effective immediately on being set out here.
Please ensure you are aware of the current terms.
Please note that some areas of the website are available only to the University staff, University students, the University alumni and/or other authorised University users.
The use of this website is subject to the University's Information Security Policies .
All text, images and other content on this website is copyright of the University unless explicitly stated otherwise.
You may only download or copy it for the purposes of teaching, administration and research within the University, or for personal, non-commercial use.
You are required to seek written permission from the University for any other use or purpose.
Contact the page or service owner using the 'Feedback' link at the bottom of the page in question in the first instance, otherwise web-editor@bristol.ac.uk .
Without limitation to any matter set out in the University’s policies you must not use this website, and/or any interactive facilities which are available through it to:
While the University tries to make this website available 24 hours a day, it reserves the right to suspend or withdraw access, without notice, to either the whole or part of the website, for any reason.
The University has tried to ensure that the information on this website for prospective students is correct at the time of publication on the site.
However, the University reserves the right for any reason without notice to withdraw or change any of the programmes and/or to alter tuition fees, entry requirements and/or the facilities and/or services available from or provided by or on behalf of the University.
You should also note that the choice of subjects may be limited by considerations of timetable, staffing and/or available places on a course.
For further details, please refer to our online undergraduate/postgraduate study pages or contact the relevant faculty office .
While the University tries to ensure that the information on this website is accurate at the time of publication, it does not warrant that this is the case.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, the material on this website is provided ‘as is’, and without warranties, conditions or other terms of any kind.
The University permits its students and staff to maintain personal pages on the website.
Any views expressed on these pages do not necessarily represent the views of the University.
Nothing on this website constitutes any part of a contract unless otherwise expressly stated.
Any links within this website to third party websites are not checked by the University and the University bears no responsibility for the content of external sites.
If you access external sites through this website, you do so at your own risk.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, the University excludes all liability and responsibility for any amount or kind of loss or damage that may result to you or a third party in connection with the use of this website in any way.
Nothing will limit the University’s liability for death or personal injury caused by its negligence or for fraud.
Every effort is made to ensure downloadable content is free from viruses.
The University accepts no liability for damages resulting from virus infection.
Unless stated otherwise, the copyright and other intellectual property rights in all text, images and other material on this website are owned by the University, or its licensors.
The trade marks and logos used and displayed on our website are the University’s registered and unregistered trademarks, or those of others.
You may not use these trademarks without our prior written consent, or that of the relevant owner.
Please see the University privacy and cookie policy .
These terms of use are governed by English law.
Disputes arising in connection with them shall be subject to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the English courts.
Please see the University web accessibility policy .
Please see the University of Bristol blog comment moderation house rules .
These terms of use are not intended to, nor shall they confer any benefit on a third party, whether under the Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act 1999 or otherwise.
No waiver by the University of any breach of these terms by you shall be considered as a waiver of any subsequent breach of the same or of any other provision.
Section headings have been included for convenience only and shall not be considered part of, or be used in interpreting, these terms.
If, at any time, any provision of these terms is or becomes invalid or illegal in any respect, such provision shall be deemed to be severed from the terms, but the validity and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not be affected as a result.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/style-guides/web/policies/web-accessibility:
This statement applies to content published on the www.bristol.ac.uk domain.
It does not apply to content on subdomains, our intranet or other platforms.
There are separate accessibility statements for digital teaching and learning tools, including the Blackboard virtual learning environment .
This website is run by the University of Bristol.
We want as many people as possible to be able to use this website.
For example, that means you should be able to:
The text should be clear and simple to understand.
AbilityNet has advice on making your device easier to use if you have a disability.
Parts of this website are not fully accessible.
For example:
We will update the statement when we fix these issues, or when we can provide an expected date for a fix.
If you need information on this website in a different format, use the 'Feedback' link at the bottom of the page in question.
In your message, include:
We want to improve the accessibility of this website whenever possible.
If you find any problems that we have not listed on this page or if you think we're not meeting accessibility requirements, email web-editor@bristol.ac.uk .
If you contact us with a complaint and you're not happy with our response, contact the Equality Advisory and Support Service ( EASS ) .
The Equality and Human Rights Commission ( EHRC ) is responsible for enforcing the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 (the 'accessibility regulations').
The University of Bristol is committed to making its website accessible, in accordance with the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018.
This website is partially compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines version 2.1 AA standard, due to the non-compliances and exemptions listed below.
The content listed below is non-accessible for the following reasons.
Unless otherwise stated, all issues above will be fixed where possible as part of our web transformation project by the end of 2023.
Many documents are not accessible in several ways, including missing text alternatives and missing document structure.
To report any problems or request documents in an alternative format, use the 'Feedback' link at the bottom of the page that links to the document in question.
At present we do not claim disproportionate burden for anything.
However this may change, following further review and testing.
Since September 2020, staff who are new to web publishing must complete training to learn what they need to do to meet the WCAG 2.1 AA standard.
Staff who were already publishing web content before September 2020 are encouraged to access the same training.
In Autumn 2022 we will begin a Web Transformation project, as part of the University's Digital Strategy.
This includes significant activity to improve accessibility across the website, and we will make sure that we include any issues that we do not fix immediately in the relevant areas of programme delivery.
The project vision is to better meet our users' needs by making our digital products and services clearer, simpler, faster and more accessible.
This statement was prepared on 27 September 2019.
It was last reviewed on 25 October 2022.
This website was last tested on 26 July 2022.
The test was carried out by the University of Bristol using automated auditing software (SiteBulb) to test all pages across the site.
The website was also manually audited by Hassell Inclusion in July 2022, looking at a sample of pages focussing on the most common user journeys.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/style-guides/web/policies/legal/privacy:
In order to operate the University of Bristol ('University') website, we may collect and store personal information you submit to the University via this website.
Please read the following privacy policy to understand how the University uses and protects the information that you provide via this website.
This system is provided and hosted by the University.
By submitting your personal information, you are consenting to the University holding and using it in accordance with this policy.
The policy is subject to change and any changes to it in the future will be notified on this page.
By continuing to use this website you are agreeing to such changes.
We recommend that you check the privacy policy each time you visit this site.
This website is known by a number of different names.
These are bristol.ac.uk, bris.ac.uk, www.bristol.ac.uk, www.bris.ac.uk, bristol.edu and www.bristol.edu.
This privacy policy applies to all of these, but not necessarily to others within the bristol.ac.uk, bris.ac.uk and bristol.edu domains.
Please note that this website acts as a transparent proxy to some other University of Bristol websites which may be subject to their own privacy policies.
Please see our list of proxied sites .
When you visit this website you may be asked to provide certain information about yourself, including your name and contact details.
We automatically receive and save certain types of information whenever you interact with this website.
We use the information to monitor website traffic and to assist with the navigation and user experience of the website.
Information that we will automatically receive includes:
Please see the University’s Use of cookies page.
We may use and analyse the information we collect so that we can manage and improve the services on the website.
Demographic and statistical information about user behaviour may be collected and used to analyse the popularity and effectiveness of the website.
Any disclosure of this information will be in aggregate form and will not identify individual users.
The University of Bristol also uses services from Google, comScore and Hotjar on this website to measure and analyse visitor information.
For further information on these, please visit comScore , Google Analytics and Hotjar .
The University will not (nor will it allow any third party to) use the statistical analytics tools to track or to collect personally identifiable information of visitors to this website.
The University will not associate any data gathered with any personally identifying information from any source as part of our use of the statistical analytics tools.
The University is the data controller for your personal data that it collects.
As your data controller the University has notified its activities to the Office of the Information Commissioner as required under the GDPR and is listed in the Public Register of Data Controllers.
Personal information will only be collected and/or processed by the University in accordance with the GDPR.
In order to protect the security and working of University network and computer systems, it may be necessary to monitor or log the use of these systems.
If there are indications of abuse of systems or that individuals may be using systems in excess of their authority, files, messages and any or all uses of the systems may be intercepted, monitored, recorded, copied, audited, inspected and disclosed to authorised University and law enforcement personnel.
If you have consented to receive marketing we will use your data to provide you with relevant information about the University, to respond to your enquiries, for quality assurance and market research and to find others who may be interested in receiving information about the University.
We may contact you via email, phone, SMS, post, social and other electronic means, in accordance with your preferences.
By agreeing to receive marketing via social and other electronic channels, you agree to us sharing your data with our trusted third parties – under appropriate agreements – who will only use your data for this specific purpose.
This may include but is not limited to our digital agencies: RH Advertising, Hybrid Media and Anything is Possible, as well as the Facebook network, Google Display Network, YouTube, Linkedin and Twitter.
Your data will not be sold to any organisation outside the University of Bristol, though it is possible that in limited specific circumstances the University may be required by law to disclose it to external parties.
You have the right to opt out at any point.
Please email uob-crm@bristol.ac.uk to update your preferences.
This website may contain links to other websites that are outside the University’s control and are not covered by this privacy policy.
We regularly review our Privacy Policy and updates will appear on this page.
This policy was last updated on 11 May 2020.
Should the information we hold about you be incorrect, you can change and update your personal information and you can have your information corrected by contacting us.
Where requested, we will provide you with a readable copy of the personal data which we keep about you, by contacting us at the address below.
We may require proof of your identity before supplying you with this information to ensure confidentiality.
We allow you to challenge the data we hold about you and where appropriate you may have the data erased, rectified, amended or completed.
For complaints or queries about the privacy policy or data protection queries generally please contact:
Data Protection Officer University of Bristol Beacon House Queens Road Bristol BS8 1QU, UK
Email: data-protection@bristol.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/short-courses:
The University offers a range of short courses for members of the public.
Whether you'd like to take the first step into returning to education, prepare for further study at the University, or you'd simply like to learn something new, our courses provide learning opportunities for all.
These courses are designed to help participants progress onto a degree at the University, either for undergraduate or master's level study.
This course will equip you with the tools to understand contemporary debates surrounding Black History, the transatlantic slave trade and the sociology of race.
It is a short course designed primarily to help mature students progress to a degree in the History Department.
This course offers the chance to discuss ideas on classic and modern literature at an advanced level, allowing participants to e xplore a range of different texts from poetry to prose and develop essay writing skills.
It will also provide support for those interested in applying for a master's degree or further study.
This is a free course that will develop your academic language and literacy skills, providing the ideal preparation for future study.
It is open to anyone who has not previously studied at university level, regardless of their background or educational history.
We will give priority to people aged 20 and over.
These courses provide the opportunity to e xpand your knowledge and delve into a subject you're interested in.
The Department of English runs a series of short courses each year for members of the public who are interested in English and Creative Writing.
The Botanic Gardens offer a range of short courses and events and workshops for those interested in horticulture.
Bristol Medical School offer intensive online short courses in cutting edge research methodologies, analysis and medical statistics.
Courses range in duration from one to five days and are designed for researchers and healthcare practitioners.
Foundations of Medical Education - introductory short course
Foundations in Medical Education (FMed) is an online short-course suitable for anyone without who is involved in teaching or supervising health professionals and who does not have formal training as an educator.
It is fully accredited by the Academy of Medical Educators (AoME) and offers an introduction to teaching and planning.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/mature:
We welcome mature students, aged 21 and over when starting an undergraduate degree.
Get in touch for tailored support and advice about joining our welcoming learning community.
Thinking about applying to Bristol as a mature student?
Book onto an online event to ask our staff and current mature students your questions.
Find out more
Explore our range of over 260 undergraduate courses to find a course that suits you.
You can also browse our degrees by subject area if you're not yet sure which course you'd like to study.
Find out more about our new outreach programme for mature students studying an Access to Higher Education Diploma.
This programme will support you during your application journey and transition to becoming a student at Bristol.
Find out more about short taster courses to get a feel for learning at Bristol.
Contact our Mature Student Team mature-students@bristol.ac.uk +44 (0)117 394 1048
Cleopatra came back to education through the Foundation in Arts and Social Sciences.
Now studying for an Anthropology degree at Bristol, Cleopatra shares her story to encourage others to take up education later in life.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/local-commuting-students:
Local and commuting students are an integral part of the Bristol student community, and we want to support you to make the most of your time on campus.
You may consider yourself to be either a Local or Commuter student.
You may consider yourself to be both a Local and a Commuter student.
If you are a Local student and apply to study at the University of Bristol, you may be eligible to receive a contextual offer, guaranteed offer, or both.
Our contextual offer is a grade reduction of up to two grades below the standard entry requirements.
If you have received Free School Meals, or you are applying from an aspiring state school or college, you will be eligible for a contextual offer.
We consider a school or college to be aspiring if it has low average attainment and progression to higher education statistics.
Find out more about contextual offers
We guarantee an offer for a place on your chosen degree course or a guaranteed interview (for courses which routinely interview such as Medicine and Dentistry) if you have a home postcode in a BS, BA1, BA2, BA3, BA5, BA14, BA15, SN12, or SN13 postcode area, and you meet our entry requirements.
Find out more about guaranteed offers
"Going to university in my hometown meant that I was already familiar with the city.
I didn’t have to worry about finding my way around as a fresher and it was easier to stay connected to my friends." - Belnice, Medicine student and Bristol Scholars participant.
Before you start university, we recommend you find out what you need to do before you arrive at Bristol.
This advice is useful for all new student communities, including Local and Commuting students.
This includes information regarding registration, IT, accommodation, health and wellbeing, and more.
For many students, living at home and commuting to university can be a great way to save money on accommodation and continue to be well supported by family or friends during your Higher Education journey.
Commuting to university may also provide a greater opportunity for you to support your family or friends with caring (or any other) responsibilities at home.
However, commuting to university can also have its challenges, which is why it's important to consider your priorities and plan ahead.
For example, you may need to think about how and when you will be travelling to university and how to fund your travel.
We recommend you check out our travel advice page for more info about how to plan your travel, as well as our sustainable travel options for students.
If you're a postgraduate student interested in distance learning, you may wish to explore our online study options.
Sometimes your travel plans may be unavoidably disrupted when commuting to university.
It can be frustrating when your transport doesn't go to plan, particularly if you're travelling a long way.
We recommend downloading your university email account onto your phone so you can easily contact any staff or peers who may need to know when you're running late.
As a Local student, you can decide whether to apply to live in University accommodation in your first year, live at home, or in private accommodation.
We know that sometimes your circumstances or preferences may change, so where you choose to live may also change throughout your time at university.
We offer advice on how to find rented accommodation in Bristol, as well as guidance on other common housing issues such as concerns with your landlord or understanding your tenancy agreement.
If you're a Local student who commutes to university, the main Clifton campus is located in the city centre and is easily accessible by foot, bike, and public transport.
We recommend students do not travel by car unless it is essential (for example if you have a disability) as parking is limited.
For more information, see our sustainable travel options for students.
If you're considering commuting to university, you may be interested in learning more about the facilities and study spaces available.
We have a fantastic range of spaces available for you to use, whether you want a quiet study space, to grab a bite to eat, go to the gym, or relax in a more social environment.
This means you do not need to travel home in between lectures, saving you money on travel and making the most of your time on campus.
Check out our Bristol SU Living Room for a relaxed social space where you can meet new peers, and visit our web pages for more information on study spaces and sports facilities .
Don't worry if you choose not to stay in university accommodation, there are so many other opportunities to meet people and make friends at a range of events throughout the year.
Our active Students' Union offers over 400 clubs and societies so that you can enjoy the best of student life at Bristol .
You may decide to continue doing something that you already love, or you could try a completely new sport or hobby.
Society meetings and social events are often timetabled in advance, so you can easily plan ahead if you are commuting.
Clubs, societies, and other extra-curricular activities such as volunteering or mentoring can also have professional development benefits.
Our Bristol PLUS Award rewards you for extracurricular activities you have completed at any point during your course and provides a structure to reflect on the skills you have developed.
The PLUS Award is open to all students at the University and can be completed during any year of your studies.
If you consider yourself a Local student, you probably already know that Bristol is a fantastic place to live and study.
By joining the University of Bristol as a Local student, we invite you to re-discover Bristol from a whole new perspective.
Don't forget that as a Local student, you will be joining a diverse student community from many different backgrounds from across the UK and beyond - giving you a great opportunity to explore the city and fall in love with Bristol all over again.
Contact us at choosebristol-ug@bristol.ac.uk
Are you a mature student?
Contact mature-students@bristol.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/care-leavers:
We’re committed to ensuring that care-experienced students can succeed at the University of Bristol.
We want you to feel safe, supported, and able to reach your potential.
Therefore, we offer support and guidance from applying through to graduation.
We have a range of support available for students with care experience, but some support may differ based on if a student is classified as a 'care leaver' or 'care experienced'.
Our definitions are:
*Students who have spent time being cared for by a relative or friend without a formal arrangement , such as a Special Guardianship Order, are classified as having been in ‘Kinship Care’.
At the University of Bristol, informal kinship care, does not fit our definition of ‘care experienced’, however, it might fall into the category of ‘Estrangement’ .
If you’re a prospective student, carer or personal advisor, you can contact Kat Whidden in our Widening Participation Team, who can offer advice and guidance throughout the application process.
We deliver online webinars and offer guidance at open days to help you and your support network find out more about applying, funding, and succeeding at university.
To find out more about our upcoming events, sign up to our prospective student mailing list .
If you are a current student at the University of Bristol, you can contact Maria Tottle in our Student Inclusion Team, who offers 1:1 advice, support and coaching throughout your time at university.
We run various in-person and online events for current students .
If you’d like to stay up to date on what’s happening at the university, sign up to our current students email bulletin .
Alternatively, you can contact Kat and Maria in the Care Experienced and Estranged Students team directly via:
If you have spent three months or more in local authority care, you will be eligible for a contextual offer .
To claim your contextual offer, all you need to do is tick the ‘care experienced’ box when completing your UCAS application.
If you are a local student, applying with an Access to HE qualification, or have completed a University of Bristol outreach programme, you may also be eligible for a guaranteed offer or interview .
If you have spent three months or more in local authority care, you are eligible to apply for our Gateway to Medicine , Gateway to Dentistry , and Gateway to Veterinary Sciences courses.
Our 'Gateway to...' courses are aimed at students who have the potential to become doctors, dentists or vets, but do not meet the academic entry criteria to apply directly to our MB ChB, BDS or BVSc undergraduate courses.
Care leavers are normally eligible to be independently assessed for student finance.
This means that your household income will not be taken into account when your student finance is calculated.
Therefore, you are likely to qualify for maximum financial support.
Find more information about funding .
To be considered for our other financial support packages, you will need to complete our Additional Funding Form .
Contact our Money Advice Team who can give advice and guidance throughout the student finance application process, including on how to apply for independent status with Student Finance England/Wales/Scotland/NI.
They also offer support to current students.
You may be eligible for some financial support from your Local Authority.
Packages of support vary but can include contributions to housing costs, relocation support, help with living costs or bursaries.
Find out about your council's care leaver local offer .
Care leavers and estranged students are prioritised when we make accommodation offers.
In your accommodation application , you should tell us if you are a care leaver or estranged student.
This will help us offer you a suitable room.
Unite Foundation Scholarship We work with the Unite Foundation, supporting students who have previously been in care or are estranged from their parents.
The Unite Foundation Scholarship provides recipients with free en-suite accommodation in Unite House or Orchard Heights.
With the Unite Foundation scholarship, you’ll have accommodation and bills covered for up to 3 years of study.
That includes through the holidays too, so you don’t have to wonder where to go during reading weeks or over Christmas or the summer break.
You can even stay the summer after you graduate to plan your next move.
You can find more information about the scholarship, eligibility criteria and how to apply on the Unite Foundation Scholarship webpage .
We recommend you read their information and guidance document before applying.
Summer Accommodation If you need accommodation during the summer vacation, contact our accommodation team as early as possible.
We will do our best to support you.
You can also request to live in accommodation after first year and your application will be prioritised.
Help with guarantors Most of our halls of residence do not require a deposit or for you to have a guarantor.
If you’re living in private rented accommodation, we have established a relationship with Housing Hand , a company that offer a fully comprehensive guarantor service available to all students.
If you are unable to find a co-signatory for your guarantor application, or the fees are a barrier for you, please get in touch with Maria ( maria.tottle@bristol.ac.uk ) for help.
During your time as a student with us, you can contact Maria Tottle at any point in the year for wellbeing support.
This might be for a chat to work through any challenges you may be facing or for 1:1 coaching.
We have a range of support at the University which Maria can help signpost you towards.
We run regular social events for students with care experience and those facing estrangement to come together and meet students from similar backgrounds and find out more about university life.
If you would like to talk to a current student before and during the first few months of university, peer mentoring is available for any first year undergraduate.
The mentors are current students themselves and can answer any questions that you might have and help you settle into university life.
You have the option to indicate a preference for a mentor who shares similar characteristics.
The SU Care Leavers and Estranged Students' Network is run by and for students.
To find out more about the network, their events and support on offer or to join this free network please see the SU Groups Webpage .
Networks are an exciting way for students to build communities and create change through collective action.
They are representative bodies that can lead campaigns, hold forums and organise social events.
For more information about our support for students from a care experience background please contact our team at care-leavers@bristol.ac.uk .
As well as University support, there are several organisations that provide support and information for people with care experience.
These include:
‌The University of Bristol is proud to have been awarded the Quality Mark status in recognition of our comprehensive support packages for students with care experience and those facing estrangement.
For more information, click here .
If you have spent time in care after your 16th birthday, it is likely you will be entitled to support from Children’s Services as a care leaver, up until at least your 25th birthday.
Have a look at your councils ‘ local offer ’ to explore what support you may be eligible for.
If you are aged 21 or over, please read our mature students pages to find out about mature student events or contact our Mature Students Adviser ( mature-students@bristol.ac.uk ).

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/estranged-students:
We are committed to ensuring that students facing estrangement from their parents can succeed at the University of Bristol.
Therefore, we provide a comprehensive support package for students who are studying without the support and approval of their parents.
We have a range of support available for students facing estrangement, but the definition of estrangement circumstances can often vary by institution.
Our definition is:
If you are a prospective student, teacher or advisor, you can contact Kat Whidden in our Widening Participation Team, who offers advice and guidance throughout the application process.
We deliver online webinars and offer advice at open days to help you and your support network find out more about applying, funding, and succeeding at university.
If you are a current student at the University of Bristol, you can contact Maria Tottle in our Student Inclusion Team, who offers 1:1 advice, support and coaching throughout your time here.
We run various in-person and online events for current students at the University of Bristol.
Alternatively, you can contact Kat and Maria in the Care Experienced and Estranged Students team directly:
Estranged students are often eligible to be independently assessed for student finance.
This means that your household income will not be considered when your student maintenance loan is calculated.
However, you are required to provide evidence of your estrangement to your regional funding provider to be independently assessed.
Find out more information about funding here .
You can contact our Money Advice Service for support and guidance throughout the student finance application process, including on how to apply for independent status with Student Finance England/Wales/Scotland/NI.
They also support current students.
We work with the Unite Foundation, supporting students who have previously been in care or are estranged from their parents.
That includes through the holidays too, so you don’t have to wonder where to go during reading weeks or over Christmas or summer.
You can find more information about the scholarship and how to apply on the Unite Foundation Scholarship webpage .
Summer Accommodation
If you need accommodation during the summer vacation, contact our accommodation team as early as possible.
Help with guarantors
Most of our halls of residence do not require a deposit or for you to have a guarantor.
If you’re living in private rented accommodation, the University has established a relationship with Housing Hand , a company that offer a fully comprehensive guarantor service available to all students.
During your time as a student with us, you can contact Maria Tottle at any point in the year for wellbeing support.
We have a broad range of specialist support that all students can access at the University which Maria can help signpost you towards.
We run regular social events for students with care experience and those facing estrangement to come together and meet students from similar backgrounds and find out more about university life and support services.
If you would like to talk to a current student before and during the first few months of university, peer mentoring is available for any first-year undergraduate.
The SU Care Leavers and Estranged Students Network was set up by and for students.
For more information about our support for students facing estrangement please contact our team at care-leavers@bristol.ac.uk .
As well as University support, there are several organisations that provide support and information for people facing estrangement.
Read our Stand alone pledge (PDF, 185kB)

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/parents:
Starting university is a huge move for anyone.
It can also be a significant change for their families.
We understand this and want to make the transition as smooth as possible for students and their loved ones.
This section offers guidance for parents, carers, and supporters.
We can help you to prepare your child – or dependent – for university life.
Learn more about the application process for unde rgraduate students via UCAS, including timescales and advice.
Understand the costs associated with university and find out more about fees, funding options such as bursaries and scholarships and financial support.
Find information about accommodation and how we support students during their time at Bristol.
Lea r n more about why Bristol is a great place to live and study , from student life to the employability of our graduates .
Understand how to prepare your student for university and find out what they need to do when they arrive.
Find guidance for students coming from overseas, including visas and country-specific application information.
Want to explore the University further?
Find out about our op en days, virtual events and o ther visit opportunities.
Find information about the University nursery, wellbeing support, funding options and networks for students who are also parents or carers.
S ig n up to our parents and carers mailing list to receive useful information about our courses, funding, wellbeing and more.
If you have further questions, you can contact us.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/outreach:
Opportunities for schools, young people and mature students.
Study at Bristol Outreach and widening participation
These opportunities give you a taste of what it is like to study at the University of Bristol, and support you to access university.
Programmes, summer schools and work experience giving a taste of what it is like to study at Bristol.
For students currently taking A-levels, BTECs, an Access to HE Diploma or equivalent qualifications.
Teachers can book curriculum support workshops and work experience for your students and explore activities from our partners.
Explore subject-specific resources and helpful guidance to boost your understanding, inform your decision-making and enhance your university application.
Sign up for our newsletter, view our UCAS events, and access virtual resources to support your students.
A contextual offer is an offer that is up to two grades lower than the standard entry requirements.
You could be eligible for a contextual offer if you are from a background historically less likely to come to Bristol.
Check if you are eligible .
A guaranteed offer is the guarantee of being made an offer or offered an interview.
You will be considered for a guaranteed offer or interview from the University of Bristol if you meet our criteria.
Discover the opportunities and support you can access before, during and beyond University.
If you are aged 21 and over, find out about finding a course, applying, events, funding and careers support.
Advice on travel options, finding study facilities on campus and becoming a student in your hometown.
If you have experienced being in care, find out about contextual offers, funding, accommodation and further support.
If you are under 25 and have limited or no communication with either of your parents, find out about student funding, accomodation and further support.
Hear from current global majority students:
Get a feel for the University by visiting us at an open day or attending a campus tour.
These events allow you to talk to current students and staff, explore the University and city and find out what it’s like to be a student here.
Talk to staff and current students about our courses, admissions and university life at a UCAS discovery event or request our attendance at an upcoming event at your school.
Students currently studying at the University of Bristol can:
Staff and Postgraduate researchers can join an active outreach session for school students.
The 'Access and participation plan' sets out how higher education providers will improve equality of opportunity for underrepresented groups to access, succeed in and progress from higher education.
Read the Access and participation plan 2025-26 to 2028-29 summary (PDF, 146kB)
We want Bristol to be an inclusive place to study by creating an environment where people can be themselves and do their best.
This report shows the progress made promoting equity, diversity and inclusion at the University of Bristol.
R‌ead the annual equality, diversity and inclusion report .
Request a talk or workshop at your school, or ask us a specific outreach-related question.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/contacts:
Please visit the websites below for contact details:

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/subjects:
Browse subjects for 2025 entry

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/centre-for-study-abroad/bristol-abroad:
Supporting you on study, work, and volunteer placements around the world.
Find opportunities to go abroad for a year, a semester, or during the summer.
For any undergraduate student who wants to study abroad over the summer.
For undergraduate students on a 3 or 4 year degree course with a study abroad option.
For any undergraduate student who wants to work abroad over the summer.
For any undergraduate student studying a degree with:
For any undergraduate student who wants to volunteer abroad over the summer.
For any student going abroad, find out what you need to know about fees, funding and scholarships.
Contact the Bristol Abroad team .
Find academic contacts in your department who can advise you on going abroad.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/entry-requirements-qualifications/contextual-offers:
At Bristol we want to attract students from all backgrounds as we believe a student community that reflects our society will benefit everyone.
We make contextual offers to those from backgrounds who are historically less likely to come to Bristol.
Details of our standard and contextual offer entry requirements are available on course pages.
Search our courses .
You may be eligible for a contextual offer if you apply to study with us from September 2025 for 2026 entry and one of the following statements applies to you:
You will be eligible for a contextual offer if you apply from an aspiring state school or college.
If you are currently attending school or college and applying for 2026 university entry, you must apply through a school or college listed below to be eligible.
Please note: these lists apply specifically to 2026 entry.
Aspiring Schools and Colleges 2026 cycle (England Wales) (PDF, 1,266kB)
To be confirmed: Aspiring State Schools and Colleges for 2026 cycle - Isle of Man / Northern Ireland / Scotland.
If you have finished school or college, you must have attended a school or college on one of the 2025 lists for the 2024/25 academic year to be eligible.
We calculate our list of aspiring state schools and colleges based on the latest data available from the Department for Education and the devolved governments for Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland.
‌We use the 'applying from' school code on your UCAS form to determine the school or college you have attended, or if you apply independently we will select the most appropriate school or college from your education history.
Inclusion on the aspiring state schools and colleges list is not a judgement of the quality of the institution.
We recognise that many of the schools and colleges on the list have been deemed outstanding in many respects.
You will be eligible for a contextual offer if, at the point of application, you live in an Indices of Multiple Deprivation (IMD) quintile 1 or 2 area.
To determine this, we use the home address on your UCAS application form.
Follow the instructions below to determine your eligibility:
If you complete an academically focused outreach programme at the University, you will be eligible for a contextual offer.
If you have spent three months or more in local authority care, you will be eligible for a contextual offer.
Find out more about the support the University of Bristol provides to care leavers .
Please tick the box in the care questions on your UCAS application.
If your reference confirms that you’ve spent three months or more in local authority care, our admissions team will process your application.
If not, we’ll ask you to send us some more information, such as an email or letter from your local authority, school/college or other organisation.
The University provides a number of scholarships and bursaries that care leavers and estranged students may be eligible for.
Use our funding search tool for a full list of funding support available.
If you have been eligible for free school meals during your secondary education you will be eligible for a contextual offer (from 2023 entry onwards).
The UCAS application will ask you to confirm if you are or have been in receipt of free school meals but we will check if you were eligible for free school meals via the National Pupil Database in England (or equivalent databases for other UK nations).
Alternatively, we will accept a letter from your school confirming your eligibility.
Students in the UK are usually eligible for free school meals if their parents or carers are on a low income or in receipt of certain benefits.
Contact your school or college if you are unsure.
The University currently makes contextual offers to applicants who meet one or more of these criteria and are taking A-levels or the International Baccalaureate diploma.
Contextual offer levels for these qualifications are stated on each course entry in our course finder.
The criteria by which we make contextual offers are subject to change.
Please ensure you check the current eligibility criteria in the year that you are applying to the University.
Apply to us through UCAS .
If you meet any of the criteria outlined above, you’ll be automatically considered.
Search our full list of funding support and check if you are eligibile.
Access our virtual resources to explore university learning from home and hear about our outreach opportunities.
If you have any queries relating to contextual offers, please contact the Enquiries Team on +44 (0) 117 394 1649 or choosebristol-ug@bristol.ac.uk .
Check whether you are eligible for the University of Bristol Bursary .
For a full list of funding support visit our funding search tool .
Get a feel for life at Bristol at an upcoming event.
If you receive an offer, you’ll also be invited to an offer holders' event for a deeper insight into your course.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/careers:
Our graduates are highly employable, and we're one of the most targeted universities by leading UK employers.
You'll be joining a network of talented alumni, developing careers in over 190 countries worldwide.
Our graduate employment record is one of the best in the UK; we are ranked joint 7 th in the UK and joint 49 th in the world for graduate employability ( QS Graduate Employability Rankings , 2022).
Bristol graduates are the 5 th most targeted by The Times Top 100 UK graduate employers ( High Fliers Research , 2024).
We offer a selection of courses with placement oppo rtunities , allowing students to gain industry experience as a part of their degree.
Find out more about the different career paths taken by our alumni.
Our Careers Service offers a range of services to support you.
Access to the Careers Service remains free for three years after you graduate.
Explore student stories, tips and information on the Careers Service's blog .
We have long-standing relationships with hundreds of employers, from small businesses to multinational organisations.
They provide input into our degree courses to make sure they are up to date and frequently visit the University to share their knowledge at careers fairs, presentations, networking events and practice interviews.
Students in the Faculty of Engineering also benefit from a dedicated Industrial Liaison Office , which develops engineering-specific industrial links for students.
Similarly, Social Sciences and Law students can access the Professional Liaison Network , a programme designed to enable students to network with people outside of the University.
The University of Bristol Law School offers a Professional Mentoring Scheme , enabling second-year Law students to meet regularly with Bristol alumni working in the legal profession.
Getting involved in student enterprise is a fun way to learn about different forms of business and develop commercial awareness skills valued by graduate employers.
Our student enterprise and support service Basecamp is an entrepreneurship hub, helping students develop their business ideas and pursue start-up funding.
Basecamp offers enterprise skills workshops, networking events, one-to-one guidance and enternships – self-employed summer internships.
The University of Bristol SME internship scheme provides opportunities to get high-quality, paid work experience with a variety of small to medium-sized organisations.
Joining the scheme is a fantastic way to try out a new career, develop your professional network and enhance your CV.
Through work experience, volunteering, and a full programme of free employability workshops the Bristol PLUS Award encourages students to make the most of opportunities to work with leading graduate recruiters and local employers.
The award engages students with opportunities to develop their professional skills in a holistic way and helps to build a sense of community in the transition to employment.
Login to UCAS to make Bristol your first choice
Yasmin, a current student who completed a year in industry, shares how her placement year boosted her confidence and career prospects.
When you graduate, you'll join a global community of more than 160,000 Bristol alumni from 190 countries.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/fees-funding:
Studying at university is one of the most significant investments you will make.
The University will provide the support you need to take control of your finances.
The two main costs you will face as an undergraduate student are tuition fees and living expenses.
Find out more about the financial help and support available.
Fees are subject to annual review, so they may be liable to rise each year in line with UK government policy.
Home tuition fees for each degree course are listed in the online course finder .
Contact your local education department for further details about financing your studies and for advice on whether your island government offers any grants or awards: Island of Jersey States of Guernsey Isle of Man
If you are an international student, your tuition fees will depend on the course you study .
International fees are reviewed annually and will generally increase by inflation each year of study, capped at a maximum of 8%.
This increase does not apply to clinical courses.
If you're unsure which fees you should pay, read about how we determine your fee status .
If you are transferring to the University of Bristol from another institution, you will be charged the same fee as a new student, regardless of the year of the course you are joining.
Students with deferred entry will be charged the fee for the year they start their studies.
If you are studying an undergraduate course part time, your tuition fee will normally be pro rata the full-time fee for the course.
Students on the one-year Foundation in Arts and Social Sciences or the Foundation in Science, Engineering and Mathematics courses may be eligible for a tuition fee loan and maintenance loan.
Find out more about the financial support available for Foundation Year students.
If you are spending time away from the University for a placement as part of your course, you will be charged a reduced tuition fee during the relevant academic year.
For example in 2020 home students on full-year study and work abroad or industrial placements were charged 15 per cent of the total tuition fee.
International students on full-year study and work abroad placements were charged 50 per cent of the total fee and those on whole-year industrial placements were charged 25 per cent of the total fee.
If you undertake a placement for less than a full academic year, your tuition fee will not be affected.
If you are an incoming external intercalating student, you will be charged the same fee as a new student.
If you are an existing University of Bristol student intercalating onto a different course within the University, find out more about Intercalated degree course fees .
University of Bristol students intercalating at Bristol or at a different university will be treated as continuing students on their return and therefore charged at the same continuing rate.
You don't need to pay your tuition fees until after you are registered at the University.
Find out how and when you can pay your tuition fees .
We will not charge an extra tuition fee if you:
We will charge a tuition fee if you:
The fee will be a proportion of a standard fee, based on the credit point value of the unit(s) you study, in line with SLC guidance.
Budgeting and living expenses cover everything you will need to pay for, other than tuition fees.
The amount you spend will depend upon your lifestyle choices.
As a guide, most students spend between £9,000 and £15,000 per year including accommodation.
If you have the talent and ability to succeed at Bristol, concerns about funding your studies should not stop you from applying.
The University offers a comprehensive package of financial support to students from low-income backgrounds, in addition to the support provided by the UK government.
The following services are also available to help you manage your money:
Use our online search tool to see all University funding opportunities.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/students/support/finances/advice/living-expenses:
How to budget effectively as a student and living costs you need to consider.
Budgeting and managing your day-to-day living costs are important life skills to learn.
Getting started with this may feel overwhelming, especially if this is the first time you have been entirely responsible for managing your finances.
However, there is support available.
Create your budget with our student budget calculator (Office document, 47kB) .
Enter the money you have coming in and estimate your outgoings to get an idea of how much money you could have left over.
Our budgeting planner breaks down expenses into the categories that students typically spend money on.
You will have some essential costs, such as accommodation, bills, food, travel and course costs.
Other costs are more flexible and include hobbies, entertainment and clothing.
With a budget, you will know how much you can afford to spend on these non-essential expenses.
We spoke to a range of students in the 2024/25 academic year to ask them about their cost of living as a student in Bristol.
This revealed that the average monthly spend is around £1,221.
This is made up of:
Save the Student have also put together some useful guidance on what students tend to spend money on each month.
Accommodation will be one of your biggest monthly expenses.
Find out the fees for different types of university halls and private rented costs and what you need to budget for including rent, council tax and bills.
Living costs will vary depending on individual circumstances.
Save a little each month to help with special occasions, such as Christmas or birthdays, or unexpected costs like your laptop breaking.
Once you know how much you have to spend each week, you can transfer this money to a separate account from your savings.
This will prevent you from accidentally spending the money you need for essential items.
Many app-based bank accounts allow you to set spending goals and categorise your spending.
Read about the best app-based banks for budgeting by Save the Student.
Manage your finances online to track your spending patterns and monitor your bank balance.
Deal with bills and statements straight away.
If you miss a regular direct debit payment, this can affect your credit rating.
Contact your bank or the relevant company immediately.
If you have a funding worry or query, join a private online drop-in with a Student Money Adviser.
Monday to Friday:
No need to book, select the link of the drop-in you want to attend, and an adviser will be with you shortly.
Or you can contact us by email: money-advice@bristol.ac.uk .
Follow these money saving tips to cut down on costs and make the most of your money.
Got a question about the cost of studying in the UK?
Contact the International Office .

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/students/support/finances/tuition-fees/ug:
Find out details of the undergraduate tuition fees due for both new and returning students.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/fee-status:
Students will be classified as either Home or Overseas for tuition fee purposes.
This classification is largely determined by your Immigration status and residence history.
Fee status assessments are conducted in line with UK Government regulations for who pays home fees for higher education and are based on guidance provided by UKCISA, the UK Council for International Student Affairs.
Your fee status will then determine the tuition fees that you will be required to pay for your course of study.
You can find out more about Undergraduate tuition fees and Postgraduate tuition fees on our webpages.
We also have a range of bursaries and scholarships available for applicants which you may like to consider.
All fee status assessments are carried out on an individual basis depending on each person’s unique circumstances, and with consideration of the information and evidence available to us.
We are not able to provide advice regarding a person’s potential fee status, or carry out any fee status assessments, before an application has been submitted.
Prospective applicants should review the UK Council for International Student Affairs (UKCISA) guidelines for who pays home fees, or contact the UKCISA advice line for fee status advice.
To determine a person’s fee status we must apply the regulations set by the UK Government’s Department for Education.
You can find a summary of the regulations from UKCISA.
Your fee status is initially determined using the information provided within your application form and is largely determined by your immigration status and areas of residence.
The admissions team will review your fee status in more detail when your application is assessed.
If your fee status cannot be determined based on the information provided in your application form alone, we will contact you by email to ask that you complete a fee status questionnaire and provide evidence to support a more detailed fee status assessment.
Before you accept an offer you must carefully check the fee status that has been determined for you to ensure that it is correct.
Please contact us as soon as possible to request a review of your fee status if you believe that it is incorrect.
UKCISA also offers further advice and support for international students.
If you are applying for deferred entry, your fee status will be based on your circumstances in the year that you applied.
However, if this changes before you start your course, you should let us know as we may need to reassess your status.
If you have received an offer and think the fee status that has been determined for you is incorrect, please do not accept your offer and contact us as soon as possible for additional advice and guidance.
Undergraduate applicants and applicants to our International Foundation courses should contact choosebristol-ug@bristol.ac.uk , quoting your UCAS ID number.
Postgraduate applicants should contact choosebristol-pg@bristol.ac.uk quoting your applicant ID number.
Please use the subject line “Fee Status Review” within your email to allow us to quickly direct your query to the appropriate team.
Only complete this questionnaire if you have been asked to do so.
We are unable to make any fee status assessments before an application has been submitted.
If you have been asked to complete a Fee Status Questionnaire, it is important you do so in as much detail as you can, and provide appropriate evidence to support the assessment of your fee status.
Please complete the fee status questionnaire (PDF, 874kB) and return it to us by the deadline given to you.
We may not be able to make a final decision on your application until your fee status is decided.
Failure to return the fee status questionnaire or provide appropriate supporting evidence may result in you being incorrectly charged at the Overseas tuition fee rate.
This can cause significant delays to your registration process if it is not resolved in time.
You must ensure that your fee status is correct before you accept an offer so that you are aware of the tuition fees you will be required to pay.
If you do not agree with the fee status decision we have made, please contact us as soon as possible to request a review .
The fee status questionnaire provides examples of the types of evidence and appropriate documentation you should submit to support your fee status assessment.
Please refer to the Supporting Evidence checklist on page 4 of the fee status questionnaire to find out what is required from you.
Further information about acceptable evidence is available on page 5 of the questionnaire.
Please ensure you have uploaded all required documents to your applicant dashboard/portal, and choose ‘Fee Evidence’ as the document type to ensure we can make the assessment without delay.
Wherever possible, please consolidate your evidence into one document (in chronological order where applicable) and upload to your applicant portal as one PDF.
This will enable the fees assessor to review your evidence and come back to you much more quickly with the final outcome or any requests for further information.
We will contact you if we need further information to determine your fee status.
If you are an applicant:
If you are an applicant and your circumstances change between completing your questionnaire and beginning your course you must notify us immediately by emailing admo-fees@bristol.ac.uk .
Please provide details of your change in circumstances as well as the title of the home fees category that you believe you now satisfy (as provided in the UKCISA guidelines ).
If you are a current student:
If you are a current student and you believe that you are now eligible for Home fees due to a change in circumstances, please first refer to the information provided by UKCISA on Becoming ‘home’ after the course has started .
Although your circumstances can change so that you stop being an ‘overseas’ fee payer and become a ‘home’ fee payer for the second (or later) year of your course, it is extremely unusual.
In the past, obtaining indefinite leave to remain during your course did not result in a change to ‘home’ fee status.
However, the regulations have changed, and for academic years that start on or after 1 August 2024, it may make a difference.
However, you will still need to meet all other requirements within any one category of the regulations.
Further details of the exceptional circumstances under which fee status may change are listed on the UKCISA website.
If you believe you now meet one of the eligibility criteria for home fees, you must contact admo-fees@bristol.ac.uk as soon as possible to provide details of your change in circumstances as well as the title of the home fees category that you believe you now satisfy (as provided in the UKCISA guidelines ).
If you are requesting a review of your fee status at the beginning of an academic year, you must supply all relevant information by the end of the third week of teaching.
Our student finances information pages also provide useful information about paying your tuition fees, general money advice, and useful contacts for current students.
If you feel your fee status classification is incorrect you should first request a review of your fee status .
If your circumstances have changed and you believe you may now be eligible for home fees, you should contact us as soon as possible to tell us about your change in circumstances so that we can review this for you.
If you have already followed the appropriate review procedure and believe your fee status remains incorrect, you can appeal the decision in line with the Applicant Complaints and Appeals policy.
You must submit your appeal to admissions-compliance@bristol.ac.uk within 28 days of receiving the final outcome of your fee status review, providing a clear explanation of why you disagree with the outcome.
The Admissions Compliance Team will then review your case and respond to confirm our final decision on your fee status.
Appeals must be submitted as soon as possible, and within 28 days of receiving the outcome of your fee status review, to allow you to accept your offer and to avoid significant delays and disruption during the registration process.
fee status questionnaire (PDF, 874kB)
Find out about fees and funding for undergraduate or postgraduate study.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/green:
Staff and PGR intranet
We declared a Climate Emergency in 2019, reconfirming our commitment to carbon neutrality.
Sustainability related news from across the University.
Find out what we're doing to keep our labs effective, sustainable and compliant whilst ensuring our research can continue to thrive.
Find out how you can get involved with sustainability initiatives at the University of Bristol.
Our Sustainability Policy sets out guiding principles behind all decisions we make at the University of Bristol.
We are currently working on refreshing all of our policies in line with the revised University of Bristol Vision and Strategy 2030 .
Until the review process is complete, we continue to follow our existing policies.
Each year we produce a report outlining our progress to reach net zero by 2030.‌ Read our Environmental Sustainability Annual Report 23-24 (PDF, 5,987kB)
A community of experts, united by a common cause: protecting our environment and identifying ways of living better with our changing planet.
ISO 14064 is awarded to organisations that are actively working to measure and manage their carbon footprint.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/search/about-courses:
We offer a wide range of single and joint honours degrees for you to tailor to your interests.
Most social sciences and arts courses take three years to complete and lead to a bachelor's degree (BA, BSc or LLB).
Most science, engineering and some medical sciences courses offer a four-year integrated master's (MEng, MSci or three-year bachelor's (BEng, BSc) course.
If you're unsure about which course to choose, we recommend you apply for the integrated master's course to secure four years of financial support.
Dentistry, medicine and veterinary science degrees usually take five years to complete.
Our courses are made up of mandatory and optional units for you to choose from.
You may also be able to take one or more units in a different subject area, enabling you to explore your interests in other areas of study.
Many of our courses include a year of industrial experience.
You'll spend the first two years studying before gaining valuable experience in industry during your third year.
You'll resume the course for your fourth and final year.
Some of our courses provide the opportunity to study and work abroad for a full year of your degree.
These courses allow you to internationalise your degree, gain a new perspective and enhance your CV.
If your course consists of an Innovation or Quantitative Research Methods (Q-Step) element, you'll spend two-thirds of your studies following the relevant single honours degree course structure.
The remaining third provides practical innovation project work or training in quantitative methods which serves as invaluable employability experience.
We support students who want to enhance their medicine, dentistry or veterinary science degrees by intercalating.
We also welcome students from other universities who are looking to intercalate at Bristol.
For more information and a list of available courses, please see our intercalated degrees pages.
We offer specific part-time degrees and a number of our full-time degrees may also be studied part-time.
Please check individual course entries for details.
You will be allocated a personal tutor at the start of your course.
They can advise you on academic issues and provide personal support.
Find out more about personal tutoring at Bristol.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/entry-requirements-qualifications:
Please see our information on UK qualifications for undergraduate entry .
We accept a wide range of international qualifications .
You need to achieve a certain level of English to qualify for a place on your chosen course.
Each course specifies one of six language 'profiles', a profile is the level of English required for entry on to that particular course if English is not your first language.
You do not need a Graduate Management Admission Test (GMAT) in English for any application to the University of Bristol.
When you check the entry requirements for individual courses , you will see two types of offer listed - typical and contextual.
The A-level or IB Diploma (International Baccalaureate) typical offer shows the grades we usually request when we make an offer.
We consider applications on their individual merit and the entry requirements shown are indicative only.
If you receive an offer, it may differ slightly from the typical offer.
We welcome applicants with other UK qualifications equivalent to the typical offer.
As part of our commitment to the UK national agenda on widening participation, we consider the educational context in which grades have been achieved and may make you a contextual offer.
Find out whether you may be eligible for a contextual offer .
The Centre for Academic Language and Development has information on entry requirements for the International Foundation Programme .
Our undergraduate admissions statements provide detailed information on the selection procedures and how your application will be assessed.
We follow a clear set of policies and procedures when dealing with admissions.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/after-you-apply:
Find out about our student-led campus tours and other visit opportunities .
Policies, procedures and regulations for undergraduate students.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/why-bristol:
Find out about clearing
Bristol graduates are in demand and highly employable.
We're one of the top 5 universities targeted by top UK employers (High Fliers Research, 2024).
Our on-campus Students’ Health Service provides the full range of NHS GP services, and our Student Counselling Service offers ways to maintain positive mental health.
Gain a new perspective and internationalise your degree by spending time abroad, with our study abroad team on hand to support you every step of the way.
Our teaching is innovative.
You will be taught by internationally renowned academics at the forefront of their field, whose research directly influences your course .
You’ll be a member of Bristol Students’ Union (SU), which represents the student voice, provides you with advice and support, and offers access to clubs, societies and projects.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/stories:
Our Students share how their time studying and living in Bristol has given them experiences and confidence to create their own unique, amazing stories.
Jack, an MSc Palaeobiology student, shares how studying with students who share his passion has further enhanced his enthusiasm for the subject.
Emmie, a BA Hispanic Studies student, shares how living at home and commuting to university means she still gets to experience student life to the full.
Hager, a medical student with Treacher Collins Syndrome, shares how the support she receives for her disability allows her to thrive at university.
William, a mature LLB Law student, shares how Bristol welcomed and supported him with returning to education to pursue a new career path.
Lalitha, an undergraduate BSc Politics and Sociology student from Singapore, shares her experience of settling into unfamiliar territory and how Bristol has helped her thrive.
Sam, an MA Creative Writing student, shares how the blend of dynamic course content and Bristol’s creative scene has allowed him to further pursue his career ambitions.
Belnice, an MBChB Medicine student, shares how going to university in the city she grew up in allowed her to stay grounded and explore the city in a brand-new way.
Paulina, a postgraduate biomedical sciences research student from Mexico, shares her story on how Bristol inspired her to pursue a PhD.
Yasmin, an undergraduate student on our MEng Mechanical Engineering with a Year in Industry course, shares how her placement year boosted her confidence, career prospects and appreciation for university life.
Carlos, an international student on our BSc Biological Sciences course, is passionate about the environment.
He shares how the opportunities available at the University of Bristol have allowed him to reach his potential.
Hani, an international neuropsychology master's student, has always been fascinated by the human brain.
He explains how the University of Bristol inspired him.
Explore our undergraduate courses and postgraduate programmes for 2025 entry.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/student-life:
Students fall in love with Bristol - a city small enough to remain friendly, but large enough to offer lots of interest and excitement.
With our central location, outstanding facilities and active Students' Union, you can enjoy the best of student life.
Discover why our vibrant, unique city is an exciting place to live.
Find out how we will support you during your time at Bristol.
Explore our excellent range of sports and fitness facilities.
Find out how Bristol SU works to improve your student experience.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/accommodation/about:
Learn about our different University rooms, flats and residences.
We provide wellbeing, community and security support in all our residences.
The costs of our rooms , financial support and what is included in your accommodation fee.
The different types of bedrooms and bathrooms, and room grades.
Flats for students who have specific living preferences .
Information a bout living in catered accommodation, including dining rooms, menus and pantries.
Information about living in self-catered accommodation, including kitchens.
Our accommodation is spread across Bristol, within a walk or bus journey to the campus.
We have a variety of residences with different facilities and benefits.
What to expect from us and your responsibilities as a tenant.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/international:
Bristol is a top 10 UK University in a vibrant, multicultural city in south-west England.
Around 25% of our students are international, and we welcome you to join us.
Register for our email updates and receive exclusive application advice, tailored information, and updates about scholarships.
When you register, you can also download our International Guide for lots more information about studying at Bristol as an international student.
Sign up for email updates
Once you've found your course, you can learn more about:
The University has agreements with a number of education representatives, or agents, around the world.
Using a representative does not put you at any advantage or disadvantage when we make decisions about your application.
Visit our country-specific web pages for more information about applying from your country.
You can also contact us with any questions about your application.
Explore our campus with a virtual tour .

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/contacts:
You can contact us with any questions about:
If you have already applied to Bristol, please have your UCAS personal ID number ready when you contact us.
Phone
+44 (0)117 394 1649
Phone lines are open Monday to Friday, 9 am to 5 pm (UK time).
choosebristol-ug@bristol.ac.uk
+44 (0)117 205 2644
Phone lines are open Monday to Friday, 4:30 am to 7 pm (UK time).
WhatsApp: +44 (0)745 815 8625
support@international.bristol.ac.uk
International students can also live chat with us.
You can also contact us on social media .
Teachers wanting to find out more about working with the University of Bristol can sign up to our schools and colleges newsletter , see what outreach events are scheduled, or contact our School Engagement Team:
Phone: +44 (0)117 394 1647 Email: schools-colleges-liaison@bristol.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/visits/tours:
Our campus tours provide an opportunity for prospective undergraduate students to learn more about the University of Bristol.
Our campus tours are not currently running but they will return in November.
You will be able to book on to these tours through this webpage when they are available to book.
If you have any questions about our campus tours, please email choosebristol-ug@bristol.ac.uk
The University has teamed up with AccessAble to provide you with detailed information about the accessibility of our facilities .
Interested in postgraduate study?
Join current postgraduate students for a campus tour.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/virtual-bristol:
Find online events such as our virtual open events, virtual tours, subject and course webinars and live chats with students.
Find out more about undergraduate student life at Bristol and get to know your subject area.
Webinars that give you practical tips on making your postgraduate application and help you learn more about student life at Bristol.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/after-you-apply/offer-holder-events:
Congratulations on your offer to study at the University of Bristol.
Start your exciting Bristol journey by immersing yourself in day-to-day university life, exploring our beautiful campus, and meeting your fellow coursemates during an offer holder event.
Our offer holder events for 2025 have now finished.
If you have any questions about your offer or visiting us, please contact us at choosebristol-ug@bristol.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/outreach/events:
Talk to staff and current students about our courses, admissions and university life at a UCAS discovery event or request our attendance at an upcoming event at your school.
Led by current undergraduate students studying courses from each faculty, these conferences these conferences offer real stories, honest insights, and the kind of inspiration that only comes from students living the university experience right now.
Throughout the day, students will take part in small group activities with peers interested in similar subjects including:
These faculty-specific conferences will run from 1:00pm until 4.30pm.
To register interest, please complete the forms below:
The deadline for registration is the 21 May.
Once you have registered, you will be sent a confirmation email alongside further details.
We attend a variety of events organised by schools and colleges across the country, from exhibition-style careers fairs to virtual visits and presentations.
We know how important these events are in the school calendar and are committed to supporting such activities to support as many students as possible.
If you would like to request attendance at an upcoming event, please complete our online booking form .
We will be attending a range of events where you can talk to staff and current students about our courses, admissions, and university life.
All the events we are attending are free to attend for both individuals and school and college groups.
Upcoming events are listed below:
If you have any queries, please contact the team at schools-colleges-liaison@bristol.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/mature/events:
Find out more about studying at Bristol as a mature student at one of our events.
Are you considering going to university, but are not sure how to take the first steps?
Join our webinar to learn more about returning to education and choosing the right pathway to study for you.
You will also get the opportunity to hear from current mature students and ask your questions.
Contact our Mature Student Team
mature-students@bristol.ac.uk +44 (0)117 394 1048

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/students/new/before-you-arrive:
Once you’ve accepted your offer, there are some things you need to do before you arrive.
You need to confirm your registration details before you arrive so you can complete your registration when you get here.
We'll send you an email inviting you to register.
You won’t be able to confirm your details until you receive it.
Most students will get this email on 27 August 2025.
Learn how to register.
To complete registration, some students need to present their documents to prove they can study in the UK.
We’ll tell you if this applies to you.
Your online student record will also show if you need to complete a document check.
Find out how to complete your student document check.
Your IT account, including your email, will be created after you confirm your registration details.
The first time you sign in, you'll need to set up multi-factor authentication.
Download the University of Bristol app from Google Play or the App Store .
Find out more about your university account and IT services .
Apply for University accommodation or look for privately-rented housing .
If you have accepted a University room offer check our moving in information .
Check if you need a visa to study in the UK.
Contact our Visa Service with your share code if you need support.
Find out how to get to Bristol .
If you're traveling from outside of the UK, check our travel to the UK page for information on planning your journey.
Make sure your money is sorted before you arrive:
If you're an international student:
Read our student finance pages for advice on managing living costs and looking after your money.
Find out about the support available for your physical and mental health .
If you're an international student, check the pre-arrival healthcare checklist on the Student Health Service website.
Sign up for a Welcome Talk for Monday 15 September.
Learn about the events, groups, support services and facilities you can use as a student.
Students living in University accommodation can sign up for a Welcome Talk on 13 or 14 September when you book an arrival slot .
Explore 360-degree views and photographs of our campus and city highlights.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/students/new/before-you-arrive/register:
Find out how to register so you can start your studies and become part of our community.
We recommend you:
Find out what to do if you are going to be late .
For most students, to be fully registered you must:
If you are an on-campus pre-sessional student, we will guide you through the last two steps as part of your course induction.
Some professional courses require you to also complete occupational health and/or Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) checks.
Your faculty will contact you if you need to do this.
We will email new students on Wednesday 27 August with an invitation to register.
If you cannot arrive by 15 September 2025, you should:
If you do not complete registration by the date that applies, your student record and any relevant visa sponsorship will be withdrawn.
We do not offer further extensions for any reason.
Returning undergraduate students must register by 10 am on 6 October 2025.
Find out how to re-register .

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/students/new/when-you-arrive:
What to do when you arrive and advice on how to settle in successfully.
Find out how to register .
Find out how to complete your student document check .
Learn about the IT services available to you .
Use the app to access key student services on the go, including Blackboard, maps, security, and support.
You’ll also get useful notifications and use it to record your attendance.
Download the app from Google Play or the App Store .
Get advice on finding privately rented accommodation.
Find out how to pay your tuition and accommodation fees , including guidance for sponsored students.
You should also open a student bank account if you haven't already.
Go to Destination Bristol , our event for new students, to:
Join on 15 and 16 September from 9.30 am to 4 pm.
No need to book.
More information is on the University of Bristol app.
Sign up for a Welcome Talk on Monday 15 September.
Find ways to connect with others , from the Global Lounge to student networks, clubs and societies.
Explore transport options and view our campus map .
Register with a local doctor so you can access medical care if you need it.
Most students register with the Student Health Service if they live in the catchment area.
If you're new to the UK:
Let us know if you have a long-term health condition or disability so we can support you.
Explore our wellbeing services and support .
Getting around campus, activities to join in with and support for living and studying.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/students/new/get-ready-to-study:
Subscribe to our blog for help and advice about study skills resources, tips, and support available to all students at all levels.
Visit the Subject Support webpages to discover subject support and get to know your subject librarian.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/students/life-in-bristol/accommodation/university-accommodation/moving-in:
Find out everything you need to know to prepare for moving into your student accommodation.
What you need to know if you are moving into private rented accommodation.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/students/new/study-abroad:
If you are coming to Bristol for your Study Abroad programme there is some additional specific information you need to know.
This information is for students starting their programme in September 2025.
If you are already living in Bristol, check our information for current international students .
We will guarantee you an offer University accommodation for semester 1 (September entry) and semester 2 (January entry).
You must apply by the deadline.
We will guarantee you an offer of University accommodation for semester 1 (September entry).
We cannot guarantee an offer for semester 2 (January entry).
We will aim to place as many students as possible in University accommodation.
If we cannot, we will support you in finding private accommodation .
Follow the instructions on the accommodation website for more information.
You should arrive no later than Sunday 14 September.
Induction activities are mandatory and in-person.
Study Abroad welcome and induction activities begin on Monday 15 September.
You need to register before the start of your programme.
We will contact you with more information closer to the start of the semester.
Welcome and induction activities will start from Monday 15 September.
The Centre for Study Abroad team will send more information before the start of the semester.
There will also be a welcome session in your host academic department during welcome week.
Your UCard is your personal University card.
You need it to access campus facilities.
After you have completed registration, you can upload your photo for your UCard .
Your offer letter includes information about your tuition and accommodation fees.
Students coming to Bristol as part of an exchange partnership do not pay any tuition fees to the University of Bristol.
If you receive an invoice for tuition fees, contact the Centre for Study Abroad inbound team .
If you are coming to Bristol through a programme provider or if your home university is paying your tuition fees on your behalf, you are classified as a sponsored student.
Your sponsor will be invoiced after you have registered.
If you receive an invoice for tuition fees directly, contact the Centre for Study Abroad inbound team .
You will receive an invoice for your tuition fees after you have registered.
Your accommodation fees are due when you take up your place in University accommodation.
Find out how to pay your accommodation fees .
If you are being sponsored for accommodation, your invoices will be sent directly to your sponsor.
If you receive an invoice in error, contact the Centre for Study Abroad inbound team .
You can find lots of helpful guidance about how to get to Bristol and how to plan for your arrival on our pages for new international students.
Follow the Centre for Study Abroad inbound team on Instagram
Email: cfsa-inbound@bristol.ac.uk Tel: +44 (0)1173940207

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/apply:
Support with the application process If you need help with your online application, contact the Enquiries team on choosebristol-pg@bristol.ac.uk .
Many of our programmes have fixed deadlines.
Please check the application deadline for the programme you are applying to , as closing dates vary.
You can either select Apply now on the programme's prospectus page or head straight to the online application portal .
New applicants will need to create a new account.
Returning applicants can use their existing username and password.
You can save your application and return to continue it later .
Tip: Make sure you enter your details as they appear on your passport or legal documents.
Tip: Enter a current email address that will be valid beyond the end of the academic year, as we will use this to contact you about your application.
Important: If an agent's email address is on the application form, we will not be able to contact you directly about your application.
We can only communicate with the email address on the application form.
The application form contains multiple sections you need to complete before you can submit your application.
You can see each section on the left of the screen.
Uploading documents: Check the admissions statement for the documents you need to support your application.
Upload your references to the Referees section if you already have them.
Or, tell us your referee's email address and we will email them to submit the reference online.
Documents must: include the file extension appropriate to its format, not be password protected, not contain macros.
You may need to pay an application fee before you submit your application.
If a programme requires an application fee, it is noted on the first page of the application and in the funding section.
You are required to pay this fee to submit your application, or you can request an application fee waiver if you are eligible.
When you submit an application, your responses will become the official property of the University of Bristol and we will base our admission decision on the information you provide.
You will receive an email confirmation of your submission and a link to your applicant portal where you can track its progress.
Please note it may take up to two working days for the email to be sent.
Take a look at our After you apply pages to understand what the process is once you have submitted your application.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/careers:
We prioritise your professional development, providing a range of opportunities to gain work experience, develop your skills and engage with employers.
Bristol graduates are highly regarded by employers in the UK and overseas.
The University is ranked joint 7th in the UK for employability in the latest QS Graduate Employability Rankings (2022).
We understand that, as a postgraduate, you may be looking to change careers, upskill in your current field or be at the start of a new career journey.
Our Careers Service is here to support you with a year-round programme of events including employer meetups, careers fairs, alumni panels, networking opportunities and workshops.
We also offer an extensive range of resources and digital tools to support your career journey, and our expert Careers Service staff are available for tailored and personalised one-to-one advice.
We support students to develop and track the key skills that global and national employers look for.
The University’s online skills platform (MySkills) helps you to understand, reflect and build your skills profile, preparing you for your next steps.
In addition, you can work towards the optional Bristol PLUS Award , which offers a framework for your career planning and skills development.
You’ll also learn how to communicate your value to employers.
The PLUS Award is endorsed by a range of leading recruiters.
We provide access to the award-winning SETsquared partnership , which has links to a team of consultants and external business advisers.
Bristol actively encourages the innovators and entrepreneurs of the future.
We can help you develop your entrepreneurial skills and pursue your start-up goals.
The Basecamp Enterprise Team provides guidance, workshops and support to help enhance your networks and build your growth mindset.
You can continue to access the Careers Service for up to three years after you finish your studies, wherever you are in the world.
We are proud of our postgraduate alumni successes and the contribution they make to society.
Find out more about what Bristol graduates have gone on to achieve by joining our Bristol alumni LinkedIn group .
You'll also have many opportunities to meet Bristol alumni while you're a student.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/students/life-in-bristol/careers/think-pg:
Further explore your passion by progressing to a postgraduate degree at Bristol.
Stay in the city you love and enhance your career prospects.
You can now also get a 25% Alumni discount on your postgraduate tuition fees.
Current students share their experiences of progressing to postgraduate study at Bristol.
Watch the recording .
By staying at Bristol for postgraduate study you can:
Sign up for our emails and we'll keep you up-to-date about:
We offer final-year undergraduate students a guaranteed conditional offer to postgraduate taught programmes.
Hear about why Aidan decided to stay at Bristol for postgraduate study.
Find out more about the 25% fee discount for alumni .

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/doctoral-college:
Designed to provide the fundamental skills required to complete your research degree.
Connect and collaborate with other postgraduate researchers through our programme of regular and one-off events and activities.
The Personal and Professional Development (PPD) programme supports you to become an outstanding researcher.
Guidance for students and staff on topics related to PGR, including supervision, progression, exams, who to contact about issues, student support and wellbeing.
Find out how the Bristol Doctoral College can support you as you settle into research life and our wonderful city.
Bristol has one of the largest concentrations of funding and support for PhD research training in the UK with 30+ bodies offering funded opportunities.
Our collaborative partnerships enhance research training experience and create opportunities for our PGR community.
Resources for staff who support PGRs relating to scholarships, partnerships, funding and recruitment.
This programme plays a key role in influencing positive change for home Black, Asian and minority ethnic PGRs.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/student-life:
Bristol has a diverse postgraduate cohort of over 6,000 students.
Whether you're undertaking postgraduate study straight from your undergraduate degree, or you're returning to education after some time in the professional world, you'll find Bristol a welcoming place to study within.
A postgraduate degree can allow you to pursue your passion and give you the opportunities and connections you need to build your professional career.
Jack's master's degree, MSc Palaeobiology, allowed him to refine his academic interests and connected him with a community of like-minded scientists who share his enthusiasm for the subject.
Find out more about Jack's student experience.
Sign up for more information
Explore the city and find out why our students love living here so much.
Find more student stories on our YouTube channel.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/why-bristol:
Our strong industry partnerships mean our students have access to collaborative networks, training opportunities and resources, both while studying here and after graduation.
Our academics tackle real-world, global challenges, from COVID-19 to climate change.
Our Research and Enterprise Development team amplify research impact by brokering business-collaborations and facilitating spin outs.
Learn from our internationally renowned academics and join our thriving interdisciplinary research community.
Access opportunities to connect, collaborate and showcase your work to peers and the world.
Join the Bristol Doctoral College, a vibrant community of over 3,000 researchers.
Access an extensive programme of training and events to boost personal and professional development.
Immerse yourself in Bristol's vibrant and artistic atmosphere.
Our city is home to a thriving economy centred on creative media, technology, electronics and aerospace engineering industries.
We continually invest in cutting-edge facilities, we have nine University libraries housing over 1.4 million volumes of printed books and journals and a huge range of online resources.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/after-you-apply:
Once you have submitted your application, you can access your applicant portal .
Log in with the username and password you set when creating your application.
You can access the applicant portal if you have submitted an application for a postgraduate programme since October 2021.
Applicant portal
After we have received and assessed your application, we may invite you to attend an interview, either in person or online.
For some programmes we will interview you to assess your suitability.
For others, we will make a decision based on your application form alone.
To find out if you are likely to be interviewed, see the 'Interviews' section in your programme's admissions statement .
If you are invited for an interview, you will be contacted by email to make arrangements.
Make sure you regularly check the email address you provided on your application form.
You can apply to more than one postgraduate programme at the University.
Simply find your programme using the online prospectus and log in to the application system using your existing username and password.
You can withdraw your application at any point in your applicant portal.
It may be possible to reinstate your application.
If you wish to do so, contact us.
Sometimes we need to review the application numbers for a programme, to make sure we get the right number of students.
This helps us to provide the best university experience.
When this happens, we will temporarily stop processing applications for that programme, while we decide whether we can make any more offers.
If we pause processing applications for your programme, we will put your application on hold.
You will receive an email to tell you this.
If spaces become available, we will continue to process your application and we may be able to make you an offer.
If spaces do not become available, your application will be made unsuccessful.
You should check your applicant portal for any updates.
If you have any queries, please contact us via the relevant department's details.
Policies, procedures and regulations for postgraduate students.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/accommodation:
Find out about our accommodation options for postgraduate students.
You are guaranteed an offer of University accommodation if you meet the terms of our accommodation guarantee and apply by the guarantee deadline for the enrolment year.
Browse our postgraduate self-catered accommodation to see the full range of accommodation we have available.
If you are accompanied by a partner or family, you can apply for one of a small number of University family and couples accommodation .
Find out more about our accommodation , including student life in our residences, social opportunities, and budgeting for your accommodation costs.
All accommodation applications and offers are made via our Accommodation Portal.
You will need to have received and accepted a firm offer of study from the University to access the accommodation application.
Find out how to apply for University accommodation .
If you don't meet the terms of our accommodation guarantee, you are still welcome to apply, but we cannot guarantee to offer you University accommodation.
We recommend that you also look for accommodation in the private sector alongside your application.
We have a range of in-depth advice and resources available for all students needing support with private rented housing issues - from how to find a property to where to start if you encounter any difficulties during your tenancy.
Visit our Private rented accommodation webpages for more information.
Watch our on-demand postgraduate accommodation webinar .

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/fees-and-funding:
It's a good idea to think about funding your postgraduate degree as soon as possible.
We can help you understand the costs and take control of your finances.
The two main costs you will face as a postgraduate student are tuition fees and living expenses.
The tuition fee includes charges for tuition, examination and registration.
It also includes a contribution towards the cost of membership of the Students' Union .
Each postgraduate programme has a specific cost for tuition.
Tuition fees are listed for each programme entry wherever possible.
Fees are quoted per year and are liable to rise each year.
On an annual basis, the level of uplift to fees is considered by a group that consists of nominees of the University and student representatives, in consultation with the academic faculties.
Fees for new entrants: In deciding the annual level of increase for new starters, the University will consider a range of factors, including estimated inflation which has ranged from 4% to 8% in recent years, and the costs of delivering the programme.
New entrants are advised to check the programme pages for confirmation of their fees, which will usually be published by October for the following academic year.
Fees for continuing students: Most fees will increase in line with the fees for new entrants.
However, increases will be capped at a maximum of 8% per year (5% for students who started in the 2022/23 academic year or earlier).
Confirmation of fees will be published on the webpages at the same time as per the fees for new entrants.
Fees vary between programmes, and the amount you pay will depend on whether you are a UK or international student.
If you are unsure which fees you should pay, read about how we determine your fee status .
Some self-funded international students on taught postgraduate programmes will pay a deposit of £2,000.
You can pay this online .
In some circumstances, you can apply for a deposit refund.
Read our deposit refund policy .
Some programmes charge a bench fee in addition to tuition fees.
Bench fees are charged when a programme (or specific project) incurs extra costs, such as specialist laboratory or field work.
If you need to pay bench fees, they will be listed on the programme entry and on your offer letter.
Some postgraduate research programmes charge a fee for an extension to the usual registration period or for resubmitting a thesis.
Candidates for research degrees by published work are charged registration and submission fees, but not tuition fees.
Full details available on our degrees by published work page .
If you are a self-funding student, or a sponsored home, EU or international student, find out more about how and when to pay your tuition fees .
Living expenses cover everything you will need to pay for other than tuition fees and include accommodation, food, travel and utilities.
It’s important to budget and plan your finances, especially as the cost of living is increasing in the UK and in Bristol.
As a guide, most students spend between £9,000 - £15,000 per year including accommodation.
Money Advice and Funding Team money-advice@bristol.ac.uk +44 (0)117 428 3000
Student Fees Office student-fees@bristol.ac.uk +44 (0)117 428 3000
Admissions Office choosebristol-pg@bristol.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/fees-funding/awards/alumni-discount:
Alumni of the University of Bristol can get a 25% reduction in the tuition fees that they pay for postgraduate programmes of study.
The information on this page applies to students who start their programme in the 2025/26 and 2026/27 academic years.
To be eligible for the alumni discount, you must: be starting one of the following eligible postgraduate programmes at the University of Bristol: postgraduate taught: LLM, MA, MRes, MSc postgraduate research: DDS, D Ed Psy, MD, MLitt, MMus, MPhil, MSc by Research, PhD have previously graduated from the University of Bristol with an eligible qualifying degree at a lower level of study.
For the purposes of this discount, we consider: an undergraduate degree or integrated master’s degree (BA, BSc, BEng, BDS, BVSc, MBChB, LLB, MArts, MSci, MEng, MLibArts) as an eligible qualifying degree at a lower level than any postgraduate taught or research degree a postgraduate taught degree (LLM, MA, MRes, MSc) as an eligible qualifying degree at a lower level than a postgraduate research degree have not previously graduated from the University of Bristol with a degree at the same or higher level of study to the programme you are starting pay fees directly to the University and be at least partly self-funded be applying for a programme where fees are not charged on a modular basis .
Example If you have received a BA in English from the University of Bristol and return to study for an MA in Film and Television, you are eligible for the discount.
This applies as long as you pay fees direct to the university and have not already achieved another postgraduate degree.
Programmes that are not eligible These programmes are not eligible for the discount.
Completion of these programmes does not qualify you for the discount on your next degree: postgraduate Certificate / Diploma postgraduate Certificate in Education (PGCE) doctoral degrees by published work.
To be eligible for the alumni discount, you must:
If you have received a BA in English from the University of Bristol and return to study for an MA in Film and Television, you are eligible for the discount.
These programmes are not eligible for the discount.
Completion of these programmes does not qualify you for the discount on your next degree:
The discount applies automatically to all students who meet the criteria.
You do not need to apply for this discount and there is no deadline.
The discount will not be mentioned on your offer letter but will appear on your financial statement a few days after it has been issued.
The discount applies to tuition fees only, for the duration of the programme.
Your discount will apply to the balance that you pay yourself, after any other sponsorship has been paid.
For example, if your full fee is £5,000 and a sponsor pays £4,000 towards your fees, the 25% discount would apply to the remaining £1,000, reducing this to £750.
The sponsor would still pay £4,000.
If the discount has not appeared 14 days after completing the registration process , contact education-administration-office@bristol.ac.uk .
If you have more than one University of Bristol student number You will normally be given the same student number as you had for your previous degree at the University of Bristol.
In some rare cases, you may get a different student number.
This can stop the discount applying automatically, even if you meet the criteria.
If this happens, contact education-administration-office@bristol.ac.uk.
We will apply your discount if you meet the criteria.
If you start a degree before receiving the award from a previous degree The discount will not be applied until a previous qualifying degree has been awarded.
If, for example, you start a postgraduate research degree before receiving your award for a postgraduate taught degree, the discount will not immediately be applied.
Once you receive the award for your qualifying degree, the discount will be applied.
If you have already paid your fee in full, you will receive a refund for the discounted amount.
If you pay your fees through a student loan organisation If your fees are paid for through a student loan organisation, and will need to pay back that loan, then you are still considered to be self-funding and eligible for the discount (provided you meet the other criteria).
The discount may not be applied automatically however.
If you believe you are eligible and haven't received the discount after completing online registration, please contact education-administration-office@bristol.ac.uk.
They will check your eligibility and apply the discount manually if you qualify.
If you are a member of staff The University also operates a Staff Discount scheme.
This is separate from the Alumni Discount and you cannot benefit from both discounts for the same degree.
The Alumni Discount is applied before the Staff Discount, so staff should only apply for the Staff Discount if they are not eligible for the Alumni Discount.
You will normally be given the same student number as you had for your previous degree at the University of Bristol.
The discount will not be applied until a previous qualifying degree has been awarded.
If your fees are paid for through a student loan organisation, and will need to pay back that loan, then you are still considered to be self-funding and eligible for the discount (provided you meet the other criteria).
The University also operates a Staff Discount scheme.
Read the criteria and further information for students who started in the 2024/2025 academic year.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/fees-funding/postgraduate/pg-loans:
Students living in the UK can apply for a postgraduate master's loan.
This funding can help with your course fees and living costs while studying for a master's degree, such as an MA or MSc.
The loan is not means-tested.
For eligible students, the amount you can borrow varies depending on where you normally live in the UK .
Moving somewhere to study does not count as normally living there.
If you are studying for two, three or four academic years, the loan will be divided equally across each year of your course.
Studying part-time may affect your eligibility for funding.
Contact your funding provider or speak to the Money Advice team for more information.
You will receive the first payment after your course start date, once your institution confirms that you have registered.
The loan will be paid in three instalments throughout the academic year.
Check your eligibility and apply online at:
If you've received funding for your undergraduate study, you should apply to the same funding provider.
You can use the same account to apply for the loan.
If you haven't applied for funding before, you should apply to the funding body where you normally live.
You can apply for the loan up to nine months after the start date of your course.
If the course lasts two years or more, you need to apply within 9 months of the first day of the last academic year of the course.
You may be eligible to apply for a Postgraduate Master's Loan if you meet certain criteria.
Apply to the funder for the country where you studied your undergraduate degree.
If you studied outside of the UK, apply through Student Finance England .
Further details regarding eligibility can be found on the Gov.uk website.
Postgraduate loans will be repaid at the same time and using the same method as undergraduate loans.
You will be charged interest from the day you get the first payment until your loan is repaid in full or cancelled.
The amount which you repay depends on which repayment plan you are on and the level of your household income.
Further details on the different repayment plans can be found on the GOV.UK website .
Email: money-advice@bristol.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/fees-funding/advice/managing-finances:
How to cut costs as a student and make the most of your money.
A budget can help you prioritise your spending and avoid future financial difficulties.
Use our helpful student budget calculator (Office document, 47kB) to plan your finances.
Visit our budgeting and living expenses page for help managing your money.
Many shops offer discounts to students, so it's worth asking before you pay.
Register for a TOTUM card and always take it shopping with you.
Student discounts and deals can be found on:
Walk and cycle when you can to save money, keep fit and reduce your carbon footprint.
Learn about hiring or buying a bike .
Students living in the University's Stoke Bishop accommodation will get a free U1/5/77 bus pass for the 2025/26 academic year.
Discounted student bus tickets are available on the First Bus app .
Enjoy 1/3 off standard fares with a National Rail 16-25 railcard .
This is also available to mature students of any age.
The best time to check for cheap trains is 12 weeks before you want to travel.
You can get discounted Megabus coach travel with a TOTUM card.
You can also buy a Young Person's Coach Card (available to full-time students of any age) for discount coach travel with National Express.
Booking your coach tickets in advance will save you money.
For advice and support with managing money, explore these resources.
We are not responsible for the content provided by external websites.
Money advice and funding queries: money-advice@bristol.ac.uk
Call our Student Services: +44 (0)117 428 3000

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/news/2021/september/bristol-students-among-most-employable.html:
Press release issued: 23 September 2021
The QS Graduate Employability Rankings 2022 placed Bristol at 49 th out of more than 786 global institutions surveyed.
Bristol improved on its placing of 58 th from last year, despite QS surveying more universities than ever before.
QS analysed tens of thousands of data sources and ranked the institutions on five key metrics.
Bristol performed particularly well in ‘Employer Reputation’, which asked more than 75,000 businesses what they thought of the various universities, and ‘Partnerships with Employers’, which looked at how well universities work with global companies.
‘Alumni Outcomes’ analysed 40,000 “of the world’s most innovative, creative, wealthy, entrepreneurial, and/or philanthropic individuals to establish which universities are producing world-changing graduates”.
The ‘Graduate Employment Rate’ looked at how many students were in full or part-time employment within 12 months of graduation - 95.8% at Bristol - and the ‘Employer-Student Connections’ asked for the number of employers that had visited a university campus, for example at careers fairs.
Stuart Johnson, Director of the University of Bristol’s Careers Service, said: “Bristol attracts great students and produces amazing graduates.
The opportunities and support, both curricular and extra-curricular, that students gain during their time here prepare them for life.
“Our connections with employers, from start-ups to multinationals, locally to globally, mean that Bristol grads are amongst the best prepared in the world.”
The University’s Careers Service is a one-stop shop for careers advice, work experience opportunities, career planning courses and help with CVs, applications and interviews.
It also runs the New Enterprise Competition, a student start-up contest with £35,000 in prize money, and the Bristol PLUS Award, the University's employability award, which rewards students for extracurricular activities completed at any point during their degree and provides a structure to reflect on the skills they have developed.
Earlier this month the University of Bristol was given an Exclusive Global Employers’ Choice Award by GUCCU, a non-profit founded by 1,600 global universities and China’s leading recruitment platform.
It was awarded in recognition of Bristol’s efforts in providing career opportunities for students during the Covid-19 pandemic.
To find out more about the Careers Service and how it could help you follow this link.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/about:
The University of Bristol offers postgraduate degrees in the form of taught programmes, research programmes and professional doctorates.
By studying a taught postgraduate degree at Bristol, you'll learn from world-renowned academics who use their experience and knowledge to shape the rigorous curriculum .
Most taught programmes lead to a master's qualification (MA, MSc, MRes, LLM).
We also offer a number of programmes that can be studied to postgraduate certificate or diploma level .
You'll be able to build your professional network while you study, with opportunities to network with your peers, academics and contacts in industry.
The most common qualification from a postgraduate research degree is a PhD.
The University also offers a growing number of professional and extended doctoral programmes, as well as master's degrees by research.
Research degrees are typically formed of an extended period of independent research, with support from your chosen supervisor at the University.
We are also home to more than 30 Centres for Doctoral Training which offer funded postgraduate research studentships.
Get further information about postgraduate study, including fees and funding, accommodation, careers, and student support.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught:
A taught postgraduate degree can help you specialise in a particular area to improve your career prospects or lead on to further study at doctorate level.
Most taught programmes at Bristol lead to a master’s qualification (MA, MSc, MRes, LLM).
These programmes typically last one year full-time or two years part-time.
In some subject areas, you will be able to study for a postgraduate diploma or certificate.
Our programmes provide flexible unit choices within the curriculum.
You'll study a range of topics to give a broad view of your subject.
Use the programme finder to choose the right degree for you.
Learn more about the fees and application deadlines for your programme.
Find a programme
We also offer many online distance learning programmes which you can fit around your work, life and other commitments, from wherever you are in the world.
Bristol offers a vibrant atmosphere in which to learn, build networks and discover your full potential.
The most recent Research Excellence Framework demonstrates the quality of research at Bristol.
Our teaching staff use their knowledge and experience from the forefront of their subject areas to shape the rigorous taught curriculum.
Learn more about our world-renowned academics – your potential future lecturers.
Studying a postgraduate taught programme will help you develop transferable skills and build a global professional network.
Many of our taught programmes are designed for experienced professionals to enhance their career development.
These programmes often provide flexible part-time study options or can be taken via distance-learning.
Many students gain their qualification while continuing in full-time employment.
Whatever you study, the qualification you'll gain will be recognised around the world.
Many of our programmes are available to study part-time.
Check the programme details to see if part-time study is available.
If you are an international student, you will need to check your visa requirements; student visas are not generally issued for part-time study in the UK.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research:
Join over 3,500 postgraduate researchers from all over the world.
Our community is the perfect place to start your research journey.
Bristol was ranked 5th in the UK for research and is home to world-changing research across many fields ( THE analysis of REF 2021).
We welcome students from across the globe and offer a supportive community with significant opportunities for professional development.
Find out more about research at Bristol.
Things are a little different when you apply to study a postgraduate research degree, so we recommend familiarising yourself with the application process by reading our how to apply pages early in your journey.
It is also a good idea to find a suitable supervisor and contact them before you start your application.
Depending on your research area, you may need to name a proposed supervisor in your application.
Specific advice relating to supervision and applications is available on the programme webpage, which you can visit using the programme finder .
Programme finder
2024 scholarships to postgraduate research programmes are now closed.
‌The Bristol Doctoral College provides a home for all postgraduate research students and a wealth of funding advice, skills training and researcher development.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/international:
We welcome students from all over the world and our diverse cultural community provides a stimulating and supportive environment for teaching and learning.
Our International Recruitment Team can provide advice about:
Our country-specific information will help you decide if you have the right qualifications for your programme.
Our Student Visas Team are best placed to help you with any queries relating to obtaining and complying with your visa.
You can also find out more about the costs associated with securing a visa and requirements for sponsored students .
Please note: part-time study is only open to international students who already have the correct immigration permission to be in the UK.
Student visas are not usually issued for part-time study in the UK.
You need to achieve a certain level of English to qualify for a place on your chosen programme.
Different programmes need different levels of English language skills .
We refer to these skill levels as 'profiles'.
You can see the profiles on each programme page .
The qualifications you need for each profile are on the profile pages .
You do not need a GMAT (Graduate Management Admissions Test) score for any application to the University of Bristol.
The Centre for Academic Language and Development runs pre-sessional courses for students preparing for postgraduate study.
Our pre-sessional courses in English for Academic Purposes are open to those who have an offer from the University.
The course you choose will depend on your existing language level and the terms of your offer.
Find out which pre-sessional course you would need to take.
Use our online system to make your application and find out more about the application process.
The University has agreements with education representatives, or agents, around the world.
They can help you with your application.
You can find a list of the representatives we work with on our country-specific pages.
Using a representative does not put you at any advantage or disadvantage when decisions are made about your application.
We give equal consideration to independent applications and applications made using a representative.
The University of Bristol maintains important partnerships with a number of world-leading universities around the world.
If you are studying an eligible degree at one of our partner universities, you can apply to transfer your studies to Bristol through our Global Transfer Programme.
Applications made via our Global Transfer Programme are processed faster using a streamlined admission route.
To check whether you are eligible and how to apply, visit our Global Transfer Programme webpages .
If you need a visa for your study at Bristol, our dedicated Student Visa Services team is here to support you in securing and ensuring you comply with your UK student visa – from the moment you accept an offer of a place right through to graduation.
Read more about what happens after you apply for a postgraduate programme.
In September each year, the University organises a programme of welcome events to help you settle into University life.
The University is a member of:
The Worldwide Universities Network has a research mobility programme .
Second-year PhD students can spend a research period at one of the WUN research partners in Europe, Africa, the US or China.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/widening-participation-and-access:
We recognise the value of a varied cohort, are committed to the diversification of our postgraduate student body and want to encourage people from a range of backgrounds to apply.
Read more about the variety of opportunities and scholarships for prospective students and current undergraduates looking to progress to postgraduate study at Bristol.
Funding for postgraduate taught students
Schemes offering skills and mentoring for prospective and current students
Summer research opportunities for undergraduates from underrepresented groups
We want to see you thrive throughout your studies and have a number of teams dedicated to creating and celebrating our inclusive community:
For details on postgraduate research funding, visit the research funding page .

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/contacts:
You can contact us with any questions about postgraduate taught study and admissions at the University of Bristol.
If you have already applied to Bristol, please have your Student ID number ready when you contact us.
choosebristol-pg@bristol.ac.uk
If you have a query about one of our programmes (content, structure, entry requirements or your eligibility to apply), please use the contact details found alongside each programme entry .
Please contact the relevant faculty or school for questions about postgraduate research applications.
Health Sciences: fohs-pgadmissions@bristol.ac.uk
Life Sciences: fls-pgenquiries@bristol.ac.uk
+44 (0)117 374 6625
Faculty of Health and Life Sciences contacts
Science: science-pg-admissions@bristol.ac.uk
Engineering: admissions-engpgr@bristol.ac.uk
artf-gradschool-admissions@bristol.ac.uk
+44 (0)117 428 2296
+44 (0)117 428 2297
ed-phd@bristol.ac.uk (research) ed-edd@bristol.ac.uk (EdD)
University of Bristol Business School
University of Bristol Law School
For questions regarding the postgraduate open day, campus tours and other opportunities for prospective postgraduate students to visit the University: Phone: +44 (0)117 428 2252 Email: postgraduate-recruitment@bristol.ac.uk
If you feel your application has not been dealt with according to our admissions principles and procedures, please see our applicant feedback and complaints procedures .
For information about how to find us, see our maps and travel page.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/accounting-and-finance:
PhD Accounting and Finance
Research is central to the activities of the University of Bristol Business School.
The school comprises several groups of academic staff with a variety of interests and a focus on research that has practical relevance.
The results of the most recent UK-wide research assessment, the Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2021 , rated 88% of the research activity in business and management as 'world leading' or 'internationally excellent'.
The Business School encourages interdisciplinary research, drawing on a range of theories and methodologies.
We welcome students from a variety of backgrounds and experiences.
You will be joining a thriving PhD community.
We run a programme of activities to enable PhD students to network with each other.
Candidates entering the PhD programme are required to take taught units in their first year and to participate in PhD workshops and reading groups.
Students are also encouraged to undertake further training in agreement with their supervisor for the duration of their studies.
The main research training is taken from among two categories of units, with separate lists for Accounting and for Finance students.
The units are chosen in consultation with the supervisors to suit the student's PhD research.
ESRC funding : deadline 9 December 2024.
For details on applying for ESRC funding, please visit the South West Doctoral Training Partnership (SWDTP) .
CSC Scholarship : deadline 2 December 2024 For details on applying for CSC funding, please visit the China Scholarship Council-University of Bristol PhD Scholarship .
University of Bristol Scholarship :12 noon UK time - 24 January 2025 For details on applying for UoB scholarships, please visit Bristol Postgraduate Research Scholarships .
Business School Bursaries : deadline 31 March 2025 For details on applying for Business School Bursaries, please visit University of Bristol Business School PGR funding .
Applications open on 18 September 2024 and close on 1 June 2025.
Applications to begin study in September 2025 will not be accepted after this date.
Applications should be submitted electronically by no later than 4pm on the day of the deadline.
Clifton
Potential supervisors for PhD in Accounting and Finance can be found here .
The University of Bristol is ranked fifth for research in the UK ( Times Higher Education ).
94% of our research assessed as world-leading or internationally excellent.
The applicant must have an upper second-class honours degree in a relevant subject or an equivalent qualification, and either have completed or be completing a master's qualification from a UK university (or equivalent).
The master's requirement does not apply to applications made to SWDTP-funded scholarships although commencement of the PhD remains conditional on the completion of the associated master's.
Applicants without a master's qualification may be considered on an exceptional basis.
Aptitude test results such as GMAT and GRE can be submitted as evidence of PhD-level analytical and verbal abilities.
See international equivalent qualifications on the International Office website.
Read the programme admissions statement for important information on entry requirements, the application process and supporting documents required.
If English is not your first language, you will need to reach the requirements outlined in our profile level B.
Further information about English language requirements and profile levels .
Fees are subject to an annual review.
For programmes that last longer than one year, please budget for up to an 8% increase in fees each year.
More about tuition fees, living costs and financial support .
University of Bristol students and graduates can benefit from a 25% reduction in tuition fees for postgraduate study.
Check your eligibility for an alumni discount.
Students applying to research programmes in the Faculty of Social Sciences and Law may apply for funding from a range of sources.
Applicants can find details about applying to these scholarships and deadlines for applications on our Faculty of Arts, Law and Social Sciences webpage .
Applicants can also find the latest funding information on the Business School website , via Business School PGR contacts ( business-school-pgr@bristol.ac.uk ) or through the Business School's social media channels ( Facebook | Instagram | LinkedIn | X ).
Further information on funding for prospective UK and international postgraduate students.
The primary purpose of this qualification is to prepare for a career in research.
Another popular route for graduates is consultancy or enter policy-based institutions.
Find out more about the University of Bristol Business School research groups .
Details of the current research and supervision interests of individual members of staff are available on the school website .
When writing the research statement to accompany your application, the primary requirement is to define and situate your research within an academic/disciplinary context.
You should remember that people in the academic community are the main audience or readership for postgraduate research.
This means that you will need to identify:
1.
The research questions or problems that you intend to address; 2.
The research context for your project/programme of work; 3.
The methods you think you will use to pursue the key questions; 4.
Two potential supervisors for your research - please refer to the staff profiles as listed by the school website .
In considering your application, significant weight will be given to the extent to which you can demonstrate a clearly thought out and specific interest in research.
Apply via our online application system.
For further information, please see the guidance for how to apply on our webpages.
Applicants need to make sure that they submit all required documents (see admissions statement), incomplete applications will not be considered.
Applicants must contact prospective PhD supervisors in advance of applying for a programme.
Please refer to the staff profiles as listed by Academic Groups .
If the supervisor you seek cannot offer supervision, try to identify alternative supervisors.
The supervisor's details should then be included in the application form, or the application process may be delayed.
You may also submit an application without identification of supervisors, and we will try our best to find a match, although we cannot guarantee supervision.
Early applications are strongly encouraged.
Business School PGR Team
business-school-pgr@bristol.ac.uk
Faculty of Arts, Law and Social Sciences

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/advanced-composites:
PhD Advanced Composites
The use of composites offers many benefits to the functionality of both materials and structures, making them integral to many engineering design considerations, including cost, sustainability, fuel efficiency, emissions reduction, and improved operational performance.
As such, composites are replacing traditional materials for lightweight structures at an unprecedented rate due to global demand (for example in the aircraft, wind turbine, construction and automotive industries).
The sector growth is expected to be rapid, in the region of 5 to 10% each year.
With the already encroaching effects of climate change, composite materials and structures have an important role to play in contributing to reductions in CO2 emissions and the growing need for a more sustainable future.
The PhD in Advanced Composites is a four-year postgraduate research programme, which integrates an industry relevant research project with a taught programme in technical subjects related to composites materials, design, mechanics and manufacturing, as well as business skills and transferable skills training.
The PhD programme is run by the Centre for Doctoral Training (CDT) in Innovation for Sustainable Composites Engineering.
The CDT is led by Bristol Composites Institute and the Composites Research Group at the University of Nottingham .
Our PhD students benefit from the use of cutting-edge equipment and expertise at the universities and at the National Composites Centre , which provides a world-class facility to bridge the gap between research and industrial application.
A highly skilled workforce and technical leadership are required to support industry.
Our programme promotes the development of a radical and innovative mindset that is necessary to make composite materials and structures one of the key enablers in a sustainable future.
The CDT aims to provide the UK composites sector with PhD graduates equipped with the advanced technical and leadership skills required for effective adoption of new knowledge and technologies in advanced composites.
The relevant industry areas include aerospace, automotive, marine, wind energy and construction.
An integrated transferable skills training programme is also included, covering communication, career development, innovation, management, and translational research skills.
We have produced an exciting integrated programme enabling graduates to become leaders in sustainable composites engineering.
See the ISCE CDT website for current application deadline.
The taught component comprises six units to provide an intellectually stimulating and inspiring educational framework that encourages innovation.
In first year, you will study the fundamentals of composite materials, manufacturing and mechanics.
Sustainability is included to encourage a holistic examination of the impact of the industry and future strategies for adopting composite materials in a framework of NetZero.
In year two, you will study units that cover innovation and business skills as well as design for manufacture and non-destructive evaluation techniques.
In year three, the Technology Transfer in Practice unit offers an opportunity to reflect on your research experience and its wider ranging impact on society through a secondment to a different sector.
The units are designed to engage you and provide an interdisciplinary view of composites, from materials chemistry to combining analytical and experimental techniques with modelling and practical application in a manufacturing context.
The assessments are designed to encourage independent work, to make you inquisitive about the topics and to encourage your personal development as a research student.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our PhD in Advanced Composites.
Applicants must hold/achieve a minimum 2:1 MEng or merit at master's level or equivalent in engineering, physics or chemistry.
Applicants without a master's qualification may be considered on an exceptional basis, provided they hold a first class undergraduate degree.
Please note, acceptance will also depend on evidence of readiness to pursue a research degree.
If English is not your first language, you will need to reach the requirements outlined in our profile level E.
Enhanced EPSRC studentships with a tax-free stipend include allowance for activities that support research.
These studentships are governed by UKRI/EPSRC student eligibility rules and applicants should check whether they will be eligible.
Applications received from self-funded/sponsored international and EU students are welcome and will be considered.
Information about additional funding sources can be found on the University’s fees and funding pages , the University’s International Scholarships webpage and the Faculty of Engineering postgraduate funding webpage .
Students follow a structured professional development programme that prepares students for a career in academia and industrially based research.
Recent graduates from the programme have gone on to careers within aerospace, automotive, civil engineering, engineering consultancy, and wind energy sectors.
Some have also taken up academic and research positions in UK and international universities, such as MIT.
All CDT students are based in the Bristol Composites Institute , which is within the Faculty of Science and Engineering.
Its vision is to be a world-leading institute for composites research, combining cutting-edge fundamental science with strong industrial links for exploitation and technology transfer.
It is a focus for collaboration – internally, nationally and internationally – and led to the establishment of the UK's National Composites Centre , which is now a recognised focus of national capability in composites.
isce-cdt@bristol.ac.uk
Faculty of Science and Engineering
School of Civil, Aerospace and Design Engineering

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/advanced-quantitative-methods:
PhD Advanced Quantitative Methods
AQM is fundamentally about methodological innovation and application.
It aims to support research that either advances existing quantitative methods or applies cutting-edge techniques to social science topics
The pathway aims to promote research that employs sophisticated statistical, mathematical, econometric, and computational modelling techniques.
This includes, but is not limited to, process modelling, machine learning, and artificial intelligence.
Projects may involve applying statistical methods used in other disciplines to social science problems, or developing novel statistical methods for analysing social-science data.
Please contact the course administrator for details on application deadlines.
The deadlines for funding applications fall well in advance of the programme start dates.
Preliminary contact with staff from the department is welcome at any time of the year.
We strongly encourage prospective applicants to contact us early, before submitting an application.
At least a 2:1 in a relevant subject, or a master's qualification, or be working towards a master's qualification, or international equivalent in a relevant field.
If English is not your first language, you will need to reach the requirements outlined in our profile level D.
This pathway is part of the Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC) South West Doctoral Training Partnership for the South West (SWDTP) , offering opportunities for funded PhD studentships.
The studentships offered are via the 1+3 and +3 routes.
Students with a masters degree that fulfils the ESRC’s training requirements may register directly for a PhD on the three year +3 route.
Students without a suitable masters can apply for the 1+3 route that involves studying for an ESRC accredited masters, (the +1), followed by the three year PhD (+3).
For the AQM pathway, our masters offered is the MSc Geographic Data Science and Spatial Analytics.
This programme provides outstanding academic and research training for prospective PhD students and can lead to careers in data and quantitative research.
The following list shows potential supervisors for this programme.
Visit their profiles for details of their research and expertise.
Quantitative Spatial Science Quantitative Spatial Science (QuSS) Research Group – School of Geographical Sciences
School of Education

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/aerosol-science:
PhD Aerosol Science
Aerosol science, the study of airborne particles from the nanometre to the millimetre scale, has been increasingly in the public consciousness in recent years, particularly due to the role played by aerosols in the transmission of COVID-19.
Vaccines and medications for treating lung and systemic diseases can be delivered by aerosol inhalation, and aerosols are widely used in agricultural and consumer products.
Aerosols are a key mediator of poor air quality and respiratory and cardiac health outcomes.
Improving human health depends on insights from aerosol science on emission sources and transport, supported by standardised metrology.
Similar challenges exist for understanding climate, with aerosol radiative forcing remaining uncertain.
Furthermore, aerosol routes to the engineering and manufacture of new materials can provide greener, more sustainable alternatives to conventional approaches and offer routes to new high-performance materials that can sequester carbon dioxide.
Candidates who aspire to work in a truly multidisciplinary field and who have an undergraduate background in any of the following areas are encouraged to apply: chemistry, physics, biological sciences, life and medical sciences, chemical and mechanical engineering, pharmacy and environmental sciences.
You will be based at the University of Bristol for the first seven months of your first year of this EPSRC Centre for Doctoral Training.
During this time, you will receive training in the underlying physical science governing the properties and transformation of aerosols.
Training will be provided by academics and industrial partners using a team-based learning approach.
You will then undertake a short research project for three months that could be in one of the partnering universities (Bath, Birmingham, Cambridge, Hertfordshire, Imperial, Manchester or Surrey), giving you an opportunity to gain an insight into aerosols in an area complementary to your eventual PhD research.
During year two or year three, you will undertake a placement hosted by the industrial partner supporting your project, giving you a perspective on aerosols outside the academic environment.
It is our expectation that our graduates will be agile experts, able to work at the many boundaries between the conventional disciplines where aerosols play a role.
The CDT welcomes applications through our CDT in Aerosol Science website , from September 2024.
Shortlisted applicants will be invited to participate in the CDT recruitment and assessment events held regularly throughout October to June 2025.
In year one, you will undertake cohort-based training in aerosol science based at the University of Bristol.
A taught programme in months one to seven will encompass training in:
Training will be provided by academic supervisors from the eight participating universities (Bristol, Bath, Birmingham, Cambridge, Hertfordshire, Imperial, Manchester or Surrey) and by partners from the approximately 90 industrial and government sector organisations supporting the centre.
The taught programme will be followed by a short research project for three months, hosted at any one of the eight institutions, intended to foster transdisciplinary competencies.
This project will be in an academic lab in an area of aerosol science complementary to your eventual PhD research.
A progression interview will be held in month 11, after which you will begin your PhD research project.
Throughout the remaining years, training will be provided through summer schools, events hosted by the Aerosol Society of the UK and Ireland, and through online virtual resources and events.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for the first year of this programme.
Applicants must hold/achieve a minimum of an upper second-class MSci honours degree in a relevant discipline spanning physical, biological and environmental sciences and engineering, or a postgraduate MSc or international equivalent.
We may consider applicants with a lower second-class MSci honours degree or an upper second-class BSc honours degree who can demonstrate good potential for research.
If English is not your first language, you will need to reach the requirements outlined in our profile level F.
This programme is funded through the EPSRC Centre for Doctoral Training in Aerosol Science.
Successful candidates will receive a studentship covering Research Training and Support Grant, tuition fees, and a stipend paid at the standard UKRI rate.
Further information is available on the UKRI website .
Eligibility/funding guidance for International applicants is available on the CDT website .
Aerosol science is core to a broad range of disciplines - from drug delivery to the lungs, to disease transmission, aerosol routes to the manufacture of new materials, combustion, air quality and climate change, and the delivery of consumer and agricultural products.
This programme equips students to enter careers in any of these areas in which a knowledge of aerosol science is important, spanning industry, government, the public sector and NGOs.
Jonathan Reid (Chemistry) Andrew Orr-Ewing (Chemistry) Bryan Bzdek (Chemistry) Dudley Shallcross (Chemistry) Matthew Watson (Earth Sciences) Alberto Gambaruto (Mechanical Engineering) Karen Aplin (Aerospace Engineering) Darryl Hill (Cellular and Molecular Medicine) Andrew Davidson (Cellular and Molecular Medicine) Peter Martin (Physics) Hannah Wakeford (Physics)
Please apply directly via the CDT in Aerosol Science website .
PhD studentships recruiting for September 2025 start will be advertised on the CDT website and applications open from September 2024.
Kate Loutit and Ka Man Kam, CDT Administrators
117 455 8429
aerosol-science@bristol.ac.uk
Dr.
Rachael Miles, CDT Course Director
rachael.miles@bristol.ac.uk
School of Chemistry

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/aerospace-engineering:
PhD, MSc by research Aerospace Engineering
Aerospace engineering research at Bristol is organised via cross-faculty research groups with interests spanning four key areas:
This work is supported by at least 50 academic staff, more than 70 research staff and over 240 postgraduate students, plus a highly experienced administrative and technical support team.
Aerospace engineering is a specific discipline involving experimental, numerical, theoretical and computational research which is later applied to aerospace-related problems, for example, fixed-wing aircraft, rotorcraft, wind turbines and UAVs.
All postgraduates would expect to publish in high-quality journals and present at international conferences so our research programmes are aimed at independent and self-motivated applicants.
For September 2025 entry: Overseas applicants: 31 July 2025 Home applicants: 18 August 2025
If you wish to apply for an alternative start date, please contact the admissions team directly.
PhD applicants must hold/achieve a minimum of upper second class MEng/MSci (or equivalent) or a merit at postgraduate master's degree (or international equivalent) in a science, mathematics or engineering discipline.
Applicants without a master's qualification may be considered on an exceptional basis, provided they hold a first-class undergraduate degree.
MSc by Research applicants must hold/achieve a minimum of an upper second class honours degree (or international equivalent) in science, mathematics or engineering and demonstrate readiness to pursue a research degree.
A number of funded studentships are available each year, supported by research council, industry, University or other funds.
View the faculty website for a list of currently available funded projects or visit jobs.ac.uk .
Self-funded or sponsored students are also very welcome to apply.
Graduates from the department leave with a breadth of technical and personal skills and expertise, far beyond their particular degree specialism.
They progress into a wide variety of careers within engineering (for example, aerospace, automotive/motorsport, transportation, consulting engineering), academia, public services (for example, civil service, air traffic management) and commerce (for example, IT, finance).
A higher degree can accelerate your career significantly, particularly into positions of greater responsibility.
Furthermore, it increasingly provides entrepreneurial opportunities, which build on the skills and knowledge you acquire during the programme.
A list of research groups in Engineering can be found on the Faculty webpages.
You need to contact a potential academic adviser to discuss available projects, and complete a Supervisor Suitability Form (Office document, 70kB) before submitting an application.
You can then apply using our online application system.
Faculty of Engineering Postgraduate Research Admissions Team
admissions-engpgr@bristol.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/anthropology-and-archaeology:
PhD, MPhil Anthropology and Archaeology
The Department of Anthropology and Archaeology has an international 'four-field' approach, combining archaeology with evolutionary, social and linguistic anthropology.
Our key strengths lie in our integrated approaches to understanding cultural, biological and social diversity and change.
We focus particularly on adaptation, adversity and globalisation.
Our research themes include 'Ecologies', 'Liveable Futures', 'Transitions and Turbulence', and 'Connections and Creativity'.
Our research spans from earliest prehistory to the modern day.
Field research takes place in the UK, as well as Bhutan, Brazil, China, Colombia, Dominica, Ethiopia, Kenya, Mexico, Peru, Singapore, Venezuela, and elsewhere.
We are well equipped to undertake anthropological and archaeological fieldwork, including excavation, and we have world-class radiocarbon dating and organic residue analysis laboratories on site.
We foster partnerships with professional institutions nationally and locally to provide additional collaborative opportunities for our students (for example, with the Royal Anthropological Institute Ethnographic Film Festival, UNESCO City of Film, and Bristol Museum and Art Gallery).
In addition, we draw on expertise and facilities from across the University (such as the Brigstow Institute ; Cabot Institute for the Environment ; Elizabeth Blackwell Institute for Health Research ; Jean Golding Institute ).
We also work closely with institutes and centres in the Faculties of Social Sciences and Law ( Migration Mobilities Bristol ; the Centre for Environmental Humanities ; and the Centre for Health, Humanities and Science ), as well as the Faculty of Science ( Bristol Isotope Group ; Organic Geochemistry Unit ).
January 2025 start: 1 December 2024.
September 2025 start: Overseas applicants: 25 July 2025.
Home applicants: 1 August 2025.
January 2026 start: 1 December 2025.
The deadlines for funding applications fall well in advance of these dates.
MPhil: a standalone, one-year (full-time) research degree.
Students will undertake their own research project, concluding in the submission of a 25,000-word dissertation.
Students may have the option to audit units from our taught master's programmes if they are relevant to their research.
PhD: a research project undertaken across four years (full-time, minimum period of study three years), culminating in an 80,000-word thesis.
As well as having the option to audit taught units, there may be the potential for PhD students to teach units themselves from their second year of study onwards.
The MPhil and PhD can be studied via distance learning.
MPhil: A mid-level upper second-class degree or international equivalent, with evidence of first class research.
Please note, acceptance will also depend upon evidence of your readiness to pursue a research degree.
PhD: A master's qualification, or be working towards a master's qualification, or international equivalent, with evidence of first class/distinction-level research.
Applicants without a master's qualification may be considered on an exceptional basis provided they hold a first-class undergraduate degree (or international equivalent).
Applicants with a non-traditional background may be considered provided they can demonstrate substantial equivalent and relevant experience that has prepared them to undertake their proposed course of study.
If English is not your first language, you will need to reach the requirements outlined in our profile level C.
Students will be eligible to apply for PhD studentships from the AHRC South, West and Wales Doctoral Training Partnership (SWWDTP) , which will be offering studentships for September entry.
From 2024, students will also be eligible to apply for PhD studentships from the ESRC South West Doctoral Training Partnership (SWDTP )
For information on other funding opportunities, including University-funded studentships, please see the Faculty of Arts, Law and Social Sciences funding pages .
Graduates from our department have gone on to work in diverse professional contexts, including higher education and research, museums, the heritage sector, government, public and private sector organisations, international development, NGOs, and policy-making organisations.
Ecologies: Our research coalesces around critical issues of the human relationship with the environment and our long-term planetary futures.
Our research on ecologies ranges broadly in time, with projects on human evolutionary pasts including the origin of sociality in primates, adaptation and extinction in apes, prehistorical changes in human societies and the evolution of cultural traits, and subsistence and dietary changes over millennia.
We also focus on contemporary societies and how people respond to and live in the shadow of climate disasters.
Research ranges broadly in terms of region, with projects in East Africa on fungi and food security and human behavioural ecology in relation to reproductive health; in South America on children and their relationship to both forest and urban environments in Peru and resource extraction and environmental destruction in Amazonia; in Asia exploring how people navigate and adapt to an international landscape of borders; and in the Pacific and Europe on the cultural uses of plants.
We also bring this theme home to the southwest of England with archaeologies of changing landscapes and landscape usage from Prehistory to the present day.
Liveable Futures: What is needed for life to be sustained?
What conditions must be in place if we are to occupy a world that is habitable, and a society that enables human and non-human life to flourish?
What challenges must we overcome to realise this vision of a hopeful and thriving future?
Asking and answering such questions has always been at the heart of human experience, but we live at a moment where they are being posed anew in light of unprecedented contingencies and opportunities.
Ecological emergencies.
Faltering confidence in liberal democracy.
Ever-accelerating technological transformations.
These encounters shift our perceptions on what the future holds, as they provoke a collective "soul searching" on what it means to secure a liveable future for humanity, and even for life as such.
Our research into Liveable Futures demonstrates how an anthropological perspective can contribute to and reshape this conversation.
Turbulence and Transition: Whether affected by disease, drugs, changing diets, migrations, trauma, extractive practices, hurricanes, political shifts, or conflict we are interested in how humans live through and make sense of world altering events and everyday lived experiences.
Our work is concerned with keeping pace with global changes – actively reflecting on, and reshaping anthropology and archaeology's approaches to, and impacts on our changing world.
Our research projects track the challenges faced by human beings past and present, exploring how lives and material cultures are impacted by technological, social, and environmental change.
Our research projects explore themes such as survival and resilience in the Caribbean in the face of destructive storms; the impacts of anarchy, civil war and rebellion in the southwest of medieval Britain; educational and linguistic transitions amongst ethnic groups in contemporary China; and how we can best support the survivors of sexual abuse.
Connections & Creativity: Here we explore the possibilities for new forms of discovery and methodological engagement with past and contemporary societies.
We are initiating, creating, and caretaking large-scale datasets that drive new forms of understanding, interpretation, and integration.
We also have a growing expertise in multi-modal anthropological approaches and the deployment of visual and creative methods of engagement and cultural production.
Our expertise foregrounds opportunities for collaboration, co-production and participatory methods, placing our department at the heart of contemporary issues.
Postgraduate Admissions
117 428 2296
artf-pgadmissions@bristol.ac.uk
School of Arts
Department of Anthropology and Archaeology

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/biochemistry:
PhD, MSc by research Biochemistry
As a school, we believe that part of our mission is to train the next generation of life scientists.
We take great pride in the standard of our postgraduate provision and offer both three- and four-year PhD programmes.
It is also possible to pursue a one-year Master's by Research (MScR) which allows an additional year of write-up time if necessary.
Competition for places on our postgraduate programmes is high, but we believe that we offer a unique and nurturing environment for talented students.
You will receive extensive research training that covers methodology, critical interpretation and problem-solving, as well as transferable skills training in communication, presentation, teamwork, time management and teaching.
You will also be encouraged to participate in personal development planning, which is considered a valuable adjunct of your professional development.
Training is also available in enterprise and entrepreneurship.
You will have access to the world-class Wolfson Bioimaging Facility and GW4 high-resolution cryoEM facility, which provides a suite of state-of-the-art light and electron microscopes.
In addition, the Proteomics Facility offers bespoke proteomics services for researchers.
Application deadline - MScR and PhD
Please check our funding webpages for details of funding application deadlines.
Applications from self-funded students are welcomed and have no fixed deadline.
However, if you wish to join in September 2025, please apply with a complete application by 30 June 2025 if you are an overseas student and 31 July 2025 if you are a home student.
Our research activity in the school is guided by focusing on 3 key themes:
Dynamic Molecular Cell Biology
Biomolecular Structure and Mechanism
Synthetic Biology
All researchers across the school identify with one or more of the themes.
The school usually has 100 research postgraduates at any one time, working in a wide variety of subject areas and adopting a range of different research approaches.
Read more about our Research Areas and research in the Faculty of Life Sciences .
A first or upper second-class honours degree (or international equivalent) in a biomedical science discipline is required for entry to the PhD programme.
We may consider MSc by research applications from candidates with a lower second-class degree (or international equivalent).
Funding to support postgraduate studentships is provided by the BBSRC and MRC from September 2024 onwards (eligibility criteria apply).
A limited number of University scholarships are also available for exceptional UK, EU and overseas students, although international students are often self-funded or supported by funds from their own governments.
Details about funded places and scholarships are listed on the Faculty of Life Sciences website .
Most of our postgraduate students become highly productive researchers, publishing in leading peer-reviewed biomedical journals.
Over 75 per cent of our students go on to postdoctoral research in academia and industry.
Other students use the transferable skills gained during their study to enter postgraduate-level employment, including publishing, management and administration.
We are committed to promoting the advancement of women and under-represented minorities in science, engineering and technology.
Research in the school covers all aspects of modern biochemistry and this is reflected in the wide range of postgraduate projects available.
The school has an international reputation in cell biology, and enjoys an association with the Wolfson Bioimaging Facility and GW4 high-resolution cryoEM facility, which houses the state-of-the-art light and electron microscopes.
Our work in this area of dynamic molecular cell biology covers intracellular trafficking, cell shape and movement, and the control of cell death and proliferation.
We have also earned an international reputation for our research in structural biology and biophysics, including rational drug design, mathematical modelling of protein structure and folding, pioneering work on the interactions between DNA and proteins, and structural biology of complex systems including membrane proteins and complexes.
Synthetic biology is another key area of active research within the school, which is supported by the BrisSynBio Centre and the Bristol BioDesign Institute - world-class flagships for multi-disciplinary studies in this area.
The fundamental research supported by the school is often translated into practical applications aimed at understanding disease mechanisms and improving human health.
Our research has made significant contributions towards understanding cardiovascular disease, diabetes, cancer, malaria, neurodegenerative diseases, and many other aspects of clinical research.
When applying you must indicate one or two potential supervisors whose research interests you.
We recommend that you contact these supervisors by email in advance of making your application.
Details of the members of staff that could serve as supervisors are available on Dynamic Molecular Cell Biology , Biomolecular Structure and Mechanism , Synthetic Biology
Apply today via our online application system.
Faculty Education Team
+ 44 0117 374 6625
fls-pgenquiries@bristol.ac.uk
Faculty of Health and Life Sciences
School of Biochemistry

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/biological-sciences:
PhD, MSc by research Biological Sciences
Researchers in the School of Biological Sciences conduct cutting-edge research across a broad range of biological disciplines, including genomics, biotechnology, cell biology, molecular plant science, sensory biology, animal behaviour and evolution, population biology, host-disease interactions and ecosystem services.
The school is based in the £54 million state-of-the-art Life Sciences building.
Our laboratory facilities are among the best in the world with critical '-omics' technologies and associated computing capacity (bioinformatics) a core component.
The building is designed to foster our already strong collaborative and convivial environment and includes a centre for evolutionary biology research including key researchers from earth sciences, biochemistry, social medicine, chemistry and computer sciences.
The school has strong links with local industry, including BBC Bristol, Bristol Zoo and the University of Bristol Botanic Garden.
We offer PhD and an MSc by research programmes in many aspects of biology as well as a taught MSc in Bioinformatics and a taught MSc in Science Communication for a Better Planet .
We have a lively postgraduate community.
Our stimulating environment and excellent graduate school training and support provide opportunities to develop your future career.
Our postgraduates make a vital research contribution, while developing skills and receiving training in communication, outreach, statistics, scientific writing and career planning.
We strongly encourage all applicants to contact an academic supervisor before starting their application.
Scroll down to the bottom of this page to see more information about our research groups and links to a list of supervisors working in each group.
However, if you wish to join in September 2025, please apply with a complete application by 30 June 2025 if you are an overseas student and 31 July 2025 if you are a home student
An upper second-class honours degree (or equivalent) in biological sciences or related discipline.
Research is supported by BBSRC, MRC, NERC, the ERC, the Royal Society, the Wellcome and Leverhulme Trusts, the Wolfson Foundation, Defra and other government agencies, charities and industry.
All studentships and openings are advertised on the School of Biological Sciences website .
Many postgraduate students choose a higher degree because they enjoy their subject and subsequently go on to work in a related area.
Postgraduate study is often a requirement for becoming a researcher, scientist, academic journal editor and for work in some public bodies or private companies.
Around 60% of biological sciences doctoral graduates continue in research.
We have a strong track record in supporting the careers of young researchers by helping them to find post-doctoral positions or develop fellowship applications.
Our research activity in the school is guided by focusing on key themes:
The school usually has up to 200 research postgraduates at any one time, working in a wide variety of subject areas and adopting a range of different research approaches.
Read more about our Biological Sciences research areas and research in the Faculty of Life Sciences .
Details of the members of staff that could serve as supervisors are available on the webpages above.
117 374 6625
School of Biological Sciences

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/cellular-and-molecular-medicine:
PhD, MD, MSc by research Cellular and Molecular Medicine
The School of Cellular and Molecular Medicine is an internationally recognised centre of excellence for the study of cancer biology, infection and immunology, and regenerative medicine.
Ongoing refurbishment of our immunology, microbiology, virology, regenerative medicine and cancer research laboratories has created an outstanding working environment with state-of-the-art facilities.
Researchers in the school also have access to facilities within the Faculty of Life Sciences, for example the Molecular Recognition Centre and Cell Imaging, Proteomics and Wolfson Bioimaging Facility .
Staff research interests include:
The school combines basic research with a focus on translation, in other words turning basic scientific discoveries into something that is clinically useful.
Key successes of this type include the development of novel drugs, therapies and diagnostic tests, and the implementation of changes to clinical practice.
Several members of staff in the school are clinicians.
We have a list of pre-defined research projects available for the MSc by Research.
Applicants for the MD should be medically qualified and should consult with the graduate director before applying.
Details about funded places and scholarships are listed on the Faculty of Life Sciences website and the School of Cellular and Molecular Medicine website .
Graduates have varied careers, including academic research, contract research, working in industry, diagnostics and clinical science, secondary education, higher education, science communications, journalism and research council grant administration.
· Cancer biology · Infection and immunity
· Regenerative medicine and stem cells
The school has many research postgraduates at any one time, working in a wide variety of subject areas and adopting a range of different research approaches.
Read more about our Cellular and Molecular Medicine Research Areas and research in the Faculty of Life Sciences .
School of Cellular and Molecular Medicine

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/chemistry:
PhD, MSc by research Chemistry
The School of Chemistry is an internationally recognised centre for teaching and research, ranking #1 in the UK for Chemistry research ( THE analysis of REF 2021 ).
We offer a world-class environment for your PhD or MSc research degree, with state-of-the-art facilities and infrastructure, as well as support and guidance from internationally leading Academic Supervisors.
There are currently up to 250 postgraduate and post-doctoral researchers, from many different countries, working with more than 50 academic staff on a wide range of research themes.
Extensive collaborations with science-based industries and leading international academic centres ensure that research in Bristol remains at the frontiers of science.
The School of Chemistry is housed in spacious, modern laboratories, which are well equipped with state-of-the-art facilities .
There is a comprehensive graduate support programme to ensure you have the opportunity to build a wide range of skills, both in chemistry and other transferable skills which will be useful to you in your future career.
The School of Chemistry hosts and participates in a number of Centres for Doctoral Training (CDTs) and Doctoral Training Partnerships (DTPs) .
Training opportunities in these national flagship centres are available in the following disciplines:
Hosted in the School of Chemistry:
External partnerships:
More information can be found on our Chemistry PhD / MSc by Research | School of Chemistry page.
Not fixed, unless determined by external funding bodies.
We welcome applications at any time of the year.
A minimum of an upper second-class MSci/MChem honours degree in chemistry, or a relevant related discipline, or a postgraduate MSc or international equivalent.
We may consider applicants with a lower second-class MSci/MChem honours degree, or a first or upper second-class BSc honours degree who can demonstrate good potential for research.
The School of Chemistry offers financial support for PhD students from a range of sources, including UK research councils, Industry, Bristol Postgraduate Research Scholarships, and other scholarship schemes.
There is no separate application form for these, unless otherwise stated on the School's website.
A limited number of School of Chemistry bursaries are available to cover bench fees, which may otherwise be charged.
The School of Chemistry welcomes applications under the China Scholarship Council (CSC) scheme.
Areas of research focus include: health and healthcare, biotechnology, semiconductors, green development, air quality, water quality, sustainable energy, reducing emissions, big data, artificial intelligence and virtual reality.
The details of this scheme, eligibility criteria and how to apply can be found here .
Prospective candidates are welcome to contact the School of Chemistry's admissions team with any funding queries.
Your skills will be in high demand from the chemical and allied industries, as well as the public sector.
A PhD in Chemistry is valued in many areas of employment, including pharmaceutical sciences, green energy, polymers, coatings, agrochemicals, instrumentation manufacturers and management consultancies.
Many of our PhD graduates are successful in securing post-doctoral positions at universities in the UK and overseas.
The School of Chemistry is managed under three sections: Inorganic and Materials; Organic and Biological; and Physical and Theoretical.
However, the School's research profile is defined according to research themes, each with a critical mass of researchers: further information can be found at Explore Bristol Research .
We are now ranked the UK's number 1 chemistry department for research ( THE analysis of REF 2021 ) with 100% of our research outputs recognised as being world leading or internationally excellent.
Additionally, we are internationally recognised for the breadth, creativity and high quality of our research.
The talent of our researchers, from students to Professors, is our greatest asset.
These scientists are brought together under our five research themes, which highlight our broad range of interests.
Our research themes connect activities spanning traditional boundaries of chemistry and also build bridges to other disciplines such as engineering and medicine.
Our research themes are:
Researchers in the School of Chemistry are engaged in a number of collaborative centres and research institutes, including the Cabot Institute and BrisSynBio , with broader engagement from researchers across the Faculty of Science, the wider University and beyond.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/civil-engineering:
PhD, MSc by research Civil Engineering
Our multidisciplinary research addresses the global need for delivering long-term, sustainable performance of existing and new infrastructure systems.
We are leaders in modelling and managing the impacts of extreme natural and human hazards, such as earthquakes, climate change, flooding, industrial processes, traffic and crowds.
Our application studies range from complete national and regional systems (such as national hydrological models, water systems, electricity and transport networks) through individual artefacts (such as nuclear facilities, offshore wind farms, underground services, dams, long-span bridges and buildings), down to local scale buckling models of reinforcing bars in concrete or mechanical characterisation of small-scale soil elements.
Much of our research requires numerical and experimental investigations across the length scales, from micro and macro to large, from particulate to continuum.
It also includes monitoring of prototypes, for example, the dynamics of cable-stayed bridges such as the Second Severn Crossing, analysis of deep excavations and flood prediction based on real-time radar detection of rainfall.
We collaborate widely with academic and industrial partners from across the engineering, science and social science disciplines, and from around the world.
For September 2025 entry: Overseas: 31 July 2025 Home: 18 August 2025
PhD applicants must hold/achieve a minimum of upper second class MEng/MSci (or equivalent) or a merit at postgraduate master's degree level (or international equivalent) in a relevant discipline.
Please note, acceptance will also depend on readiness to pursue a research degree.
MSc by research applicants must hold/achieve a minimum of an upper second class honours degree (or international equivalent) in a relevant discipline and demonstrate readiness to pursue a research degree.
Please review the list of proposed supervisors below to identify a supervisor who may be suited to your proposed topic and approach.
Your supervisor will lead on the key intellectual input in supporting your proposed research project.
Please note, your primary supervisor should not be: an honorary or visiting member of staff, an emeritus or retired member of staff, currently registered for a research degree, a Research Associate or a Senior Research Associate.
Civil engineering PhD graduates are found in a variety of careers, including world-leading research.
Many also work as consultants or as part of large-scale engineering industries.
The Earthquake and Geotechnical Engineering (EGE) research group is world-leading, hosting a unique multimillion-pound earthquake engineering laboratory equipped with several shake table earthquake simulators, a soil pit testing configuration, strong floors and a reaction wall.
The large-scale experiments are executed in the SoFSI/EQUALS Research Infrastructure that includes the £12 million UKCRIC National Facility for Soil Foundation Structure Interaction (SoFSI) and the long established EQUALS laboratory.
This facility integrates structural and geotechnical engineering for soil structure testing and fills key gaps in our understanding which cannot be resolved using conventional, smaller scale laboratory tests or prototype observations.
The SoFSI/EQUALS Laboratory can deliver a unique, high value capability for de-risking investments in innovation and development, for example in life extension techniques for existing infrastructure or the application of new materials and devices.
The group's area encompasses earthquake engineering, structural engineering, advanced composite materials, geomechanics and infrastructure resilience.
It develops techniques for theoretical and numerical analysis, physical testing of infrastructure in the field and laboratory, advanced structural and geotechnical material behaviour characterisation and modelling, structural vulnerability and overall non-linear dynamic performance assessment.
It has made notable advances in several areas, including the mechanisms of wind and pedestrian-induced vibrations, the non-linear dynamics of masonry and other buildings, dynamics of long-span bridges, cable structures, wind turbines, and seismic response of bridges and large dams.
The research group also works on the analysis, design and assessment of earthquake-resistant structures, including novel numerical and analytical methods, retrofit techniques, risk studies, and on-site inspection of buildings, bridges and critical infrastructure.
The group has an active interest in solving geotechnical problems using a multi-scale approach, combining advanced laboratory testing, constitutive modelling, physical modelling, field observation and numerical simulation.
Recent research has focused on measurements of deformation properties of soils using novel techniques of laboratory geophysics at very small strains for stiffness; dynamic soil-structure interaction, with an emphasis on piles and retaining walls; and foundations of offshore wind turbines.
The group also has a strong interest in the characterisation of treated geomaterials: mixtures of soil with various inclusions such as fibres, cement, fly ash and soft tyre chips.
The Soil Mechanics Laboratory possesses a series of triaxial and a unique set of multiaxial soil test apparatus: true triaxial apparatus (independent variation of three principal stresses, rigid boundaries), cubical cell (independent variation of three principal stresses, flexible boundaries) and hollow cylindrical torsional apparatus (independent control of four stress variables).
The Water and Environmental Engineering research group is concerned with characterising and simulating the water environment in a changing world.
We advance the sustainable use of water resources, provide design variables for infrastructure and enhance the security of society regarding floods and other environmental hazards.
Focus areas include hydrology, water and health, climate change impacts, human impacts, water quality, risk from natural hazards, and new observational methods.
Water and environmental security are crucial for the sustainable and safe existence of both people and nature.
Ensuring water security requires protection from floods and water scarcity, and the sufficient supply of fresh water of appropriate quality to ensure environmental and human health.
The future of our society is less likely to be threatened by armed conflict than by population growth, climate change, water shortages and pollution, as well as poverty and rising food prices.
The water and environment research group focuses on developing the theory and tools needed to address the complex issue of water security in a changing world.
The group consists of an interdisciplinary team of engineers and scientists who combine process understanding, mathematical modelling, novel monitoring approaches and engineering principles to solve societal water problems.
The Infrastructure Systems research group develops novel, holistic approaches for characterising and managing the safe and sustainable performance of complex socio-technical systems.
Key areas of work include sustainable systems, problem structuring methods, the vulnerability and resilience of infrastructures, infrastructure interdependencies, smart cities and communities, and the safety and vulnerability of embedded software systems.
Within the research group, the Safety Systems Research Centre performs novel research into the safe and resilient performance of complex systems, including computational and organisational factors.
The centre is also part of the Bristol-Oxford Nuclear Research Centre, and Bristol's strategic relationship with EDF.
The Group also hosts the Infrastructure Collaboratory, Bristol's UKCRIC Urban Observatory facility, responsible for deploying testbeds across the city and developing novel solutions for monitoring traffic, air pollution, energy consumption, water quality and many other aspects of urban life.
Please review the list of proposed supervisors above to identify a supervisor who may be suited to your proposed topic and approach.
You need to contact a potential supervisor to discuss available projects, and complete a Supervisor Suitability Form (Office document, 70kB) , before submitting an application.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/classics-and-ancient-history:
PhD, MPhil Classics and Ancient History
The Department of Classics and Ancient History has an international reputation for outstanding and innovative research.
We are particularly well known for reception studies, which we pioneered in Britain, and interdisciplinary approaches to the study of antiquity.
As a research student, you will be a member of a thriving and dynamic community.
Students may have the option to audit units from taught programmes if they are relevant to their research.
As well as having the option to audit taught units, there may be opportunities for PhD students to gain teaching experience from their second year of study onwards.
All research students are offered training sessions: some are run by the department, some by the School of Humanities, and some by the Faculty of Arts, Law and Social Sciences.
Students are also expected to attend the fortnightly departmental research seminars.
MPhil: An upper second-class degree or international equivalent.
Please note, acceptance will also depend on evidence of your readiness to pursue a research degree.
PhD: A master's qualification, or be working towards a master's qualification, or international equivalent.
Applicants without a master's qualification may be considered on an exceptional basis, provided they hold a first-class undergraduate degree (or international equivalent).
The University of Bristol is part of the South, West and Wales Doctoral Training Partnership (SWW DTP), which will be offering studentships for September 2025.
A large number of graduates from this programme develop careers in higher education or work on high-level research projects in the field of classics and ancient history.
Some graduates go on to careers in museums, education, and journalism.
Members of the department carry out research across the whole range of classical studies: Greek and Latin literature, ancient history and historiography, visual culture, archaeology, philosophy and reception.
Our work is characterised by a particular focus on interdisciplinary approaches and theoretical questions, and by an interest in the globalisation of classics.
A special resource is the Bristol Institute of Greece, Rome and the Classical Tradition , which provides a focus for collaborative and interdisciplinary work and support for conferences and other research activities.
The institute encompasses research from many fields, including history, art history, archaeology, literary studies and philosophy, with a particular interest in exploring links between the ancient and modern worlds.
Individual members of staff are involved with research groups across the faculty and University, such as medieval studies, early modern studies, colonialism and the Cabot Institute for the Environment .
They have run research clusters on topics such as 'The Embodied Mind' and 'Tragedy'.
Members of the department currently hold, and have recently held, major research fellowships from the Alan Turing Institute, the Leverhulme Trust and the Arts and Humanities Research Council.
Faculty of Arts, Law and Social Sciences Postgraduate Research Admissions
Nicoletta Momigliano
n.momigliano@bristol.ac.uk
School of Humanities
Department of Classics and Ancient History

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/comparative-literatures-and-cultures:
PhD, MPhil Comparative Literatures and Cultures
Research in Comparative Literatures and Cultures sits within the School of Modern Languages and builds on two areas of strength within the school: transnational studies and intermediality.
By exploring new objects of study and innovative methodologies, we have forged interdisciplinary connections in and beyond the arts and social sciences via themes of global concern, from mental health to climate change.
Transnational studies emphasise cultural difference and diversity yet also interconnectedness and mutual influence.
We explore cultural contact, migration and transfer within and beyond Europe in uneven colonial, pre-colonial, and postcolonial contexts, both vertically and transversally, while questioning persistent narratives of 'West' and 'East', or 'North' and 'South'.
Intermedial studies build on our excellence in word and image studies, film and theatre, auditory culture, and the study of such cultural artefacts as video games, graphic novels, manga, the media, landscape design, and artwork from video installation to graffiti.
We also explore the materiality of discursive genres (poetic form, the novel, ego documents and political rhetoric), and how literary and discursive practices interact with social, political and professional contexts.
Comparative Literatures and Cultures draws on the extensive research specialisms of our staff.
Each research student is assigned a supervisor who works in their proposed area of research or related field, and benefits from the input of a second supervisor who will likely come from another department, depending on the nature of the project.
Supervisory teams may include staff from other schools and departments within the Faculty of Arts, Law and Social Sciences and beyond, for example in Classics, English, Drama, History or Philosophy.
Our postgraduates are fully integrated in a professionally and personally supportive departmental and school community.
We encourage you to attend and give papers at school and University research events, as well as academic conferences.
Funding is available to support field work and participation in external events.
We support you in developing a full range of academic skills.
Students will undertake their own research project, concluding in a 25,000-word dissertation.
Students may have the option to audit units from our taught master's programmes if relevant.
As well as having the option to audit taught units, there may be the potential for PhD students to teach units themselves from their second year of study.
Graduates from our department have gone on to work in diverse professional contexts, including higher education and research, government, public and private sector organisations, international development, NGOs, and policy-making organisations.
Faculty of Arts, Law and Social Sciences Postgraduate Admissions
0117 42 82297
School of Modern Languages

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/composites-manufacture:
EngD Composites Manufacture
The sector growth is expected to be rapid, in the region of 5-10% each year.
The Engineering Doctorate (EngD) in Composites Manufacture is a four-year postgraduate research programme, which integrates an industry-based research project with a taught programme in technical subjects related to composites materials, design, mechanics and manufacturing, as well as business skills and transferable skills training.
Each EngD research project is designed around the sponsor company's research priorities.
The EngD programme is run by the Centre for Doctoral Training (CDT) in Innovation for Sustainable Composites Engineering.
EngD students benefit from the use of cutting-edge equipment and expertise at the universities and at the National Composites Centre , which provides a world-class facility to bridge the gap between research and industrial application.
The CDT aims to provide the UK composites sector with EngD graduates equipped with the advanced technical and leadership skills required for effective adoption of new knowledge and technologies in composites manufacture.
The research component is carried out in industry, with students spending 75% of their time located with their industrial sponsor.
An integrated transferable skills training programme is included, covering communication, career development, innovation, management, and translational research skills.
The assessments are designed to encourage independent work, to make you inquisitive about the topics, and to encourage your personal development as a research student.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our EngD in Composites Manufacture.
As the research component takes place at the industrial sponsor, this programme is not available to those requiring a tier 4 visa for study in the UK.
Students follow a structured professional development programme that prepares EngD students for industrially based research.
As the research programme is based in industry, graduates will be ready to apply for chartered status with an appropriate learned institution and are expected to take up leadership positions within the composites manufacturing industry.
Recent graduates have taken up employment at Airbus, Rolls-Royce, Lamborghini and the National Composites Centre.
Please contact the Industrial Doctorate Centre directly before making an application online.
Centre for Doctoral Training in Innovation for Sustainable Composites Engineering
117 456 1658

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/computer-science:
PhD, MSc by research Computer Science
As a city, Bristol is known for its concentration of high-technology industry.
Computers, communications and microelectronics are well represented, alongside digital media, computer games and electronic commerce.
The University has close relationships with many of these organisations via collaborative projects, staff secondments and visiting industrial staff.
The School of Computer Science is an international centre of excellence in the foundations and applications of computing.
Researchers in this area of study explore intelligent systems, digital media, foundations, personal systems, and architecture and design.
Computer Science is located within Merchant Venturers Building alongside aligned areas of study like Electrical and Electronic Engineering, bringing together the University's research strengths in computing, communications, electronics and photonics.
PhD applicants must hold/achieve a minimum of a merit at master's degree level (or international equivalent) in a relevant discipline.
MSc by Research applicants must hold/achieve a minimum of an upper second class honours degree (or international equivalent) in a relevant discipline and demonstrate readiness to pursue a research degree.
View the faculty webpages for a list of currently available funded projects or visit jobs.ac.uk .
The Computer Science PhD can open doors to many different stimulating commercial or academic careers.
Graduates have become part of new and existing world-class research groups, as well as pursued highly rewarding careers in a variety of industries around the world.
Computer Science at the University of Bristol has a large programme of research supported by industry, the European Union, UK government research establishments and public corporations.
The academic research programme is organised into research groups .
The University of Bristol Research Portal can be used to find academics, their research interests, and projects for all faculties.
School of Computer Science

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/creative-writing:
PhD, MPhil Creative Writing
A postgraduate research qualification in Creative Writing consists of an original body of work - normally a novel, or a collection of poetry/short stories - with an accompanying critical element.
The critical element will place the creative work in an informed and theorised analytical context.
The total assessed word count will be 25,000 words for the MPhil and 80,000 words for the PhD (or equivalent for poetry).
The proportion of the creative to the critical work will be agreed by the supervisory team, but in total will usually consist of around 65-70% of creative text and 30-35% of critical text.
All postgraduate research students are supervised by two academics, one of whom will normally be a creative writing academic and the other from English Literature or a discipline related to the creative and critical work.
As with the traditional research degrees, the final submission will be expected to make 'a substantial and original contribution to knowledge'.
For Creative Writing, this means a body of work that contributes in individual, significant and demonstrable ways to current discourses in literature.
The relation to such discourses will be articulated in the creative work and conceptualised and explored in the critical element; both are intended to address the same research questions, generating dynamic interplay between creative and critical practice.
Students will undertake their own research or creative project, concluding with the submission of a 25,000-word dissertation/project (normally 17,000-18,000 words of creative writing and 7,000-8,000 of critical writing).
PhD: a research project undertaken across four years (full-time, minimum period of study three years), culminating in an 80,000-word thesis/project (normally 50,000 words of creative work - often an extract from a longer project - and 30,000 words of a critical investigation).
As well as having the option to audit taught units where appropriate, there may be the potential for PhD students to teach units themselves from their second year of study onwards.
Please note, acceptance will also depend on evidence of your readiness to pursue a research degree and previous study or achievement in Creative Writing.
Acceptance will also depend on previous study or achievement in Creative Writing.
If English is not your first language, you will need to reach the requirements outlined in our profile level A.
People who are awarded a Creative Writing PhD have gone on to a variety of careers.
Many are published writers who also teach, either in the academy or in community settings.
The intensive training in examining texts is transferable to roles in publishing, broadcasting and media.
Others organise literary and other cultural events or work in research.
Like many creative people, graduates of this type of degree often have portfolio careers, where they work between several roles and their writing is one of several simultaneous ways in which they are employed.
Department of English

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/cyber-security-cyber-secure-everywhere:
PhD Cyber Security (Cyber Secure Everywhere)
Digital infrastructures are at the heart of our societal fabric.
They range from traditional critical infrastructures, for example, water, power to emerging ones such as smart cities, intelligent transportation, Fintech and future banking, through to large social and business interaction platforms.
Cyber security is a hard challenge in any system.
The ever-increasing interconnectivity and dependencies across the boundaries of such infrastructures make it an even harder one.
Legacy (often insecure) and contemporary (secure or with hitherto undiscovered vulnerabilities) hardware, software and services are connected together, often on-the-fly, due to millions of user interactions.
This is compounded by complex and changing supply chains with varying levels of security assurances and trust.
This next frontier in cyber security requires highly skilled professionals to proactively anticipate and address the implications for security and resilience through innovative fundamental research that will underpin future infrastructure architectures and products and services therein.
However, there continues to be a major shortage of skilled cyber security professionals.
PhD-level graduates are key to addressing this major shortage as they are the future research leaders with the capability to anticipate the challenges and develop innovative solutions.
Our Cyber Secure Everywhere Centre for Doctoral Training offers research students an immersive challenge-led training approach by providing a unique co-creation experience with user partners to research overarching but linked thematic challenges.
During our four-year programme, students learn from world-leading researchers from the Universities of Bristol and Bath, from each other as an interdisciplinary cohort, and also from industry experts.
Our approach is fundamentally different from regular research training.
Students learn from leading experts within multiple disciplines, including psychology, management, engineering, sociology and computer science.
This approach provides a holistic understanding that is more attuned to the realities of tackling cyber security problems across complex IT, OT and IIoT systems.
Full details of our programme, projects, cohort activities, supervisors and industry partners can be found on the Centre for Doctoral Training in Cyber Security website .
Round 1-closing date 9th January 2025 Round 2 -closing date 31st March 2025
Please note, this programme will close once places are filled.
Early application is advised.
The Cyber Secure Everywhere CDT is a four-year training programme with emphasis on challenge-led approach combined with collaborative teamwork that brings students from different backgrounds together to learn as a cohort in a flipped classroom mode and regular group work.
Our specially designed taught first year is delivered through teaching, masterclasses, placements, sandpits and guided self-study including peer-supported learning and group work.
During the first year of the programme, you will undertake a range of units allowing you time to build knowledge and ignite your curiosity.
In addition, there will be opportunities for transferable skills training and participation in public engagement activities leading to your professional development.
Following your first year of structured units, you will progress to the research component of the programme.
At this stage you will be able to perform your own research at an internationally publishable standard.
You will also be able to document and communicate your findings to peers and expert practitioners in the field.
Visit the Cyber Security programme details page for full details of our challenge-led, interdisciplinary and unique co-creation approach to training that underpins our four-year research programme.
Applicants must hold/achieve a minimum of an upper-second class honours degree (or international equivalent) in a relevant discipline.
Cyber security is an interdisciplinary challenge, and the CDT focuses on both social and technical challenges of cyber security.
Applications are welcome from those with a range of disciplinary backgrounds including (but not limited to): computer science, psychology, management, electrical and electronics engineering, civil engineering, criminology, and social sciences.
Candidates should be willing to work across disciplinary boundaries and inform their research from different disciplinary perspectives.
The Centre for Doctoral Training in Cyber Security (Cyber Secure Everywhere) offers a number of Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC) studentships to eligible applicants covering tuition fees, maintenance stipend, and research travel expenses.
Graduates will be prepared for a variety of careers all over the globe, including world-leading research.
Others could work as consultants or as part of large-scale engineering industries, software development organisations, telecommunication and infrastructure providers.
UKRI National Research Centre on Privacy, Harm Reduction and Adversarial Influence Online (REPHRAIN)
UKRI Digital Security by Design Hub+ (Discribe)
CyBOK, the Cyber Security Body of Knowledge
Bristol Cyber Security Group
Applied Digital Behaviour Lab
Recruitment information and application deadline dates for this programme can be found on Centre for Doctoral Training in Cyber Security .
Cyber Security CDT Enquiries
enquiries@cybersecurity-cdt.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/dedpsy-educational-psychology:
DEdPsy DEdPsy Educational Psychology
The Doctor of Educational Psychology (DEdPsy) is a research degree accredited by the British Psychological Society and the Health and Care Professions Council .
The degree serves as the entry qualification for professional practice and employment in educational psychology.
It has been designed to meet the professional training needs of educational psychologists and reflects a shift in orientation in professional training that is implicit in a research degree.
The programme's academic and research goals are:
Please refer to the Association of Educational Psychologists AEP website for full details of the application process and deadlines.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our DEdPsy in Educational Psychology.
An upper second-class honours degree in psychology (or equivalent qualification) that confers Graduate Basis for Chartered Membership with the British Psychological Society.
Relevant experience of working with children or young people (aged 0-25).
Applicants with a lower second-class degree (or international equivalent) and relevant experience may be considered.
Please refer to the Association of Educational Psychologists AEP website for full details of the application process and deadlines for funded places.
Please note that it is not possible to apply on a self-funded basis and/or direct to the University for this programme.
The DEdPsy programme leads to a professional qualification in educational psychology, so graduates can register as a Practitioner Psychologist with the Health and Care Professions Council and as a Chartered Psychologist with the British Psychological Society.
Educational psychologists are employed across a wide range of fields, including local authorities, social enterprise organisations, private practice, schools and academies, and the health service.
For further details about a career as an educational psychologist, visit the British Psychological Society and the Association of Educational Psychologists websites.
For funded applications, please see the Association of Educational Psychologists website.
It is not possible to apply on a self-funded basis and/or direct to the University for this programme.
Postgraduate Senior Admissions Administrator
117 954 5571
sps-pgadmissions@bristol.ac.uk
School for Policy Studies

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/disability-studies:
PhD Disability Studies
The School for Policy Studies links theory, policy and practice in a multidisciplinary, research-intensive environment.
Our research engages with and influences national and international policy.
Our policy experts come from a wide variety of backgrounds in social policy research, social work, sociology, gender violence, disability studies, health and social care, childhood studies, history, human geography, economics, psychology, physical activity, nutrition and health sciences.
Our research examines policy areas that affect us all in day-to-day life, influences and challenges policies implemented by governments and institutions, and investigates the issues, factors and attitudes underlying the social concerns that make the headlines every day.
We have seven specialist research centres, including the Norah Fry Research Centre for Disability Studies .
The Norah Fry Centre is a leading national centre of excellence for applied social research and teaching, making a positive difference to the lives of disabled people.
The centre explores policies, practices or societal issues from the point of view of people with disabilities, recognising and valuing their human rights.
The school is an exciting environment for graduate studies; we welcome graduate students from the UK and around the world to join our diverse and highly-rated research team.
We particularly welcome applications on topics with direct relevance to national and international policy and social work concerns.
We welcome applications at any time of year; early application is advised.
Programme application deadlines apply where applicants intend to apply for scholarship funding.
For China Scholarship Commission funding and South-West Doctoral Training Partnership (SWDTP) funding, the programme application deadline is 2 December 2024.
For University of Bristol scholarship funding, the programme application deadline is 6 January 2025.
An upper second-class honours degree and a pass at MSc/MA level (or equivalent experience/qualification).
Applicants may apply for a University of Bristol scholarship .
Eligible applicants can apply for a China Scholarship Council scholarship .
Some applicants may also be able to apply for an SWDTP studentship , depending on the subject area of the research project.
Please note that programme application deadlines apply where applicants intend to apply for scholarship funding.
Studying for a PhD in Disability Studies will equip you with a broad range of research knowledge and skills, both within the disability field and beyond.
As a result, what you learn when focusing on disability-related issues and developing skills in analysis and research will be relevant to vocational or non-vocational work in many different settings and topic areas.
Obtaining a PhD is a route into an academic post, either within a higher education institution or in a public sector or research enterprise.
Previous graduates have gone on to work for universities, public sector bodies, third sector organisations, self-advocacy and user-led organisations, local government or education.
Their roles have been strongly related to applied social research.
The Norah Fry Research Centre is a leading international centre specialising in research with and for disabled adults, children and their families.
The centre is known for its work to include people with intellectual disabilities in the research process, as well as the development of accessible, easy-to-understand information and the dissemination of research findings in multiple formats to different audiences.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/earth-sciences:
PhD, MSc by research Earth Sciences
The School of Earth Sciences has strong international links, and the presence of researchers from all over the world creates an exciting and stimulating environment.
Research involves the full breadth of the earth sciences and has benefited from major investment in new laboratories and equipment in the past few years.
Important initiatives include experimental and theoretical studies of the physical, chemical and biological processes of Earth and planets.
UKRI funded projects are typically advertised from autumn onwards.
Other funded projects are advertised throughout the year.
Deadlines depend on the funding source.
Please check the school webpages for specific deadlines of current funded projects and funding schemes.
Applications from scholarship and self-funded students are welcomed and have no fixed deadline.
An upper second-class honours degree (or equivalent) in a discipline related to the MScR or PhD project for which you are applying, such as geology, biological sciences, environmental sciences, physics, chemistry or mathematics.
For PhD-level study, a masters in a relevant discipline or equivalent experience is desirable.
Typically, around 20 new PhD and MScR students start their studies in the school each year.
Sources of funding are varied and include UKRI funding councils (NERC, BBSRC, EPSRC, STFC), industry, China Scholarship Council studentships, and other country-specific schemes.
For current funding opportunities see the school webpages .
Information on visa and NHS surcharge costs for international students is available on the University webpages .
A large proportion of our graduating PhD students continue to post-doctoral research and an academic career.
Previous students have taken up post-doctoral positions in national and international laboratories, for example in New Zealand, Switzerland, Germany, the US and China.
A number of recent alumni now have permanent lectureship positions in institutions including the University of St Andrews, University of Liverpool and Harvard University.
Some of our students embark on industrial careers in an area that relates to their PhD or MScR studies.
Example careers include teaching, publishing, and consultancy.
Our graduating MScR students are well prepared for further research at PhD level.
The research programme at Bristol is characterised by an expanding range of exciting subject areas.
Research in the School of Earth Sciences encourages interdisciplinary collaboration between its six research groups, which in turn nurtures revolutionary research.
Geochemistry
The Geochemistry group uses fundamental chemical techniques to understand natural processes on a range of temporal and spatial scales.
This can be from single atoms on mineral surfaces and the environmental geochemistry of the modern Earth to the large-scale chemical structure of planets and the birth of the solar system.
The group has considerable expertise in isotopic measurements, spectroscopy and first-principles calculations.
Geophysics
Geophysics uses physical properties of the solid Earth to measure structure and processes on scales from the single crystal to the entire planet.
Members of the Bristol Geophysics group use gravity, seismic and satellite data to image the Earth in a variety of different contexts.
These include the Earth's core, mantle and tectonic processes, volcanoes, oil and gas reservoirs and mines.
Environments
The MATES (Marine and Terrestrial Environments) research group uses a wide range of techniques and facilities across the school to understand processes of relevance to any and all environments (surface, subsurface, marine) or that take place in an environmental context.
MATES is highly interdisciplinary in both membership and the research that is undertaken, and spans the fields of Earth surface processes, environmental geochemistry and mineralogy, marine geosciences, fluid-rock interaction and geomicrobiology.
Palaeobiology
The Palaeobiology group uses the fossil record to study the history of life.
Research focuses on major diversifications; mass extinctions; dating the tree of life; phylogenomics and molecular palaeobiology; morphological innovation; biomechanics; and links between evolution and development.
The organisms of interest range from foraminifera to dinosaurs.
Petrology
The Petrology group uses a combination of high-pressure and high-temperature experiments, petrology, geochemistry and mineral physics to attack a wide range of problems in the solid Earth - from the core to the surface.
Volcanology
The Volcanology group at Bristol aims to understand the physical processes underlying volcanic phenomena and develop methods of hazard and risk assessment that can be applied to volcanoes worldwide.
Recent case studies and collaborators include the Met Office, Montserrat Volcano Observatory, Eyjafjallajökull, Iceland and INGEOMINAS in Columbia.
Research centres
The School of Earth Sciences is involved in a number of collaborative research groups on an international level.
Inter-faculty research centres such as the Biogeochemistry Research Centre and the Cabot Institute involve collaboration across several departments and faculties.
Full details can be found on school research pages , with examples including:
In the first instance, applicants should look for current opportunities on the school website or contact potential supervisors to discuss projects and funding.
Please note: If you are applying for this programme, you need to select Geology PhD or Geology MScR as the programme choice when completing your online application form.
Note: For some schemes there may be additional guidance that you need to follow when completing your application.
This will be specified in the project description.
Gillian Andrews, Postgraduate Administrator
117 455 9846
earth-postgrad@bristol.ac.uk
School of Earth Sciences

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/east-asian-studies:
PhD East Asian Studies
This degree provides an opportunity to conduct advanced research on East Asia in an interdisciplinary school.
You will study with internationally renowned Sociology, Politics and International Relations scholars in a dynamic and supportive research environment.
Our research activity is focused on South and East Asian societies, culture and politics, including issues relating to security, conflict, peace and violence; ethnicity, migration and citizenship; gender and sexuality; race, colonialism, postcolonialism, and decolonialism; the climate crisis; political economy; political and social inequalities; social, political and international theory; and socio-technical systems and their politics, among others.
Our staff also have particular expertise across a range of cultural, political and social theory and champion diverse research methodologies.
You will be assigned two PhD supervisors whose current research interests and expertise are relevant to your chosen research area.
We are committed to rigorous conceptual and empirical research that is politically and socially relevant and problem-oriented.
We aim to advance theory, knowledge and methods at the cutting edge of political and sociological research.
We produce leading research with an international focus that is relevant to the changing circumstances of an increasingly interconnected world.
Our aim is not just to monitor the world but to contribute to a better understanding and to ways that might improve it.
For more information about funding and programme deadlines please see also section on Funding.
An upper second-class undergraduate honours degree (or equivalent) and normally a merit at MSc/MA level (or equivalent).
Eligible applicants can also apply for a China Scholarship Council scholarship .
These deadlines will be published in early autumn 2025.
Bristol graduates are in high demand and have an excellent record of employment following graduation.
Please visit the school website for statements from our former graduates.
This enables collective identification over themes within the school and aims to generate further collaboration and interdisciplinarity in our research activities.
In addition, the themes provide a basis for internal and external recognition of the main questions and topics that our research addresses.
Postgraduate Student Administrator
117 331 7572
spais-pgr@bristol.ac.uk
School of Sociology, Politics and International Studies

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/economics:
PhD Economics
The University of Bristol's School of Economics is a thriving centre for teaching and research in the major fields of economics.
A strong research environment is a major contributing factor for successful PhD study.
Bristol is in the top 5 UK universities for research and 97% of our Economics and Econometrics research is rated "world leading" or "internationally excellent" (REF 2021).
We have an active and successful Economics PhD programme, and a faculty of over 50 research-active staff.
The School of Economics, with research output that places it in the top 5 economics departments in the UK (REF 2021), has a distinctive focus and reputation.
It combines innovative, policy-focused research and a firm commitment to public and policy engagement with high-level advances in economic theory, structural modelling and econometrics.
More information can be found on our economics research pages.
We have a long tradition of excellence.
Groundbreaking economists Alfred Marshall and Mary Paley were among our earliest academics in the late 19 th century, with Marshall the first Professor of Economics and Paley one of the first female lecturers in the UK.
In the late 20 th century, future Nobel Prize winner Angus Deaton was the first Professor of Econometrics.
Today, you will be joining an academic community that is international, forward-thinking, collaborative, and committed to helping all our students reach their full potential.
We are home to the Economics Network , which improves the teaching and learning of economics in universities throughout the UK and Europe.
We are also home to the Economics Observatory , which helps the public understand the most pressing economic issues we face today.
We welcome applications for admission at any time of year, though early application is advised.
There may be deadlines related to particular sources of funding.
For further information on funding opportunities and deadlines, visit our postgraduate research in economics page.
We offer both full-time (up to 4 years) and part-time (up to 8 years) PhD study.
For successful PhD study, a good match between your research interests and those of your supervisors is vital.
Our supervisors are active in research and have expertise across a wide variety of fields.
Our research students are encouraged to interact with staff across the faculty and attend our term-time seminar series, including external and internal speakers.
PhD students also present their work once a year in a dedicated, internal seminar series which is attended by both students and faculty.
As well as supporting PhD study within the school's main disciplines, we also have a strong track record in supervising interdisciplinary research across a broader range of areas.
The standard entry route into the PhD is from our MRes Economics programme, dependent on academic results and the availability of supervision.
We will also consider you for direct entry into the PhD programme if you have an MRes or MPhil Economics degree from another institution.
If your masters-level studies took place outside Europe, the US or Canada, you are strongly recommended to provide GRE scores in your application.
A number of scholarship and other funding opportunities are available for Economics doctoral students.
Please visit our postgraduate research in economics page for more information.
Our PhD programme develops well-rounded, innovative researchers - providing you with skills to advance to a high-level career in academia, research, finance, business management, public service or elsewhere.
Most research is carried out within five main research areas:
Please see our economics research groups pages for further details of the current research and supervision interests of individual members of staff.
Graduate Studies PGR Team
117 394 1518
econ-pgr@bristol.ac.uk
School of Economics

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/education:
PhD Education
We offer high-quality supervision by internationally-recognised scholars in areas including educational psychology, education policy, sociology of education, higher education, teaching and learning in schools, professional development, learning in the city, non-formal education, lifelong learning, and assessment.
Academic staff include experienced researchers with methodological expertise in advanced quantitative methods, experimental methods, a range of qualitative research methods and mixed methods.
You will be part of a large, diverse doctoral community in an atmosphere that is exciting, creative and welcoming.
You can expect:
We welcome applications at any time of year.
If you are interested in the ESRC, CSC, or Bristol Postgraduate Research Scholarships (September 2025 start), please submit your Education PhD application by 2 December.
The closing date for the ESRC studentship funding application is mid-January 2025.
For further details on applying for ESRC funding, please visit the SWDTP website .
A PhD is focused on carrying out research that leads to a dissertation.
With the support of academic supervisors to guide you, you will undertake research training and then design and conduct your own research project.
The Faculty of Social Sciences and Law offers 1+3 and +3 ESRC-funded scholarships .
Applicants may also be interested in applying for funding from the University of Bristol scholarship fund or alumni PhD scholarship fund.
We offer academic and personal development opportunities to equip you for the intellectual, social and personal challenges you will encounter during your career.
Our overarching goal is to enable our graduates to display the following characteristics:
The overarching mission of the School of Education is to develop learning and leadership for a changing world through research and teaching that promotes achievement, opportunity and social justice.
The aim is to build intellectual and practical leadership among policymakers, practitioners, students and the wider research community, which is urgently required to enable education to adapt and thrive in a time of rapid local and global change.
Research in the school is concentrated into five main areas of inquiry and expertise within these five research centres:
As a doctoral student you will join one of the research centres associated with these key areas of research and work with staff and other doctoral students who have similar research interests.
Please see the School of Education research centres and networks for more information.
Student Services Office
117 4551093
ed-phd@bristol.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/education-part-time-only:
PhD Education (Part time only)
This programme will not be running for 2025 year of entry but is due to open for applications for 2026 entry in September.
We offer high-quality supervision by internationally-recognised scholars in specialist areas including educational psychology, secondary data analysis, higher education, teaching and learning in schools, professional development, comparative and international education, language education and linguistics, learning in the city, environmental and climate change education, non-formal education.
The PT only PhD programme is designed to fit flexibly around the commitments of ambitious international mid-career education professionals from a range of settings, including schools, further education and higher education, whose work requires them to have a high level of research capability.
You can study at your own pace, designing your own pathway through a combination of units taught either online or intensively over three days taught in person in Bristol.
Teaching is conducted by the distinguished academics at the University's School of Education, who are experts with international reputations for research in their field.
Our doctoral programmes attract high-achieving participants interested in a wide range of aspects of teaching, learning, leadership, management, policy and evaluation.
This programme is new, having recently been updated and restructured to provide a coherent, flexible and accessible learning experience that supports the journey to becoming independent researchers.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our programme.
An upper second-class undergraduate honours degree (or equivalent) and normally a merit at MSc/MA level (or equivalent) and normally at least three years' appropriate professional experience (eg employment in organisations that have an educational function or roles related to any aspect of education, training or individual learning).
Please check our web page for the full range of funding opportunities for prospective UK and international postgraduate students and whether they apply to distance learning courses.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/electrical-and-electronic-engineering:
PhD, MSc by research Electrical and Electronic Engineering
The School of Electrical, Electronic and Mechanical Engineering has an international reputation for world-leading research in areas such as mobile and wireless communication systems, microelectronics, electrical energy management, photonics and optical communications, artificial vision and image analysis, and high-performance networks.
It collaborates with more than 30 industrial organisations and has been successful in attracting substantial research funding from diverse sources in the UK, Europe and overseas.
The department has a strong research profile, with 30 academic staff, more than 60 postgraduate research students and 30 full-time research assistants contributing to numerous research projects.
The quality of our research is recognised nationally and internationally.
A number of funded studentships are available each year, supported by research council, industry, the University or other funds.
View information on funding postgraduate study for prospective UK, EU and international postgraduate students.
Students from this programme typically go into a variety of careers, including working in research or academic roles at universities in the UK and overseas.
A large number of students go on to work in industry.
The Faculty of Engineering has a number of research hubs facilitating collaborative working between groups.
These form a major part of Temple Quarter research strategy and have attracted considerable funding in terms of investment.
We have extensive interdisciplinary links with applied mathematics, physics, psychology and medicine.
Our research activities are organised under two umbrellas: Communications and Electrical Energy Management.
You need to contact a potential academic adviser to discuss available projects, and complete a Supervisor Suitability Form (Office document, 70kB) , before submitting an application.
School of Electrical, Electronic and Mechanical Engineering

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/engineering-biology:
PhD Engineering Biology
Society faces major global challenges including a need for sustainable food, materials and chemicals, solutions to combat climate change, and innovative technologies for improved healthcare.
Engineering Biology (EngBio) is an emerging field at the confluence of Biology, Chemistry, Engineering, AI and Data Science.
It has the potential to provide innovative solutions to these challenges by harnessing biology in new ways and creating biomimetic and engineered living systems capable of surpassing what is possible from single-discipline approaches.
The Centre for Doctoral Training (CDT) in Engineering Biology (EngBioCDT) will provide bespoke cohort-based training with a focus on how synthetic biology concepts and technologies can be translated into products with real-world impact.
This course is run jointly with the University of Oxford.
After training in the fundamentals of mathematics, biology, engineering and computing, and undertaking team-based problem-solving projects, you will complete two short research projects, one of which will develop into your substantive PhD project.
Throughout the course, you will undertake bespoke training in innovation and commercialisation, responsible innovation, EDI and bioethics, and career development.
Each year, a summer school will take place in June/July which will include talks from engineering biology leaders, student pitches from innovation in engineering biology projects, and outreach projects.
Through close links with our industrial partners, and activities such as industrial placements, mentorship and translational training, the CDT will empower students to deliver EngBio solutions to real-world applications through skills and knowledge training.
13 January 2025.
University of Oxford
The first year will be divided into three segments.
The first segment will begin with induction weeks in both Bristol and Oxford.
You will then receive around four weeks of foundation training (in Oxford).
Students with a background in life sciences or engineering/physical sciences will receive foundation training in engineering or biology, respectively.
This will be followed by around six weeks of specialised training in engineering biology at the University of Bristol.
It will include training in engineering biology design across scales (from biomolecules to cells), and advanced topics such as:
During the first four weeks of the second segment, you will work on your innovation in engineering biology group projects.
This will be followed by the first of two individual short research projects.
Segment three will comprise the second of these research projects and a summer school.
Research will aim to align with four major focus areas:
Potential collaborative research projects will also be offered by the University of Oxford.
One of the two short research projects will typically develop into the substantive PhD project that you will work on throughout years two to four.
View our unit and programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content of our PhD Engineering Biology.
We welcome applications from candidates who aspire to work in a multidisciplinary field.
As a minimum, applicants should hold or be predicted to achieve the following UK qualifications or their international equivalent: a first-class or strong upper second-class undergraduate degree with honours in engineering, biology, biochemistry, chemistry, physics, mathematics, computer science, medicine or related disciplines.
We have a number of UKRI, University and Industry funded studentships, which will be allocated to successful candidates (national and international).
Home students
Fully-funded studentships are available for successful home students.
To be classed as a home student, applicants must meet the required residency criteria set out by the UK government.
Further information can be found on the University of Bristol website .
International students
If you do not meet the above criteria, you will be classed as an international student.
A limited number (up to 30%) of UKRI fully-funded studentships are available through the EngBio CDT for international applicants.
Please note, these studentships do not cover the costs associated with obtaining a visa (including healthcare surcharge) or relocating to the UK.
Please ensure you review the details relating to obtaining a visa before applying.
As this is a new course for 2024-25, there is no graduate destination data.
However, for context, graduates of the Synthetic Biology programme which preceded this Engineering Biology cohort-based training programme, progressed into industry (50%), academia (40%), and startups (10%).
The EngBioCDT has strong links with leading academics and institutions worldwide.
Our partners, including those we already approached at the J.
Craig Venter Institute, the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Rice University, Stanford University and at the Universities of Boston, Colorado Boulder, Ghent, Naples and Saarland, will provide:
We cover the breadth of Engineering Biology and strongly encourage cross-disciplinary research projects.
Research will align with four major focus areas:
Dr Lucia Marucci (CDT Director)
lucia.marucci@bristol.ac.uk
EngBioCDT-admin@bristol.ac.uk
School of Engineering Mathematics and Technology

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/engineering-mathematics:
PhD, MSc by research Engineering Mathematics
Researchers in Engineering Mathematics carry out cutting-edge work in areas where mathematics is being applied to future challenges in engineering, industry and the life sciences.
Through this area of study, fundamental theoretical and computational advances are made.
There is also a strong tradition of interdisciplinary work, international collaboration and publication in leading research journals.
Research is supported by grants from public bodies, such as the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council, the Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council, the Medical Research Council and the European Union, as well as from local government, national government and industry.
Our students follow a wide range of careers, such as mathematical modelling and simulation in engineering consultancies, government scientific civil service, the Met Office and the intelligence services.
Many graduates go on to work in quantitative finance and financial services more broadly and several have recently become entrepreneurs in the data analytics industry.
Others follow traditional academic career paths in universities or in public- and private-sector research institutes.
Researchers in Engineering Mathematics contribute to projects across the University including artificial intelligence, machine learning, complexity, robotics, dynamics and control, environmental uncertainty, predictive life sciences, and neurosciences.
A list of available projects can be found on the Faculty PhD opportunities site.
Read more about Engineering Maths research groups .

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/english-literature:
PhD, MPhil English Literature
Research in the Department of English brings the core values of our discipline - textual scholarship, critical and theoretical analysis, and contextual knowledge - to the dynamic and changing field of English literary studies.
We cover the full chronological range, from the medieval to the contemporary period, with many colleagues engaged in interdisciplinary research.
We are proud of our expertise in medieval and early-modern literature, in Romantic and Victorian literature, in modernism, and in contemporary writing in English.
The department is notable for its breadth of research in English poetry across the periods, and our range of specialist interests includes literary theory, the history of the book, literature and science, literature and medicine, literature and the environment, digital humanities, women's writing and gender studies, queer writing, postcolonial literature, Black British writing, world literatures in English, 20th-century American literature, and Welsh and Anglo-Welsh writing.
In these and other areas we foster doctoral research both within the department and in collaboration with other departments at Bristol and beyond, including in art history, medical sciences, philosophy, history, politics, drama, classics, theology and modern languages.
MPhil: a stand-alone, one-year (full-time) research degree.
Students will undertake their own research project, concluding with the submission of a 25,000-word dissertation.
A large number of graduates from this programme develop careers in higher education or work on high-level research projects in the field of English Literature.
Some graduates take up careers in freelance writing and editing.
We see postgraduate study as a vital component of our research culture, with students bringing their own ideas and initiatives to fruition and engaging in research conversations with their fellow students and academic staff.
Postgraduates take part in organising conferences and study days, regularly present papers at departmental research seminars, and are active in research clusters and reading groups.
The successful completion of an innovative research project, with the guidance of demanding and stimulating supervisors, remains at the heart of postgraduate study.
We aim to deliver that outcome, but we also want your experience to be enriched by wider academic contacts and by focused, helpful professional development.
All of the department's researchers have interests that coincide with (but are not limited to) the following areas:
The department co-leads the Bristol Poetry Institute , which draws on the department's established strength in this field, and members of the department are directors of and/or active in the faculty's interdisciplinary research centres: Health, Humanities and Science , Environmental Humanities , Creative Technologies , Black Humanities , and Medieval Studies .
The centres bring together scholars from a variety of disciplines to share their research, devise innovative research projects, and give interdisciplinarity a real basis in academic practice.
The departmental research seminar, which meets throughout the academic session, is the principal forum for academic staff and graduate students to present and discuss their recent research.
At each session there is a mix of speakers from outside Bristol, graduate students, and members of staff.
Two annual lectures - the Churchill Lecture and the Tucker-Cruse Lecture - also bring distinguished scholars from outside the University.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/exercise-nutrition-and-health:
PhD Exercise, Nutrition and Health
A PhD in Exercise, Nutrition and Health equips students with the skills and experience to apply research methods and the tools to critically examine some of the most pressing contemporary issues and problems being experienced in physical activity and/or nutrition research, practice and/or policy.
Students are encouraged to develop a topic of interest that directly relates to their own background or practice experiences, or is of wider interest and relevance to the science underpinning the promotion and maintenance of health of populations, via physical activity and/or nutrition, either in UK nations or overseas.
Students will be supported to develop research questions and design a study that enables them to rigorously research their topic of interest and make an original contribution to the knowledge base of physical activity and/or nutrition in relation to public health.
Topics may directly explore policy or practice issues, or contribute more broadly to physical activity and nutrition knowledge, working with specific population groups and communities, addressing systems of inequality and social disadvantage.
Where appropriate, students are encouraged to work in collaboration with relevant organisations and/or user and interest groups to ensure their research outputs and key findings can directly inform policy, professional development, practice and service delivery.
Supervisors in Exercise, Nutrition and Health bring diverse interests across epidemiology (for example, associations between physical activity/diet and a range of chronic diseases across population groups); physical activity and dietary assessment (for example, development of indices to assess adherence to dietary patterns); the development and evaluation of physical activity and dietary interventions and/or services (for example, community programmes, school settings); and behaviour change (including the wider determinants of physical activity and diet and the psychological underpinnings of physical activity, nutrition and health).
Supervisors also have diverse expertise in research methods, such as qualitative methods (for example, informing and evaluating the development of interventions or service delivery); secondary data analysis (for example, using nationally representative population surveys and large prospective studies/big data); and scoping and systematic reviews and meta-analyses of the evidence base in physical activity and nutrition.
The school is an exciting environment for graduate studies, and PhD students become an integral part of our research community; we welcome graduate students from the UK and abroad to join our diverse and highly-rated research team.
The PhD in Exercise, Nutrition and Health establishes a sound research training base and provides practical experience, preparing you for different types of employment, including research, policy and intervention implementation.
Many of our students have continued with academic careers, either as post-doctoral researchers or as research associates in UK and international universities.
Other students have been successful in a range of fields, including government policy and health promotion at a local, national and international level.
Staff in the Centre for Exercise, Nutrition and Health Sciences conduct research that focuses on physical activity and nutrition, and their associations with health across the lifespan.
The primary areas of focus include biomedical, psychosocial and socio-environmental aspects of physical activity, sedentary behaviour and nutrition.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/film-and-television:
PhD, MPhil Film and Television
The Department of Film and Television offers supervisory expertise in a wide range of subject areas, including classical Hollywood cinema, British cinema, television drama, comedy, animation and documentary.
The department has particular strengths in historical research, audience studies, film theory and aesthetics, and offers the opportunity for practice-based research as well as the traditional written dissertation.
Where research proposals span various disciplines, a supervisory team can be assembled across departments and faculties to meet the needs of the project.
The MPhil and PhD are also available via distance learning.
The University of Bristol is part of the South, West and Wales Doctoral Training Partnership (SWW DTP), which offers studentships annually.
This programme is particularly well suited to developing a career in higher education, and for work on high-level research and creative projects in the fields of film and television.
There is a lively postgraduate community in the department which runs a film club and shares research through regular research events and presentations of current postgraduate research.
The department has a termly programme of research seminars and public talks, and co-leads a regional research group, Screen Research , which organises workshops on topics across film, television and screen media.
117 42 82297
Department of Film and Television

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/french:
PhD, MPhil French
The Department of French is committed to research innovation and excellence in major aspects of French Studies.
The department has an exceptionally wide range of expertise, including the medieval period, early modern period, visual-textual relations, 19th, 20th and 21st-century literature, film and drama (including screen and stage adaptations), cultural history, politics, and comparative literature.
We collaborate extensively with other departments, especially in the fields of visual and literary cultures, conflict and culture, medieval studies, English, and comparative literature.
Each research student is assigned to an academic who works in their proposed area of research or a related field, and benefits from the input of a second supervisor who may be from another department, depending on the interdisciplinary nature of the project.
The department is a regional centre for the Group for War and Culture Studies and members of the department are active in a wide range of Faculty of Arts, Law and Social Sciences research centres and groups .
A number of our staff members are editors of leading journals and active in subject associations.
Postgraduate students can benefit from an exchange agreement with the Ecole Normale Supérieure (rue d'Ulm), or take an exchange lecturer post at the Université de Bordeaux III.
Research students often lead the organisation of postgraduate seminar series exploring a theme of their choice.
January 2025 start: 1 December 2024
September 2025 start:
Overseas applicants: 25 July 2025 Home applicants: 1 August 2025
January 2026 start: 1 December 2025
Preliminary contact with staff from the Department is welcome at any time of the year.
As well as having the option to audit taught units, there may be the potential for PhD students to teach units themselves from their second year of study onwards onwards (or earlier for holders of GTA Scholarships).
For information on other funding opportunities, including University-funded studentships and GTA (Graduate Teaching Assistant) scholarships, please see the Faculty of Arts, Law and Social Sciences funding pages .
These pages also provide details of scholarships available for UK-domiciled, Home fee status applicants of Black and mixed-Black heritage, as well as co-tutelle scholarships with Macquarie University, Australia and Université Toulouse - Jean Jaurès, France, and a Research Scholarship in association with University of Cape Town, South Africa.
A number of graduates from this programme develop careers in higher education or work on high-level research projects in the field of French Studies.
Some graduates take up careers in translation or writing for international newspapers, while others will go on to work in libraries and archives, the heritage industries, or publishing.
Members of the department are active in a wide range of research centres and groups in the Faculty of Arts, Law and Social Sciences.
Professor Siobhan Shilton, Head of Subject, French
s.shilton@bristol.ac.uk
Department of French

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/future-innovation-in-non-destructive-evaluation:
PhD, EngD Future Innovation in Non-Destructive Evaluation
The EPSRC Centre for Doctoral Training in Future Innovation in Non-Destructive Evaluation (FIND CDT) has been created to provide EngD and PhD programmes in the vital field of non-destructive evaluation: an underpinning technology that encompasses a wide range of sensing, imaging and analysis techniques.
FIND CDT connects universities with industry.
The result is research that makes a difference – EDF, Airbus and E.ON are just a few of the companies our students have worked with to create real impact.
The University of Bristol leads, alongside centre partners Imperial College London and the Universities of Manchester, Nottingham, Strathclyde and Warwick.
The CDT has been co-created by a consortium of 49 companies, including Airbus, Rolls-Royce, EDF, BAE Systems and Shell.
The CDT has close links to the UK’s internationally leading Research Centre for Non Destructive Evaluation with a vibrant network of more than 250 researchers across a range of disciplines based in electrical engineering, mechanical engineering, physics, mathematics and imaging sciences departments in the participating universities.
With these partners, we have developed bespoke cohort-based doctoral training to equip our CDT graduates with the breadth and depth of knowledge that UK industry requires across this multidisciplinary subject.
EngD and PhD students will be trained by leading academic and industrial experts through taught modules on the core technical disciplines and an industrially linked doctoral research project.
This responds to rapidly changing needs of UK industry and a society that demands low costs with high levels of safety and reliability.
This need is driven by many factors such as new materials, advanced manufacturing technologies, digitalisation, the Internet of Things, robotic systems, the civil nuclear renaissance and the pressing requirement to extend the life of our ageing national infrastructure.
The combination of breadth and depth of training equips our graduates with the broad interdisciplinary technical skills to deliver innovative solutions across key industrial sectors and the transferable skills needed to become future innovators and industry leaders.
The Bristol group is recognised as a world leader within NDE, having produced several important research outcomes that are now exploited by industry, both in the UK and around the world.
1 August 2025.
During the first three years of the programme, students will undertake a range of cohort-based taught units, allowing time to build knowledge and ignite curiosity.
This will include advanced technical courses and training on innovation and entrepreneurship.
Alongside this, there will be opportunities to get involved in science communication, public engagement and to present work at national and international conferences.
We have a range of projects and industrial sponsors for applicants to choose from and this changes over the year, so please contact us for details.
Projects fall into three broad themes:
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for the Future Innovation in Non-Destructive Evaluation CDT programme.
Applicants should have or expect to obtain a first class, good 2:1 degree or Master's in engineering or physical science.
In our experience the best candidates can use their knowledge to solve technical problems, are interested in useful research, are well-organised and are good communicators.
Fully-funded studentships are advertised on our website when they become available.
Graduates are found in a variety of careers all over the globe, including world-leading research.
Many work as consultants or as part of large-scale engineering industries with excellent employability as a result of studying in the centre.
The Ultrasonics and Non-destructive Testing group undertakes research into the fundamentals and applications of ultrasonics.
We are particularly active in the following areas: array imaging; materials characterisation (for example nonlinear ultrasonics); NDT of composites; structural health monitoring; ultrasonic particle manipulation (for example acoustic radiation force devices).
Our philosophy is to undertake a balance of fundamental engineering science ultrasonics research alongside more applied research.
We see this mix of fundamental and applied as incredibly valuable and our aim is to see selected topics through from conception to industrial uptake.
This means that most of our projects are collaborative, sometimes with industry and sometimes with other university groups.
Please contact the FIND CDT before making an application online.
For more details and how to apply, visit the FIND CDT website or contact find-cdt@bristol.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/geographic-data-science:
PhD Geographic Data Science
This program trains the next generation of geographic data and quantitative social scientists who are interested in understanding how to use data science and other quantitative methods to tackle pressing geospatial challenges in social and natural environments.
Examples of geographic data-driven methods include but are not limited to statistical methods; machine learning; artificial intelligence; GIS; earth observation and social sensing; cartography and data visualization; data infrastructure and management; and causal inference.
Geospatial challenges can be broadly interpreted as any problems that involve using geospatial data.
Particularly, potential supervisors at the University of Bristol have expertise in policy, demography, social inequality, social geography, sustainability, human mobility, digital economy, cities, health, climate science, education, and so on.
In contrast to its sister programs, PhD in Human Geography and PhD in Physical Geography, this program emphasises methodological innovation and application.
It is aimed at those interested in advancing existing computational methods or applying state-of-the-art digital and data-driven techniques to any topics that are related to geography.
We welcome applicants from any relevant background, such as geography, social science and policy, statistics, computer science, cognitive science, and environmental science.
The closing date for non-funded places is not fixed but early application is advised.
An upper second-class degree (or equivalent qualification) with substantive (geographic) data science (at least 60 credits plus a (geographic) data science-focused dissertation).
ESRC South West Doctoral Training Partnership (SWDTP) ;
University of Bristol Scholarships ;
Or contact potential supervisor(s) for other opportunities.
Our students go on to employment in a wide variety of areas - often where statistical analysis and data science skills are required.
Students also continue within academic careers, going on to post-doctoral and lecturing positions.
At its core, the programme establishes a sound research training base, together with a set of bespoke training courses that provide students with the advanced (geographic) data science toolkit and research methods required for their PhD topic.
It also provides a foundation for diverse types of employment, including research, policy and intervention implementation.
Izzy Montgomery, Postgraduate Student Administrator
117 928 7878
geog-pgadmis@bristol.ac.uk
Dr Rui Zhu, Programme Director
rui.zhu@bristol.ac.uk
School of Geographical Sciences

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/geographical-sciences-human-geography:
PhD Geographical Sciences (Human Geography)
The excellence of Bristol's social science research was confirmed by the latest Research Excellence Framework (REF 2021).
According to the Times Higher Education's analysis of REF 2021 , The School of Geographical Sciences ranked first in the UK for the fifth REF cycle in a row.
We have a large and vibrant postgraduate community, focusing both on PhDs by research and on taught programmes.
Our postgraduate community is international and interdisciplinary and offers an exceptional academic environment for postgraduate research.
We also have a 100% completion rate over the past five years for UKRI-funded PhD students.
Research opportunities span a variety of subjects at the leading edge of geographical research.
Our research groups span a range of human geographical research.
These include the History and Culture Research Group; the Geographies of Political Economy Research Group; the States, Economies and Societies Research Group; and the Quantitative Spatial Science Research Group.
Within these four groups, postgraduate research covers the gamut, from health and housing inequalities to embodied posthuman geographies, to urban sustainability futures, to the environmental humanities, to improving techniques of quantitative modelling and machine learning, to geopolitics, decolonial geographies, and political ecology.
There is also a range of exciting possibilities for interdisciplinary research that cross and connect research groups and departments.
Candidates typically have two supervisors based in the school, but supervision is possible across schools and faculties.
There is an active postgraduate research community whose representatives not only meet formally with staff representatives on issues of mutual interest, but who arrange social and other support for the PGR cohort.
There is dedicated PGR space in Beacon House.
Alternatively, you may be interested in our PhD in Geographical Sciences (Physical Geography) .
The closing date for UKRI (excluding ESRC, AHRC) studentship applications (for a September 2025 start) is in mid-January 2025.
Please contact the postgraduate student administrator (geog-pgadmis@bristol.ac.uk) to discuss other potential funding options available.
Applications for funding should begin two to three months in advance of the January 2025 deadline (for example, in October or November 2024).
Details of the PGR program structure derive from the wider faculty and University regulations and are set out in the School of Geography Handbook.
The handbook is updated each year and a copy can be requested from the postgraduate student administrator (geog-pgadmis@bristol.ac.uk).
An upper second-class honours degree in a relevant subject or an equivalent qualification and a master's qualification from a UK university (or equivalent).
The school welcomes applicants with an interest in utilising ESRC and UKRI secondary datasets in their research projects.
The School of Geographical Sciences, like many other schools and departments across the University, is committed to efforts to decolonise our curricula and transform our research and teaching as part of these efforts.
We especially welcome applicants interested in supporting this work, and we encourage applicants from diverse backgrounds, life experiences, and geographies to apply.
The Faculty of Social Sciences and Law has an allocation of 1+3 and +3 ESRC scholarships and although Geography is based in the Science and Engineering Faculty, Human Geographers are eligible to apply for ESRC scholarships.
Applicants may also be interested in applying for funding from the University of Bristol scholarship.
There are additional awards from the China Scholarships Councils, a dedicated University of Bristol/University of Cape Town Scholarship, and the School alumni PhD scholarship fund.
The School of Geographical Sciences also has very limited PhD funding available for applicants via the Liv Sidse Jansen Memorial Fund (for BME applicants only) and the PGTA Scholarship program.
Please see the School's Postgraduate Scholarship page for details.
Academic research and teaching, NGO research, education, civil service research and administration, policy analysis and development, industry, market research, consultancy, journalism, writing and communications, advocacy and activism, community development, and project management.
There are four main Human Geography research groups:
All applicants must secure supervisory support for their projects prior to submitting a formal application.
To do this, please email the proposed supervisor before applying to discuss the project idea and its supervision.
Please secure written support for the project and your application before making a formal application to the University.
We strongly urge interested applicants to consult the websites of individual members of staff as well as websites that detail collective research interests.
Applications made without prior supervisory support will not be accepted.
0117 928 7872
Associate Professor Franklin Ginn, Programme Director
franklin.ginn@bristol.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/geographical-sciences-physical-geography:
PhD Geographical Sciences (Physical Geography)
The School of Geographical Sciences is a leading international centre for research.
In the Times Higher Education analysis of the Research Excellence Framework assessment (2021), we were ranked joint first in the UK for Geography and Environmental Studies.
The graduate school is integral to this success.
We have a large and vibrant postgraduate research community, with students following PhD and MSc by research (MScR) programmes.
The postgraduate community is international and interdisciplinary and offers an exceptional academic environment for postgraduate research.
Research opportunities encompass a wide range of subjects at the leading edge of geographical research.
There are also many exciting possibilities for interdisciplinary research, spanning research groups and departments.
Visit the School of Geographical Sciences webpages for more information about our research staff and collective research interests.
You can see a list of current projects and their supervisors .
Alternatively, you may be interested in our MScR in Global Environmental Challenges , or our PhD in Geographical Sciences (Human Geography) .
Not fixed, but funding application deadlines will usually be between January and March.
An upper second-class honours degree (or an equivalent qualification) in a relevant subject.
Each year the school is awarded several scholarships, funded by the University itself or by funding bodies such as the Natural Environment Research Council (NERC), the China Scholarship Council and the EU, as well as industry-funded studentships.
Applicants should check the School of Geographical Sciences website .
Students who complete a PhD in Physical Geography typically move on to careers in academia (post-doctoral research, lectureships), further research in government or private institutes, environmental consultancy, teaching, the civil service, computer programming, or IT consultancy, among other fields.
The school's physical geography research is focused on a number of themes.
These are based on UK Research Council priority areas and the interests of industrial and other stakeholders.
Our three research groups are:
Global Environmental Change
The Bristol Research Initiative for the Dynamic Global Environment (BRIDGE) group aims to improve the understanding of natural climate and environmental variability and the relationship between global carbon cycling and climate.
This knowledge is used to improve our predictions of future change and its impact on all aspects of ecosystems and human society.
Glaciology
The Bristol Glaciology Centre leads world-class research into ice sheet processes, subglacial environments and sea level change.
Its aim is to increase understanding of the present, past and future behaviour of ice sheets and glaciers, and the links between the cryosphere, oceans and atmosphere under changing climatic conditions.
Hydrology
The Hydrology Research Group focuses on research into the modelling of hydrologic and hydraulic problems using advanced numerical methods.
In particular, it specialises in modelling river flooding, water quality monitoring, uncertainty analysis techniques, catchment and hillslope transport processes, combined with field monitoring and large-scale experimental work.
Dr Stephen Cornford, Postgraduate Research Director (Physical Geography)
s.l.cornford@bristol.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/german:
PhD, MPhil German
Staff and postgraduate students in the Department of German pursue research across a diverse and dynamic spectrum of German studies, covering many aspects of language, linguistics, literature, culture, history, and translation, from the early modern period to the present day.
We are committed to supporting a positive and collaborative research culture, developing together exciting and innovative research that helps shape, and reshape, our discipline.
We offer expertise in German-language literature and culture in its national, transnational, and comparative contexts (including the novel, poetry, theatre and performance, visual cultures, and translation), with particular strengths in the classical age, the long 19th century, the 20th century, and the post- Wende and contemporary periods.
We also have specific expertise in historical and modern sociolinguistics (in particular in language variation and change, vernacularisation and standardisation, and in language attitudes and language policy), as well as in the history and politics of Germany and Austria since 1800 (especially the political East), and in exile writing, memory studies, and Anglo-German and German-American relations.
We benefit from strong links with partner universities and research centres in Germany and Austria, and further research connections around the world.
We warmly welcome applications from graduates wishing to pursue research programmes with us.
Interdisciplinary, comparative, and cross-language research is also particularly encouraged and supported across the School of Modern Languages and the wider faculty.
Our postgraduates are fully integrated into a professionally and personally supportive departmental and school community.
You will be encouraged to present your work at departmental and school-level research events, and at colloquia elsewhere within the faculty, and beyond.
We will help develop your full range of academic skills, including publication, and we may be able to offer opportunities for undergraduate teaching after your first year.
September 2025 start: Overseas applicants: 25 July 2025 Home applicants: 1 August 2025
Preliminary contact with staff from the Department of German is welcome at any time of the year.
PhD: a research project undertaken across three to four years (full-time), culminating in an 80,000-word thesis.
The MPhil and PhD can also be studied part-time, and via distance learning.
Graduates from this programme develop a wide variety of careers, including in the cultural and heritage sectors and as academics in higher education.
Research within the department focuses in particular on the following major areas:
Staff are also active in interdisciplinary research at school and faculty level, and several of our postgraduates are co-supervised by colleagues from other departments, where this is desirable.
The department has had success recently in obtaining external funding for postgraduate studies, post-doctoral fellows and research grants from the Arts and Humanities Research Council (AHRC), the Leverhulme Trust and the Humboldt Foundation, among others.
The department's collaborative research in linguistics and East German studies has been supported by AHRC-funded networks for work in 'History and Language, Linguists and Historians' (2008-10) and 'After the Wall: Reconstructing and Representing the GDR' (2009-11).
Our commitment to literary studies has been recognised with AHRC awards to study Arthur Schnitzler (2014-17) and work on archives at the British Library which belonged to the author Stefan Zweig (2014-17) and the poet and translator Michael Hamburger (2020-).
Post-doctoral fellows have researched a range of topics on German-language and comparative literature, historical sociolinguistics, and East German history.
117 428 2297
Dr Ben Schofield, Head of Subject
117 455 8440
benedict.schofield@bristol.ac.uk
Department of German

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/global-challenges-and-transformations:
PhD Global Challenges and Transformations
The PhD Global Challenges and Transformations is linked to the interdisciplinary South West doctoral pathway of the same name.
Offer holders will need to apply to and be awarded an SWDTP studentship for this pathway to meet the conditions for registration on this programme.
This degree provides an opportunity to conduct advanced research on global challenges and transformations in an interdisciplinary school.
You will develop research on contemporary global dynamics related, but not limited to, areas such as: geopolitics, political economy, conflict and security, economic and social inequalities, and people's mobilities.
You will study with internationally renowned politics, international relations and sociology scholars in a dynamic and supportive research environment.
You will join an international community of students working on a range of political, social and international relations issues.
Our staff also have particular expertise across a range of political, cultural and social theory and champion diverse research methodologies.
We are committed to rigorous conceptual and empirical research that is politically and socially relevant and problem-orientated.
We aim to advance theory, knowledge and methods to better equip researchers to understand and address pressing global issues.
Programme application deadline - 2 December 2024
SWDTP funding application deadline - 12 noon on 14 January 2025
For details on applying for SWDTP funding, please visit the South West Doctoral Training Partnership (SWDTP) website .
The PhD in Global Challenges and Transformations will combine both taught and research components.
The taught component provide you with the necessary research methods skills to become an independent researcher, including a better understanding of the research process, ethics, and methodologies so that you are fully equipped to work on your PhD project.
You are required to complete this, unless you can provide evidence that you have undertaken this training before joining the programme.
You are required to take the following units:
And one of the following units:
Through the research component, you will undertake and write up your doctoral research with the support of two supervisors.
This programme is only available to those who successfully apply to and are subsequently awarded an SWDTP studentship .

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/great-western-four-doctoral-training-partnership-nerc:
PhD Great Western Four+ Doctoral Training Partnership (NERC)
The GW4+ Doctoral Landscape Training Partnership (DLTP) comprises the University of Bristol, University of Bath, Cardiff University, University of Exeter, British Antarctic Survey, British Geological Survey, Centre for Ecology and Hydrology, the Natural History Museum and Plymouth Marine Laboratory.
The partnership provides a multidisciplinary training environment for postgraduate students in NERC sciences.
Due to the nature of the funding, this programme is open primarily to UK students.
There will be a limited number of studentships available to international students - including those from the EU.
This NERC-funded doctoral landscape training partnership programme offers studentships for 42 months within four research themes: Climate Change and Risk, Earth Science and Hazards, Science for Environmental Solutions and Evolution and Biodiversity Through Space and Time
As part of your PhD studies, you will be offered training that equips you with a range of skills for future employment in many different working environments.
You will be expected to attend training during your PhD and are encouraged to take up work placements.
Details of training can be found on the NERC GW4+ website .
PhD projects are available in earth and environmental science topics within the Schools of Biological Sciences, Chemistry, Earth Sciences and Geographical Sciences.
New projects are advertised annually from October on each school's webpage:
Application Deadline: Monday 13 January 2025 23:59 GMT
An upper second-class degree or higher (or international equivalent) in a discipline related to the PhD project for which you are applying, such as geology, biological sciences, environmental sciences, chemistry or geography.
Some projects may be suitable for those with computing, mathematics, engineering and physics degrees.
Applicants with additional relevant experience and/or a master's degree are encouraged to apply.
UK Funding
Full studentships including the tuition fee will start in September 2025.
This will cover tuition fees, research and training support grant of £11,000, a training budget of £1000 and a maintenance stipend of £19,237 each year.
International applicants (including EU)
There are a limited number of full studentships for international students.
Although international students are usually charged a higher tuition fee rate than 'home' students, those international students offered a NERC GW4+ Doctoral Landscape Training Partnership full studentship starting in 2025 will only be charged the 'home' tuition fee rate (which will be covered by the studentship).
International applicants need to be aware that you will have to cover the cost of your student visa, healthcare surcharge and other costs of moving to the UK to undertake a PhD.
Our approach to training is centred around our four research themes:
To apply for this programme, you must select the related PhD from the School in which the project is advertised: Biological Sciences PhD, Chemistry PhD, Geology PhD, or Geographical Sciences (Physical Geography) PhD.
If you want to apply for more than one project in the same School, please email the Bristol Administrator at bristol-nercgw4plusdtp-admin@bristol.ac.uk .
Please ensure you read How to apply NERC GW4+DLTP (PDF, 221kB) and the admissions statement before you apply.
You must provide a personal statement using the following template: GW4plus DLTP Personal Statement 2025 (Office document, 195kB)
Bristol NERC GW4+ DTP Administrator
bristol-nercgw4plusdtp-admin@bristol.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/health-and-wellbeing:
PhD Health and Wellbeing
The PhD Health and Wellbeing programme is linked to the interdisciplinary South West doctoral pathway of the same name.
The South West Doctoral Training Partnership Health and Wellbeing pathway enables students to cultivate the skills needed to develop and evaluate interventions and strategies to improve health behaviour.
Your work will make a major impact on the social science underpinnings of avoidable health problems and will build research capacity at the interface of biomedical and social sciences, both within and beyond academia.
All students will have two supervisors from different disciplinary perspectives on health and wellbeing.
Your supervisors will convene joint meetings on a regular basis and will attend the annual one-day workshop for all pathway students.
Students will normally be registered in the school of their first supervisor.
This may not be the school that processes your application.
A master's qualification (or equivalent) with appropriate research training.
Applicants may apply for an SWDTP studentship and/or a University of Bristol scholarship .
The PhD in Health and Wellbeing offers useful preparation for a number of careers.
Our students often go on to employment in areas of government policy and health promotion at local, national and international levels.
Others have continued to academic careers, taking up post-doctoral positions and lecturing in UK and international universities.
The programme establishes both a sound research training base and an understanding of practical applications, which prepare our students for different types of employment, including research, policy and intervention.
The pathway integrates the study of the interaction between three important lifestyle behaviours (nutrition, physical activity and substance use, including smoking and alcohol consumption), their impact on public health and risks for chronic diseases.
For further information on our associated research groups and staff, please visit the School for Policy Studies webpage .

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/hispanic-portuguese-and-latin-american-studies:
PhD, MPhil Hispanic, Portuguese and Latin American Studies
Research in the department ranges widely across the Hispanic and Lusophone worlds, from the early-modern period to the present, and geographically across the Americas, Africa and Europe.
A great deal of our research centres on the nature of connections:
Global culture and history are fundamental to our work.
We research how Spanish and Portuguese-speaking countries shaped the world, across Europe, America, Africa and Asia.
We ask how they fit into the wider globe and we explore new ways to express those relationships, including through digital humanities, sport studies, translation, environmental humanities and indigenous histories.
We welcome applications from students wishing to pursue tailor-made research to master's (MPhil) or doctoral (PhD) level.
All postgraduates participate in a vigorous programme of research events and make key contributions to the research activities of the department, the School of Modern Languages and the faculty.
January 2025 start: 1 December 2024 for all applicants
Students may have the option to audit units from our taught master's courses if they are relevant to their research.
MPhil: An upper second-class degree (or international equivalent).
The majority of graduates from this programme have developed careers as academics in higher education, while maintaining the capacity to undertake new and innovative research in the field of Hispanic, Portuguese and Latin American studies.
Bristol is one of the great Atlantic ports, linked historically to the Spanish and Portuguese-speaking worlds.
We work on the nature of connections in large national, international and regional collaborations, such as the 19th-century International Hispanists Network, LUDENS (sport and football), the New Woman project, and the UK Latin American Historians Network.
We have ongoing research collaborations with universities across Europe and Latin America, such as the Universidad Nacional de Colombia, the Universidad Pontificia Catolica in Chile and the University of Las Palmas.
The Ramon Llull Institute supports our work in Catalan Studies.
We welcome applicants with cross-disciplinary projects.
A high number of our postgraduates are supervised across multiple disciplines (for example, anthropology, education, history, history of art, music, and translation studies).
From memory to sport, visual arts to history, and linguistics to literature, our work matters to multiple academic fields.
Collectively, we value and explore the composite nature of our subject.
Our students collaborate with their postgraduate colleagues across multiple disciplines, for example in the graduate-led Literary and Visual Cultures group, and through Migration Mobilities Bristol.
Among our current cross-disciplinary projects are:
Our wide-ranging work reaches beyond academia.
We encourage students to have a wider impact beyond their written research.
Each year we hold a Cultural Week (Semana Cultural): in 2023 this revolved around the MEMPAZ project with 20 participants visiting us from Colombia.
Our researchers have worked with the Foreign and Commonwealth Office, Parliamentary Committee on Guinea-Bissau, rural communities in Peru and the Prince's Teaching Institute.
Department of Hispanic, Portuguese and Latin American Studies

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/history:
PhD, MPhil History
The Department of History delivers expert postgraduate supervision by internationally recognised scholars in a wide range of subject areas.
The department offers a lively research community in the setting of an exciting city and region with a rich heritage.
Excellent research resources are available for postgraduate study locally (for example in the library's Special Collections department and its print holdings), online through the library's database subscriptions, and in close proximity to the city.
Members of the History department publish and supervise research in a range of areas within the broad fields of cultural, social, economic and political history.
We cover the medieval, early modern and modern periods.
Our research culture is diverse and dynamic, and our collective work includes interests in political culture, studies of people and ideas on the move, environmental history, public and creative histories, and work on visual and material culture alongside colleagues in the Department of the History of Art.
Prospective applicants should make contact with a potential supervisor before submitting an application to discuss their proposed research questions, the state of the proposed field of study and appropriate primary source material.
In addition to topics focusing on single research areas, we actively encourage interdisciplinary research that cuts across the spectrum of historical studies, or other intellectual disciplines in the Faculty of Arts, Law and Social Sciences and beyond.
The University of Bristol is part of the South, West and Wales Doctoral Training Partnership (SWW DTP) and the ESRC South West Doctoral Training Partnership, which will be offering studentships for September 2025.
Some graduates of this programme go into academic posts or post-doctoral positions.
Others take their skills in research and written/oral communication into a host of other professions.
The best guide to the strengths of the department is the list of staff profiles - browse these to discover who we are and what we do.
All staff will welcome contact from prospective postgraduate researchers and we recommend that you get in touch with potential supervisors in the early stages of your application.
As a department, we seek to foster a welcoming and inclusive environment in which collaboration and discussion among those working on many different places and time periods comes naturally.
As part of a wider programme of organised events for postgraduates within the department, regular research seminars bring together staff and postgraduate students and researchers, with speakers from Bristol and a number of visiting experts.
The department has links with a variety of research centres and groups both within and outside the University.
These include the major University Research Institutes such as the Brigstow Institute as well as inter-disciplinary centres based in the Faculty of Arts, Law and Social Sciences such as the Centre for Black Humanities , the Centre for Medieval Studies , and the Centre for Environmental Humanities .
Research students in the Department also participate in the vibrant networks of historical research connected with groups including the Hong Kong History Centre and the Bristol-Exeter Modern British History group.
The department is committed to public engagement and public history, and to working with libraries, archives, galleries and other institutions in Bristol, the South West and further afield, including the Bristol Museums and Archives and the SS Great Britain.
Through these links and networks, our postgraduate research students have opportunities to organise and participate in a range of events and collaborate with colleagues, across the School of Humanities, the Faculty of Arts, the wider University, and beyond.
The department is also actively engaged with the GW4 group of universities; the South West and Wales Doctoral Training Partnership (SWW DTP) ; and with other universities and consortia across the country and around the world (such as the Worldwide Universities Network ).
Department of History

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/history-of-art:
PhD, MPhil History of Art
The Department of History of Art is a thriving and collegial centre for the study of art, visual culture and theory.
Staff specialisms range from medieval altarpieces to Soviet public monuments, from pre-Renaissance sculpture to contemporary art of the diaspora.
We are interested in thinking across historical periods and through a variety of critical approaches.
We encourage you to participate in the stimulating intellectual and social life of the department, with regular research seminars and guest lectures, not to mention annual events such as the Autumn Art Lectures.
We support interdisciplinary approaches and have expertise in topics such as the interrelationship between art and music, or art and writing, as well as issues of art and race.
We also have close links with many other departments in the school and faculty, as well as with national and local galleries and museums.
A large number of graduates from this programme develop careers in higher education or work on high-level research projects in the fields of history of art and visual culture.
Some graduates take up careers in gallery and museum management and curation, art consultancy, publishing or in the commercial fine art market.
Much research is carried out by individual scholars, with specific expertise in the following areas:
Staff and postgraduate research is focused around two principle research clusters: Transnational Modernisms and Mediterranean Visual Cultures.
Staff and postgraduates are also engaged in Faculty of Arts, Law and Social Sciences interdisciplinary research themes and centres: Centre for Medieval Studies ; Institute for Greece, Rome and the Classical Tradition ; Centre for Black Humanities ; Centre for Environmental Humanities .
Department of History of Art

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/innovation-and-entrepreneurship:
PhD, MPhil Innovation and Entrepreneurship
The Centre for Innovation and Entrepreneurship comprises a group of academic staff with research interests in two related areas: design innovation and entrepreneurship, spanning both commercial and social sectors.
This includes research wholly contained within one of these disciplines or bridging both subjects.
The centre has a reputation for a collaborative and participatory approach to teaching and research, ensuring impact for its stakeholders.
The profile of our team, most of whom are both practitioners and scholars, helps to ensure continual collaboration between academic and non-academic applied settings.
We, therefore, welcome and encourage students from a variety of backgrounds and experiences.
Students may join directly from university studies or be experienced professionals, for example, established entrepreneurs or designers.
Our research areas include:
Entrepreneurship
Design innovation
For more information visit the Centre for Innovation and Entrepreneurship .
MPhil: this programme is a postgraduate research master's degree.
Researchers conduct a significant research project on a topic related to Innovation and Entrepreneurship independently under supervision.
It does not have a taught element at the moment although researchers can still benefit from the training offered centrally from the Bristol Doctoral College.
MPhil researchers can apply to upgrade to a PhD after completion of the degree.
PhD: this programme allows researchers to conduct a longer research project under supervision that culminates in a thesis which makes a significant contribution to knowledge and defend it before a panel of experts in the field.
Researchers receive training offered centrally from the Bristol Doctoral College.
Graduates of the Centre for Innovation and Entrepreneurship have moved into a variety of roles in the profit and not-for-profit sectors.
Current students are planning on entrepreneurial careers, such as developing new business startups or in large businesses as intrapreneurs.
Research students may also choose to develop a career in academia.
Our core ethos is to make sure that the skills developed on all our courses are highly relevant to the world outside higher education.
The Centre for Innovation and Entrepreneurship's research is organised along two dimensions:
Innovation and Entrepreneurship
Centre for Innovation and Entrepreneurship

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/italian:
PhD, MPhil Italian
The Department of Italian has a strong commitment to excellence in both teaching and research.
We promote a vigorous research culture in a cooperative and positive atmosphere, which enables postgraduate research projects and the research of staff to thrive.
The department pursues the study of Italian culture in an interdisciplinary context, which challenges traditional parameters of the discipline to advance knowledge in our areas of expertise.
We currently have particular strengths in the literature, visual culture and cultural history of modern and contemporary Italy, and in medieval and early modern literary and cultural history.
January 2025 start: 1 st December 2024 for all applicants
January 2026 start: 1 st December 2025 for all applicants
PhD: a research project undertaken across three to four years (full time), culminating in an 80,000-word thesis.
As well as having the option to audit taught units, there may be the potential for PhD students themselves to participate in teaching from their second year of study onwards.
Many graduates from this programme develop careers in higher education or work on high-level research projects in fields relating to their studies.
Others take their in-depth understanding of historical, literary and visual cultures into a host of other professions, such as translation, journalism, publishing and the cultural industries.
The advanced critical and professional skills developed at postgraduate level, alongside skills in research and communicating research, also prepare our graduates for a diverse range of careers, from the civil service and law to commerce and the media.
The department has two broad areas of research expertise:
Every member of the department participates in the research clusters of the Faculty of Arts, Law and Social Sciences and the School of Modern Languages.
Staff in the department play an active role in the Centre for Medieval Studies ; Bristol Common Press ; Screen Research ; and Centre for Creative Technologies .
Members of staff are or have been recently involved in various major projects, including the large-scale Film Studios: Infrastructure, Culture, Innovation in Britain, France, Germany and Italy, 1930-60 (STUDIOTEC) , funded by the European Research Council; Naples and the Nation: Image, Media and Culture in the Second Republic , and The Renaissance Decameron , funded by the Arts and Humanities Research Council; and Blood and Power: A History of Italian Fascism , and Dante and the Idea of Italy , funded by the Leverhulme Trust.
Other major projects include AHRC-funded research into Italian cinema audiences and stars in the 1940s and 1950s, and a Wellcome Trust project on radical psychiatry in Italy in the 1960s and 1970s.
Colleagues are also deeply involved in the promotion of scholarship in Italian studies, institutionally, nationally and internationally.
Postgraduate students are fully integrated into the research culture of the department and participate in our programme of colloquia, workshops and lectures.
You may also benefit from the department's strong research links with universities in Italy, especially Naples and Bologna.
Rhiannon Daniels, Head of Subject, Italian
117 455 4632
r.j.daniels@bristol.ac.uk
Department of Italian

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/law:
PhD Law
PhD study is substantially different from other types of postgraduate work as each candidate devises their own independent research project.
At the University of Bristol Law School, comprehensive research training is provided by expert academics, who also offer guidance and supervision of your research project.
If you are undertaking socio-legal research, initial research training can take the form of the MSc Socio-Legal Studies programme, which is recognised by the Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC).
As a PhD Law student you will join a vibrant and diverse research community that will include membership in one of our centres of research excellence .
You will be invited to participate fully in the life of the school, including frequent research events like the staff and invited scholar's seminar programme and the annual Law PGR showcase.
There may also be opportunities to undertake some part-time teaching within the school.
Travel and conference funding is available for research students.
The closing date for a September start date is 1 June 2025.
ESRC funding: Internal deadline - 2 December 2024.
ESRC deadline -  12 noon on 14 January 2025.
For details on applying for ESRC funding, please visit the South West Doctoral Training Partnership (SWDTP) website .
Bristol Postgraduate Research Scholarships: Internal deadline - 2 December 2024
Bristol Postgraduate Research Scholarships deadline: 12 noon on 24 January 2025
For all other funding deadlines please refer to our Law School funding pages .
All PGRs will from 2025/26 be required to take 20 credits of research training in addition to the Advanced Legal and Socio-Legal Methods unit, unless they are exempted from individual units after applying for Recognised Prior Learning.
Visit our unit and programme catalogue to view the units available for PhD Law.
ESRC/SWDTP-students may be required to take additional credits as determined by SWDTP .
A minimum of an upper second-class honours degree in law (or equivalent) and normally at least a merit at master's level (or equivalent).
Alternatively, a first-class honours degree in law (or equivalent) and evidence of ability to conduct independent and original research.
The Faculty of Arts, Law and Social Sciences has an allocation of MSc + PhD and PhD only ESRC scholarships.
The length of these scholarships will be dependent on training needs and can vary, with the shortest generally being three years and six months (PhD only).
The internal deadline to apply for admission to the PhD programme and for ESRC is: 2 December 2024.
The ESRC deadline is: 12 noon 14 January 2025 (exact deadline TBC).
The internal deadline to apply for admission to the PhD programme and for Bristol Postgraduate Research Scholarships is: 2 December 2024.
The Bristol Postgraduate Research Scholarships deadline is:  12 noon 24 January 2025.
Applicants may also be interested in applying for funding from the AHRC, the University of Bristol Postgraduate Research Scholarships or the Law School Graduate Teaching Assistantship scheme.
Visit the school's fees and funding webpages for further information about available funding.
The PhD in Law at the University of Bristol offers useful preparation for several different careers, including academia.
The ability to plan, research and write a sophisticated thesis, including an ability to conduct, for example, detailed doctrinal analysis, to think in broad theoretical terms and to engage in empirical research can provide a firm foundation for a career in the academy.
A second possible career is that of working for an NGO or policy organisation, drawing on skills in research and writing, which are invaluable for work of this kind.
A third possibility is working within governments, again building on analytical, doctrinal or empirical research skills developed through the PhD, which incorporate both an ability to undertake rigorous research and to see the bigger picture.
Finally, some students choose to enter the legal profession, carrying with them a rich understanding of legal principles and practice.
We offer extensive opportunities for career development and advice through our Careers Service, as well as opportunities for mentoring throughout your degree that will help you prepare for a career.
A wide variety of subject areas are covered in the Law School.
This reflects a range of different approaches to legal research - doctrinal, socio-legal/interdisciplinary and theoretical.
The school has a strong portfolio in immigration and citizenship, socio-legal studies, environmental law, gender and law, legal history, corporate governance and regulation, international law, employment law, and health law and policy.
The school usually has 80 research postgraduates at any one time, working in a wide variety of subject areas and adopting a range of different approaches to legal research.
Please visit our research webpages for more information on our vibrant research community.
Please see the guidance for how to apply on our postgraduate research webpage .
Please see our list of Law School staff supervisory interests for supervisors available from 2025/26.
Postgraduate Admissions Administrator
+44 (0)117 455 1269
law-pgr-admissions@bristol.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/linguistics:
PhD, MPhil Linguistics
Linguistics is the study of human language, how it functions in the brain and how it is used in society.
Studying linguistics allows you to develop your understanding of language, and therefore learn more about people, both as individuals and societies.
This level of in-depth knowledge about the human condition is increasingly vital in a world facing a broad array of societal and environmental challenges.
At the University of Bristol, we have a strong research focus on sociolinguistics, which is the study of language in society.
We are deeply interested in how the study of language sheds light on social issues, both present and past, and we use a broad range of methods and approaches, including qualitative and quantitative analyses of recordings, surveys, corpora, and historical documents.
We examine language variation and change, using both present-day and historical data.
We also adopt critical approaches that study the attitudes, belief systems and policies that influence the way people use language on a daily basis.
As a PhD student, you will be able to apply all these approaches to your own data and develop your knowledge collaboratively with us as a team.
In our team, we have published extensively on many different language situations around the world, and our skills and expertise cover several languages: Catalan, English, Esperanto, French, German, Irish, Occitan, Portuguese, Scots, Spanish and Welsh.
We also welcome working with students on other languages.
Based in the School of Modern Languages , the staff in the Linguistics team collaborate nationally and internationally.
We are connected with many professional bodies and networks, including the Association for French Language Studies, the International Association for the Study of Spanish in Society, the Forum for Germanic Language Studies, and the Historical Sociolinguistics Network.
We work with colleagues from across the university (for example, in Anthropology and in English) and we contribute to the research centres in the Faculty of Arts, Law and Social Sciences.
These connections, our research events, and the support of our team offer an excellent research environment.
Home applicants: 1 August 2025
January 2026 start: 1 December 2025 for all applicants
PhD: a research project undertaken across four years (full-time, minimum period of study three years), culminating in an 80,000 word thesis.
The MPhil and PhD can be studied part-time and via distance learning.
Applicants with a non-traditional background be considered provided they can demonstrate substantial equivalent and relevant experience that has prepared them to undertake their proposed course of study.
People with a PhD in Linguistics go on to work in a range of fields, in both the public and private sectors.
Linguistics graduates often apply their skills to careers in the media and civil service, as well as policy-making organisations and NGOs.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/llm-law---commercial-law:
LLM Law - Commercial Law
The LLM in Commercial Law explores the intersection of law and business, focusing on business transactions, market influence on legal development, and key concepts like risk and party autonomy.
Studying in Bristol will give you exposure to the English legal culture and the prominent role English law plays in international trade.
The programme covers subjects such as law and markets, contract law, sale of goods, insurance law, and international commercial arbitration, with options to tailor your studies through a wide range of specialist optional units.
Ideal for those pursuing a career in commercial law or seeking to understand the law-business dynamic, the programme develops crucial analytical, communication, and research skills valued by top employers.
Our programmes are well respected by leading law firms, with Bristol ranking in the top 10 in the UK for employer reputation, for law and legal studies (QS World University Rankings by Subject 2024).
Choosing a postgraduate law degree from the University of Bristol – ranked third in the UK for legal research excellence ( THE analysis of REF 2021) – means engaging in a rigorous, research-rich curriculum that will make you stand out to employers.
You will be challenged and inspired by our world-leading academics who are part of the Law School’s Centre for Private and Commercial Law.
Overseas applicants: 25 July 2025.
Home applicants: 8 August 2025.
Please note that due to high demand, some programmes may close earlier than advertised.
Early applications are advised to avoid disappointment.
Places are limited and allocated on a continuous basis from September 2024 until all places are filled.
Hear directly from an academic giving you a deeper insight into this programme.
Our vibrant international community and diverse teaching methods, including lectures, seminars, and bespoke skills workshops, enrich the LLM experience at the University of Bristol.
A wide range of optional units reflect the expertise of our globally renowned academics, allowing you to further specialise your degree.
You will take four units and a compulsory dissertation.
You will take one compulsory unit (Law and Markets) and then choose the other three units, at least two which will be from the specialist commercial law portfolio.
You can choose one unit from the wider LLM pathway.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our LLM in Commercial Law.
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent in Law.
OR an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent non-law degree in a related field, such as Business, Economics, Management or Finance.
We will also consider your application if your subject is not listed above, if you have at least one of the following:
If this is the case, please include your CV (curriculum vitae / résumé) when you apply, showing details of your relevant qualifications.
If you are currently completing a degree, we understand that your final grade may be higher than the interim grades or module/unit grades you have achieved during your studies to date.
We will consider your application if your interim grades are currently slightly lower than the programme's entry requirements and may make you an aspirational offer.
This offer would be at the standard level, so you would need to achieve the standard entry requirements by the end of your degree.
We will also consider your application if your final overall achieved grade is slightly lower than the programme's entry requirement.
Information about funding and scholarships can be found on the University of Bristol Law School funding webpages .
This includes information about the Law School's Think Big about Law and Justice Scholarships , open to international postgraduate students.
Graduating from a world-leading university* opens doors to careers in a variety of sectors.
This LLM is ideal for individuals pursuing careers in the area of commercial law, or those who wish to gain an understanding of how law and business interact.
Graduates have gone on to work as lawyers in national and international law firms, as well as roles in government, private and charity sectors.
You can expect to:
Please visit our careers and employability webpage for more information about the support and opportunities we provide during your studies.
*Ranked 54th in the world (QS World University Ranking 2025)

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/llm-law---company-law-and-corporate-governance:
LLM Law - Company Law and Corporate Governance
The LLM in Company Law and Corporate Governance offers a deep understanding of the legal, financial, and governance issues in corporate activity within a real-world context.
With a wide range of optional units, you can explore and critically assess national, international, comparative, and interdisciplinary perspectives on company law and corporate governance.
Ideal for those pursuing a career in law, finance, business and academia among other professions, the programme develops crucial analytical, communication, and research skills valued by top employers.
Specialist units include both Company Law and Corporate Governance in the UK and the US – and cover other areas of interest, such as human rights law, labour law or international law.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our LLM in Company Law and Corporate Governance.
Information about funding and scholarships can be found on the University of Bristol Law School fees and funding webpages .
Graduating from a world-leading university* will open doors for careers in a variety of sectors.
This LLM is ideal for individuals wishing to pursue legal practice, or to develop careers in finance and management as well as in the fields of regulation and governance.
This LLM will help you to:
Please visit our careers and employability webpages for more information about the support and opportunities we provide during your studies.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/llm-law---employment-work-and-equality:
LLM Law - Employment, Work and Equality
This programme will not be running for the upcoming year of entry.
The LLM in Employment, Work and Equality offers specialised knowledge in individual and collective employment law, addressing issues of equality, migration, and other legal disciplines that regulate work relations.
You will explore the wide-ranging impact of law, regulation, policy, and practice on the workplace, reflecting on contemporary developments.
The programme combines detailed legal analysis with socio-legal and policy perspectives, incorporating international, European, and comparative legal sources.
Ideal for those pursuing a career in law, trade unions, NGOs and academia, the programme develops crucial analytical, communication, and research skills valued by top employers.
You will be challenged and inspired by our world-leading academics who are part of the Law School’s Centre for Law at Work .
Students will take four units and a compulsory dissertation.
You have the option of taking three specialist units from the LLM in Employment Work and Equality programme and one unit from any of our other LLMs.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content.
OR an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent non-law degree in a related field, such as Anthropology, Business, Management, Sociology, Industrial Relations/Employment Relations, Economics, Human Geography, Politics and International Relations.
Graduating from a world-leading university* can open doors to careers in a variety of sectors.
This LLM will suit graduates aiming to work with international law firms, as barristers, or in academia and international organisations.
Some graduates also engage in policymaking through trade unions, employers' organisations and NGOs.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/llm-law---general-legal-studies:
LLM Law - General Legal Studies
The LLM in General Legal Studies offers you the widest range of choice across our specialist LLM programme portfolio.
This programme is most suited to those wishing to design a bespoke programme, tailored to your specific interests.
With a choice of over 40 postgraduate units, you can choose from topics such as World Trade Law, Environmental Law, Intellectual Property and Human Rights in Law, Politics and Society.
Ideal for those pursuing a career in law, policy, business and academia, the programme develops crucial analytical, communication, and research skills valued by top employers.
You will be challenged and inspired by our world-leading academics.
You will select four units from the list offered across our LLM programmes and a compulsory dissertation.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our LLM in General Legal Studies.
OR an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent non-law degree in a related field, such as Business, Economics, History or Politics.
Graduating from a world-leading university* opens doors to careers in a variety of sectors, with some of our graduates working as lawyers in national and international law firms, as well as consultancy and analyst roles.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/llm-law---health-law-and-society:
LLM Law - Health, Law and Society
The LLM in Health, Law, and Society is a distinctive programme that goes beyond traditional healthcare law studies.
The programme offers an in-depth study of wide-ranging issues from health inequalities and regulation of the body to reproductive justice and mental health and wellbeing.
Ideal for careers in health law, regulation, policy, NGO work, and research, this programme develops crucial analytical, communication, and research skills valued by top employers.
You will be challenged and inspired by our world-leading academics who are part of the Law School’s Centre for Health, Law and Society .
This programme is available as an intercalated degree for current undergraduate medicine, dentistry or veterinary students from the University of Bristol or other universities.
Find out more about our intercalated degrees and eligibility criteria .
You will take units in Health Inequalities, Law and Society and Law, Governance, and Health, and at least one optional unit linked to the Health, Law and Society programme.
You may also take a further Health Law unit or one chosen from the LLM programmes more widely (not all units from the wider LLM programme are available to non-Law graduates).
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our LLM in Health, Law and Society.
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree (or equivalent qualification) in Law or a related discipline (such as History, Philosophy, Policy Studies, Politics or Sociology).
Degrees in Health Care or Health Science subjects (such as Medicine and Nursing) will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
Graduating from a world-leading university* opens doors to careers in a variety of sectors such as practising as a lawyer in a global law firm, third sector organisations, government roles and research.
Please visit our careers and employability webpages for more information about the additional opportunities we provide.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/llm-law---human-rights-law:
LLM Law - Human Rights Law
The LLM in Human Rights Law offers in-depth study of global human rights legal frameworks.
You will explore international and regional institutions and mechanisms, as well as specialised areas like employment law, health law, and migration law, with a variety of optional units to choose from.
You will be challenged and inspired by academics from the globally renowned Human Rights Implementation Centre , which provides opportunities for knowledge and experience in human rights law and practice, including participation in the Human Rights Law Clinic .
Ideal for careers in human rights law, policy and research, this programme develops crucial analytical, communication, and research skills valued by top employers.
You have the option of taking three specialist Human Rights Law units and one unit from any of our other LLM programmes.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our LLM in Human Rights Law.
OR an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent non-law degree in a related field, such as Politics or International Relations.
Graduating from a world-leading university* opens doors to careers in international and European organisations such as the UN and European Commission, as well as roles in governments, think tanks, NGOs, and other agencies.
Some graduates also pursue further study or research roles.
Find out about the unique research opportunities our students get involved in at the Human Rights Law Clinic .

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/llm-law---international-commercial-law:
LLM Law - International Commercial Law
The LLM in International Commercial Law offers a wide-ranging study of transnational business transactions, international commercial arbitration, international trade rules, and market influences on law.
Studying this programme allows you to develop skills to embrace the challenges and opportunities presented by law in a global environment.
You will gain knowledge and critically analyse specialist areas of international commercial law, such as law and market interactions, cross-border sale of goods, insurance law and international commercial arbitration.
Ideal for careers in commercial law, in-house legal roles and consultancy, this programme develops crucial analytical, communication, and research skills valued by top employers.
You will be challenged and inspired by our world-leading academics who are part of the Law School’s Centre for Private and Commercial Law and Centre for International Law .
You have the option of taking three specialist International Commercial Law units and one unit from any of our other LLM programmes.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our LLM in International Commercial Law.
Graduating from a world-leading university* opens doors to careers in a variety of sectors, including roles in commercial law, in-house legal counsel, and government consultancy in global organisations.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/llm-law---international-law:
LLM Law - International Law
The LLM in International Law provides a distinctive opportunity to develop a critical and substantive grounding in public international law and the law governing modern international relations.
Develop the skills and knowledge to embrace the challenges of the increasingly complex relations between states.
You will start with an introduction to general principles governing international law, and then apply those principles in optional units covering specialist areas such as human rights, armed conflict, and trade and investment law.
Ideal for careers in global law firms and chambers, as well as roles in governmental and regulatory organisations, this programme develops crucial analytical, communication, and research skills valued by top employers.
You will be challenged and inspired by our world-leading academics who are part of the Law School’s Centre for International Law .
You have the option of taking three specialist International Law units and one unit from any of our other LLM programmes.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our LLM in International Law.
OR an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent non-law degree in a related field, such as History, Politics or International Relations.
Graduating from a world-leading university* opens doors to careers in a variety of sectors, including roles in global law firms and chambers, and roles in governmental and regulatory organisations such as the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office and the World Trade Organisation.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/llm-law---international-law-and-international-relations:
LLM Law - International Law and International Relations
The LLM in International Law and International Relations offers a multidisciplinary perspective on global affairs, combining insights from the Law School and the School of Sociology, Politics and International Studies.
Gain a unique insight into the dual functions of law and politics in regulating and influencing world affairs.
You will study overarching theories of international relations and their practical applications through specialist optional units in international law, human rights, world trade law, international security, and international political economy.
Explore how these theories are applied in practice through your specialist units.
Ideal for careers in global law firms, government, consultancies, the public sector and international agencies, this programme develops crucial analytical, communication, and research skills valued by top employers.
You will choose two Law School units from a list of options, along with three units from the School of Sociology, Politics and International Studies.
You will also complete a 10,000- to 15,000-word dissertation.
In consultation with the programme director and based on your proposed area of specialisation, you have the choice to take the dissertation in either school, with a supervisory decision typically being made in December.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our LLM in International Law and International Relations.
OR an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent in non-law degree in a related field, such as History, Politics or International Relations.
Graduating from a world-leading university* opens doors to careers in a variety of sectors, including global law firms, government, consultancies, the public sector, and international agencies.
Please visit our careers and employability webpages for more information about the support we provide.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/llm-law-environment-sustainability-and-business:
LLM Law, Environment, Sustainability and Business
The LLM in Law, Environment, Sustainability, and Business provides an in-depth study of environmental and sustainability law, with a focus on the role of business in sustainable development.
Gain the skills and knowledge to help businesses balance people, planet and profit.
The programme adopts a broad perspective, examining institutions across sectors and critically analysing environmental law and governance, and corporate governance in business organisations, through the study of specialist units.
Ideal for careers in corporate ESG, environmental agencies, consultancies, government, or NGOs, this programme develops crucial analytical, communication, and research skills valued by top employers.
You will be challenged and inspired by our world-leading academics who are part of the Law School’s Centre for Environmental Law and Sustainability .
You are required to take the mandatory unit Legal Perspectives on Sustainability and have the option of choosing among  three specialist units linked to the LLM Environment, Sustainability and Business, as well as one unit from any of our other LLMs.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content.
OR an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent non-law degree in a related field, such as Politics and International relations, Economics, Business, Human Geography, Sociology or Anthropology.
Graduating from a world-leading university* opens doors to careers in a variety of sectors, including specialisms in corporate ESG, environmental agencies, government, consultancies, NGOs and other organisations working for environmental change.
Our careers and employability page provides more information about the support and opportunities we offer during your studies.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/llm-law-innovation-and-technology:
LLM Law, Innovation and Technology
The LLM in Law, Innovation and Technology offers a distinct opportunity to master the legal expertise to address real-world challenges related to technology development and innovation.
You will study information technology (IT) law that will introduce you to key issues and debates in this field and that will equip you with the legal and technical knowledge to analyse and evaluate the legal and regulatory challenges of digital technologies in an informed way.
In addition to IT law, you will have the opportunity to select from a range of specialist units focused on topics such as intellectual property law, privacy and data protection law, regulation of digital markets and competition, and digital technology in legal practice.
All of these units have been carefully designed to reflect insights from the Law School’s own LawTech Industry Board (a body of top industry experts working in the field who assist us in developing and delivering this LLM programme).
Located in the UK’s ‘Silicon Gorge’, Bristol is recognised as ‘the most innovative city outside of London’ ( Invest Bristol + Bath 2021 ).
The University's focus on digital technology includes hosting Isambard-AI, the UK’s most powerful supercomputer.
Ideal for careers in commercial law, tech innovation, data economy, digital markets, and online business development, this programme develops crucial analytical, communication, and research skills valued by top employers.
You will be challenged and inspired by our world-leading academics who are part of the Law School’s Centre for Global Law and Innovation .
Our vibrant international community and diverse teaching methods, including lectures, seminars, talks by invited guests, and bespoke skills workshops, enrich the LLM experience at the University of Bristol.
All students will study an IT law unit.
You will select three more units from a list of specialist units linked to the LLM Law, Innovation and Technology, or you may select one unit from any of our other LLMs programmes (eg LLM in Banking and Finance Law) and two specialist units.
OR an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent non-law degree in a related field, such as Computer Science, Data Science, Management, Economics, Philosophy, or Policy Studies.
Graduating from a world-leading university* opens doors to careers in a variety of sectors, including roles in global law firms and chambers, as well as roles in tech innovation, data economy, digital markets, online business development, the judiciary, regulatory bodies and public authorities.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/ma-anthropology:
MA Anthropology
The MA in Anthropology will help you develop a nuanced and cross-cultural perspective on the challenges that humans face in our fast-changing world, with content that reflects our research strengths in adversity, adaptation and globalisation.
You will have the opportunity to put this understanding into practice through academic events and work experience in Bristol's thriving creative and cultural industries as well as social organisations.
In addition to the core themes of the programme - which explore interrelated real-world issues such as sustainability, technology, engagement, arts and materiality - you will receive advanced training in theory and methods delivered through world-class, research-led teaching.
The programme will introduce you to anthropological research design and data analysis using qualitative and mixed methods, including ethnographic and visual methods; survey, interview and focus-group design; participatory approaches and research ethics.
There are opportunities for undertaking an off-campus placement with an external partner such as a media-tech company, museum, heritage organisation, NGO or local authority.
You can gain first-hand experience of working in a vibrant and diverse industry while putting into practice the skills you have learned throughout the course.
Being taught by research-active experts in the field, you will gain knowledge and understanding on some of the most relevant and urgent contemporary issues and public debates.
From drugs and stimulants in Africa, to children and their art in Amazonia; from museums and heritage in Asia, to transhumance mobility in Europe, you will learn alongside leading academics through in-class lectures, small-group seminars, field trips, and potential international knowledge exchange programmes.
This MA will enhance your transferable skills and employability by providing valuable research experience and helping you develop a network of contacts in and beyond work placement providers.
Two mandatory units offer advanced anthropological training in theory, method and practice.
In Anthropological Theory and Practice, you will explore contemporary social and political issues and consider what a shared, sustainable future might look like.
We help you gain a deeper understanding of the interconnected world we live in and encourage you to think about why people act the way they do.
We enable you to find your unique voice that challenges prejudice and inequality.
After all, we cannot learn to work together without learning about each other through our differences and diversities.
In Research Methods in Anthropology, you will be trained in anthropological research design and data analysis using qualitative and mixed methods.
Sessions will explore ethnographic, reflexive and visual methods, as well as survey, interview and focus-group design.
Optional units will allow you to tailor your programme to your area of interest, including a work placement opportunity.
Optional units may vary but will highlight social and cultural diversities in human societies.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MA in Anthropology.
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent in an arts, humanities or social sciences discipline.
Non-traditional qualifications/routes may also be considered.
Specific module requirements would still apply.
If you have at least one of the following, please include your CV (curriculum vitae / résumé) when you apply, showing details of your relevant qualifications:
ACCEPTABLE SUBJECTS: Any Arts, Humanities or Social Science degree List if helpful includes but not limited to:
International students may be awarded a Think Big Postgraduate Scholarship .
Anthropologists are in demand in a transforming economy and workplace culture because we have a deeper understanding of human practices and cultural connections - a perspective hugely important for a sustainable future.
Anthropologists are highly sought after in public and private sectors, including governmental bodies such as the UK Government's Department for International Development (DfID) or NGOs like Action Aid and Oxfam.
You could go on to work in academia as a lecturer or researcher with postgraduate studies, find opportunities as a corporate anthropologist in local and international businesses that value research and analytical skills.
You could also explore broader career prospects in diverse fields such as policy, advocacy, heritage, health or the creative industries, capitalising on your planning, research and managerial skills and capacities.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/ma-black-humanities:
MA Black Humanities
This unique interdisciplinary MA offers you the opportunity to study Black Humanities through critical engagement with the global histories, philosophies, languages, literature and arts of people of African descent.
Based on cutting-edge research from across the humanities, you will study the histories and intellectual frameworks that underpin contemporary debates about race.
Through your reading and seminar discussions, you will be encouraged to address urgent questions concerning the parameters of knowledge and knowledge production, the legacies of systemic racism and campaigns for social justice.
These will be discussed through consideration of historical and contemporary contexts in Africa, the Caribbean and the Americas, and Europe.
Over the course of the programme, you will learn about Black experiences in Britain, and specifically in Bristol, a city deeply entangled with the transatlantic plantation economy and its legacies.
The University of Bristol is home to the Centre for Black Humanities , an international hub for research on Black life that directly informs our teaching.
Our members are engaged in pioneering research on topics including UK hip-hop, Black British art, the histories and memories of Enslavement, African literary activism and film, Caribbean literature, and the Lusophone Atlantic.
We place critical importance on being part of an international and multilingual community.
This is reflected in the Centre’s annual programme of external speakers and seminars , offering you the opportunity to engage with world-renowned scholars as well as Bristol's cutting-edge cultural scene.
Your two interdisciplinary core units will provide an introduction to key concepts, ideas and figures in the Black Humanities.
They will provide a strong scholarly foundation for your dissertation and encourage you to explore a wide range of subjects and issues through an equally wide range of intellectual and artistic media.
In addition to your core units, you will select three options from a diverse list, enabling you to build your own specialised pathway through the programme.
These options (subject to staff availability) may include: Bristol and Slavery; Pan-Africanism; Screening Nation, Literatures of Enslavement; Postcolonial Environments; Modernism and the Black Atlantic; Theorizing Violence; Museum and Heritage: Critical Perspectives; Decolonizing Literature and Literary Studies.
You will also undertake a discipline-specific research methods course and a dissertation (an independent research project).
Students are also expected to attend the international seminar and events programme coordinated by the Centre for Black Humanities, which directly connects to themes covered in the MA programme.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MA in Black Humanities.
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent in any discipline.
Acceptable sectors:
Please note there are scholarships available for teachers wishing to study this programme.
Visit the Bristol Black Scholarship pages for more information.
Graduates of this programme are equipped to go on to careers in a variety of fields, such as education, politics and campaigning, the arts and heritage sector, publishing, the civil service, media and journalism.
They are also well placed to continue on to doctoral studies in fields across the humanities.
Crucially, graduates will have acquired not only a firm grounding in a rich intellectual tradition that continues to shape society, but also transferable skills including critical thinking, and the ability to argue persuasively.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/ma-chinese-english-audiovisual-translation:
MA Chinese-English Audiovisual Translation
The MA Chinese-English Audiovisual Translation is designed to prepare you for work in the fast-growing audiovisual sector of the language industries.
The driver for this industry growth is the ubiquitous availability of video content.
Audiovisual translation accounts for up to one third of language services activity both in China and internationally.
The programme focuses on technological competence and building practical skills in a range of audiovisual translation modes.
The programme also offers a broader grounding in key concepts and audiovisual industry dynamics.
You will build your core skills through compulsory units in translation practice and analysis, CAT tools, and audiovisual translation theory.
You can then take options in subjects such as subtitling, videogame localisation, audio description, and advanced CAT tools.
You will then complete either a research-based or a practice-based dissertation on a topic related to audiovisual translation.
Tutors include specialists in translation technologies, videogame localisation and subtitling.
Bristol is a UNESCO City of Film and film and media culture is very lively here.
Bristol is also a hub for game developers and publishers.
The training offered by the programme is practical and industry-oriented in nature.
In the first teaching block, units will include three compulsory units: Translation Practice and Analysis I, Theories of Translation and Computer-Assisted Translation.
You will also take a non-credit-bearing Academic Language and Literacy unit.
In the second teaching block, you will take the dissertation unit and three of the following optional units which have previously included CAT Tools 2, Subtitling, Audio Description and Technologies for Museum Accessibility, Translation Industry, and Games Localisation.
The dissertation can be a practice-based or research-based dissertation but must be on a topic relating to audiovisual translation.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MA Chinese-English Audiovisual Translation.
For native Chinese speakers, you will typically need a strong upper second-class honours degree or international equivalent in any subject.
For non-native Chinese speakers, you will typically need a strong second-class honours degree or international equivalent in Chinese Studies (or similar), or completion of a full undergraduate or postgraduate programme at a prestigious Chinese institution.
Non-native Chinese speakers who have not completed a Chinese/Mandarin bachelor's may be required to demonstrate proficiency through a translation test.
For applicants who are currently completing a degree, we understand that their final grade may be higher than the interim grades or module/unit grades they achieve during their studies.
We will consider applicants whose interim grades are currently slightly lower than the programme's entry requirements.
We may make these applicants an aspirational offer.
This offer would be at the standard level, so the applicant would need to achieve the standard entry requirements by the end of their degree.
This programme is designed to prepare students for future careers.
For example, students may go on to be in-house interns or new hires at post-production or localisation companies, or do freelance work.
A number of our students each year consider progressing to doctoral study after their MA.
Many of the skills are transferable to other careers such as editing, marketing or social media.
Audiovisual translation helps students to learn key attributes such as creativity and close attention to detail.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/ma-chinese-english-translation:
MA Chinese-English Translation
Our MA in Chinese-English Translation will equip you for a career in professional language services and further academic research.
You will explore how practical translation is informed by theory, develop your verbal and written communication skills, and build your mastery of digital tools to help you produce translation of the highest quality.
Students graduate from the programme equipped with specialist skills in translation and localisation, as well as transferable skills such as analytical thinking, research and collaboration, which are essential in today's global market.
Students coming to the UK from overseas not only learn advanced translation skills from and into Chinese, but also develop their English language competency and their knowledge of UK and international culture.
The programme is also open to students for whom English is a native language with a high level of Chinese, typically undergraduate level or higher.
Postgraduates are full members of the academic community, with the opportunity to participate in the many research seminars and conferences taking place within the Faculty of Arts, Law and Social Sciences .
The School of Modern Languages has an established record in translator training and excellent industry links.
Our translation and interpreting staff include practising professionals and translation researchers.
We are a corporate member of the Institute of Translation and Interpreting and an institutional member of the American Translators' Association (ATA) .
We are on the ATA's list of approved providers of translator training.
Students have an opportunity to obtain SDL Trados translation software certification.
During the first term, you will study three core units: Theories of Translation, Translation Practice and Analysis, and CAT Tools.
In the second term, there is one further core unit in practical translation plus a dissertation.
In addition to the core units, you will choose from a variety of optional units, which in past years have included subtitling, translation industry, videogame localisation, and interpreting.
The dissertation can take the form of either an extended translation-plus-commentary, or a research-based dissertation.
Students will work with a supervisor to formulate their ideas and plan their approach.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MA in Chinese-English Translation.
For native Chinese speakers, you will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent in any subject.
For non-native Chinese speakers: an upper second-class honours degree (or international equivalent) in Chinese Studies (or similar); or completion of a full undergraduate or postgraduate programme at a prestigious Chinese institution.
Funding and studentship opportunities are listed on the Faculty of Arts, Law and Social Sciences funding pages .
The MA in Chinese-English Translation provides a foundation for students looking to enter or develop their careers in translation project management, freelance translation or as in-house translators and interpreters in international corporate and government institutions.
The skills developed through this degree are transferable to a variety of related careers, such as management consultancy, international relations, PR, marketing, journalism and business.
In addition, the research and theoretical components of this programme provide an excellent entry point to the field of translation studies for anyone aiming to pursue a PhD in the UK or abroad.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/ma-comparative-literatures-and-cultures:
MA Comparative Literatures and Cultures
This degree is designed to give you an exciting exploration of literary and cultural products and critical issues that span national and linguistic borders as well as time periods.
You will become acquainted with the theory and practice of comparative literary and cultural studies, consider how concepts of national cultures cross borders and media forms, and interact with ideas of the transnational and intermedial.
You will gain a thorough grounding in literary, cultural and intermedial theories; critical reading and research skills; and put this theoretical knowledge into practice by studying topics and themes that span disciplines, national contexts and time periods.
You could choose to follow a 'literature', 'visual culture', or 'history' pathway according to your interest, by selecting from different optional units taught by internationally recognised scholars in a wide range of disciplines covered by the School of Modern Languages and other schools and departments within the faculty.
While knowledge of a foreign language is not a requirement for this programme, you will have the opportunity to learn a language at a variety of levels, from beginner to advanced, and to engage directly with material in foreign languages throughout the MA.
The programme culminates in a dissertation – an extended piece of original academic research.
As a postgraduate, you will be considered a full member of the academic community, with the opportunity to participate in the many research seminars and conferences taking place within the Faculty of Arts, Law and Social Sciences .
There are three core units, and you will take three additional optional units from the wide range available in the School of Modern Languages, or more broadly across the faculty.
Following successful completion of the taught element of the programme, you will be required to complete a dissertation of approximately 12,000 words.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MA in Comparative Literatures and Cultures.
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent in an arts or humanities discipline, such as:
Applicants should have studied one literature module, and have achieved 60% or international equivalent in this.
Studying comparative literatures and cultures allows you to develop a range of analytical skills and a multicultural and interdisciplinary awareness that will allow you to excel in many different professions.
Graduates of this programme will be well prepared for doctoral studies in the humanities and arts, as well as careers in business, publishing, law, civil service, teaching, journalism, and museum and cultural heritage.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/ma-composition-of-music-for-film-and-television:
MA Composition of Music for Film and Television
This programme provides professional training in composition for screen media.
Taught by staff and guest composers from the professional world, you will develop a strong technological foundation in the subject, along with specialist understanding of television and screen scoring.
The MA is taught within our high-specification composition and recording studios, which have full-time technical support.
You will be actively encouraged to build opportunities and networks, both within and beyond the University, for projects in film, animation, documentary, games and more.
In the first term, you will study units introducing you to working and recording in studios, and the core skills of film scoring.
You will also take one elective unit.
In the second term, the programme moves on to critical analysis of media music, and media composition practice including production music, TV and documentary.
This work feeds into original collaborations that you may choose to include in your final portfolio.
The vibrant musical life of the Department of Music provides opportunities for student and professional performance, and we are located at the heart of one of the UK's leading cities for broadcast, commercial and creative screen media.
There are four core units and you will be able to choose two optional units from a wide selection that address further compositional skills, and the study of film, TV and other screen media.
You will also complete a media composition portfolio/dissertation: a substantial portfolio of original music for new collaborative films and/or extracts and related projects (a total of approximately 18 to 20 minutes of music for up to 50 minutes of footage).
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MA in Composition of Music for Film and Television.
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or international equivalent in Music, plus experience as a composer, demonstrated by a portfolio of your music.
For further information on the required portfolio and the expected format, please see the Department of Music website.
MyWorld Scholarships: UK offer holders for this programme may be eligible for a scholarship of up to £5,000 towards their tuition fees.
Information about eligibility and the application process can be found on the MyWorld website .
Students who have completed the MA in Composition of Music for Film and Television have taken up careers as music composers, sound designers, recording managers and educators.
Department of Music

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/ma-creative-innovation-and-entrepreneurship:
MA Creative Innovation and Entrepreneurship
To thrive in a disrupted world you will need commercial acumen to realise your creative ambitions.
The MA Creative Innovation and Entrepreneurship will teach you how to apply your existing creative practice to real-world business challenges.
We welcome students from any creative, arts, or humanities discipline or background who are thinking about building a career out of their practice either in existing organisations or startups.
This programme shares much of its teaching with our other Innovation and Entrepreneurship programmes (MSc and MA) but has a specific focus on the creative industries and creative entrepreneurship.
You will develop the high-level skills and critical competencies needed for successful organisational innovation and entrepreneurship, through a largely practice-orientated educational approach based on collaborative teamwork across disciplines and cultures.
During the programme, you will get opportunities to work alongside creative businesses and agencies to develop a deep understanding of their opportunities and challenges.
Bristol is a recognised hub for innovative and entrepreneurial business, being ranked within the top five best places in the UK to start-up outside of London (Startup Cities Index, 2022), and home to some of the most impactful, innovative, and creative organisations in the world.
Find out more about the Centre for Innovation and Entrepreneurship .
The degree is delivered through practical units on innovation-led entrepreneurial skills; design and systems thinking; and developing and prototyping ideas.
In the first teaching block, you will learn about human-centred design thinking to develop innovations that create value by meeting real human needs.
This involves understanding your target audience and their issues and testing ideas for possible solutions.
You will gain insight into the technological, social and political influences on design and innovation, drawing on case studies of success and failure to help you think about future opportunities.
In the second teaching block, you will explore solutions for a real-world client, iterating to develop an unexpected range of possibilities and creating prototypes to test with customers or users.
You will learn about different kinds of enterprise, how to explore your ideas from a business perspective and how to place them in the appropriate context.
And you will assess the viability, feasibility, sustainability and desirability of a proposed venture while writing compelling business plans.
In your final summer project, you will pull together all you have learned to create a product or service as an entrepreneurial or innovative new venture.
There are no exams, only coursework, which typically includes both individual and group assessments.
You will also get the chance to work in interdisciplinary teams throughout the year.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MA in Creative Innovation and Entrepreneurship.
This programme will prepare you to create your own creative entrepreneurial venture or join an existing creative organisation.
You will graduate with a portfolio of work that shows what you can do - you may even have an emergent venture.
You will build a network of contacts to draw on whether you are starting-up or seeking innovative roles.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/ma-creative-writing:
MA Creative Writing
The MA in Creative Writing at Bristol is designed for writers who would like to begin publishing their work.
In warm, supportive workshops, you will be helped to improve your writing and in lectures and seminars you will increase your understanding of the industrial and critical contexts of contemporary literature.
You will be taught by experienced published writers in extended workshop sessions, where you will be supported to experiment, innovate, and improve your work.
This is the heart of the degree, where you develop your understanding of readership and how to create immersive writing that is engaging and memorable.
A special unit introduces you to issues in contemporary publishing, where guest writers and experts from industry bring up-to-date knowledge and expertise to the programme.
This unit is tailored to student need and designed to help you understand exactly how to begin trying to publish your work.
Welcomed into the University's prestigious Department of English , you'll learn about contemporary critical issues that influence the world of literature.
You will be encouraged to read widely and books will be suggested for you by faculty.
Over the summer, you'll work with a professional writer to develop your manuscript, just as you would with an agent or editor.
By the end of the programme, you should understand a great deal about the critical and commercial context of your writing.
You should be able to speak confidently and intelligently about your work and where it belongs.
Twilight teaching allows people with working or caring responsibilities to study – as do the part-time options.
A strong writing portfolio will allow access without a first degree in a related subject – or indeed without a first degree.
Times of classes will be announced well in advance, so that students can accommodate study in their busy lives.
These elements make for diverse, exciting classroom experiences.
Also diverse is the students' work.
Of course, we support literary fiction in the British tradition.
But we also support genre – including sci-fi, fantasy, mystery and thriller.
We support writing for young readers, romance, comedy, and recently supported a graphic novel script.
Overseas applicants: 11 July 2025.
For full-time students, in the first term:
In the second term:
This is followed by the Creative Dissertation (60 Credits) over the summer period.
Two years part-time study requires attendance at one seminar in the first teaching block (TB1) and one seminar in the second teaching block (TB2).
In the second year, the two years part-time study option requires attendance at one seminar in TB1, one seminar in TB2, and tutorials over the summer period.
Three years part-time study requires attendance at one seminar in TB1 and one seminar in TB2 in the first year.
In the second year, it again requires attendance at one seminar in TB1 and one seminar in TB2.
The third year of study requires the student to attend tutorials only.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MA Creative Writing.
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent in English Literature, Drama, or Creative Writing.
Nonstandard routes are considered as places are primarily offered on the basis of a portfolio of writing.
We are looking for writers with potential to soon begin publishing their work.
It is helpful, but not essential, for the applicant to have some idea of the project they hope to undertake during the course of the degree.
Evidence of prior study in the area, a long-standing writing practice, workshop experience, and extensive reading can also strengthen the application.
However, the most essential element of the application is the writing itself.
We are currently only accepting submissions for fiction, creative non-fiction (for example, memoir), and poetry.
The portfolio should be no longer than 10 pages of fiction or creative non-fiction (double spaced, 12-point font) or 4-5 poems.
Evidence of significant, relevant work experience:
Work experience duration: Any
Paid/unpaid: Both
Creative writing is among the subjects eligible for funding from the Postgraduate Master's Loan .
The Faculty of Arts, Law and Social Sciences also offers funding opportunities for taught and research programmes.
International students are encouraged to apply for the Think Big Postgraduate Scholarship .
Graduates of the MA in Creative Writing often enter portfolio careers, where creative writing becomes only one element of their income.
Other elements may include:
The close-reading skills developed on a master's in creative writing can also prepare graduates for careers in publishing.
Advanced skills in understanding nuance and tone have helped graduates secure work in business communications, marketing and corporate social media.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/ma-digital-business-innovation:
MA Digital Business Innovation
The MA Digital Business Innovation programme is tailored for individuals looking to spearhead digital transformation within organisations.
This programme is ideal for applicants from a wide range of academic backgrounds, including business, technology, and the Arts, Law and Social Sciences, who want to leverage digital tools and strategies to innovate and drive business growth.
The curriculum covers essential areas such as digital business models, strategic innovation management and the integration of emerging technologies.
Unique aspects of this programme include a strong emphasis on real-world application through collaborative projects with industry partners.
Students will work on projects that involve developing digital strategies for real businesses, providing them with invaluable practical experience and insights into the latest industry trends.
The programme also offers opportunities for networking with professionals and entrepreneurs, fostering a community of practice that supports lifelong learning and career development.
The programme comprises several core units, starting with foundational units in The Role of AI in Digital Innovation and Advanced Digital Business.
These courses provide a solid theoretical grounding in how digital technologies are reshaping business landscapes.
Following this, students will participate in a practical client project, where they apply their learning to real-world business challenges.
This project emphasises the development of practical skills such as project management, strategic planning, and stakeholder communication.
The final component of the programme is the Digital Innovation Project, where students undertake a comprehensive project that synthesises all their learning.
This capstone project is often conducted in collaboration with their peers and a business partner, providing students with an opportunity to showcase their ability to innovate and lead within a digital context.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content of this programme.
Graduates are well-prepared for careers in digital consultancy, innovation management, and business development.
They are equipped to lead digital transformation initiatives in various sectors, including technology, finance, healthcare, and creative industries.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/ma-digital-media-innovation:
MA Digital Media Innovation
The MA Digital Media Innovation programme is designed for creative professionals and media enthusiasts who wish to advance their skills in the rapidly evolving digital media landscape.
This programme is for individuals looking to explore multimedia storytelling, interactive media, and digital content creation.
It offers a comprehensive curriculum that covers advanced digital media production techniques, including animation, video editing, and interactive design.
The programme stands out for its strong focus on both theoretical frameworks and practical applications, ensuring that students not only understand the latest media theories but also gain hands-on experience working with cutting-edge media content.
Students will have the opportunity to collaborate on projects with leading media companies, allowing them to apply their academic knowledge to real-world challenges.
This unique blend of theory and practice prepares students to innovate and lead in various media industries, from traditional broadcasting to digital platforms and creative agencies.
The programme structure includes core units such as Tools and Methods for Digital Innovation, User Experience Design Fundamentals and Advanced Digital Media.
These units are designed to provide students with a deep understanding of the tools and techniques used in contemporary digital media production.
In the second term, students engage in a practical client project, working closely with industry partners to create innovative media content that meets professional standards.
This experience is invaluable for developing a portfolio of work that demonstrates technical skills and creative vision.
The final term features the Digital Media Innovation Project, a capstone project that allows students to showcase their ability to develop and execute a comprehensive digital media strategy.
This project is often conducted in collaboration with their peers and media companies, providing students with real-world experience and industry contacts.
If this is the case, please include your CV (curriculum vitae / resume / résumé) when you apply, showing details of your relevant qualifications.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/ma-english-literature:
MA English Literature
The MA in English Literature aims to deepen your passion for literature while developing the rigorous specialist skills essential to postgraduate-level research.
You will receive the help and support of the distinguished Department of English as we aim to provide a stimulating and challenging intellectual experience in a friendly environment.
The programme offers four pathways, which build on the core research strengths of the department:
If you wish to focus on a particular period you may follow a single pathway.
Alternatively, if you want to broaden your engagement with English literature, you may decide to choose no single pathway, and combine optional units to suit your interests.
All students are taught the specialist skills required for postgraduate-level research and the practical skills that academic life demands.
Everyone on the programme is invited to enter fully into the wider academic community of the department and the University.
You will study units that follow the pathway or route through the programme that matches your interests.
After successfully completing the taught portion of the programme, you must complete a dissertation of up to 12,000 words.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MA in English Literature.
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent with 60% or above in any dissertation/research component.
In cases where an undergraduate transcript does not contain a research element such as a dissertation, we may ask applicants to provide an example of their academic writing that demonstrates capacity for independent research.
Specific module requirements may still apply.
A relevant postgraduate qualification.
Students who complete the MA in English Literature have been successful in obtaining employment in media, journalism, publishing, theatre, arts administration and teaching, as well as in industry, commerce, law, computing and social work.
Many MA English Literature graduates continue their studies by moving on to MPhil/PhD programmes .

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/ma-environmental-humanities:
MA Environmental Humanities
To address environmental challenges, we don't just need to understand the science behind how the world is changing.
We also need to understand how the relationship with our environment is shaped by human behaviour, beliefs, values and structures.
Studying how human interactions with the natural environment have changed over time, and how those interactions have been explored in culture, is essential to tackling contemporary environmental concerns.
This interdisciplinary master's balances the study of literature with work on visual culture, and our particular strength in environmental history.
The programme offers you an international perspective, exploring interactions between environment, culture and history from across the world.
Completing this course will allow you to:
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MA in Environmental Humanities.
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or international equivalent in any Arts, Humanities, or Social Sciences discipline (including Geography).
Our graduates go on to a wide range of careers, including media, publishing, environmental consulting, environmental law, planning, teaching, politics, local and national government, and business.
The core units on our MA include discussion of potential career pathways and how to prepare for them.
The MA in Environmental Humanities also provides a strong foundation for those wishing to pursue further academic research at doctoral level and beyond, by teaching you advanced independent research skills and clear and concise writing.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/ma-film-and-television:
MA Film and Television
This distinctive and exciting programme integrates textual and historical approaches to the study of film and television with filmmaking practice.
As a student on this innovative course, you will engage with critical and theoretical perspectives and develop analysis skills at a high level.
You will also have the opportunity to learn the skills of filmmaking, working intensively in small groups to explore narrative and aesthetic possibilities and gain insights into the craft and industry of screen media.
You will encounter a range of different research methods and be supported as you progress to independent learning and individual practice.
The University of Bristol has more than 40 years of experience in this field and the programme draws on the expertise of world-leading scholars, expert practitioners and industry professionals.
The Department of Film and Television hosts a series of research seminars and industry talks designed to enrich your studies.
Our facilities include two cinemas, production studios, animation and edit suites, seminar rooms and sound rooms.
Bristol is an excellent city in which to study film and television, with its varied cinema, television and digital media spaces, such as the Arnolfini, BBC Bristol, Cube Microplex and Watershed Media Centre.
Bristol's harbourside is home to an array of film festivals, including the Encounters Short Film and Animation Festival, the Slapstick Festival and the Afrika Eye Festival.
The programme has been designed to develop your skills and knowledge cumulatively, while allowing you the opportunity to tailor your learning to your own areas of interest.
In the first term, you will be taught skills and techniques of written formal analysis.
You will have the option to learn the core skills of practical filmmaking.
These units will provide the foundation for optional units, many of which will incorporate elements of intensive practice alongside more traditional critical and theoretical learning.
In the second term, you will develop an understanding of research approaches, which will provide you with the necessary foundation to progress to the dissertation stage.
Optional units may vary but will draw on departmental expertise and specialisms such as aesthetics, animation, cinematography, directing, documentary, editing, national cinemas, screen histories, television drama, and writing for the screen.
You will also be able to choose from a wider range of units available within the Faculty.
At the dissertation stage you will choose from three options: taking up an industrial placement, for which you will also produce a written element; writing an extended essay on a film and/or television topic of your choice; or producing a piece of practice either individually or in a team (usually a short film or a film essay) to be accompanied by individual written reflection.
All dissertation options will be supervised by one or more academic advisers.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MA in Film and Television.
An upper second-class honours degree or international equivalent in Film Studies (theory).
Essay-based subjects are also considered, inclusive of: English Literature, History, Comparative Literature, Philosophy, Anthropology, Law, Politics, Theology, or Classical Studies discipline.
Degrees outside this list must include a 2:1 or equivalent in at least four modules which demonstrate theoretical understanding and written analysis of either Literature, Film and Television, or Art at undergraduate level.
We would also consider a balance of theoretical and practical modules to demonstrate this experience, however only a maximum of two practical modules will be considered.
We will also consider your application if your grades are slightly lower than the programme's entry requirements, if you have at least one of the following:
Graduates of film and television at Bristol have taken up a broad variety of careers, including filmmakers, programme researchers, senior academics, broadcasting executives, journalists, festival programmers, screenwriters, editors and developing commissioners.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/ma-history:
MA History
The MA in History offers you the opportunity to explore a variety of historical approaches, and many different periods and places.
This MA is characterised by a high degree of choice, both in what and how you learn.
It offers unique opportunities to get hands on experience for students looking to move into work in heritage and research.
You can opt to take specialist master's level units, join third-year undergraduate units, or undertake independent solo research projects.
Several units also offer the chance to engage with external partners such as the SS Great Britain, BBC History Magazine , or the National Trust.
The wide range of research and teaching expertise in the department means that we are confident you will find units that reflect your own interests, whether that's medieval notions of the apocalypse, the English Civil War, maritime empires, race in North America, or something else entirely.
Across the year, students can choose to specialise by following pathways through our programme that reflect our strengths in:
Alternatively, you may prefer to obtain a broad knowledge of different historical subjects, themes, debates and methodologies.
As well as benefitting from the research expertise of our staff, you will be immersed in a vibrant postgraduate community at Bristol.
This is underpinned by regular seminar series, guest speakers, and skills workshops, as well as social events organised by our History Society and student reps.
You will also be connected to a number of prestigious research groups in the Faculty of Arts, Law and Social Sciences in which the Department of History plays a prominent part.
This includes our centres for Medical Humanities, Black Humanities, Environmental Humanities, and Medieval Studies.
The MA comprises six taught units and a dissertation.
Teaching includes independent study tasks, seminars, and one-on-one supervision.
Across the course, the focus develops from broader units, through more specialised ones, to your choice of dissertation topic.
Students normally take two core units: Approaches to History, and Researching and Writing History.
These develop essential skills that underlie later assessments.
The remainder of the taught element of your programme is made up of four optional units, from our diverse offering:
In the third term, you will either write a research dissertation of up to 12,000 words, or submit a practice-based dissertation, combining a practical project with a written report.
Both dissertation routes are supervised by an academic in the department.
Students identify the subject for their dissertation in the spring, but conduct most of the research over the summer.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MA in History.
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent with a minimum mark of 60% in your final-year dissertation.
Students who complete the MA in History have taken up careers in fields such as journalism, image and data capturing, heritage, and teaching.
Many MA History graduates have gone on to take an MPhil/PhD in History and forged careers as research academics.
Another popular choice is to develop careers in fields such as public relations, accountancy, fund management, and law, by building on the transferable skills acquired through master's study.
As a graduate of the MA in History you can use the University's Careers Service for free for up to three years after you graduate.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/ma-history-of-art:
MA History of Art
This programme previously advertised a part-time option that is no longer available.
The Department of History of Art offers a broad-based master's programme, which enables you to study a range of periods and approaches before specialising for your dissertation.
The MA draws on the research strengths of all members of the department, which includes specialists in medieval, renaissance and modern art.
We aim to help you develop an informed understanding of the main strands of art history, as practised globally.
We also offer curatorial units in collaboration with external museum partners, through which you will learn to research and catalogue museum collections and to mount exhibitions.
Our students are drawn from a variety of backgrounds.
Some have undergraduate degrees in art history, others do not, and some are working artists.
Studying for this MA is a chance to become part of a thriving academic community, with a sizeable and close-knit student body and a lively programme of research and social events.
You will study two core units and then select four optional units.
The research component of the programme is written over the summer and is submitted in September.
Three-hour optional units are delivered in two sessions that are frequently scheduled on multiple weekdays.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MA in History of Art.
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent in any subject.
For students of Fine Art, please be aware that this programme is rooted in history, not the study of Art as a discipline.
Students who have graduated from the MA in History of Art have gone on to careers in a variety of fields, including journalism, art consultancy, buying and marketing, galleries and more.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/ma-immersive-arts-virtual-and-augmented-reality:
MA, PG Certificate (Postgraduate Certificate), PG Diploma (Postgraduate Diploma) Immersive Arts (Virtual and Augmented Reality)
Creative technologies and interactive and immersive media are transforming the ways in which we experience and engage with culture.
Virtual Reality (VR), Augmented Reality (AR) and Mixed Reality (MR) are being used across a wide range of industries, including games and entertainment; theatre and live events; museums and heritage; marketing, advertising, and tourism; architecture and design; and simulation and healthcare.
This MA will enable you to translate your learning and experience in creative arts (for example writing, theatre, film or music production) into making engaging immersive content and designing innovative interactive experiences.
We will equip you with the technical skills and knowledge to succeed in this exciting and rapidly growing sector.
Throughout the course, you will learn from world-leading academics and pioneering thought-leaders, and work closely with creative industry partners.
This MA equips students with:
The creative, immersive and screen media industries are thriving in Bristol and the region, which makes the city an ideal place to study Immersive Arts.
The MA has been co-designed with industry partners and is closely associated with excellent cutting-edge research in immersive technologies and creative practices within the University, for instance MyWorld .
The teaching will be research-led, and give students insights into emerging media and how the creative industries are evolving, along with emphasising practical approaches to learning.
You will be introduced to the fundamental technologies underpinning immersive media, the diverse applications and experiences that can be achieved with these technologies, and the wide range of opportunities in the sector.
You will get to experience and discuss inspiring examples, cover theories of immersivity, histories of immersive and interactive media, and emerging technologies and approaches.
This will enable you to position your practice in the field and reflect critically on how the sector is developing.
Virtual and augmented reality require new forms of non-linear narrative and you will develop your understanding of interactive storytelling, non-linear dramaturgy and how to structure compelling experiences.
You will explore creative content creation, producing 360-degree video and spatial audio, motion capture, directing and/or performing in virtual environments and AR scenes.
You will learn how to design interactions to further immerse your audience in the action, giving them agency in how an immersive experience unfolds, and develop understanding of how the player/user is affected by the experience.
To complete your studies, a 60-credit research or practical project can be chosen.
This unit will provide you with first-hand experience in planning, delivering, and presenting a substantial piece of original immersive and creative work in an academic, civic or commercial environment.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MA in Immersive Arts (Virtual and Augmented Reality).
Graduates from this MA will be capable of developing immersive applications and content for a variety of sectors, applying their knowledge to real-world challenges, and will be able to innovate and work successfully in interdisciplinary teams.
As diverse sectors pivot to embrace immersive technologies, the demand for graduates with skills in this area has skyrocketed and such expertise is becoming integral to a wide range of occupations across the globe.
Students will graduate with a portfolio of work that shows what they are able to do and you will have a network of professional contacts to draw on.
Graduates from this MA will be sought after in a wide range of roles, for instance in immersive theatre and events, in the interaction department of animation, film and screen media companies, in advertising, marketing, experience and app design, in digital museum interpretation and in games development.
Department of Theatre

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/ma-law:
MA Law
The MA Law is designed for students with an undergraduate degree in any discipline who aspire to pursue a legal career.
It is similar to a ‘Graduate LLB’ or a 'Law Conversion Course (GDL)' but studied over two years providing a greater depth of study and comprehensive legal grounding.
Students who have completed this programme can proceed to the professional stage of legal training with the advantage of gaining a postgraduate law degree.
You will develop a thorough grounding in the seven foundations of legal knowledge – Contract, Land Law, Public Law, Tort Law, Criminal Law, EU Law and Trusts.
For your eighth subject, you will choose from a wide range of optional postgraduate units from our LLM programme catalogue, or research and write your own research project under the expert supervision of a member of staff.
Ideal for those aiming for a legal career or seeking other professional roles across the public and private sectors, this programme develops the advanced analytical, communication, and research skills valued by top employers.
Choosing a postgraduate law degree from the University of Bristol – ranked third in the UK for legal research excellence (THE analysis of REF 2021) – means engaging in a rigorous, research-rich curriculum that will make you stand out to employers.
At the University of Bristol you will experience our vibrant international community and diverse teaching methods, including lectures, seminars, and bespoke skills workshops.
The wide range of optional units reflect the expertise of our globally renowned academics, allowing you to further specialise your degree.
In year one, you will study two core units in each of the two semesters, assessed by examination and/or coursework.
Each unit also starts by introducing you to the key legal skills that will enable you to research, think and write like a lawyer, preparing you for the substantive content you will study.
Year two comprises the three final core units, with integrated skills teaching, plus a further optional unit of your choice.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MA in Law.
Graduating from a world-leading university* can open doors for careers in a variety of sectors.
Individuals who have completed the MA in Law have gone on to:
The Law School has partnered with BPP University to offer law students the Bridge Programme, a free career development course to help aspiring solicitors and barristers prepare for their future careers, through two distinct pathways.
Please visit our Careers and Employability webpage for more information.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/ma-medieval-studies:
MA, PG Certificate (Postgraduate Certificate) Medieval Studies
Please check our programme finder for similar programmes.
This programme offers an innovative way of studying medieval culture and society by exploring the inherent interdisciplinarity of medieval culture.
As a student, you will benefit from research-led teaching and skills-based training across a wide variety of disciplines, including history, literature, languages, manuscript studies, music, religion and classics.
You will be introduced to the rich dynamics of cultural exchange and multilingualism that define medieval culture, by drawing on the potential that medieval studies have to help us look beyond the limitations of national histories and traditions.
You will have access to one of the most active and innovative centres for medieval studies in the UK, comprising more than 40 staff members and approximately 30 postgraduate research students (MPhil/PhD) each year, who together form a lively and dynamic interdisciplinary community.
Every year, the Centre for Medieval Studies (CMS) hosts a large number of research seminars, lectures and public talks.
Staff who teach on the programme are members of the Centre, and many have an international reputation in their respective fields.
In addition, this programme will give you opportunities for involvement in the yearly CMS Postgraduate Conference, enabling you to further develop your academic skills and network with an international pool of peers and scholars.
Beyond the University, you can draw on the important archival, architectural and heritage resources of the city of Bristol – the medieval gateway to Europe – and the south-west region more widely.
Through our placement- and practice-led project options you have the unique opportunity to gain practical work experience with one of the University's partners in the cultural and heritage industries, which helps train you as a professional medievalist with transferable skills for careers in heritage, archives, museums, academia and beyond.
In the first term you are required to take two core units and one optional unit that reflects your particular disciplinary or subject-specific interests.
Optional units are chosen from a list of specialist units available during that year across the Faculty, covering topics that range from religion to art history and music.
In the second term you are required to take one core unit and two optional units.
For one of the optional units, you may choose to undertake a work placement.
This will give you the opportunity to work on a project with a partner organisation from the cultural and heritage industries.
Finally, you will complete either a dissertation or a practice-led project.
The practice-led project will be in the form of, or accompanied by, a critical reflective commentary, which could stem from and further develop your work placement.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MA in Medieval Studies.
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent in Arts, Humanities, or Social Sciences.
Applicants to the PGCert must be currently employed in a cultural heritage organisation.
This might include Museums, Archives, Libraries, Churches, Cathedrals, Historical Monuments, Curating, Conservation, English Heritage, National Trust, Creative Industries, etc.
Students who complete this programme are competitively placed to go into a career in either the academic sector or the cultural and heritage industries.
The programme's focus is on the acquisition of practical and transferable skills for professional medievalists, including research skills, languages, manuscript skills (palaeography and codicology), archival study skills and heritage preservation.
Together, these equip our graduates for research degrees and/or employment in culturally-oriented industries outside academia.
Centre for Medieval Studies

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/ma-music:
MA Music
There are five pathways in this flexible MA programme:
The units you take will vary according to your chosen pathway, but all include shared training units, such as Research Skills for Musicians, specialised units specific to the pathway, and a large menu of optional units tailored to your interests.
These are followed by a major project: a dissertation or edition for musicologists (including those on the Russian Music and Medieval Music pathways), a recital for performers, or a portfolio of compositions for composers.
There is one core unit, Research Skills for Musicians, which is common to all pathways, and there are a number of other core and optional units depending which of the five pathways you are following.
The content especially of the pathway-specific and optional units in this MA programme relates closely to the research interests of the academic staff.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MA in Music.
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent in Music.
Applicants for the Composition or Performance pathways are required to submit a portfolio of work.
For further information on the required portfolio, please see the Department of Music website.
Applicants for the Musicology Pathway will need to ensure that their personal statement addresses the following areas:
Musicology involves not only knowledge of music history but also engagement with current scholarly debates and research.
For a more detailed explanation click here.
Students who complete the MA in Music have gone on to varied careers, some within the music industry (for example, as performers, senior music assistants, music teachers, arts administrators and self-employed composers).
Some continue into doctoral studies.
Others apply the transferable skills of the MA in Music to succeed in unrelated professional careers.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/ma-philosophy:
MA Philosophy
The MA in Philosophy will give you a thorough grounding in the core knowledge and skills required for philosophical research, while also allowing you to pursue your own philosophical interests in depth.
Bristol ranks as one of the top ten philosophy departments in the UK in the Philosophical Gourmet Report .
Our staff have diverse research interests and expertise across a wide range of philosophical areas.
You can design a path to match your interests by choosing one of the following seven specialist pathways, each dedicated to a key area of contemporary philosophical research:
Each pathway has distinct mandatory units, providing the foundation to develop specialist expertise in a particular area of philosophy.
Your dissertation is an opportunity to work on an extended and original piece of research on a topic of your choosing, with guidance from a research supervisor.
You will develop a deep knowledge and understanding of key areas of philosophy and a sophisticated ability to critically evaluate and assess philosophical theories.
You will be an active member of the department's flourishing research culture and will be encouraged to take part in our regular events , including research seminars, workshops and reading groups.
There is also a dedicated weekly postgraduate seminar with a friendly and supportive environment.
For all pathways, the programme consists of six taught units and a dissertation of up to 10,000 words.
The Philosophical Writing and Research Seminar is mandatory for all MA pathways.
This unit equips students with analytical tools and argumentative strategies essential for graduate-level study and research in philosophy.
Skills learned in this unit are transferable into a vocational context and as such are highly valued by employers.
Each pathway has between two and four further mandatory units for that pathway.
For the Logic and Philosophy of Mathematics and the Philosophy of Physics pathways, these include advanced units in Mathematics and Physics, so it is recommended that only students with significant relevant mathematical experience enter onto these pathways.
The remainder of the taught element of your programme is made up of optional units.
There will be a choice of available specialist units.
You will also be able to take advantage of our range of units available at undergraduate level via a Personal Option Unit where you may undertake the teaching of an undergraduate level unit to guide your development of a master's level assignment.
You also have the option to undertake guided independent research into an agreed topic of your choice, working with a project supervisor.
Following the taught element, you will work on a dissertation on an approved topic of your choosing in line with your pathway specialisation, with most of the work on this taking place over the summer.
This is your chance to produce an extended piece of original philosophical research, guided by one-on-one supervisions by a member of academic staff.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MA in Philosophy.
You will typically need a strong upper second-class honours degree (65% or higher) or an international equivalent in any subject.
If your degree is not in philosophy, we may ask you to provide a sample of your writing to demonstrate writing and research capability.
Many students gain admission to our programme with prior training in philosophy.
However, the pathways within our programme also make it particularly suited to students with non-philosophy backgrounds (eg physics for the Philosophy of Physics pathway; maths for the Logic and Philosophy of Mathematics pathway; psychology or biology for the Philosophy of Biological and Cognitive Sciences pathway; or politics or sociology for the Political Philosophy pathway).
Students who have completed Philosophy MAs at Bristol have gone on to careers in counselling, journalism, management, scientific research, teaching, policy development, scientific administration, medical ethics, and roles in the IT sector, among other things.
A number of MA graduates have gone on to study at MPhil/PhD level and develop careers as philosophy academics.
Department of Philosophy

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/ma-translation-online:
MA Translation (Online)
Translation is about people as much as it is about texts.
Translators are change-makers through the work they produce.
The online MA Translation prepares you to find your individual voice as a translator, become a confident user of translation technologies, explore ethical questions in relation to clients and colleagues, and develop your entrepreneurial skills.
The programme is offered in French, German, Italian, Russian, Spanish, and Portuguese.
Translation is primarily from these languages into English.
You are welcome to take courses in more than one language.
The MA Translation belongs to a highly select group of global programmes that are formally validated by the Chartered Institute of Linguists (CIOL) .
They describe the programme as:
'A programme embedded in both academic and professional contexts that delivers an excellent preparation for linguists seeking a career in translation.
Drawing on current practice, emerging trends and future language specialisms, the programme anticipates developments in the translation industry which will affect the working lives of aspiring translators.
Students embarking on the programme can be confident that they will emerge equipped with the professional skills and knowledge they need to be work-ready to enter the translation industry.'
The programme is also a corporate member of the Institute of Translation and Interpreting (ITI) .
In this online programme, teaching and learning primarily happen in asynchronous, interactive seminar groups, led by specialists in language and community, CAT tools and MT, subtitling, multilingualism, poetry, theory, translation as a service, and video game localisation and accessibility.
Several tutors have extensive industry experience and continue to work as translators alongside their activities on the programme.
Our student body is exceptionally diverse.
Some have recently completed their undergraduate degree; others have professional experience in the language industry or elsewhere and are looking for a career change.
Asynchronous learning is particularly suited to students with family or work commitments alongside their study.
In addition to asynchronous core unit components, we offer non-compulsory synchronous meetings, and synchronous interaction between students is facilitated through a virtual common room.
While you are not required to come to campus, you are just as much a member of the University as any other student, and we will be delighted to welcome you to Bristol when you visit.
All applicants to MA Translation are eligible to apply for the MA Translation Scholarship .
Applications close on 1 June 2025 at 12 midday (UK time).
8 August 2025.
In order to obtain the MA, you must complete a dissertation.
The dissertation may be practice-based (an annotated translation of a previously untranslated text) or research-based (focusing on translation, translation theory, the translation industry and related fields).
This programme is delivered online.
No on-campus attendance is required.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our online MA in Translation.
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent in a relevant language (French, German, Italian, Portuguese, Russian, or Spanish), or any other degree subject, provided the language qualifications of study are equivalent to a minimum score of C1 in the Common European Framework of Reference (CEFR).
Applicants without the necessary academic linguistic background may be asked to complete a translation and/or diagnostic test.
evidence of significant, relevant work experience.
Professional or significant volunteer experience translating.
Benefitting from the strong growth of the language industry overall, recent graduates have successfully established themselves as translators, transcreators, localisers, terminology managers, interlingual consultants and language project managers.
Graduates who went into literary translation have enjoyed crafting, publishing, and publicising their new books and have won prestigious awards.
Some students who complete the programme continue to doctoral study .

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/ma-user-experience-design-and-innovation:
MA User Experience Design and Innovation
The MA User Experience Design and Innovation programme is for those interested in creating impactful digital experiences that are both intuitive and engaging.
This programme attracts applicants from diverse backgrounds who want to delve into the intricacies of user behaviour and design.
It focuses on key areas such as human-centred design principles, usability testing, and the incorporation of user feedback into the design process.
Unlike many programmes that emphasise purely technical skills, this course provides a balanced approach that combines theoretical knowledge with practical application.
Students will learn how to conduct thorough user research, develop wireframes and prototypes, and perform usability tests to refine their designs.
The programme also includes significant collaboration with industry partners, allowing students to work on real-world projects that address contemporary UX challenges.
This hands-on experience is complemented by guest lectures from UX professionals, workshops, and seminars, providing students with a well-rounded understanding of the field.
Core units in this programme include User Experience Design Fundamentals and Advanced User Experience Design.
These units provide the foundational knowledge needed to understand and implement effective UX strategies.
In the second term, students participate in a practical client project, where they apply their learning to design user-friendly interfaces and digital experiences.
This project is conducted in collaboration with industry partners, offering students the chance to work on real-world challenges and receive feedback from professionals.
The final component of the programme is the UX Design Innovation Project, a comprehensive project working with their peers, where students create a full-fledged UX solution, demonstrating their ability to integrate research findings, design principles, and user feedback into a cohesive product.
This capstone project not only showcases students' skills but also provides a significant portfolio piece for their future careers.
Graduates of the MA User Experience Design and Innovation programme are prepared for careers in UX design, user research, product design, and digital strategy.
They can pursue roles in various industries, including technology, healthcare, finance, and creative sectors, with a strong foundation in both theory and practical application.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/management:
PhD Management
Candidates entering the PhD programme are normally required to take 60 credit points of taught training units in their first year.
Potential supervisors for PhD in Management can be found here .
You may also submit application without identification of supervisors, and we will try our best to find a match, although we cannot guarantee supervision.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/mathematics:
PhD, MSc by research Mathematics
The University of Bristol School of Mathematics has more than doubled in size in the last decade, with over 100 academic staff and up to 90 postgraduates.
We are engaged in research across many areas in pure and applied mathematics and statistical science.
We possess intellectual, educational, and material resources to provide the highest quality training for our postgraduates.
We are proud to have been ranked 4th in the UK in the Times Higher Education analysis of the Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2021 for Mathematical Sciences.
Our academic staff are among the world's best in their areas and have won distinguished prizes and fellowships , and major grants.
View details of PhD projects offered by our academics for the upcoming academic year.
The level of our postgraduate supervision is in line with our research merits.
We aim to recruit top postgraduates, welcoming applications from the UK and overseas.
You will learn cutting-edge mathematical skills, engage in international collaborations, and be a part of a friendly and stimulating community.
We welcome applications from all members of our community and are particularly encouraging those from diverse groups, such as members of the LGBT+ and BAME communities, to join us.
Our partnerships
The Heilbronn Institute for Mathematical Research is a partnership between the University and GCHQ.
It prioritises research in Discrete Mathematics in a broad sense, including number theory, combinatorics, quantum information and computational statistics, offering studentships and running a variety of workshops and seminars.
We run collaborative programmes with the University of Bristol departments of Biological, Computer, Earth, and Medical Sciences, Chemistry, Engineering, and Philosophy, plus many other internal and external collaborations.
To receive full consideration for EPSRC or University of Bristol funding, applications should be submitted before 6 January 2025.
The admissions cycle begins in October and normally no application decisions are made before this January deadline.
We are not able to consider applications submitted after the programme is full.
Please see the list of PhD projects and the list of staff in the School of Mathematics to identify potential supervisors.
A first-class or upper second-class honours degree (or international equivalent) in mathematics or a closely related subject, or a relevant master's qualification.
Places funded by the school may be subject to higher entry requirements.
All eligible applicants will automatically be considered for EPSRC, University of Bristol and Heilbronn studentships.
No additional funding applications are required.
If you are applying for or are in possession of alternative sources of funding please state this in your application.
UK and international students may be eligible to apply for EPSRC funding for PhD study.
To be considered for EPSRC funding, applications should be submitted before 6 January 2025.
We encourage international students to seek funding from their own countries as well.
The University of Bristol has a directory of alternative funding opportunities available to postgraduate applicants.
The school provides financial support for PhD students from a number of sources, including the Heilbronn Institute , UK research councils, industry and scholarships.
For further details, please see the School of Mathematics webpage.
Graduates have gone on to work in industry, finance, consultancy and academia, including post-doctoral positions and lectureships.
The priorities of the school's research efforts are:
Research institutes
A wide range of research is conducted in the school, spanning many of the conventional boundaries between disciplines.
Potential applicants are encouraged to consult the research themes broadly covered by the academic staff in the five Research Institutes:
You can browse our staff profiles or browse the five research institutes(above) to discover the areas and scope of research undertaken in the school.
Collaboration
Members of the school collaborate with colleagues from a variety of disciplines at Bristol, including physics, social sciences, biology and medicine, as well as with external organisations, such as Hewlett Packard, QinetiQ, Unilever, Barclays Bank, the Government Communications Headquarters and National Air Traffic Services.
For further information, please see the guidance for how to apply and the School of Mathematics website.
Postgraduate Research Admissions Team
0117 455 4244
pg-math-info@bristol.ac.uk
School of Mathematics

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/mechanical-engineering:
PhD, MSc by research Mechanical Engineering
Our mechanical engineering research is varied and world-leading, covering topics from clean energy and advanced materials to manufacturing systems, robotics and healthcare.
Advancements in this area are pursued by six research groups specialising in:
Our students collaborate worldwide with industrial partners, other universities, public-sector organisations, research institutes and NGOs, producing novel and multidisciplinary research which addresses technical, societal and environmental challenges.
They also make use of extensive and modern laboratory facilities at Queens Building in central Bristol, and at collaborating centres.
With a large, diverse and active cohort of PhD, EngD and MScR students, Mechanical Engineering at the University of Bristol is a close-knit and supportive community.
Its success is evidenced by consistently high performance in national rankings for research and teaching quality.
If you wish to apply for an alternative start date, please contact the admissions directly.
Graduates from mechanical engineering research programmes pursue a wide range of careers throughout the UK and worldwide.
Common destinations of recent graduates include research and academia, large engineering companies, engineering consultancies and startups (including successful spin-out companies).
Dynamics and Control
The Dynamics and Control group's research activities span fundamental engineering science, where new insights are developed and experimentally tested, and applied research.
These activities are split into four overlapping themes: nonlinear dynamics, vibration suppression, experimental testing and control.
Solid Mechanics
Solid Mechanics is about understanding the way engineering materials respond to loading to improve the efficiency and safety of structures.
The Solid Mechanics group at Bristol has a long tradition of undertaking industrially-motivated research, studying how materials behave when they are subjected to thermal and mechanical loads.
The main interests of the group are residual stresses, fracture, fatigue and the behaviour of materials at high temperatures.
Engineering Systems, Design and Innovation
The Engineering Systems, Design and Innovation group is concerned with researching and creating tools, methods, models and strategies to improve the engineering and operation of our future infrastructure and industrial systems.
Fundamental to our research approach is the need to understand how the process of modelling relates to the process of practical intervention, with a particular focus on the methodological challenges of modelling and designing complex technical and socio-technical systems.
The group's research interests and current projects reflect the industrial and societal challenges of energy, sustainability, resilience, demand responsiveness and flexibility, cost and frugality, users (stakeholders), risk and uncertainty, informatics and emerging technologies.
Ultrasonics and Non-destructive Testing
We are particularly active in the following areas: array imaging; materials characterisation (for example, nonlinear ultrasonics); NDT of composites; structural health monitoring; ultrasonic particle manipulation (that is, acoustic radiation force devices).
Robotics
Robots are set to impact all aspects of our lives, from robotic exoskeletons that enhance our strength and mobility to robots that search for life in the solar system and beyond.
Through the Bristol Robotics Laboratory , an innovative collaboration between the University of Bristol and the University of the West of England, Bristol is at the forefront of the robotics revolution.
Our research in robotics spans many key areas from soft actuators and flying robots to safe systems and vision for robotics.
Fluid and Aerodynamics
The Fluid and Aerodynamics group undertakes computational research (using numerical methods and algorithms to solve and analyse problems that involve fluid flows) and experimental research.
Areas of key current research include aerodynamic optimisation; computational aero-servo-elastics; hypersonic vehicle technologies; high-speed intakes; mesh deformation and generation; parallel processing; rotorcraft aerodynamics; incompressible flows; interface capturing and cavitation; nonlinear aeroelastic prediction; adaptive aeroelastic structures; aeroelastic design; and reduced order modelling.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/medieval-studies:
PhD, MPhil Medieval Studies
Bristol's importance as medieval England's second city and a major maritime port for trade and exploration makes it an excellent setting for interdisciplinary intellectual exchange.
The renowned Centre for Medieval Studies in the Faculty of Arts, Law and Social Sciences has internationally recognised expertise in a wide range of subject areas.
Research towards MPhil and PhD is supported in the following subject areas: archaeology, drama, Old English and Middle English, Scots, Welsh, French, Italian, medieval Latin, history, history of art, music, legal history, religion and theology.
Applications from prospective postgraduate students wishing to undertake interdisciplinary research are particularly welcome.
A significant number of graduates from this programme develop careers as academics in higher education.
Others move into academic-related jobs in archives, libraries or academic administration, with many maintaining the capacity to undertake new and innovative research in the field of medieval studies, comparative literature and the history of the book.
Some come to medieval studies as mature students in retirement and go on to become independent researchers.
The study of the Middle Ages at the University of Bristol includes looking at literature, art, history, language, religion, law and the thought of western European civilisation between c.500 and c.1500.
Bristol's medievalists focus on medieval culture and the whole complex of ways in which a society functions, thinks about itself and expresses its identity.
The medievalist community at Bristol is widely recognised as having established truly interdisciplinary methods of working in integrated ways, engaging in vigorous cross-disciplinary dialogues that permeate many aspects of research and postgraduate teaching.
The activities of the Centre for Medieval Studies are varied and build on this track record of interdisciplinary academic exchange and networking.
They include research seminars and collaborative projects.
Through the annual Centre for Medieval Studies postgraduate conference and student-led activities, such as reading groups, you are also encouraged to participate in developing your own networks.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/mres-economics:
MRes Economics
Our two-year MRes programme offers advanced technical training in microeconomics, macroeconomics, econometrics and mathematical research methods in economics.
You will build the knowledge and skills needed to undertake a PhD or research career, or for working as an economist outside of academia.
This programme is suitable for those who have completed an MSc in Economics or for very strong students with a first degree in economics or another mathematical subject.
Bristol is in the top 5 UK universities for research and 97% of our Economics and Econometrics research is rated “world leading” or “internationally excellent” (REF 2021).
Our MRes Economics incorporates cutting-edge economics research, delivered by international researchers and world-class academics.
Overseas applicants: 24 July 2025.
Home applicants: 9 August 2025.
The first year of the MRes focuses on core units – Econometrics, Macroeconomics and Microeconomics – and a Mathematical and Research Methods unit.
These will teach you advanced techniques essential to success as an economist, and which are necessary building blocks for a career in research.
The second year of the MRes will introduce you to field units, in which you will be able to fine-tune the methods you learned in the first year to develop specific skills necessary for state-of-the-art research in your chosen field of economics.
There is also a dissertation component that requires you to produce a research dissertation, individually supervised by a member of staff from the School of Economics.
This helps you gain first-hand experience of how academic research is conducted.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content of our MRes in Economics.
You will typically need a strong MSc degree (65% or above) or international equivalent in Economics, Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry, Engineering, Computer Science or other very quantitative-based subjects.
Evidence of strong performance (minimum merit/ 2.1 or international equivalent) in Economics and/or Mathematics modules will also be required.
For this programme recent study (within the last five years) is usually required, though if your most recent study was slightly over five years ago, your application will still be considered by the academic tutor.
Students with a strong upper second-class honours undergraduate degree (65% or higher) or international equivalent in Economics or other quantitative-based subject will also be considered.
Please visit the School of Economics postgraduate research page for more information.
This programme is primarily designed for students who are interested in going on to further study at PhD level, and emphasises the advanced knowledge and skills needed for research on a doctoral programme.
The programme is also suitable for those planning to work as an economist outside of academia, who seek excellent technical training as a strong foundation for a successful career.
As well as PhD study at University of Bristol, other recent graduate destinations include Imperial College London, the University of Southampton, the Competitions and Markets Authority and international economics consultancy firms.
As a world top 55 and UK top 10 university (QS World Rankings 2024), Bristol graduates are in high demand – being the seventh in the UK for employability (QS Graduate Employability Rankings, 2022).
We offer a broad range of support and links to partner organisations, helping you prepare for an exciting future career – whether in the UK or overseas.
You will have access to our Careers Service and Professional Liaison Network , which provide professional mentoring, networking events and business advice.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/mres-education:
MRes Education
The aim of the MRes in Education is to provide the methodological, analytical and practical expertise required to become a competent educational researcher.
This is an Economic and Social Research Council-recognised programme, and one of the research training pathways that make up the South West Doctoral Training Partnership .
This programme will appeal to those who are interested in developing a career in educational research, as well as professionals working in education institutions or organisations that require research knowledge and skills.
You will work towards a master's qualification, through taught units and a dissertation, to cover the required preparatory training for a PhD application.
The programme also provides research training for PhD candidates, who are required to take core units.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MRes in Education.
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent in education or research.
Applicants who do not have a research degree must have evidence of one unit in research methods.
We will also consider your application if your subject is not listed above but you can evidence significant (minimum of one year full-time or part-time equivalent) paid work experience in a research role.
If this is the case, please include your CV (curriculum vitae / résumé) when you apply, showing details of your relevant experience.
Our goal is to equip you with the tools to demonstrate impact, excellence and distinctiveness in your chosen field.
We will enable our graduates to display the following characteristics:
Graduates with an MSc in Education often advance into roles in:

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/mres-health-sciences-research:
MRes Health Sciences Research
Ranked 1st globally in THE subject rankings for research quality in clinical and health subjects (THE2025)
This programme offers a firm foundation in biomedical research, enhancing your understanding and critical awareness of the scientific method and practical experience in an area related to your interests.
Taught units provide training in research methodology, experimental design, statistical analyses and data interpretation.
Skills training in verbal and written communication is also emphasised.
The core of the programme is an eight-month research project, conducted within one of the University's internationally recognised research groups.
Opportunities will be available in laboratory or clinical-based investigations.
If you have a specific research area you wish to pursue, please discuss with the Programme Directors at the time of application.
The programme is suitable for medical, dental and veterinary students interested in pursuing a research-intensive intercalation option after three years of study.
It is also suitable for graduates in medicine, dentistry, veterinary science and bioscience subjects who wish to develop their research skills.
Translational Cardiovascular Medicine pathway
Students with a particular interest in cardiovascular medicine can study the MRes Health Sciences Research (Translational Cardiovascular Medicine).
In addition to the units listed within the Programme Structure (except the Project Proposal), you will be able to choose two of the following:
You will conduct a cardiovascular-related research project.
Renal pathway
Students with a particular interest in renal medical sciences can study the MRes Health Sciences Research (Renal).
In addition to the units listed within the Programme Structure (except Project Proposal), you will be required to take the Introduction to Renal Sciences unit.
Research projects on this pathway will be renal-focused, taking the form of a fundamental bioscience project, translational research, or an epidemiological population health study (in partnership with the UK Renal Registry).
There is an additional option to undertake a clinical placement, shadowing adult or paediatric nephrologists during inpatient and outpatient consultations.
Home applicants: 8 August 2025
Places are limited and allocated on a continuous basis from October 2024 until all places are filled.
The programme structure for the main MRes Health Sciences Research is as follows:
Unit 1: Foundations in Health Sciences Research - This unit will equip you with fundamental knowledge and understanding of statistical analyses and experimental and clinical research design.
You will also gain an awareness and understanding of the theory and practical application of commonly used laboratory techniques.
Unit 2: Project Proposal - This unit will enable you to gain knowledge of the scientific background of your research project and obtain a clear understanding of your project aims and the methods by which they will be achieved.
Unit 3: Research Club in Health Sciences Research - This unit will enable you to develop a thorough understanding of the scientific method; it will provide you in-depth training on how to review, assess, interpret, summarise and present research information in several formats that are important to your development as a researcher.
Unit 4: Research Project in Health Sciences Research - This unit aims to teach you to design and conduct a substantial piece of independent novel research.
It will be written in the form of a thesis/dissertation, given as an oral presentation, and as a poster at the viva voce exam.
Part-time options should be discussed with programme directors as not all research projects are suitable for part-time study.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MRes in Health Sciences Research.
Graduates in a biological (or related) science or medical subject will normally be expected to hold an upper second-class honours degree (or international equivalent).
Applicants intercalating from the professional programmes of medicine, dentistry and veterinary sciences will need to have successfully completed year three before they can be considered for this programme.
Graduates of these professional programmes are also eligible to apply.
This programme is suitable for students with a clinical or biosciences background who want to develop their research skills before embarking on a research/clinical career in academia or the pharmaceutical industry.
It provides the ideal foundation for further studies leading to a PhD.
Bristol Medical School

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-accounting-and-finance:
MSc Accounting and Finance
The MSc Accounting and Finance programme encourages deep understanding, innovative thinking, and problem-solving skills in accounting and finance.
This taught postgraduate programme emphasises research and analytical skills that will be essential in your future career.
It builds on your existing knowledge of technical aspects of accounting and finance, enhancing your ability to critically analyse and apply these techniques in practice.
In the first term, you will explore contemporary issues in accounting and finance research literature.
You will also build key skills in both quantitative and qualitative research methods.
The second term allows for further specialisation through various elective units, catering to diverse interests and career aspirations.
The final part of the MSc is a research-based dissertation, which involves identifying and analysing a research question in accounting and/or finance under the guidance of a member of staff.
The dissertation equips you with robust research skills, crucial for academic careers or research-intensive roles in the industry.
It offers an opportunity to explore an original problem, source and process relevant data, analyse that data, and draw appropriate conclusions.
For those planning on undertaking a PhD , the dissertation serves as an important bridge between taught and advanced research studies.
This programme develops skills for critical analysis of accounting and finance topics, which are invaluable for your future career.
The strong conceptual foundation it offers will support students who want to pursue an academic or professional career in accounting or finance.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for the MSc in Accounting and Finance.
You will typically need a strong upper second-class honours degree (65% or higher) or an international equivalent in Accounting and Finance (joint honours).
OR
A strong upper second-class honours degree (65% or higher) or international equivalent in Accounting or Finance (single honours).
This must include a 2:1 or equivalent in Financial Accounting and Management Accounting units, AND, 2:1 or equivalent in at least four other Accounting and Finance-related units.
Professional qualifications such as CFA, ACCA and CIMA that demonstrate technical accounting knowledge, may also be considered in lieu of some unit requirements.
Examples of acceptable units include:
Principles of Accounting, Principles of Finance, Fundamentals of Accounting, Fundamentals of Finance, Intermediate Accounting, Intermediate Finance, Financial Reporting, Accounting in Society, Cost Management, Cost Analysis, Principles of Asset Pricing, Corporate Finance, Financial Analysis, Cost Accounting, Financial Derivatives, Auditing, Banking, Financial Risk Management, Accounting Information Systems, Corporate Reporting, Financial Management, Financial Technology, International Finance, Quantitative methods for Finance, or Financial Analysis.
If English is not your first language, you will need to reach the requirements outlined in our profile level G.
The Business School is offering a range of scholarships for master’s students starting in 2025.
200 scholarships available:
100 scholarships at £6,500 each
200 scholarships at £3,000 each
£10,000 each
Learn more about eligibility criteria and application details .
Please note that alumni students are not eligible to combine the 25% alumni discount with this scholarship.
This programme provides research and analytical skills that will be valuable in your future career.
It is suitable for students who want to pursue an academic or professional career in accounting or finance.
Some students may progress to PhD study.
Others may go directly into employment, with the banking and accounting/consulting sectors being particular favourites.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-accounting-accountability-and-sustainability:
MSc Accounting, Accountability and Sustainability
The MSc Accounting, Accountability and Sustainability is a comprehensive full-time master's programme designed for students eager to explore the vital role of accounting in driving sustainable business practices.
In today's rapidly evolving world, sustainability is more than just a trend – it's a crucial aspect of modern business.
This programme offers a unique opportunity to explore both accounting principles and sustainability practices.
Ideal for students with a keen interest in accounting and sustainability, this programme bridges the gap between theory and practice.
Through engaging coursework and practical projects, you will gain both the technical expertise and hands-on practice in financial reporting, management accounting, and sustainability reporting.
Throughout the programme, you will learn how corporate practices and regulatory frameworks are adapting to address sustainability challenges, from environmental concerns to social responsibilities.
You will develop essential critical-thinking skills and research methods to prepare you for diverse and exciting career opportunities in rapidly growing areas such as sustainability consulting, corporate social responsibility, and environmental accounting.
Whether your goal is to lead corporate sustainability initiatives or conduct groundbreaking research in academia, this MSc programme will equip you with the knowledge and skillset to drive positive change and succeed.
The structure of this programme uniquely combines the principles of accounting with a strong focus on sustainability.
The programme begins by introducing core subjects that build a solid foundation in both areas.
The second term allows for specialisation with advanced topics and elective options that explore sustainable finance, corporate governance, and ethical supply chains.
The programme concludes with a significant research project, providing practical experience and in-depth theoretical knowledge.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc Accounting, Accountability and Sustainability.
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent in: an Accounting degree or an associated subject such as Business, Finance, Economics or Management degree.
We will also consider your application if your grades are slightly lower than the programme's entry requirements, if you have a relevant postgraduate qualification which also meets the subject requirements stated above.
The programme will provide an excellent foundation for its graduates to develop careers in any area of accounting, but with specific potential within the expanding area of accounting for and reporting of sustainability information.
Given the level of critical thinking and research methods training, graduates may also consider furthering their academic studies into PhD programmes.
Throughout the year, a range of transferable skills will be developed including problem solving, analysis and critical thinking.
We aim to create opportunities for students to consider where and how they have developed these skills (for example, by including reflective questions in assignments), and practise articulating them ready for an interview or recruitment assessment situation.
A range of teaching and assessment methods will support development of transferable skills.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-accounting-finance-and-management:
MSc Accounting, Finance and Management
This highly successful MSc programme is designed for students who aspire to deepen their expertise in accounting, finance, and management topics in their graduate studies.
The interdisciplinary approach integrates these key fields and provides a comprehensive understanding that is both academically rigorous and relevant to the current business environment.
Tailored for students from diverse academic backgrounds who have some quantitative training (such as mathematics, statistics, or econometrics), this programme offers a unique blend of theoretical knowledge and practical skills.
You'll benefit from learning under academics renowned globally for their research in accounting, finance, and management, ensuring you receive cutting-edge insights and a solid foundation in these disciplines.
In teaching block one, you will develop essential skills and foundational knowledge in accounting, finance, and management, preparing you for the advanced topics covered in teaching block two.
The curriculum includes three core units, supplemented by your choice of optional units across the key areas of accounting, finance, and management, allowing you to tailor your studies to your specific interests and career goals.
An element of the programme across the whole year of study is a dissertation project, where you can explore a topic of your choice from a range of options.
This project will enable you to apply literature search skills using both electronic and traditional sources, culminating in a piece of original research that demonstrates your ability to apply what you’ve learned in a practical, real-world context.
Due to high demand, we will be closing this programme to applicants from China on 28 March 2025.
Overseas applicants (excluding China): 25 July 2025.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Accounting, Finance and Management.
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent in: Accounting, Finance, Economics, Mathematics, Engineering, Physics or Computing (including Computer Science, Data Science etc).
A Bachelor of Commerce may be accepted if specialising in Accounting, Finance and/or Banking.
OR If your degree subject is not listed above, you must have evidence of an upper second-class honours degree which includes three different units of mathematics (see Maths qualification requirements ) with 60% or above in each unit.
We will also consider your application if your grades are slightly lower than the programme's entry requirements, if you have a relevant postgraduate qualification.
If your degree subject is not listed in the main entry requirements, you must have evidence of an upper second class honours degree which includes three units of mathematics with 60% or above (or international equivalent) in each unit.
Throughout your studies, you will develop academic skills that are relevant for employment, such as analysis, synthesis, and critical thinking.
In addition to the general services provided by the University and the Business School, our programme offers specific career support to enhance your employability.
These include career talks, networking events with practitioners and entrepreneurs in the industry, and social events with alumni.
Graduates of this programme go on to work for major companies such as Deloitte LLP, PwC, EY, and JP Morgan Chase, taking up roles in auditing, analysis, accounting, and management trainee.
These tailored career events, combined with the robust academic training, equip our students with the skills and connections needed to thrive in their chosen careers.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-advanced-composites:
MSc Advanced Composites
Composites are increasingly replacing traditional metallic components in various industrial applications, such as aerospace structures (aircraft wings and fuselage, rocket fairings, satellite structures), wind turbine blades and automotive components (chassis for F1 cars and hypercars, lightweight components for electric vehicles), due to their high specific stiffness and strength.
The unique characteristics of composites are essential for making our future engineering products more sustainable and energy-efficient.
Currently, there is a high industrial demand for engineers with knowledge and skills in composites.
This MSc provides you with an in-depth theoretical understanding and practical knowledge of advanced composites.
The programme is based in the Bristol Composites Institute (BCI) , which houses state-of-the-art composites manufacturing facilities to help you conduct cutting-edge research in composites engineering.
As BCI has strong industrial and research links with major international companies and research centres, you will have great opportunities to study industry-relevant problems through your dissertation projects.
BCI closely collaborates with the National Composites Centre (NCC) to create synergies between academia and industry.
The NCC offers our MSc graduates the chance to apply for the NCC internship scheme, which is an excellent opportunity to gain strong industrial research experience.
Our taught units primarily focus on structural mechanics, design and analysis, manufacturing and testing of composites, while providing optional units to further specialise your expertise in other relevant areas.
The programme includes a research-based dissertation, which allows you to apply the knowledge and skills acquired from the taught units to scientific or industrial problems.
This research experience will support you in pursuing academic or professional careers in composites engineering.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Advanced Composites.
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent in a Science, Technology, Engineering or Maths subject.
If you do not have a degree in Aeronautical Engineering, Aerospace Engineering, Civil Engineering, Composites Engineering, Engineering Design or Mechanical Engineering, you must have a UK score of 60% (or international equivalent) in the following units:
One mechanics unit.
Or
One materials unit, and one unit from the following list: Composites, Finite Element Analysis, Manufacture, Mathematics, Programming, or Simulations.
This programme is a great career development route for students with engineering or non-engineering backgrounds to develop and expand their expertise in composites engineering.
Graduates from this programme could enter a career in one of the rapidly growing composites-related industries, such as aerospace, marine, automotive and wind turbine engineering, materials testing/manufacturing or engineering consultancy.
Some of our MSc graduates continue to PhD study.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-advanced-microelectronic-systems-engineering:
MSc Advanced Microelectronic Systems Engineering
Bristol and the surrounding area hosts a thriving and world-renowned semiconductor design industry.
The groups involved in microelectronics research at the University of Bristol have collaborative links with multinational companies in the microelectronics industry.
These organisations have identified a shortfall in graduates with the necessary qualifications and professional skills to work in the sector, so this programme has been designed to meet this need.
A range of taught subjects covers core topics, such as digital and analogue application-specific integrated circuit (ASIC) design, digital signal processor (DSP) and field-programmable gate array (FPGA)-based computing, integrated sensors and actuators, radio-frequency and mixed-signal design.
Changes are made periodically to reflect important emerging disciplines, such as electronics for the Internet of Things (IoT), biomedical applications and quantum photonics applications.
The programme offers you the opportunity to learn from microelectronics, nanoelectronics and computer science experts.
You could move on to start working straight after your degree or continue your studies on a PhD.
We aim to provide you with a range of contemporary design skills to supplement theoretical knowledge.
Lectures are accompanied by lab exercises in state-of-the-art industrial electronic design automation (EDA) software to give you valuable experience in a professional environment.
The programme consists of taught units and a final Capstone project.
There are five core units taken during the autumn and spring.
In the spring term, you will also study Engineering Project Skills, a unit that introduces the fundamental skills necessary to carry out your Capstone project.
The Capstone project involves researching, planning and implementing a major piece of work relating to microelectronics systems design.
The projects are wide-ranging and often multidisciplinary.
Projects may be scientific and involve the study of certain phenomena, may be technology or product-orientated with a design emphasis, or may be on a topic related to systems and management.
The project may involve on-site collaboration with an industrial partner.
The thesis is normally submitted by the end of August.
The programme structure is under continual discussion with the National Microelectronics Institute and our industrial advisory board to ensure it remains at the cutting edge of the semiconductor industry.
It is therefore subject to slight changes to recognise important emerging disciplines and generally improve the programme.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Advanced Microelectronic Systems Engineering.
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent in Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Computer Systems Engineering, or a related discipline in Engineering.
Your degree must also include scores of 60% or an international equivalent in each of the following four modules: Analogue Electronics, Digital Electronics, Programming and Signals and Systems.
If you have not studied any Signals and Systems or Programming modules, a module in Digital Signal Processing (DSP), Microprocessors and Embedded Systems, Field Programmable Gate Arrays (FPGA), or Computer Architecture will be considered in place of this.
Unfortunately, applicants with an Engineering background in Computer Science, Software Engineering, Materials Science, Materials Science and Engineering, Materials Chemistry, Materials Engineering, Geophysics, Physics, Electric Engineering and Automation, Power Electronics and Automation and Control will not be considered suitable for this programme.
Graduates of this programme will be prepared for a career in a variety of disciplines – such as the semiconductor industry, consumer electronics, IT sector, and medical technology, to name a few – thanks to the core and specialist units that cover key foundational concepts and advanced topics related to hardware design, programming, and embedded systems and system-level integration.
Typical careers are in soft fabrication facilities and design houses in the semiconductor industry, electronic-design automation tool vendors, embedded systems specialists and software houses.
The programme also covers concepts and technologies related to emerging paradigms such as artificial intelligence and the Internet of Things, as well as preparing you for a career in academic research.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-aerial-robotics:
MSc Aerial Robotics
The MSc Aerial Robotics will provide you with the knowledge required to become an innovator in aerial robotic systems and tackle the latest challenges for Uncrewed Air Vehicles (UAVs) or drones, from urban utility operations through to remote scientific investigation.
Foundational skills such as flight dynamics, control and avionics will be complemented with disruptive technologies such as autonomous navigation and bio-inspiration.
This programme will expose you to a wide range of advanced engineering and computer science concepts and offers the opportunity to apply these to an aerial robotics project.
Flight testing may be carried out at one of our world-class facilities including an indoor flight arena at the Bristol Robotics Laboratory or the outdoor flying site at Fenswood, Long Ashton.
The University of Bristol has a long history associated with aerospace, with the city providing a home to Airbus, Rolls-Royce, QinetiQ, Leonardo helicopters and a range of smaller SMEs.
Drawing on this expertise, the Aerial Robotics programme will cover not only conventional vehicle design and onboard systems, but wider supporting robotics technologies including AI, ethics and the legal framework in which they operate.
MSc Aerial Robotics will also emphasise a systems approach, considering integration at technology, operational and environmental levels.
Graduates will be able to deliver cutting-edge drone research and development in a variety of contexts.
The programme comprises several core and optional units.
During your second term, you will start working on a substantial piece of research work that will make up one-third of your overall MSc.
This will be working in partnership with one of our aerospace industry partners or aligned with one of our existing aerial robotics research projects.
There are a wide range of different themes from which projects may be chosen, from advanced control to bio-inspired technologies and commercial applications.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc Aerial Robotics.
All applicants must also have a module in C/C++, Java, Python, MATLAB or other similar formal programming languages.
Alternatively, experience in these programming languages can also be demonstrated in a CV, personal statement, or a programming statement.
Details about requirements for the programming statement can be found in the Admissions Statement for this programme.
The programme covers the core technologies and underlying theory that is needed to support the rapidly growing commercial market in drones and small urban air mobility.
Career opportunities include SME and large industrial manufacturers, research institutions, operators, regulatory bodies and the transport sector.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-aerospace-engineering:
MSc Aerospace Engineering
The MSc Aerospace Engineering programme is designed for engineering graduates wishing to develop knowledge of advanced aerospace engineering topics, and hone skills required to make them succeed in industry.
Students graduating from this programme will have the knowledge and skills required to tackle the big questions facing the aerospace sector, and would be looking to lead in developing next-generation solutions.
The programme is for graduates who have a first degree in either Aerospace Engineering, Mechanical Engineering or another engineering topic that contains a good amount of aerospace content.
All students will be able to hone their existing engineering knowledge, and develop a higher understanding of aerospace engineering.
For those with a more general engineering degree, this programme will allow them to specialise in aerospace engineering meaning they can transition to working in the aerospace sector.
All students will be joining the University of Bristol, which has a long history of nationally-leading aerospace teaching.
The City of Bristol is also the centre of aerospace engineering in the UK, with Airbus, Rolls-Royce, GKN, Leonardo and Boeing (to name a few) within a few minutes of the University.
Uniquely, this programme allows students to either tailor their degree around a specialism they find interesting, or remain general.
Optional units that reflect the research expertise at Bristol means students could specialise in, for example, aerodynamics or composites, or remain more general by taking broader options in, for example, space engineering or wind energy.
As well as this, students will work on a group multidisciplinary design task, with a brief that mimics industrial design problems.
Students will apply their advanced aerospace engineering knowledge, and develop key soft skills such as communication and team-working to perform the conceptional design of an aircraft.
The knowledge and skills that students will develop during the degree will put them on the path to success in their future careers.
The MSc Aerospace Engineering programme is an advanced degree that covers a broad range of subjects in Aerospace.
The programme combines several core units with a range of optional units, and uniquely allows students to tailor their degree around subjects they find interesting.
In the first term, students will choose one foundational unit in either aerodynamics, structures, control or space.
This is supplemented with two additional optional units that span the breadth of aerospace engineering and are informed by the cutting-edge research at Bristol in aeroacoustics, composites and control.
In the second term, students will be able to choose a final optional unit that is led by one of our world-leading researchers.
A major aspect of this term is the group design project.
This multi-disciplinary project will see students apply the concepts they learn in their academic units to the design of a full aircraft, with a brief mimicking a typical industrial problem.
They will develop fundamental team-working and communication skills that will see them succeed in industry.
Finally, the research project will see students work within one of the world-leading research teams at Bristol.
Here, students will be working on a cutting-edge research project, and pushing the boundary of the state-of-the-art.
For example, this could be trying to understand how to reduce noise produced by aircraft wings, developing simulation methods for the next generation of large wind turbines, or designing deployable structures for space applications.
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent in Aerospace Engineering, or Mechanical Engineering.
If your degree subject is not listed above, you will need a degree in another Engineering subject and to have studied units in Aerodynamics, Aeronautics, and Aerospace Structures with 40% or above (or international equivalent) in each unit.
If you are currently completing a degree, we understand that your final grade may be higher than the interim grades you have achieved during your studies to date.
This programme will provide you with key knowledge and skills to succeed in industry.
You may choose to work for one of the many large, medium or small aerospace engineering businesses in the Bristol area.
Alternatively, you may choose to work in the automotive sector, perhaps in Formula 1, which an aerospace degree can open doors to.
An engineering degree provides you with a broad skill set, with skills such as problem solving, team working, and communication.
These skills mean engineering graduates are highly employable in a range of areas, including finance, consultancy and project management.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-applied-neuropsychology:
MSc Applied Neuropsychology
Neuropsychology is the science linking the functioning of the brain with cognitive and emotional experience and behaviour.
Neuropsychology represents the interface between the biological, psychological and social facets of human behaviour.
This course is delivered in partnership with North Bristol NHS Trust.
As a course team we are passionate about neuropsychology and its application to society to improve the well-being and quality of life of those affected by damage, disease or dysfunction affecting the brain.
The taught content of the MSc is identical to the taught content we provide when training qualified clinical psychologists to specialise in clinical neuropsychology.
The programme therefore covers core content dictated by the British Psychological Society and delivers an authentic reflection of clinical practice.
While this programme is not formally accredited by the BPS, if you complete the MSc and go on to study a BPS-accredited doctorate in clinical psychology or counselling psychology, your MSc could be retrospectively recognised as meeting one of the key professional requirements for entry to the BPS Specialist Register of Clinical Neuropsychologists.
Should you wish to become a qualified clinical neuropsychologist, this could save around two years study time and cost of paying for a BPS-accredited Diploma in Clinical Neuropsychology.
On the MSc you will learn about a range of neuropsychological disorders and pathologies, as well as focusing on principles of assessment, formulation and rehabilitation.
Around 80% of our taught content is delivered by practising clinicians, and you will receive weekly structured tutorials (during term) with clinicians that allow you to explore different aspects of clinical practice and gain insight into patient pathways and evidence-based formulation.
This programme is suitable for those looking to pursue a research career, professional positions (such as an Assistant Psychologist) or further clinical training (for example a Doctorate in Clinical Psychology).
You will have the opportunity to undertake independent research through your dissertation and there is opportunity to conduct your research project with clinicians working in the NHS.
Please see our website for more information.
The programme consists of five taught units and a clinical dissertation.
Subject to availability, the dissertation includes options for clinical research within NHS and allied healthcare settings.
Please visit our programme catalogue for more information about the MSc Applied Neuropsychology.
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent in Psychology, or a closely related discipline such as Neuroscience, or Clinical Psychology.
If you have studied a joint degree, you will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent, with at least half of your degree content in psychology/relevant modules taken in all years of the degree.
Example of relevant modules might include Brain and Behaviour, Psychobiology, Neuropsychology, or Neuroscience of Behaviour.
You also need to have scored 60% or higher overall (or international equivalent) in your psychology content.
For further information on potential sources of funding please check the University of Bristol website which includes an online funding search tool.
For UK students undertaking postgraduate programmes, there is a scholarship award available from the Grundy Educational Trust .
This degree delivers core skills and knowledge related to the theory and practice of clinical neuropsychology.
It will support those who aspire to further clinical training, such as clinical psychology and clinical neuropsychology, or a career in clinical research.
Our programmes also deliver training that will enhance your opportunities to gain employment within clinical environments.
They can also assist anyone aiming for a research assistant post with a clinical focus.
Graduates of our Applied courses who later become Practitioner Psychologists and are registered with the Health & Care Professions Council (HCPC) can enrol on our supplementary certificate course in clinical practice and have their prior Diploma course with us count toward recognition as a professional neuropsychologist.
This opportunity requires HCPC registration as a clinical or counselling psychologist.
Where the gap between completion of the MSc and a subsequent doctorate is greater than 8 years, there will be a requirement to evidence additional learning and continuing professional development in clinical neuropsychology.
This programme provides continuing professional development to students already working in a clinical setting who are seeking specialist training to work with patients who have neuropsychological deficits.
School of Psychological Science

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-applied-neuropsychology-online:
MSc Applied Neuropsychology (Online)
This MSc is only available to non-residents of the UK who wish to study via online learning.
This degree is delivered in partnership with a regional department of the UK National Health Service (NHS).
The taught content of this MSc is identical to the taught content we provide when training qualified professional Clinical Psychologists in the UK who wish to specialise in Clinical Neuropsychology.
The programme therefore delivers an authentic reflection of clinical practice and clinical training.
You will learn about a range of neuropsychological disorders and pathologies as well as focusing on principles of assessment, formulation, and rehabilitation.
The course will also develop your knowledge of neuroanatomy, brain function and techniques employed to study the human brain.
Around 80% of the course is delivered by clinicians practicing in UK hospitals and we teach a large range of clinical skills which will support those who seek a career working with patients or conducting clinical research.
Weekly online tutorials (during term) with Clinical Neuropsychologists give you an opportunity to interact with professionals and learn from their many years of experience.
The MSc is focused upon evidence-based approaches and recognises biological, psychological, and social factors which impact upon brain injury, disease and the patient experience.
The programme includes a clinical dissertation in which you will study material drawn from existing clinical cases and consider diagnoses, formulation and rehabilitation.
The dissertation includes 1:1 career mentoring, further training in clinical assessment and consideration of cultural differences in the principles of assessment and treatment.
This degree supports part time study (over two years) for international students.
Please visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for the online MSc in Applied Neuropsychology.
It will support those with aspirations for further clinical training, such as clinical neuropsychology, or a career in clinical research.
Please note that for the neuropsychology training on this MSc to be recognised within the UK, you would also need to take a UK Doctorate in Clinical Psychology or Counselling Psychology that was professionally accredited by the British Psychological Society.
All countries face healthcare challenges associated with brain injury and disease.
Conditions such as stroke and dementia are common, and their prevalence is increasing as people live longer.
The need for clinical neuropsychologists could not be greater.
We offer professional training to clinicians within the UK.
Excluding the dissertation, this programme offers the same levels of training that could help you to address those challenges in your country.
The clinical dissertation unit is new and specially designed for this degree in order to foster enhanced clinical skills.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-banking-regulation-and-financial-stability:
MSc Banking, Regulation and Financial Stability
This programme will equip you with the specialist skills and knowledge to pursue a wide range of careers in the banking and financial services industry and will also help you start a career in banking regulation and supervision.
It has been developed with the needs of the sector in mind and reflects the industry's growing demand for individuals with an extensive knowledge of regulation, supervision, and compliance.
Our programme has a distinctive focus on banking regulation, supervision, compliance and risk management.
It goes beyond traditional banking and finance courses by exploring the regulatory demands within banking and examining the role of central banks and international organisations in achieving and maintaining financial stability.
The MSc is designed for graduates of economics or finance who aspire to a career in banking.
It will also appeal to recent graduates who are already working in financial services and wish to specialise in banking and financial regulation, as well as those who intend to continue to PhD research in this area.
Successful students will be in demand and can expect to excel in careers in banks and regulatory bodies, or advisory roles in accounting, auditing and consulting firms.
We also often have early or mid-level stage career central bankers participating in the degree programme which allows fantastic interaction with people who already have some work experience in the area.
You will be part of a dynamic and diverse body of staff and students and will be taught by world-renowned experts.
We pride ourselves on our highly interactive and innovative teaching style, and take a case study approach to learning, utilising the sector experience of our teaching team.
Our academics enjoy internationally-recognised research profiles in banking and beyond, and bring experience and insight from working at a senior level within the sector.
The academic staff on this programme enjoy strong links with central banks (Bank of England, European Central Bank, Deutsche Bundesbank) and international organisations (International Monetary Fund and the World Bank).
You will also be able to develop your professional skills by taking part in the extensive programme of careers events and workshops offered by the school and the University's Careers Service .
You will take six units: five core units, which are compulsory for all students, and one elective specialist unit.
The final part of the MSc is a project-based dissertation; you will research a current theme or topic relevant to banking.
You will be able to tailor your investigation to a setting that reflects your personal interests and future career aspirations while being advised by a member of academic staff with a research interest in your chosen topic.
The dissertation provides an opportunity to apply the skills and knowledge you have acquired and is a powerful way of showcasing your expertise and transferable skills to future employers.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Banking, Regulation and Financial Stability.
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree (60% or higher) or an international equivalent in Economics or Finance.
This degree must include three units of Economics eg Microeconomics, Econometrics, Macroeconomics, or Banking-related modules.
We will consider applicants whose grades are slightly lower than the programme's entry requirements, if they have at least one of the following:
Specific module requirements would still apply, which could be met in either undergraduate or postgraduate qualifications.
The programme is excellent preparation for careers in banking and financial services.
Given the increasing regulatory demands being faced by the sector, our programme will make you especially attractive to central banks and regulatory bodies, but equally so for a career in the financial services industry.
Recent graduates have gone on to work with a variety of employers across the sector, including Deloitte, HSBC, Citi Bank, Lloyds Banking Group, JP Morgan and PwC, and some also have had opportunities to start PhD study at some of the most respected continental European PhD programmes in finance.
Our careers service regularly runs recruitment events specifically for the banking sector.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-bioinformatics:
MSc Bioinformatics
The MSc Bioinformatics covers a diverse range of areas in bioinformatics and is suitable for students from a variety of academic backgrounds related to the life sciences (biology, biochemistry, genetics, medicine, and other biosciences).
Students will learn and work together with world-leading experts.
In the age of big data, conservation biology, biodiversity, genetics, and evolutionary biology involve the study of large amounts of data that increase in volume and variety at a high speed.
The use of computational tools is essential to analyse such large datasets, which have shaken the foundations of many scientific disciplines.
The advent of these technologies is also central to many companies and the public sector and has driven the emergence of innovative start-ups.
The job market for graduates proficient in bioinformatics is expanding rapidly and will keep growing.
You will learn about topics including programming, machine learning, genomics, protein structure, evolutionary biology, as well as professional and entrepreneurial skills.
You will undertake a scientific research project supervised by the experts of the Faculty of Health and Life Sciences and will leave with highly transferable skills that will help to boost your future career and employability.
Moreover, you will learn how to capitalise on your innovative ideas in a fast-moving entrepreneurial environment.
The programme comprises two main components: taught units that cover core bioinformatics skills and applications across two terms, and a research project from May to September.
Please visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content.
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent in a degree related to Life Sciences, such as Biochemistry, Bioinformatics, Biological Science, Ecology, or Zoology.
If your degree subject is not listed above, you will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent in a Science, Technology, Engineering, or Mathematics subject.
You will also need to have scored 60% or above (or an international equivalent) in a genetics, genomics, biochemistry, or molecular biology module unit.
Please include your CV (curriculum vitae / résumé) when you apply, showing details of a relevant postgraduate qualification in Life Sciences, such as Biochemistry, Bioinformatics, Biological Science, Ecology, Zoology, Science, Technology, Engineering, or Mathematics subject.
£540.
Further information about bench fees can be found on our webpages.
Confirmation of bench fees will be stated in the offer letter sent to applicants.
Bioinformatic skills are essential for future life scientists, not only to molecular sciences, but also in fields such as climate change, biodiversity, metagenomics, or conservation.
Outside academia, many sectors are also reliant on Big Data, social media analytics, and other computer-based methodologies such as artificial intelligence or deep learning.
Examples in the UK are public projects including Genomics England (Department of Health and Social Care), and the Darwin Tree of Life (Wellcome Trust).
Consequently, the job market for graduates proficient in bioinformatics is expanding rapidly and will keep growing.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-biomedical-sciences-research:
MSc Biomedical Sciences Research
This programme aims to equip you with the skills and attributes needed to succeed in the dynamic field of Biomedical Sciences research.
You will develop knowledge and understanding of key areas of contemporary research in human health and disease.
You will be taught by experts with a diverse range of expertise and will consider different approaches to addressing global health challenges.
Optional units and project choices allow some flexibility within the programme, giving you the opportunity to pursue your interests.
Reflecting the dynamic nature of our research within the Biomedical Sciences, project options vary each year, with previous students carrying out exciting research in areas ranging from biochemistry, cancer biology, cell biology, immunology, microbiology, neuroscience, pharmacology and physiology, to stem cell biology and virology.
You will gain experience of important laboratory techniques and develop data analysis skills.
You will also develop critical thinking skills and become confident in communicating science.
Throughout the programme, we will support you to reflect on your personal development, helping you to develop attributes desirable to a range of future employers, both in and beyond Biomedical Sciences research.
Hear directly from an academic giving you a deeper insight into this programme,
The programme currently includes a mandatory Core Skills unit, Literature Review and Project Proposal, as well as two optional units.
You will also complete a research project.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Biomedical Sciences Research.
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent in a Life Sciences subject, for example Biomedical Sciences, Biochemistry, Cell Biology, Microbiology, Molecular Biology, Pharmacology, Bioengineering, Biotechnology or similar, or in Dentistry, Medicine, or Veterinary Science.
If you graduated more than five years ago, you will also need to show in your application that you have relevant practical lab-based experience.
£2,160.
You will develop skills and attributes valuable to a range of employers within the Biomedical Sciences and beyond.
Several students have contributed to published research papers and many have gone on to PhD-level studies at the University of Bristol or other leading universities.
Others have gone on to research assistantships, clinical trials coordination, medicine, biomedical scientist training or non-scientific careers, such as teacher training, consulting, accountancy and patent law.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-biorobotics:
MSc Biorobotics
The next frontier in robotics will take inspiration from biology to design robots that are soft, smart, green and social.
From microrobots for cancer treatment, to swarms powering warehouses, soft grippers for manufacturing, and new material interfaces for prosthetics, biorobots will provide solutions to today's global challenges.
State-of-the-art robots will in turn power scientific discovery, allowing for the study of living systems in their natural habitats from robots automating experiments in the lab, to artificial fish studying pollution in the deep sea.
This programme brings together life scientists and engineers in an interdisciplinary environment where solutions are co-created with stakeholders in mind.
For the life scientists, this will open new horizons powered by robotics and AI, skills in high demand in today's job market.
For the engineers, this will go beyond a typical robotics training, towards reinventing the way robots are designed and used with bioinspiration at heart.
This unique combination of biology and engineering will develop core professional skills including working across disciplines and responsible open-ended innovation.
The programme centres around a common core in fundamental robotics and life sciences, followed by dedicated taught- and project-based biorobotics units that will walk you through latest research and applications, with a hands-on understanding of how to build these systems yourself, and demonstrations of how they can be used for good.
The MSc Biorobotics shares a common core with other world-leading robotics programmes at Bristol and includes the units Robotics Systems, Artificial Intelligence for Robotics, and Advanced Robotics.
Throughout the programme, students will work towards demonstrating their skills in the bespoke capstone unit' Biorobotics' and a final dissertation related to Biorobotics.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc Biorobotics.
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent in a Science, Technology, Engineering or Mathematics subject.
Applicants from other backgrounds will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
MSc Biorobotics students will be at the frontier of bio-inspired robotics.
This will make you attractive to the broader robotics and AI industry.
Your cross-disciplinary understanding of life sciences will further mean you can work in the life science sector looking to embed robotics and AI in your workflow.
Your unique view on robotics and life sciences will also ensure you are well-suited to work in and found startups, continue with academic research, or work with NGOs interested in deploying robots for good.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-business-analytics:
MSc Business Analytics
The MSc Business Analytics is a professionally accredited, one-year specialist programme designed for students aiming to leverage and master the latest techniques in descriptive, predictive, and prescriptive analytics.
It develops the skills required to integrate advanced data analytics with business decision-making, equipping graduates with the ability to bridge the gap between technical expertise and business leadership, preparing them to collaborate effectively with decision-makers in diverse organisational contexts.
By combining rigorous analytical training with practical problem-framing and results communication, graduates gain the skills to contribute to data and AI-driven innovation, supporting transformative solutions across competitive industries.
Accredited by the Institute of Analytics (IoA) , this programme emphasises professional and ethical standards in business analytics while enhancing employability.
Designed with industry insights from leading organisations such as IBM, NHS, Amazon, and Barilla Group, and enriched by alumni feedback, it delivers a cutting-edge education.
To enhance students' analytical expertise and career readiness, the programme offers opportunities to engage with the Professional Liaison Network (PLN) on consulting projects, providing hands-on experience with organisations.
Students engage in practical, real-world projects with partners who have previously included Barilla, Yeo Valley, Financial Times, IBM, and Bristol Airport, tackling managerial challenges in dynamic industries.
These projects span topics such as resource allocation optimisation, people analytics, customer segmentation, performance measurement, healthcare workforce impact analysis, and renewable energy systems automation.
Students will gain hands-on experience with a range of decision-support tools, such as Python, R, MS Excel, Tableau for data visualisation, and Lingo for ad-hoc analytics, ensuring they are well-prepared to adapt to evolving technologies in the field.
Alumni and industry panel discussions, guest lectures by business analytics experts from a variety of sectors, career development workshops, and technology sessions on industry-standard tools such as PowerBI, @RISK, and SQL are integral elements designed to keep students at the forefront of current work practices.
Mentorship programmes are also established to connect students with alumni and industry experts.
The programme covers:
Our students can also benefit from guidance we provide to help them achieve professional accreditation from the UK's leading Operational Research Society and other affiliated organisations such as the Alliance of Data Science Professionals.
Successful completion of four core units, two optional units, and a final business analytics dissertation project lead to an MSc Business Analytics award.
In the first term, core units provide a foundation in descriptive, predictive, and prescriptive analytics.
You will develop skills in Python, data preparation, applying statistical models and machine learning, data visualisation and decision-making for complex business processes across areas like marketing, people analytics, project analytics, financial portfolio optimisation, and productivity analysis.
In the second term, you can choose electives to deepen your expertise.
Options may include:
Students will attend the mandatory Business Analytics Consulting Project unit, applying their knowledge to real-life business problems for an external client
In the summer term, students will undertake the Business Analytics Dissertation Project, applying the knowledge acquired to research a topic of interest.
This project builds on prior learning and enhances their critical analysis skills.
Students will explore real-world business problems, provide practical solutions, and communicate findings to relevant stakeholders.
Visit our programme catalogue for more details.
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent in any of the following subjects:
Operational Research, Management Science, Decision Science, Mathematics, Statistics, Data Science, Finance (but not Accounting and Finance), Economics, Computer Science, Physics, Engineering, Biomedical/Life Sciences.
An upper second-class honours degree or international equivalent in any discipline that includes 65% or above in at least two different quantitative units as listed .
If this is the case, please include your CV (curriculum vitae / résumé) when you apply, showing details of your relevant work experience and/or qualifications.
The MSc Business Analytics programme addresses the growing demand for business analytics expertise in the UK and globally.
Our graduates have secured prestigious roles at leading organizations, including PwC China, Capgemini, Reckitt, Volkswagen, EDF Trading, Jaguar Land Rover UK, 3Vision, Low Carbon Contracts Company, Play Sports Network, and the MTC - Manufacturing Technology Centre.
Graduates pursue careers across diverse industries such as technology, consulting, finance, automotive, manufacturing, and various analytical roles.
Common career paths include:

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-business-innovation-and-entrepreneurship:
MSc Business Innovation and Entrepreneurship
To thrive in a disrupted world you will need creativity as well as commercial acumen.
Come to the home of innovative, design-led, creative business education and transform your prospects.
The MSc Business Innovation and Entrepreneurship will teach you how to apply your existing undergraduate degree knowledge in real-world business challenges appropriate to joining innovative organisations.
You'll get the chance to:
We welcome students from any discipline who are thinking about building a career either in large commercial organisations or startups.
This programme shares much of its teaching with our other Innovation and Entrepreneurship programmes (MSc and MA) but has a specific focus on intrapreneurial activity adding value within existing organisations.
This course will develop the high-level skills and critical competencies needed for successful organisational innovation and intrapreneurship, through a largely practice-orientated educational approach based on collaborative teamwork across disciplines and cultures.
During the programme you get opportunities to work alongside innovators and their businesses to develop a deep understanding of opportunities and challenges.
In the first term, you will learn about human-centred design thinking to develop innovations that create value by meeting real human needs.
This involves understanding your target audience and the issues they face, and developing and testing ideas for possible solutions.
You will gain insight into the technological, social, and political influences on design and innovation, drawing on case studies of success and failure to help you think about future opportunities.
In the second term, you will explore solutions for a real-world client, iterating to develop an unexpected range of possibilities and creating prototypes to test with customers or users.
And you will assess the viability, feasibility, sustainability, and desirability of a proposed venture while writing compelling business plans.
In your final project over the summer, you will pull together all you have learned to create a product or service as an entrepreneurial or innovative new venture.
There are no exams, only coursework, which typically includes both individual and group assessments and you will get the chance to work in interdisciplinary teams throughout the year.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Business Innovation and Entrepreneurship.
You may create an entrepreneurial venture or join an existing one.
Whatever you choose, you will be able to hit the ground running
You will graduate with a portfolio of work that shows what you can do – you may even have an emergent venture.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/msc-by-research-global-environmental-challenges:
MSc by research Global Environmental Challenges
Conduct an independent environmental research project on a subject of your choosing on the Cabot Institute MSc by research in Global Environmental Challenges.
This unique programme allows you to apply for a pre-designed project or propose your own, working with expert supervisors at the University.
You will work on a research project that is assessed by a thesis and viva examination, while engaging in a training programme designed to enhance your career prospects.
There are opportunities to develop research skills, interdisciplinarity and communication alongside a cohort of likeminded individuals.
Completing the programme will deepen your expertise in your chosen field or topic, generating high-quality results and a wide range of transferable skills.
If you love research, value the flexibility of independent study and are passionate about addressing environmental issues, this programme is for you.
To learn more about our student experience, you can read their stories here.
The programme structure varies depending on the project and research methods you will employ.
We recommend getting in touch with intended supervisors before applying to discuss what this may look like.
On arrival, you will meet with your supervisor(s) to develop a research plan, gaining advice and training from the Cabot Institute to help you deliver a high-quality research project.
During the first term, you will learn about interdisciplinary approaches and how they could improve your research and career, become acquainted with the research community of your home school, and form strong links with your course peers.
You will also gain automatic access to the Bristol Doctoral College , which grows, develops and supports our thriving community of postgraduate researchers across all research degree programmes at the University.
This includes access to a choice of optional unaccredited training modules over the year to develop your research and transferable skills.
Throughout your degree, you will meet with fellow cohort members for training and social activities, as well as opportunities to meet with the Cabot Institute PGR coordinating team to discuss your progress and needs.
An upper second-class honours degree (or an equivalent qualification) in a topic aligned to the research project against which you are applying.
Applicants with a lower class of degree with relevant professional experience will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
For students that wish to apply to a pre-designed project , the supervisors are listed on each project page.
We recommend that you contact the supervisors prior to applying.
If you would like to propose your own project, please get in touch with cabot-pgr@bristol.ac.uk .
We can provide advice and help you connect with relevant academics.
This programme is the ideal springboard, whatever your future aspirations.
The challenge-led, independent research focus of the master's will provide you with a clear pathway for PhD study, equipping you with skills required to excel in further research.
For those seeking employment, you'll be ready to make an impact in the sustainability and environment sector and propel your career outside academia.
Students that the institute has worked with in the past have gone on to a variety of exceptional career paths, including NGOs, local and national government organisations, academia, research communication and start-up businesses.
As a Cabot Institute MScR student, you will have the opportunity to join any of our six research theme areas : Water, Environmental Change, Low Carbon Energy, Natural Hazards and Disaster Risk, Food Security, and City Futures.
These research themes focus on the major issues at the centre of the human-planetary relationship, and we encourage students to join as many as you like.
Via the themes you will receive invitations to seminars and talks by leading academics, as well as the opportunity to take part in theme mingles and network with other researchers.
Depending on your research project, you may be required to submit a research statement.
To determine whether this applies to you, and to download a research statement template, please visit the Cabot Institute MScR website.
Cabot PGR Team
(0)117 117 455 9348
cabot-pgr@bristol.ac.uk
Cabot Institute for the Environment

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/msc-by-research-neuroscience:
MSc by research Neuroscience
Neuroscience seeks to understand the most complex structure in the known universe – the brain.
This unique postgraduate programme is a one-year research project, allowing you to gain in-depth knowledge of your chosen research topic, develop independent research skills and your ability to work as part of a team.
You will select a project drawn from a pool of world-leading experts with interests ranging from the molecular biology of synapses to behavioural studies of cognition.
The programme provides a key transition from undergraduate to postgraduate study, providing an excellent foundation if you are considering applying for a PhD in neuroscience or other life science disciplines.
Applications from self-funded students are welcomed and have no fixed application deadline.
However, if you wish to join in September 2025, please apply with a complete application by 30 June 2025 if you are an overseas student, and by 31 July 2025 if you are a home student.
You will spend an academic year embedded in your selected research group, carrying out a research project.
Typically this will involve working with a team of academic staff and students.
There is no formal taught component, but you will have the option to attend regular events designed to enhance your personal and professional development.
At the end of your study you will write up your research work as an MScR thesis (maximum 30,000 words).
The thesis will be assessed by an external examiner and you will also have a viva (oral examination).
Minimum 2:2 BSc Honours degree in neuroscience, psychology, biomedical sciences or a related subject.
In addition, you should be able to demonstrate evidence of aptitude and enthusiasm for research, for example, through an undergraduate research project.
This master's degree provides an ideal springboard for a research career in neuroscience.
Past students have gone on to study for PhDs, as well as taking up positions in industry.
Find out more about the University of Bristol Neuroscience research groups .
School of Physiology, Pharmacology and Neuroscience

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-cardiovascular-perfusion-online:
MSc Cardiovascular Perfusion (Online)
The MSc in Cardiovascular Perfusion provides a high-quality, research-led education that will equip you with enhanced knowledge, understanding and critical awareness of the current approaches and emerging research relating to cardiovascular medicine and perfusion science.
Teaching and learning includes:
This online programme is intended to provide advanced level knowledge and understanding of the field of clinical perfusion science culminating in the completion of a novel research project related to this area.
The programme is delivered part-time online over 2 years.
You will study six mandatory taught units and complete a research project.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our online MSc in Cardiovascular Perfusion.
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or international equivalent in a medicine-related, clinical or bioscience subject, including nursing and perfusion-related subjects.
This programme is intended for students with an interest in enhancing their theoretical knowledge of cardiovascular disease and perfusion science, such as international practising perfusionists who wish to study a higher degree in their field of interest for professional development.
Please note that the MSc Cardiovascular Perfusion (online) does not provide practical clinical training and does not lead to accreditation to practise as a Clinical Perfusion Scientist in GB or Ireland.
Graduates of this programme wishing to practise in GB or Ireland in the future would be required to study the PG Certificate Clinical Perfusion Science (requiring perfusionists to have a minimum of 12 months experience as an independently practising perfusionist who have secured a Limited Registrant post at an accredited hospital) or MSc Clinical Perfusion Science (requiring applicants to have secured a trainee perfusionist post at an accredited hospital).
These qualifications include clinical practical training and assessment for professional accreditation.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-climate-change-science-and-policy:
MSc Climate Change Science and Policy
The importance of addressing the climate emergency has never been clearer.
Climate change experts are needed in government, business, research, and non-governmental organisations, to help drive sustainable transformation in changing environments.
Our MSc in Climate Change Science and Policy provides you with a solid grounding in climate change science, alongside a critical understanding of the context for action on climate change.
The programme is designed for students with a background in science (through their previous undergraduate and/or work experience), and includes hands-on quantitative training with climate models and climate data.
Graduates of the programme will have gained experience in a wide variety of climate science tools and methods, an understanding of the role of scientific evidence in policy, and a keen awareness of the strengths and weaknesses of different approaches to governing the environment.
The programme is provided by the School of Geographical Sciences , ranked first in the UK for 'Geography and environmental studies' research (THE analysis of REF 2021).
You will join our research groups in analysing key areas of climate change science and environmental policy.
This innovative programme also allows you to develop a range of scientific and professional skills, from Python and data analysis to science communication, presentations, and interdisciplinary teamwork.
There is a strong emphasis on carrying out your own research project.
The programme is closely linked to the renowned Cabot Institute , which brings together the University's research into the changing global environment, and benefits from our location in the city of Bristol, a vibrant hub of environmental action.
The programme consists of six taught units and a dissertation project.
Currently, all students will undertake three mandatory units, providing:
Students also select three optional units, with the opportunity to pursue further training in quantitative skills (for example, statistics, GIS, remote sensing data) and/or further understanding of the context for climate change policy-making (for example, environmental policy and politics, urbanisation, global development).
Students undertake a research dissertation project on a climate change-related topic of their choice during the summer months, with the support of a supervisor from the School of Geographical Sciences.
The dissertation is submitted in the form of a research paper.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Climate Change Science and Policy.
You will typically require an upper second-class honours degree or international equivalent in one of the following:
Applicants must be able to demonstrate academic experience in Programming, Modelling or Applied Data Analysis.
All other degree subjects may be considered if applicants can demonstrate academic experience in the above modules.
Alternatively, two years paid work experience in a relevant sector such as Non-Governmental organisations, the environmental sector or work involving quantitative research may be considered to demonstrate sufficient academic experience; these will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
Evidence of quantitative background could be:
Modules from acceptable degree subjects with "quantitative" in the name can be considered as evidence of appropriate background.
Students from developing Commonwealth countries may be eligible to apply for the Commonwealth Shared Scholarship Scheme , University of Bristol Think Big Postgraduate Scholarship , and the School of Geographical Sciences Phyllis Mary Morris Bursaries .
Previous graduates have gone on to work at a wide range of employers after completing this MSc, including environmental consultancy, UK and other government departments, the Centre for Ecology and Hydrology and the UK Met Office, as well as numerous PhD positions.
The need for mitigation and adaptation measures in response to climate change will only increase.
You will be prepared to enter a range of industries where skills in translating science into policy is vital, from environmental agencies to insurance, banking, and urban planning.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-clinical-neuropsychology:
MSc Clinical Neuropsychology
Professional programmes in Clinical Neuropsychology have been offered within University of Bristol since 2010 and are delivered in partnership with North Bristol NHS Trust, which includes a large regional neurosciences and major trauma centre.
Our Clinical courses aim to engage and inspire clinicians to enhance their skills in Clinical Neuropsychology and support entry on to the British Psychological Society's (BPS) Specialist Register of Clinical Neuropsychologists (SRCN).
This MSc is accredited by the BPS and delivers the adult knowledge and practice component of the competency requirements for advanced training in clinical neuropsychology.
Around 80% of the taught content is delivered by practising clinicians.
We promote a biopsychosocial scientist-practitioner approach and strongly advocate for neuropsychological research to be relevant and applicable to patient care, and for clinical practice to be underpinned by a thorough and ongoing engagement with scientific research.
In order to accrue relevant clinical experience, it is your responsibility to secure paid employment within a neuropsychology service during your enrolment on the MSc.
It is also your responsibility to secure supervision for your work when enrolled on the course.
However, we provide additional oversight and support towards developing your case portfolio and ensuring your clinical experience demonstrates the required competencies for entry to the SRCN.
This support is provided by clinicians on the SRCN and offers opportunities for feedback on case reports, including a practice viva experience.
The programme is largely online and can be taken from home or work.
Exams will be held online.
Please see the Neuropsychology programme webpage for more information.
Our courses include delivery of the practice component and require evidence that the applicant's research competencies meet standards and requirements for entry to the SRCN.
Completion of a BPS accredited doctorate in clinical psychology or counselling psychology within 8 years of starting this degree meets research competency requirements.
Applicants with non-doctoral backgrounds might include forensic psychologists, health psychologists, some counselling psychologists or some practitioner psychologist members of HCPC with international training backgrounds.
If you do not meet the 8 year doctoral requirement, or do not have a doctoral background you can indicate the training you have undertaken and its research component on the Research Competencies Form submitted with your application.
Should you wish to discuss your research competencies with our team prior to application please contact postgrad-psychology@bristol.ac.uk .
For January 2025 start: Closed
For September 2025 start: 8 August 2025.
For January 2026 start: 24 November 2025.
The programme consists of taught content (knowledge component) delivered within five units and a clinical practice component.
Collectively, these two BPS accredited components meet the 'knowledge' and 'practice' requirements for entrance to the Specialist Register of Clinical Neuropsychologists (SRCN).
Taught content includes
You will typically need to be registered with the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) as a practitioner with a specialism as 'Clinical' or 'Counselling'.
If you have a 'Forensic' or 'Health' specialism then these will be considered on a case-by-case basis due to upcoming changes that may broaden access to training.
You must also demonstrate how you meet the Research Competencies requirement for the programme.
In addition, applicants with a 'Counselling' specialism must demonstrate Generic Competencies in Clinical Neuropsychology.
You must submit all required documents as detailed in the programmes Admissions Statement to be considered for review.
Please note that NHS England now provide significant amounts of funding to support costs of training in clinical neuropsychology.
This funding can support both knowledge component and practice component requirements for entry to the Specialist Register of Clinical Neuropsychologists (SRCN).
The process of allocating and distributing funding to Trusts will be led primarily by NHS England regional colleagues and supported by Psychological Professions Networks.
You are strongly encouraged to explore potential sources of funding as NHS England is doubling the number of funded places in 2024-25 versus the previous year.
For further information on other potential sources of funding please check the University of Bristol website which includes an online funding search tool.
This programme is designed for anyone who wants to gain and demonstrate the UK's highest level of competence in professional clinical neuropsychology.
The MSc is accredited by the British Psychological Society (BPS) and successful completion provides both the knowledge and practice competencies required for entry on to the Specialist Register of Clinical Neuropsychologists (SRCN).

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-clinical-perfusion-science:
MSc Clinical Perfusion Science
This blended learning programme integrates academic knowledge and understanding of perfusion science with both the needs of the working professional clinical perfusion scientist and the demands of professional registration with the Society of Clinical Perfusion Scientists of Great Britain and Ireland (SCPS) .
This programme is only available to students who have secured a clinical perfusion scientist trainee position with an accredited hospital training centre in Great Britain or Ireland.
Successful completion of the programme will lead to accreditation as a clinical perfusion scientist by the SCPS.
The MSc in Clinical Perfusion Science provides a high-quality, research-led education that will equip you with enhanced knowledge, understanding and critical awareness of the current approaches and emerging research relating to perfusion science.
It will cover:
The programme provides a firm theoretical grounding in the basic scientific principles and clinical applications of perfusion science.
In conjunction with work-based practical clinical training, this will provide you with the essential skills for employment or further qualifications related to this field.
This programme requires students to attend lectures, tutorials, workshops and in person exams in intensive study weeks in Bristol (4 times per year).
Online and self-directed learning and assessments (apart from in person exams) are undertaken remotely in allocated distance learning study weeks.
Online learning with study weeks and exams in Clifton
The MSc in Clinical Perfusion Science consists of six taught units (one of which includes the work-based clinical practice and assessment), and a research project.
This part-time programme requires students to attend lectures, tutorials and workshops in intensive study weeks in Bristol (4 times per year including in person exams), combined with allocated distance learning weeks.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Clinical Perfusion Science.
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent in a science or medicine-related subject.
To be successful in your application, you must have secured a Clinical Perfusion Scientist trainee position at an accredited training centre in Great Britain or Ireland.
£1,080.
Completing this programme will accredit trainees to practise as clinical perfusion scientists in GB and Ireland.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-clinical-research-methods-and-evidence-based-medicine:
MSc Clinical Research Methods and Evidence-Based Medicine
This programme will no longer be running for the upcoming year of entry.
This part-time MSc programme gives you the opportunity to complete a personalised and relevant master's-level degree that requires minimal study time away from clinical practice.
It makes use of motivated and experienced clinical academics to deliver a programme that will translate to excellent, individualised academic surgical practice.
The programme complements your clinical career, will expand your academic skills and offers the flexibility to focus on areas of practice that are relevant to your career plans.
The programme is divided into clinical, research methods and research project modules, all of which are completed on a part-time basis.
The clinical component is designed with practical clinical relevance in mind.
You will direct your own learning towards topics that you are interested in and are relevant to your career.
You will choose one of the following sub-speciality areas of medicine based on the clinical specialty of the specialist doctor and surgical trainees:
You will be registered on the overarching degree, and then transfer onto the pathway title of your chosen sub-speciality area of medicine.
Learning is assessed through oral presentations, poster presentations and reflective writing, which requires minimal time away from patient care and mirrors the professional activities of a specialist doctor and surgical clinician scientist.
The research methods component comprises seminars in techniques of critical appraisal, trial design, data manipulation and analysis.
A combination of formative and programme-level assessment will be used to demonstrate what you have learned.
The research project module offers an opportunity to carry out and deliver a high-quality study with academic supervision; the expectation is that this work would be submitted for publication in a peer-reviewed journal.
Southmead Hospital (monthly)
Clinical modules (20 credits each): Within your chosen sub-speciality area of medicine, you will complete four clinical units, each lasting six months (part-time), selecting topics within your field to study in greater depth.
The four clinical units are designed to run alongside your clinical training rotations.
These will allow you to focus on specific topic areas that are most relevant for your career.
Research Methods (20 credits each): The two compulsory research methods units will train you in research skills that are translatable to clinical practice, and will inform the conduct of your clinical and research project units.
Research Project (60-credit unit): The research project runs alongside the six other units.
It enables you to employ the skills learned in the other components of the programme to produce a quality piece of academic writing, which would normally be either a systematic review of a clinical problem, a technique explored during the clinical elements, or a novel piece of work using novel data.
This is a part-time programme requiring weekday attendance in person (at Southmead Hospital) once a month for lectures and seminars.
The annual examination day requires attendance on a weekday.
Meetings with supervisors are to coincide with attendance for learning activities.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Clinical Research Methods and Evidence-based Medicine.
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent in a medical degree, including MBBS, BMBS, MBChB, MBBCh, and MD.
We especially welcome applications from clinical trainees, with any specialism, although this is not a requirement.
Students participating in this programme will already be enrolled in clinical training.
This masters programme is specifically designed to be deliverable alongside and synergistic with a full time clinical career.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-communication-networks-and-signal-processing:
MSc Communication Networks and Signal Processing
This is a challenging one-year taught master's programme focused on advanced topics in communication networks (fixed and wireless) and related signal processing, including associated enabling technologies.
It provides an excellent opportunity to develop the skills needed for careers in some of the most dynamic fields in communication networks.
This programme builds on the internationally recognised research strengths of the Communications Systems and Networks , High Performance Networks and Photonics and Quantum research groups within the Smart Internet Lab .
The groups conduct pioneering research in several key areas, including network architectures, cross-layer interaction, high-speed optical communications and advanced wireless access.
You'll explore the essentials of communication networks, from the fundamentals of network protocols and signal encoding to complex network architectures and advanced networking techniques.
Our curriculum integrates practical skills in optical communication and networks and equips you with both theoretical knowledge and hands-on experience.
This programme comprises six core units, followed by a substantial research project, starting during the second term and completed during the summer.
Your project may be based at the University or with industrial partners.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc Communication Networks and Signal Processing.
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent in:
Other Engineering degrees might be considered where a UK minimum score of 60% or an international equivalent is achieved in 5 modules from the following units:
This one-year MSc gives you a world-class education in aspects of current and future communication networks and signal processing.
It will prepare you for a diverse range of exciting careers – not only in communications but also in management consultancy, project management, finance and government.
Our graduates have gone on to have rewarding careers in some of the leading multinational communications companies, including Huawei, China Telecom, Toshiba and Intel.
Some graduates follow a more research-oriented career path, with several students going on to study at PhD level at Bristol or other leading universities.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-computer-science-conversion:
MSc Computer Science (Conversion)
This MSc conversion programme is for students from a variety of academic backgrounds who have little or no previous academic computing experience.
We would, however, encourage prospective students to try a basic online course in programming (in any language) before applying so that they can confirm they have both the appetite and aptitude for this discipline.
The aims of the programme are to build:
The programme is split into two teaching blocks and a summer project that involves researching, planning and implementing a major piece of work with a significant scientific, technical or software development component.
The main programming languages taught on the course are C and Java.
There is a strong emphasis on individual and group projects for putting into practice what you learn about software engineering, web technologies, databases, computer architecture and research skills.
By the conclusion of the first teaching block, you will have a solid foundation in imperative programming and computer architecture.
You will also have begun to acquire complementary technical skills through the software tools unit.
By the end of the second teaching block, you will be able to apply industrial-style tools and techniques for software development and web applications in a teamworking context.
Over the summer you will implement and evaluate your project, and you will submit a dissertation describing your work in September.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Computer Science (Conversion).
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent in any subject that is not related to computer science.
Applicants with a degree in Computer Science or a related subject (including Computer Engineering, Intelligent Science and Technology or Software Engineering) are unsuitable for this conversion programme and cannot be considered.
You will also need to demonstrate suitable mathematical skills, either with one unit of mathematics in your bachelor's degree or at least a Grade B/Grade 6 or above in GCSE Maths (or international equivalent).
This programme aims to provide a sufficiently comprehensive and practical foundation to enable you to start a new career in IT, or to stand out from the crowd and enhance your employment opportunities within your existing field.
It will also provide the required background in computer science to enable you to undertake further study, leading to the specialisation needed for a research career.
Apply today our online application system.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-conflict-resolution-and-peacebuilding:
MSc Conflict Resolution and Peacebuilding
This programme is new for entry in 2026.
Fees, deadlines and entry requirements will be confirmed when applications open in September 2025.
To find out more about postgraduate study at Bristol, sign up to our mailing list .
The MSc in Conflict Resolution and Peacebuilding is an innovative, interdisciplinary cutting-edge programme designed to provide students with crucial opportunities to explore the political, social, economic, legal, and psychological dimensions shaping the transformation of different forms of violent conflict.
The programme arrives at a critical juncture, when global manifestations of conflict are both escalating and becoming more diverse, at the same time as the current conflict transformation and peacebuilding paradigm is under review.
As it increasingly becomes evident that dominant forms of conflict resolution are inappropriate for resolving new and emerging forms of conflict, evolving drivers and manifestations of violent conflict in our changing world require new forms of expertise and innovative thinking and practice in conflict transformation.
We need a better understanding of the varied impacts of conflict, the application of new technologies for conflict resolution, and how to advance more peaceful and just transitions.
Drawing on insights from politics, international relations, sociology and law to understand framings of violent and other forms of conflict and responses to them, this interdisciplinary programme will equip students with the knowledge, expertise and skills to face the challenges of conflict and peacebuilding in the 21st century.
While students will be made familiar with current arguments, theories and methodologies pertaining to conflict resolution and peacebuilding, the programme will offer critical and innovative perspectives on, and interdisciplinary methods to analyse the nature of violent conflict, the paths to its resolution/transformation, and the challenges and opportunities that we face today.
Students will engage with diverse themes, such as conflict, security and development; conflict transformation in practice; conflict analysis and peacebuilding approaches; and transitional justice in the aftermath of conflict.
The programme will equip graduates for leadership roles in both the public and private sectors, at national and international levels, addressing the complex political, social, economic, legal and psychological factors driving emergent change.
Essential practical skills will be incorporated throughout the programme to provide graduates with the necessary competencies to become pathfinders in navigating the complex challenges posed by conflict at the local and international level.
The programme includes simulation exercises, guest public lectures by leading policymakers and practitioners, and innovative assessments.
The programme will be taught by globally recognised experts in the field.
You will take a combination of mandatory and optional taught units within the School of Sociology, Politics and International Studies.
Each unit is delivered over the course of 12 weeks and assessed by an analytical and research-based essay (or equivalent other work).
The taught section of the programme is followed by a dissertation unit.
Students of our MSc programmes go on to pursue varied and interesting careers.
Many sectors – such as the civil service, NGOs and charities – require an MSc and some volunteering or internship experience.
Graduates from our programmes have gone on to work for Refugee UK, Shelter, Barnardo's, Amnesty International, government departments and the European Parliament, among others.
Find out more from the School of Sociology, Politics and International Studies careers webpages.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-cyber-security-infrastructures-security:
MSc Cyber Security (Infrastructures Security)
Digital technologies drive economic growth yet create new cyber risks requiring ever more sophisticated solutions.
There is worldwide demand for new and innovative approaches to tackling global cyber threats specific to large-scale infrastructures, from energy production to finance through to healthcare and smart transportation.
The cyber security of such infrastructures is paramount – their disruption can have large-scale impacts on society as well as massive business losses.
There is a major shortage of cyber security professionals globally, and the specialist nature of critical infrastructures makes the problem even more acute.
A strong ethos of rigorous experimental and empirical cyber security research underpins the MSc, facilitated by a state-of-the-art testbed for studying critical national infrastructure (CNI) and Internet of Things (IoT) security, and bespoke teaching equipment.
You'll learn to apply foundational cyber security techniques to infrastructure and will develop the skills for engineering scalable solutions.
You'll be exposed to real-world problems that are practical and challenge-oriented, but underpinned by rigorous research.
This MSc aims to:
We also offer a related programme in Cyber Security (Software Security).
Home applicants: 6 June 2025.
The MSc consists of the following compulsory units:
To complete your studies you will undertake an individual research project proposed by project supervisors.
This unit will provide you with first-hand experience in planning, running, documenting, and presenting a substantial piece of original work in the field of cyber security of infrastructures.
This will typically include reading and synthesising academic literature, developing a hypothesis and validating it through hands-on experimental or implementation work.
The projects offered each year will vary and each will have a different focus under the overarching umbrella of Infrastructures Security.
The units are taught in intensive week-long blocks.
Part-time study will require daytime attendance on campus for the full week when a unit is being taught.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc Cyber Security (Infrastructures Security).
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or international equivalent in Computer Science, Electrical or Electronic Engineering, Cyber Security, Network Security or Information Security.
Other disciplines will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
Applicants from other related subjects are required to have studied modules relevant to the programme at minimum of 60%, or international equivalent:
Relevant Modules:
Suitable Programming modules(one module from this list):
MATLAB, FORTRAN, Basic or Visual Basic will not be considered suitable for this programme.
We will also consider your application if your final achieved grade is slightly lower than the programme's entry requirements, if you have at least one of the following:
This programme is informed by the skills gap identified by industry.
Following graduation from this MSc, students will have the opportunity to play a fundamental role in delivering cyber security on a large scale through their careers.
Graduates may find roles in network security, Industrial Control Systems Security and Operational Technology, and will be capable of critically evaluating and synthesising research literature, developing and deploying systems, and communicating with others in their field and other disciplines.
Top graduates from this degree will be able to proactively advance the development of infrastructures security or move on to doctoral studies in cyber security.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-cyber-security-software-security:
MSc Cyber Security (Software Security)
New approaches to building software, such as continuous delivery and deployment, cloud reliance for scalability, and Open Source, have led to an unprecedented speed of technological innovations.
Modern software is also at the centre of our large-scale, complex and intermeshed systems that now pervade society – from energy production to finance through to healthcare and smart transportation.
This new software ecosystem has also given rise to new forms of security threats, malware and system vulnerabilities.
There is also now a heightened need from end-users, regulators and other stakeholders for accountability, privacy, and demonstrable and effective data protection measures from developers.
The consequence is an increased worldwide demand for software security experts who are able to understand the security challenges that modern software brings and offer strong solutions to mitigate harm to valuable software-enabled infrastructures.
There is a major shortage of software security experts with the skills required to protect software-intensive businesses from disruption that can have large-scale impacts on society and massive business losses.
A strong ethos of rigorous experimental and empirical cybersecurity and privacy research underpins the MSc, facilitated by a state-of-the-art testbed for studying threats and vulnerabilities related to data flows in the software and its dependencies (supply chain), critical national infrastructure (CNI) and Internet of Things (IoT).
Leveraging our bespoke teaching equipment, you'll learn to apply foundational software techniques necessary to protect often interdependent software systems and will develop the skills for engineering scalable solutions.
You'll be exposed to real-world problems that are practical and challenge-oriented but underpinned by rigorous research.
We also offer a related programme in Cyber Security (Infrastructures Security) .
The MSc consists of compulsory units in cyber security, network security, systems security, software security analysis, and secure software engineering.
This unit will provide you with first-hand experience in planning, running, documenting, and presenting a substantial piece of original work in the field of software security.
The projects offered each year will vary and each will have a different focus under the overarching umbrella of Software Security.
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or international equivalent in Computer Science, Electrical or Electronic engineering, Cyber Security, Information Security or Software Engineering.
Suitable Programming modules (One module from this list):
Graduates may find roles as software security engineer/analyst, security software developer, network security engineer, penetration testing and security audit.
You will be capable of critically evaluating and synthesising research literature, developing and deploying systems, and communicating with others in their field and other disciplines.
Top graduates from this degree will be able to proactively advance the development of software security or move on to doctoral studies in cyber security.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-data-science:
MSc Data Science
If you want to improve the world through the responsible use of data, the MSc in Data Science will give you the skills to do so.
You will learn how to understand, in depth, the computational and statistical principles of modern data science and be skilled at the rigorous and ethical application of these techniques to real-world challenges.
Whether you have a background in numerate sciences, engineering, or computer science, the programme will provide you with the skills to succeed in this exciting and fast-moving discipline.
It will equip you with excellent employment prospects to pursue roles in industry as either a data scientist or data engineer as well as for research and development roles.
The MSc in Data Science has been co-designed with industrial partners and is highly relevant to rewarding employment opportunities.
There is a strong emphasis on responsible innovation and ethics to encourage you to use your knowledge and skills for societal good in the workplace or through further research.
The course is closely associated with excellent research in the University, ensuring leading-edge teaching.
You will take either a unit in Software Development: Programming and Algorithms, or, if you already have software development skills, a unit in Statistical Computing.
The remainder of the MSc consists of the following units:
The final unit, a Data Science mini-project, is a group activity which will be aligned, wherever possible, with an external client.
To complete your studies, an individual research or implementation project can be chosen from a selection proposed by project supervisors.
This unit provides experience in planning, running, documenting, and presenting a substantial piece of original work.
This unit provides a substantial opportunity to integrate material from all taught units and demonstrate the breadth and depth of your learning on the MSc.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Data Science.
You will typically need a strong upper second-class honours degree (65% or higher) or an international equivalent in a Numerate Science, Computer Science, or Engineering.
Other acceptable subjects include, but are not limited to:
Graduates from this MSc will be keenly sought after in roles such as lead data scientists or lead data engineers, capable of critically evaluating and synthesising research literature, developing and deploying scalable data-processing systems, and communicating with others in their field and in other disciplines.
Top graduates from this degree will be able to proactively advance the development of data science and related technologies.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-data-science-for-business:
MSc Data Science for Business
The MSc Data Science for Business is an interdisciplinary programme that combines the University of Bristol Business School and the School of Engineering Maths and Technology.
It is designed for recent graduates aiming to navigate and shape a data-driven world.
Over one year of full-time study, you will learn to manage and analyse large datasets and develop different digital skills to directly apply in business contexts.
This programme offers a balanced curriculum in data science and business strategies, allowing you to find your specialism in Sustainability, Marketing, Supply Chain Management, or Finance.
You will gain both the practical skills and strategic knowledge to tackle real-world business challenges as well as a competitive advantage in your future career.
Throughout the year, you will benefit from our advanced industry links through guest lectures and the opportunity to participate in live consulting projects.
This programme is suitable for graduates from diverse educational backgrounds, including non-business and business-related fields, helping bridge the gap between your qualifications and the digital skills demanded by industry.
The programme structure is designed to provide students with a comprehensive interdisciplinary curriculum, combining data science training with business expertise relevant to data analytics applications.
Core units cover data science principles and business fundamentals, while focus units allow specialisation in areas like Sustainability, Marketing, Supply Chain Management, or Finance.
The programme also includes an applied research project supervised across both schools.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Data Science for Business.
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent in: Biomedical/Health and Life Sciences, Computer Science, Data Science, Decision Science, Economics, Engineering, Finance (but not Accounting and Finance), Management, Mathematics, Operational Research, Physics, Statistics.
OR if your degree subject is not listed above, you must have evidence of one quantitative unit at 65% (or international equivalent) as listed .
This programme is structured to offer students a comprehensive foundation in digital knowledge and skills alongside a range of different business domains.
It covers both quantitative and digital aspects and gives a deeper understanding of business.
It will prepare students for a diverse array of professional settings, ensuring they are versatile and highly employable by filling the skill gaps that industries actually need.
Students in the MSc Data Science for Business programme will be actively encouraged to engage with careers and employability from the outset.
Through units such as Data Analytics in Business Context, students will interact with concepts and practices directly transferrable to the modern business world.
By integrating industry projects into the curriculum, particularly in the Applied Research Project, students will connect with businesses and industry networks, allowing them to cultivate professional relationships and understand the expectations of the job market.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-dental-implantology:
MSc Dental Implantology
This three year, part-time programme is for dental practitioners who want to improve their skills within the discipline of implant dentistry.
This course provides exemplary one to one supervision within a private clinical practice setting alongside theoretical teaching to support you on your journey to become a confident implantologist.
A newly curated curriculum matches the purpose-designed Dental School located in Bristol city centre.
Here, you will cover the basics of implant surgery science, restoration and surgical planning in the first year and build on this knowledge across the second year, with hands-on practical and simulation exercises to support your learning.
In the third year you have the opportunity to complete a dissertation on the topic of your choosing.
We aim to produce caring, knowledgeable and skilful practitioners who are competent in the provision of the planning, surgical, restorative and maintenance aspects of dental implant treatment, within the limits of the individual clinician.
Access outstanding resources through the Clinical Skills Suite at our new School and the Vesalius Clinical Training Unit.‌‌
Bench fees are charged for this programme (detailed below).
The bench fees are to cover clinical costs, such as sourcing a patient for students to work on, materials for practical sessions and clinical supervised environment.
The first two years contain three units each, two of which are theory-based modules with hands-on sessions and one clinical module where patients are provided, spread over the academic year (September-July).
They are designed to suit a working dentist seeking part-time studies.
Year 1 and 2 will require approximately 20 attendance days each, plus additional distance learning sessions and assessments.
In year 3, you will work (distance learning) with a supervisor to complete a dissertation in a subject of your choice related to dental implants.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc Dental Implantology.
You will typically need a Bachelor of Dental Surgery or an equivalent United Kingdom General Dental Council-registrable dental qualification.
You will also need at least two year's work experience in dentistry post graduation and must be registered with the UK General Dental Council; a current GDC registration certificate must be uploaded with the application.
You must submit all required documents to the specifications detailed in the programme's Admissions Statement to be considered for review.
Year one: £7,695 Year two: £7,695 Year three: £1,500 Further information about bench fees can be found on our webpages.
£2,000 for both home and overseas students.
The Grundy Educational Trust provides funding for UK citizens or residents looking to complete a postgraduate programme in a STEM subject (sciences, technology, engineering, mathematics).
This programme is aimed at experienced dental practitioners who would like to develop their skills in providing dental implants for their patients in practice.
Bristol Dental School

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-development-and-security:
MSc Development and Security
This innovative programme explores the link and tensions between development and security concerns in theory and practice.
Specifically, it builds on the unique combination of expertise and experience in the School of Sociology, Politics and International Studies to:
Each unit is assessed by an essay (or equivalent form of written submission).
The taught section of the programme is followed in the summer term by a dissertation.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Development and Security.
Many sectors - such as the civil service, NGOs and charity work - require an MSc and some volunteer/internship experience.
Graduates from our programmes have gone on to work for Refugee UK, Shelter, Barnardos, Amnesty International, government departments and the European Parliament, among others.
Find out more from the School of Sociology, Politics and International Studies careers webpages .

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-digital-and-technological-society:
MSc Digital and Technological Society
This programme will no longer be running for the upcoming year of entry but will be open for the 2026/27 cycle.
We are living through a period of dramatic transformation, where technological innovation is becoming a major sociopolitical concern.
New social pressures, such as climate change, are driving technological upheavals in areas like energy and transport, while advancements in technologies such as artificial intelligence (but also, for example, the blockchain, genetic engineering, autonomous systems, augmented reality, reusable rockets, and more) have the potential to create new social pressures.
These dynamics are already disrupting our established social orders, creating a spectrum of opportunities and dangers.
The interdisciplinary MSc in Digital and Technological Society is designed to provide students with the tools to grapple with these opportunities and dangers.
Drawing on insights from disparate social sciences, it offers critical perspectives on, and interdisciplinary methods to research, the nature of technological change: the ways technology shapes society and the ways it is shaped by society.
Students will study technologies not just as tools or artifacts, but as systems interwoven with social, cultural, political, and economic meaning and practice.
The curriculum draws heavily on scholarship around digital systems but is designed to address a wide range of technologies: emphasising generalisable insights into society's relationship with its creations.
Different unit options offer the opportunity to engage with different facets of modern technological development.
We will ask how our social expectations come to shape our technological choices; how our technological choices structure our social relations; how digital technologies are fostering new cultural and economic forms; how we might recognise and govern the risks of innovation; and many other questions.
The programme is designed to equip students with skills and knowledge that are highly sought after in the rapidly evolving technological and digital world.
It takes advantage of the University of Bristol's broad expertise in the social study of technological systems.
This expertise – exemplified by research centres such as the Bristol Digital Game Lab (BDGL), the Bristol Digital Futures Institute (BDFI), the ESRC Centre for Sociodigital Futures (CenSoF), the Jean Golding Institute for data research, and more – offers unique learning and networking opportunities for students.
You will take a combination of mandatory and optional taught units within the School of Sociology, Politics and International Studies (SPAIS).
The programme consists of three mandatory units and four other programme-specific units.
You may choose to take either three of the core units, or two of the programme-specific units plus one other unit from across SPAIS's diverse range of MSc units, allowing you to tailor your learning experience to your specific interests and career aspirations.
Each unit is delivered over the course of 12 weeks.
Different units are assessed by a diverse range of assessments including essays, portfolios, professional reports, and equivalent forms of submission.
The curriculum includes a range of support for students to enhance their employability through embedded learning.
Regular in-class discussions in the taught component of the programme will challenge students to think critically and creatively through dialogue with their peers.
Further assessment and activities will equip students with an impressive range of transferable skills, including digital, problem-solving, analysis, organisation, presentation and communication.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content of our MSc in Digital and Technological Society.
The programme aims to prepare graduates for leadership in a wide range of careers pertaining to the social, cultural, political and economic implications of technological change: from policymaking and analysis, to industry and academia.
The social questions arising from rapid technological change are becoming significant avenues for employment, and the curriculum is designed to prepare you to address these questions.
It will equip you with the skills and knowledge to become a leader in all sectors (public, private, academic and not-for-profit) engaged in following, interpreting, and governing technological change.
Career skills are built into the entire programme, and opportunities will be provided to develop policy-relevant analytical expertise, communication skills, group working, and research capacities.
Tailored events and interactions with leading research centres, such as the Bristol Digital Futures Institute, will enhance your academic experience while fostering potential employment prospects.
Additional opportunities will be provided through speakers and events organised by the school of Sociology Politics and International Studies.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-digital-health:
MSc Digital Health
The future of health is digital.
We urgently need new technologies for understanding, preventing, diagnosing, and managing illnesses that affect millions of people, such as diabetes, depression and dementia.
This challenge is increasingly being met with innovative technologies such as artificial intelligence and machine learning, novel ways of analysing big data, virtual reality and wearable technologies.
The digital health industry is expected to grow six times in size over the next five years, at a rate of nearly 30% a year.
Driven by the risk of future pandemics and the health needs of ageing populations in countries worldwide, this growth is expected to continue for decades to come.
The demand for graduates in this area is therefore unprecedented.
If you have a first degree in a relevant field, including – but not limited to – health sciences, medicine, psychology, neuroscience, human computer interaction, computer science, life science, mathematics or engineering subject, you have the foundations to develop as a leader in this area.
Our MSc in Digital Health provides you with the necessary technological expertise and understanding of the health landscape to forge a career in this innovative and vital field.
You will learn about novel sensing technologies to detect and monitor diseases, artificial intelligence, data science, epidemiology, statistics and more.
You will also learn to evaluate the safety and efficacy of new products, assessing the ethical principles that guide the development of new health technologies, all alongside graduates from different disciplines.
Once you have mastered the core skills of your degree, the final Digital Health Project will provide you with a unique group experience to solve a real-world digital health challenge: from market research to public involvement and from data analysis to regulatory submission, you'll have the opportunity to exercise creativity and problem solving in various aspects of Digital Health.
This degree programme, designed together with stakeholders from industry, academia and public health services, will equip you with the necessary skills to launch the next phase of your digital health career.
The MSc provides you with the necessary interdisciplinary skills needed to become a leader in the field of digital health, including in health data science and AI.
If you are entering with a degree in computer science or engineering, you will learn a 'cradle to grave' view of the illnesses and issues that affect people at all stages of life – including mental health, cancers, diabetes, dementia, Parkinson’s disease, and more.
No prior experience in health science is necessary for students on this stream.
If you are entering with a degree in health or life sciences, you will build essential skills in data analytics and modelling that will help you understand how health data can be obtained, analysed, and managed ethically.
You will learn programming and software development skills, with no prior experience required or expected.
Students from all backgrounds also study core topics such as real-life examples of digital health adoption, responsible innovation, epidemiology, artificial intelligence and data science.
Finally, you will undertake the MSc's unique Digital Health Project, which is closely modelled on product development, including market and data analysis, co-design with a real patient group, clinical trial design, and understanding the regulations your product must meet before it can be sold.
This project has been designed with industry partners, ranging from large corporations to small and medium enterprises, to prepare students for careers in industry, healthcare, academia and beyond.
Visit our programme catalogue for details of the structure and unit content.
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent in a Science, Technology, Engineering or Mathematics discipline, or a discipline related to Health, such as neuroscience, medical sciences, or sport and exercise science.
If your degree subject is not listed above, we may consider your application if it contains a module related to product design, or you have a minimum of six month's full-time work experience (or part-time equivalent) in the healthcare sector or the health technology industry.
Global economies and the healthcare industry more widely are moving towards a digitalised future.
Not only do we need technologies for the management of long-term conditions, but we need technologies that can do that remotely.
This move online brings many other opportunities too, such as putting data into the hands of patients and increasing access to healthcare in remote communities.
Furthermore, developments in data science and artificial intelligence are at the frontier of revolutionising health and care.
These advances create many exciting career opportunities to develop new digitally enabled, personalised health solutions within industry, academia, the charitable sector, and health providers in many different countries (for example the UK's NHS).
Opportunities also abound in companies with active health research and development programs (Apple, Google, Amazon, Sony, Microsoft, Samsung, Huawei, Arm, among others).
Our alumni have launched careers in varied areas related to Digital Health, including in medical devices and pharmaceuticals, User Experience (UX), research and development, project management, health data science and analytics, artificial intelligence, software development, consultancy, compliance and more.
Some of our graduates go on to study for doctoral degrees, others have continued to use their newly equipped digital health skills in medical practice, while others have followed entrepreneurial pathways including launching startups.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-earthquake-engineering-and-infrastructure-resilience:
MSc Earthquake Engineering and Infrastructure Resilience
Our aim is to produce the next generation of leaders in earthquake engineering risk assessment and natural disaster risk management who want to make an impact on the design of the built environment, the mitigation of seismic loss and the protection of human life.
This discipline demands world-class facilities and at Bristol, you will have access to the state-of-the-art BLADE/EQUALS laboratory , including one of the most advanced earthquake shaking tables in Europe, as well as the £12 million UKCRIC National Soil-Foundation-Structure Interaction Laboratory .
Throughout the programme, you will work with expert staff and international partners, exposing you to the real-world challenges that engineers face.
Industry links are integral to the programme and our graduates are highly sought after by major UK and international employers.
One of the many highlights of the programme is a field trip to an earthquake-affected area in southeastern Europe.
Provided that travel is permitted, you will have the opportunity to visit structures designed with innovative methods to resist earthquake forces or inspect the damage in the recent aftermath of a seismic event.
You will use modern tools for non-destructive material testing and remote imaging.
Subject areas are relevant to structural/geotechnical earthquake engineering and disaster risk reduction.
A strong set of core units is followed by specialist units.
The units are carefully designed and cross-referenced to make sure that all graduates obtain a uniform level of background knowledge and appropriate specialisation.
You are also required, as part of your course, to attend a field trip to an earthquake-affected region, typically in a Mediterranean country.
Provide that travel is feasible, you may visit recently damaged areas or major engineering projects designed to resist earthquake forces.
A series of seminars will also allow you to learn, as part of a distinct unit, the most recent advances in earthquake engineering innovation from distinguished invited experts.
Having successfully completed these units, you will prepare a thesis during the summer term, to be submitted at the end of the academic year.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Earthquake Engineering and Infrastructure Resilience.
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent in Aerospace Engineering, Applied Physics, Civil Engineering, Environmental Engineering, Geology, Information Engineering, Mathematics, or Mechanical Engineering.
Applicants who do not have a degree listed above may be considered on a case-by-case basis if they have evidence of two years relevant work experience (or part-time equivalent) in fields such as Construction, Design or Engineering.
You will be equipped in the core disciplines of seismic hazard, infrastructure vulnerability, system risk and resilience in major technical projects.
Upon graduation, you could find yourself working for engineering design and construction firms, in the UK or worldwide, that operate in earthquake-prone regions such as southern Europe, the US, Asia, the Middle East, New Zealand and Latin America.
Alternatively, you could go on to work for a government body responsible for civil protection, finance and decision-making.
Graduates may also decide to pursue academia and further study in this exciting field.
Whatever you choose, you will develop a range of transferable skills, such as problem solving, critical thinking and teamwork, as well as having a number of professional contacts to draw on.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-east-asian-development-and-the-global-economy:
MSc East Asian Development and the Global Economy
As a student on this programme, you will explore the development of East Asia within the wider context of global economy and development.
You will examine the opportunities, challenges and strategic issues created for East Asian countries in the global and regional political, economic and social structures.
You will also investigate the developing patterns of power relations, and especially international trade and investment, within East Asia and between East Asian nations and other regions of the world.
In addition, you will gain core theoretical knowledge and understanding of development and international political economy.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in East Asian Development and the Global Economy.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-economics:
MSc Economics
Suitable for graduates in economics or a highly quantitative discipline, this intensive one-year programme offers advanced training in economics and will equip you with the required skills for a career as an economist.
Opting for MSc Economics will place you in high demand across both the private and public sectors, opening doors to roles in a wide range of fields.
The programme offers specialist pathways that allow you to focus on economics, economic policy or macroeconomics – tailoring your study to your academic interests and future career plans.
Each pathway consists of a combination of core and specialised units, coordinated so you can maximise the skills and depth of knowledge you gain in your chosen field .
Bristol is in the top 5 UK universities for research (REF 2021) and our MSc Economics incorporates the latest research in economics – research that has a direct impact on policy and practice.
You will be joining an academic community that is international, forward-thinking, collaborative, and committed to helping all our students reach their full potential.
Our programmes are current and exciting, and you will be taught by leading academics who are tackling real problems and influencing economic policy worldwide.
You will study compulsory units in the first term and choose from a selection of optional units in the second term.
In the final term, there is a dissertation component, in which you will apply appropriate skills and perspectives developed over the programme to a project devised in consultation with a supervisor.
There are three available exit degrees, depending on the combination of units you choose:
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Economics.
You will typically need a strong upper second-class honours degree (65% or higher) or an international equivalent in Maths, Engineering, Actuarial Sciences, Data Science, Finance, Computer Science or Physics.
You will need a strong upper second-class honours degree (65% or higher) in an Economics or quantitative discipline or a related field not listed above.
This must include a 2:1 in at least three different quantitative units from the maths qualification requirements list below.
Our graduates possess the skills and knowledge to pursue a professional career path in industry, government, international institutions, central banking, non-profit organisations and consultancy firms.
Recent graduate destinations include Bank of England, Hargreaves Lansdown, Aviva, Agricultural Bank of China, Office for National Statistics, Landesbank Baden-Württemberg, Which?
and Grant Thornton UK LLP.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-economics-and-finance:
MSc Economics and Finance
Suitable for graduates in economics, finance or a highly quantitative discipline, this programme combines advanced training in economics and econometrics with opportunities to build expertise in finance.
You will apply knowledge and techniques from both fields to areas such as financial markets and corporate finance, preparing you for a career in the banking industry or financial sector.
With the ability to choose optional units alongside core content during the programme, you’ll be able to tailor your study to your specific academic interests and future career plans.
Undertaking a dissertation will also allow you to further develop analytical and research skills as you showcase your economics knowledge – skills that are highly sought after by employers across many fields.
Bristol is in the top 5 UK universities for research (REF 2021) and our MSc Economics and Finance incorporates the latest economics research that has a direct impact on policy and practice.
Alongside your core units, you must choose three additional units from a list of options.
The final part of the MSc is a project-based dissertation of up to 15,000 words.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Economics and Finance.
You will typically need a strong upper second-class honours degree (65% or higher) or an international equivalent in Maths, Actuarial Sciences, Engineering, Finance, Data Science, Computer Science or Physics.
You will typically need a strong upper second-class honours degree (65% or higher) in an Economics or quantitative discipline or a related field not listed above.
The programme provides excellent preparation for careers in investment management, financial research, trading, consulting and corporate finance, and for further academic study in finance.
Recent graduate destinations include Bank of England, Deloitte, HSBC, World Health Organisation, Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, PwC, UK National Audit Office and ICBC Industrial and Commercial Bank of China.
As a world top 55 and UK top 10 university (QS World Rankings 2024), Bristol graduates are in high demand – being the 7th in the UK for employability (QS Graduate Employability Rankings, 2022).

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-economics-with-data-science:
MSc Economics with Data Science
Gain an in-depth understanding of economics, econometrics and data science on our interdisciplinary MSc Economics with Data Science.
This programme is suited to both professionals and recent undergraduates, following a related degree in economics, computer science, physics, maths, or engineering, with exposure to quantitative methods and/or programming.
Combining theoretical and practical teaching by experts in both economics and mathematical engineering disciplines, the programme provides training on essential programming and data science software, alongside robust economics content distinctive to this programme.
You will apply your learning to solve real problems through a dissertation project.
Some of these projects are industry-led, meaning you could work closely with potential employers addressing questions relevant to them.
Whether you are looking to pursue a career as a data analyst or quantitative economist, this programme provides you with the real-world skill you need.
You can further enhance your skills by selecting from a variety of optional units to tailor your studies to your interests.
Bristol is in the top 5 UK universities for research (REF 2021) and our MSc Economics with Data Science incorporates the latest economics research – research that has a direct impact on policy and practice.
In the first term, you will study compulsory units in economics and data science.
In the second term, you can choose optional units which you will study in addition to a mandatory Machine Learning for Economics unit.
Finally, you will have the opportunity to work in a group with other students on an applied research project, potentially collaborating with an industry partner, to solve a real-world problem.
Project assessment is based on a mixture of group and individual work, and the majority of your dissertation mark will be assessed on your personal contribution.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure, unit content and assessment for our MSc Economics with Data Science.
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent in a quantitative-based subject: for example Maths, Engineering, Data Science, Computer Science or Physics.
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or international equivalent in an Economics or quantitative discipline or a related field.
This must include a 2:1 in at least three different quantitative units from the Maths qualification requirements list below.
Non-quantitative subjects are considered unsuitable, these include: Arts/Humanities, Languages, essay-based Social Science subjects, Nursing/Dentistry/Veterinary Science, Sports Science.
Our graduates possess a multidisciplinary set of skills that can be tailored to a broad range of industries and occupations, such as data analyst or quantitative economist within the financial industry, private sector organisations, or public organisations such as the Government Economic Service.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-economics-finance-and-management:
MSc Economics, Finance and Management
Suitable for graduates of all degree subjects who have some quantitative experience, this interdisciplinary programme provides comprehensive training across business-relevant disciplines.
With a strong focus on real-world applications, you will gain the insight and skills to address the strategic challenges facing modern businesses and organisations operating in competitive national and global markets.
In your second term, choose from two specialised pathways – Business and Strategy or International Economics and Finance – or take a flexible approach and choose your own units from both.
This enables you to tailor your study to your specific academic interests and future career plans.
Bristol is in the top 5 UK universities for research (REF 2021) and our MSc Economics, Finance and Management incorporates the latest economics research – research that has a direct impact on policy and practice.
Our programmes are current and exciting, and you'll be taught by leading academics who are tackling real problems and influencing economic policy worldwide.
After completing core units in economics, finance and management in the first term, you can choose your own mix of optional units or specialise in either Business and Strategy or International Economics and Finance.
You will be equipped with the data analysis skills necessary to allow you to complete a project-based dissertation.
Dissertation topics build on what you learn in your optional units.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Economics, Finance and Management.
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent in Mathematics, Engineering, Data Science, Computer Science, Physics or another quantitative subject.
If your degree subject is not listed above, you will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent which includes three different units of mathematics or quantitative units (see Maths qualification requirements below) with 2:1 or equivalent in each unit.
A-level Maths at Grade A may be acceptable for a non-quantitative degree.
The programme will prepare you for a wide range of future careers.
Recent graduate destinations include Deloitte, PwC, KPMG China, Central Bank of Egypt, Huawei, Rothschild & Co, China Construction Bank and Ernst & Young.
The Business and Strategy pathway is designed for students aiming for consultancy and management roles, while the International Economics and Finance pathway is relevant to careers in banking and financial institutions.
You will have access to our Careers Service and Professional Liaison Network , which provide professional mentoring, networking events and business advice

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-education-inclusive-education:
MSc Education (Inclusive Education)
This pathway focuses on inclusive education.
It explores and critiques barriers in society that prevent the inclusion and participation of disabled people (and those with labels of 'special' educational needs) as individuals with rights to citizenship.
It rejects charity and individual deficit model interpretations that have –and continue to – place disabled people as in need of charity, cure, treatment and care.
The programme draws upon the lived experiences of disabled people, their self-organisation, user-led campaigns for justice, and equality in education.
The programme introduces a fundamental conceptual shift in understanding the purpose and function of education, asking questions about who it benefits and who it excludes.
Alongside raising questions about the discrimination and exclusion of disabled people from mainstream society, it explores their active participation in education, further and higher education.
It critiques the use and notion of 'special' with reference to the shifting educational terminology in contemporary society.
It discusses the place of personal experience with reference to the intersectionality between age, gender, 'race', religion, sexuality and social class, and takes a cross-cultural perspective.
It draws upon (critical) disability studies within education and is supported by current research, practice and theory.
It also explores the policy and legislative context and provides an international perspective, particularly highlighting the issue of human rights.
The programme is designed to develop your knowledge, understanding and critical skills in the analysis and evaluation of current research, theory and practice for learners experiencing barriers to participation.
This MSc Education (Inclusive Education) pathway would suit professionals working within the educational sector from schools, colleges, university, life-long learning and adult education provision.
This includes teaching/learning support assistants, coordinators, parents, advocates and individuals working within Disabled Peoples' Organisations (DPOs), and actively encourages the participation and contribution of disabled people.
Our education master's degrees give you the opportunity to select a programme of study tailored towards your interests and learning needs.
The range of degrees we offer means you will be able to specialise and receive an award in a particular discipline area.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Education (Inclusive Education).
Please note that this pathway consists of core units that all students on the pathway must take and a range of optional units that students can choose from, within availability or timetabling constraints.
Alternatively, you can design your own pathway by opting not to specialise and to take those units that fit with your availability.
Units can be taken from across the different specialisms and from our bank of available optional units to build a tailored programme of study, resulting in an award of MSc Education .

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-education-leadership-and-policy:
MSc Education (Leadership and Policy)
The Leadership and Policy pathway will help you develop an appreciation of the complex ways in which education policy, leadership practice and research interact.
You will develop the theoretical knowledge and skills to lead quality improvement and promote social justice within organisations.
You will critically engage with ideas and practices around leading and managing organisational change within futures-orientated perspectives.
This programme is designed for professionals with, ideally, some experience in education as a teacher, administrator, university lecturer, or early-years practitioner.
This pathway attracts a diverse cohort of professionals, who bring their unique perspectives and experience to our highly interactive teaching and learning environment.
Graduates have gone on to become education policymakers, advisers, school leaders, university-based researchers, and to lead training within business organisations.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Education (Leadership and Policy).

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-education-learning-technology-and-society:
MSc Education (Learning, Technology and Society)
Our increasingly digital society creates a wide range of challenges and opportunities for educators and learners around the world.
Digital technologies (such as digital games, mobile devices, digital learning platforms, artificial intelligence, robots, social media, big data, and virtual or tangible technologies) have become embedded in our societies, and are being used in both educational settings and our everyday lives and learning.
The Learning, Technology and Society pathway is designed for those who wish to take a critical perspective on the use of technology in diverse educational settings.
Throughout this pathway, we explore sociotechnical changes: how education and digital technologies are intertwined.
It is suitable for people with a variety of educational backgrounds and experiences, including teachers and lecturers; creative technologists; education policymakers and researchers; and those who support informal learning in settings such as museums and public spaces.
The pathway will provide you with a firm foundation for developing your career in teaching and facilitating learning in formal and informal settings, education leadership, and research or learning technology.
You will develop an in-depth understanding of sociotechnical change and a critical perspective on if and how digital technologies can shape and support learning in a wide variety of settings.
In addition, the pathway will prepare you to undertake further research in this rapidly developing field.
This pathway is taught in an international centre of excellence in teaching, research and educational technology.
The tutors on the programme are world-class academics with excellent research records in the field of education, technology and society.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Education (Learning, Technology and Society).
Please note that this pathway consists of core units that all students on the pathway must take, and a range of optional units that students can choose from, within availability or timetabling constraints.
If you have at least one of the following, please include your CV (curriculum vitae / résumé) when you apply, showing details of either your:

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-education-mathematics-education:
MSc Education (Mathematics Education)
This pathway is designed for UK and international mathematics teachers and other professionals working in mathematics education, from primary schools to higher education, or those working in community-based settings.
You will be supported in integrating the theory and practice of teaching and learning mathematics by:
The programme has been recognised as excellent by the National Centre for Excellence in the Teaching of Mathematics .
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Education (Mathematics Education).
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent in a STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics) related discipline or related field such as Economics, Finance, Accounting, Commerce, or Business Administration.
We will consider applicants whose degree subject is not listed above in the programme's entry requirements if they have at least one of the following:
If this is the case, applicants should include their CV (curriculum vitae / résumé) when they apply, showing details of their relevant work experience and/or qualifications.
1 Years Work experience either paid or unpaid in the sectors listed.
a relevant postgraduate qualification such as.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-education-neuroscience-and-education:
MSc Education (Neuroscience and Education)
Neuroscience is beginning to influence education across the world.
This programme will provide you with the skills and understanding to interrogate and apply insights arising from neuroscience in education.
It is suitable for teachers and practitioners of all subjects, including teachers of children with special needs, educational psychologists, education managers, and policymakers.
Students will enrich their educational thinking and practice with insights about typical and atypical learning from the sciences of the mind and brain.
The programme also provides an excellent foundation for further research, such as a PhD, that involves the ideas and methods of cognitive neuroscience in areas related to education and learning.
You will engage with the latest research literature and debates, including the most recent findings arising from the sciences of mind and brain in areas relevant to education (such as reading, attention, mathematics, language and learning disorders, autism, adolescent development, and technology, along with many other areas).
You will become an active researcher who draws on findings from neuroscience, psychology, genetics, and educational research in order to carry out your own small-scale experiments and research studies, leading to the major work of your dissertation.
You will also complete a range of assignments that encourage written, graphical, and oral communication of your ideas.
The programme will help you to gain confidence in making critical judgments about research findings, and in debating and discussing issues or ideas in the field of neuroscience and education.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Education (Neuroscience and Education).

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-education-open-pathway:
MSc Education (Open Pathway)
The MSc Education (Open Pathway) allows you to design your own programme of study based on your areas of interest, rather than choosing one subject area from our specialist pathways.
Units can be taken from across the different specialisms and from our bank of available optional units to build a tailored programme of study.
For example, if your interests span both educational policy and the use of technology in education, you might combine units from the Leadership and Policy pathway with units from the Learning, Technology and Society pathway.
A diverse range of students take the open pathway, attracted by the freedom that it offers.
Many students have recently completed their undergraduate studies, with some experience of teaching, volunteering, or other work experience in schools or education more broadly.
Others are returning to education after a longer period of work and wider experiences, looking to formalise their learning.
Many of our students are international, from a range of countries around the world.
This diversity creates a rich learning environment and encourages sharing of ideas among students and academics alike.
After completing the MSc, most students go on to work in education in some form.
Some will use the master's year to develop their skills as educational researchers and go on to study for a PhD at Bristol or elsewhere.
In this open pathway, a single core unit provides an introduction to the variety of methods used to conduct research in education.
You will then choose a number of optional units from across the different specialised MSc Education pathways and from our wider bank of optional units (subject to availability and timetabling constraints).
You will finish your master's by completing a supervised research dissertation project in an educational area you are interested in.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Education (Open Pathway).

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-education-policy-and-international-development:
MSc Education (Policy and International Development)
The Policy and International Development pathway focuses on the relationship between education policy and practice and international development.
It probes the influence of global policy agendas on education and the contribution that education makes to social justice, economic growth and sustainable development.
In line with the sustainable development agenda, development is treated as an international issue, and the pathway considers case studies from countries around the world as well as from within Bristol.
It examines formal and informal education through diverse institutions and organisations, including schools, universities and community organisations.
This MSc takes a critical look at ideas about social development – such as human rights, the capability approach, and peace building – and their implications for education policy and practice.
There will be opportunities to explore how educational theories and practice travel between and are adapted to specific contexts.
You will analyse the role of key organisations involved in the global governance of education, including civil society, international non-governmental organisations, development agencies and commercial bodies.
The Policy and International Development pathway develops your skills in using international and comparative research, both in education and in analysing education policy.
You will be supported to develop your own reasoned position and distinctive critical voice for commenting on education policy and education's role within social development at international, national and local level.
You will have access to first-class library and information services, allowing you to study the specific ideas, issues, initiatives and policies you are interested in.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Education (Policy and International Development).

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-education-teaching-and-learning:
MSc Education (Teaching and Learning)
This pathway is designed for those with an interest in teaching and learning, and working with learners in educational settings across the sector.
It is particularly suitable if you already hold master's-level credits from a teaching qualification, such as a PGCE, and want to build on this foundation for your professional development.
In common with other MSc Education students, you will take a compulsory research methods unit and write a dissertation.
You will take one other compulsory unit and can then choose the rest of your units from across the programmes offered by the school (where available).
Your final choice of units can be made after consulting with tutors so that your choice is as coherent and useful as possible, as well as suiting your individual needs.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc Education (Teaching and Learning).

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-engineering-mathematics:
MSc Engineering Mathematics
Engineering mathematics is the art of applying mathematical and engineering principles to complex, real-world problems across areas as wide-ranging as artificial intelligence, ecology, medicine, physics, social media and sustainability.
For this MSc, you will be fully embedded within an engineering faculty, benefitting from unrivalled access to a broad range of industrial collaborations and pioneering research.
Spanning engineering, mathematics and computer science, this programme would suit graduates from any related discipline who would like to become versatile at solving multidisciplinary challenges.
Graduates will be well placed to meet the increasing demand from the industrial, government and service sectors for maths-savvy graduates who can work across traditional boundaries and drive high-tech innovation.
From designing Formula One cars to renewable energy technologies, or exploring the field of biomedicine, our engineering graduates go on to a wide range of exciting careers.
Taught units are organised around three key strands: engineering, computational science and mathematical and statistical training.
We tailor to the needs of the student, as each strand is agreed based on previous experience and prior learning.
Appropriate units are aligned with each strand.
In addition, there are cross-references throughout the three stands to ensure that all graduates obtain a uniform level of background knowledge and appropriate specialisation.
Real-world problem solving is integral to each unit and spans many different application areas – from robotics and social media to medicine and environmental modelling.
These problems are sourced from our industrial collaborators or address challenges in current research.
Having successfully completed the taught units, you will prepare an MSc thesis during the summer term, to be submitted at the end of the academic year.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Engineering Mathematics.
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree (or international equivalent) in any Engineering discipline, Computer Science, Mathematics or Physics.
Applicants who have studied Chemistry will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
Unfortunately this programme is not suitable for applicants who have studied Biology or any degree outside of Science, Technology, Engineering or Mathematics.
This programme provides a highly creative, challenging and enjoyable experience, which will be excellent preparation for your future career.
It will give you the tools to be successful in a variety of careers, many of which enable you to apply your knowledge and skills.
Our extensive connections with industry, through collaborative research and consultancy, make the MSc in Engineering Mathematics very relevant professionally.
Many graduates from this department have gone on to work for companies that recruit mathematicians as well as engineers, such as Airbus, Goldman Sachs and Red Bull Racing.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-engineering-with-management:
MSc Engineering with Management
The MSc in Engineering with Management is designed for graduates eager to combine management practices and modern engineering thinking and knowledge.
This unique, one-year master's degree covers the foundations of management that can be applied in the engineering and technology sectors, with the choice of three specialist pathways:
The programme is built on three pillars: digitisation - focusing on digital transformation and leadership; sustainability - encouraging innovative practices to reduce environmental impact; and global development challenges - equipping leaders to advance technology while contributing to the UN Sustainable Development Goals.
This programme is for you if you want to:
With world-leading companies including Arup, Babcock, DNV, GKN, Airbus, Rolls-Royce and the National Composite Centre on our doorstep, we have placed industry at the heart of this programme.
Core units provide a common platform of underpinning skills and knowledge at a postgraduate level to help you understand key principles of management and business practices and to develop the interdisciplinary skills required for leadership in the engineering and technology industries.
Units include Strategic Business Management for Engineers to provide fundamentals of what strategy is and differentiate it from other business activities.
The unit is designed to develop your analytical and critical skills in the strategic management issues facing technological organisations in today's fast-changing environment.
The Engineering Design and Technology unit provides knowledge of the technologies on which the modern engineered world is built.
It will introduce a combination of theoretical foundations, practical methods and tools to apply in the Global Challenge Project where you will work collaboratively on a real-world multidisciplinary project.
The Systems Risk Management unit studies risk, the importance and role of risk analyses in engineering systems design and management, and methods to perform risk analyses in these contexts.
Finally, you will complete a supervised research-based dissertation project.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of each pathway structure and unit content for our MSc Engineering with Management.
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent in Aerospace, Civil, Design or Mechanical Engineering.
Unfortunately Electrical or Communications Engineering and Computing degrees will not be considered suitable for this programme.
Applicants from other Science, Technology, Engineering or Mathematics subjects are required to have studied modules relevant to their pathway of choice:
Energy for Sustainability:
Intelligent Manufacturing:
Infrastructure Systems:
Applicants may be recommended for an alternative Engineering with Management pathway based on their academic background and work experience.
As a graduate of the MSc in Engineering with Management, you will be better equipped to pursue a leadership role in world-leading engineering and technology organisations or you could choose to work in a variety of industries such as consultancy management, product development or business development.
In addition, this course will support roles based in manufacturing, supply chain management or government, particularly where technology is of importance to business success.
This postgraduate degree is intended to prepare you with the skills and knowledge needed for leadership roles in global technology industries or in dynamic entrepreneurial start-up companies in order to address global challenges, the digital revolution and the business dilemma of sustainability.
You could find yourself working in the UK, Europe, emerging-economy countries or worldwide.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-environmental-analytical-chemistry:
MSc Environmental Analytical Chemistry
Climate change, and air, water and soil pollution are critical societal problems that will affect most, if not all communities, companies, and countries across the globe over the next 50 years.
This programme will train you in cutting-edge environmental analytical chemical techniques that are used to investigate such pollution and guide mitigation and remediation.
Additionally, it will equip you with skills in advanced laboratory analysis, statistical and modelling approaches to interrogating and synthesising datasets, and reporting and communicating data.
A particular feature of this MSc is the synthesis of data with training in written, oral, and other forms of communication.
There will be particular emphasis on the use of such data to develop policy and/or practical recommendations.
In the research project, you will be working on current topics drawn from environmental research such as urban air pollution, water quality and sustainable agriculture.
This programme will appeal to a wide range of students with a science and engineering background.
Although focused on environmental applications, you will gain a broad training that will facilitate progression to a diversity of future science and engineering-based careers.
The need for experts in environmental analysis and remediation is predicted to increase, making graduates of this programme well placed to take up emerging jobs in companies and organisations requiring this type of expertise.
The Organic Geochemistry Unit and the Atmospheric Chemistry Research Group that will run this course are both world-leading in environmental analytical science, being a home to a laboratory of the NERC-funded National Environmental Isotope Facility (NEIF) and a node of the NASA-funded Advanced Global Atmospheric Gases Experiment (AGAGE) project.
Therefore, the collection of state-of-the-art chromatography and mass spectrometry platforms (including organic and stable isotope ratio mass spectrometers and an 14 C accelerator mass spectrometer) combined with world-leading research is unparalleled.
In addition, the School of Chemistry at the University of Bristol is home to the only Centre for Excellence in Teaching and Learning in practical Chemistry (Bristol ChemLabS) founded in 2005 and has pioneered teaching of analytical chemistry through virtual instruments and smart worksheets.
Therefore, the combination of leading analytical science and education methods makes this course unique.
The programme consists of five compulsory units and a project with a dissertation.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Environmental Analytical Chemistry.
The assessments for the units typically consist of multiple-choice tests, reports, presentations and data analysis and synthesis exercises.
There will be one open-book examination at the end of these units, before the project starts, with considerable tutor support provided to aid students in their preparation for this exam.
The project will last roughly five months and you will be assigned a primary supervisor and a director of projects who will support all students in their progress.
The project will align with on-going environmental chemistry research within the School of Chemistry.
The practical element of the course involves students undertaking practical investigations, each designed to provide hands-on experience with instruments, and to develop skills in measurement, data analysis, and presentation.
Training will be provided in the formal reporting of the analytical data generated in practicals, with oral presentations to a group of stakeholders for some.
If students require further support with mathematical (quantitative) analysis, there will be a short course in the first term that will provide this support to students.
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree (or international equivalent) in Engineering or one of the following Natural or Physical Sciences: Chemistry, Earth Science, Environmental Sciences, Food Science, Forensic Science, Geographical Sciences, Geology or Physics.
Unfortunately we cannot consider applicants with Computer Science degrees for this programme.
Applicants who have studied a science degree not listed above will need to demonstrate competency in Maths and Chemistry through one of the following:
Mathematics and Statistics degrees may also be considered and will need to achieve a minimum of 4 science modules at 2.1 (or international equivalent) or above.
Module examples:
If you are currently completing a degree, we understand that your final grade may be higher than the interim grades or module/unit grades you have achieve during your studies to date.
A hands-on approach, coupled with world-leading virtual instruments provides a comprehensive course that will enable students to pursue further research (for example, a PhD) in analytical science progressing to academic careers.
Graduates of this course will be well-prepared for careers in: instrument development in the industrial sector, specialist technical support roles, careers in environmental science (for example, national environment agencies, private consultancies, and environmental advisory services, such as government policy units and think tanks), and non-science-based careers (for example, training and teaching in data analysis).

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-environmental-modelling-and-data-analysis:
MSc Environmental Modelling and Data Analysis
Numerical models and satellite observation are fundamental to understanding environmental systems and change.
The MSc in Environmental Modelling and Data Analysis will provide you with the skills to go on to a career in this exciting area.
You will learn how models of environmental processes are developed and applied across a range of areas including climate change, flooding, biogeochemistry and glaciers.
You will gain an appreciation of all aspects of environmental modelling, ranging from the philosophy of model development, focusing on links to observations and uncertainty analysis, through to more practical aspects such as numerical approximation and algorithm development and testing.
The programme has close links to MSc in Geographical Data Science and Spatial Analytics , and both programmes enable students to develop skills in Geographical Information Systems, analysis of satellite observations and data science techniques more widely.
Training in these areas will be complemented by hands-on learning aimed at developing your coding skills in scientific programming and high-performance computing (with access to Bristol's unique supercomputing facilities).
The School of Geographical Sciences is ranked first in the UK for 'Geography and environmental studies' research (THE analysis of REF 2021).
The MSc is taught by world-leading researchers from the School's research groups in both physical geography and quantitative spatial science.
It is closely linked to the School's research strand in Modelling and Geocomputation, which hosts seminars and workshops aimed at consolidating links between environmental modelling and data science.
You will take the following compulsory units:
You will choose a further two units from the list of postgraduate units offered by the School of Geographical Sciences.
A key component of the programme is the dissertation.
The bulk of the dissertation work will take place during summer months.
The dissertation provides students with practical experience of formulating, designing, and undertaking a substantive and original piece of research in environmental modelling and/or satellite observation.
Students are introduced to key principles of research design and research ethics through intensive training in this unit.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Environmental Modelling and Data Analysis.
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or international equivalent in an Engineering, Mathematics or a Physical Science subject.
Applicants with non-standard degree subjects are required to have achieved 60% (or international equivalent) in a module focussing on:
This MSc provides you with the skills needed for successful careers in environmental consultancy and engineering companies, as well as environmental work in governmental and third sector organisations and agencies.
The programme also provides ideal training for those considering a career in research where modelling and data analysis skills are important.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-environmental-policy-and-management:
MSc Environmental Policy and Management
Prepare for a career that allows you to shape policy to effect environmental change.
Develop the practical skills and conceptual tools needed to tackle issues ranging from biodiversity conservation, to water management, to local air pollution.
This programme is aimed at talented graduates seeking to enhance their expertise and develop skills relevant to the fields of environmental policy, management, protection and advocacy.
You will join the School of Geographical Sciences , ranked first in the UK for 'Geography and environmental studies' research (THE analysis of REF 2021) and a highly regarded centre for research and teaching in environmental processes, systems and the social sciences.
Staff in the school have been directly involved in advising the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and regularly engage with policymakers, industry and non-profit organisations at local, national and international levels.
Taught by experts from the social, physical, and natural sciences, you will examine how environmental problems are understood, how policy relates to politics, and the context for governmental responses to environmental challenges.
You will have the opportunity to gain practical experience working on a project with an external partner through the Consultancy Project unit.
Previous student projects have consulted on waste management, sustainable transport, making more liveable communities, 15 minute cities, and helping local councils identify land for rewilding or nature restoration.
The programme is closely affiliated with the University's Cabot Institute , which promotes multidisciplinary research around global environmental change and benefits from our location in the city of Bristol, the UK's first ever European Green Capital and a vibrant hub of environmental activism and technological innovation.
Through a demanding academic curriculum and practice-based learning opportunities, you will develop the skills and knowledge needed for employment in the public, private and non-profit sectors.
The programme consists of six taught units and a dissertation research project.
Some units are taught by natural scientists, covering subjects like climate science and the analysis of remotely sensed data.
Others are delivered by social scientists, focusing on areas like environmental governance, policy analysis and research methods and design.
An optional 'Policy & Management Consultancy' unit provides an opportunity to develop practical skills through the completion of an extended team-based project that responds directly to the needs of one of our partner organisations.
The final third of the programme involves the completion of an independent research dissertation on an environmental topic of your choosing, enabling you to further develop your research skills and make your own contribution to academic and policy debates about ongoing environmental controversies.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Environmental Policy and Management.
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or international equivalent in Anthropology, History, Literature, Philosophy, Biology/Natural Sciences, Chemistry, Ecology, Engineering (any type), Environmental Science, Mathematics, Physics, Zoology, Business Studies, Economics, Environmental Studies, Geography, Human Geography, Politics/Political Science, Sociology.
Applicants with a degree in a Physical Science or other non-standard subjects must also demonstrate competency in essay writing skills, with at least 60% or international equivalent achieved in one essay-based module.
Examples include:
Environmental Policy/Governance/Politics
Environmental History/Communication
Environmental Impact and/or Risk Assessment
History and/or Philosophy of (eg Biology/Science/Mathematics)
Final Research Project/Dissertation.
Depending on eligibility, applicants may be able to apply for the Commonwealth Shared Scholarship Scheme , University of Bristol Think Big Postgraduate Scholarship , Bristol Master's Scholarship , or the School of Geographical Sciences' own Phyllis Mary Morris Bursaries .
Develop the skills and knowledge needed for employment in the public, private and non-profit sectors.
Our graduates have gone on to work in environmental consulting, national government departments, multilateral agencies, environmental management, conservation, marketing and communications, and a range of private companies in areas such as sustainable housing, transport and energy.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-epidemiology:
MSc Epidemiology
Epidemiology is the study of disease and health outcomes in populations.
It is about finding causes - the reasons why some people become ill, and the reasons why some populations are healthier than others - and what we can do to remove or control these causes.
It is the science underpinning public health, clinical research and healthcare evaluation.
The MSc in Epidemiology will enable you to engage with the complex population health challenges facing the global community in future decades, providing high-quality training in epidemiological methods that are applicable to low, middle and high income settings.
The programme is suitable for students from both clinical and non-clinical backgrounds.
The MSc will introduce the principles of modern epidemiology and its role in public health and other health-related disciplines.
You will learn how to design and analyse experimental and observational studies covering aetiology, interventions, diagnosis and prognosis.
There will be opportunities to learn about cutting-edge methods in causal inference and molecular epidemiology.
Your dissertation, on a research topic of your choice, will take the form of a journal article and a poster presentation, opening the possibility of submission for publication.
The Department of Population Health Sciences is a large and thriving department, with numerous opportunities for PhD study and employment on research projects.
We are internationally recognised for our excellence in developing epidemiological methods and applying these to a broad spectrum of population health topics.
Our research ranges from discovery science in molecular and genetic epidemiology to innovative clinical trials, policy-influencing activities and robust evidence assessments.
Our MSc in Epidemiology is founded on this expertise.
Teaching methods include lectures, practicals, group work, asynchronous materials, workshops and seminars.
All but two units are compulsory; the dissertation is also compulsory and is undertaken during the final term and over the summer.
The programme will introduce you to the statistical package R for data handling, manipulation and analysis.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Epidemiology.
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or international equivalent in a relevant subject, such as medicine, veterinary science, dentistry, pharmacy, biology/biological/human sciences, statistics, mathematics, public health, nursing, or psychology.
You will also need to demonstrate evidence of your numeracy skills, either with one unit of Mathematics, Statistics or Biostatistics at 60% or above (or international equivalent), or A-level Mathematics or Statistics at grade C or equivalent.
International scholars from Chevening , Commonwealth , Fulbright and Marshall are welcome to apply for this MSc.
Home applicants may also like to consider an NIHR pre-doctoral fellowship .
Please contact the Programme Director if you would like to apply for this scheme.
This MSc will give you the knowledge and skills needed to work as a researcher or systematic reviewer in a wide range of settings, including universities, research institutes, government agencies, charities, pharmaceutical companies, and other private and public organisations that collect and analyse health-related data.
Graduates will also be well placed to apply for a PhD in a range of population health research topics.
The MSc will prepare students to move into careers which, with further work experience and training, could develop into leadership roles, such as academics (lecturers, senior lecturers and professors of epidemiology), directors of research and development in pharmaceutical companies and biotech startups, strategic directors of health charities or public health government policy advisers.
Bristol Medical School: Population Health Sciences

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-finance-and-investment:
MSc Finance and Investment
This programme is designed to provide you with a thorough grounding in the theoretical and practical sides of finance.
It contains compulsory elements in asset pricing, corporate finance, and quantitative methods and empirical finance.
Additionally, it offers optional units in areas including derivatives, financial modelling, investment management, advanced corporate finance, banking, green and sustainable finance, financial technology, and behavioural finance.
The programme is suitable for students with good undergraduate degrees in finance, economics, or accounting, as well as those with other quantitative backgrounds (for example, an undergraduate education in mathematics, engineering, or natural sciences).
This is a one-year programme.
During the first semester, you will complete compulsory units.
In the second semester, you will tailor the degree according to your interests by choosing from a range of optional units alongside compulsory training in quantitative methods.
The final part of the MSc is a research-based dissertation.
This involves identifying and analysing a research question in finance under the guidance of a member of staff.
The dissertation gives you the opportunity to explore an original problem, source and process the relevant financial data, analyse that data, and learn to draw appropriate conclusions.
The final results are presented in a report.
There are competitive opportunities to collaborate with industry peers on dissertations.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the programme structure and unit content.
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree (60% or higher) or an international equivalent in Finance, Economics, Computing, Engineering, Mathematics, or Physics.
If your degree subject is not listed above, you will typically need an upper second-class honours degree (60% or higher) or an international equivalent with three units of mathematics with 60% or above (or an international equivalent) in each unit, from the units listed in ' Maths qualification requirements ' below.
Specific module requirements would still apply, which can be met in either undergraduate or postgraduate qualifications.
Advanced Maths (introductory maths does not count towards maths unit requirements)
This programme provides excellent preparation for careers in investment banking, consulting, and corporate finance, and for further academic study in finance.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-financial-technology:
MSc Financial Technology
The MSc in Financial Technology will provide you with a comprehensive grounding in the various analytical methods of financial technology, or 'FinTech', as well as knowledge of how these methods are utilised in practice in financial markets.
The content will combine finance theory with extensive applications through to practical issues using real-world data.
The programme includes units addressing the latest technological developments that have transformed many aspects of the finance industry such as big data, artificial intelligence, machine learning, process automation, cryptocurrencies and blockchain, alongside units that cover the underpinning theory and practice of finance.
Artificial intelligence and machine learning are reshaping the financial services sector and are being used across a range of applications including trading, portfolio construction and evaluation, risk management, financial intermediation and corporate finance.
You will gain a broad, high-level overview of the impact that technology is having in reshaping many aspects of financial services.
You will also develop specific practical skills in programming, statistical analysis and financial modelling, which will enable you to apply these technological innovations in a variety of contexts.
This may include algorithmic trading, robo-advising, peer-to-peer lending, mobile payments, crowdfunding and digital currencies.
The MSc Financial technology offers the opportunity to closely work with industry partners through undertaking applied projects.
The teaching will be research-led and undertaken by subject experts, involving a mixture of lectures and small-group tutorials as well as computer lab-based sessions for the completion of data-based case studies and applications.
Industry-relevant skills are embedded in the units throughout the programme, which are practical in nature without compromising academic rigour.
The compulsory units in term 1 cover core material in asset pricing, corporate finance, and quantitative techniques for financial analysis with a range of applications.
You will also learn about cryptocurrencies and the blockchain.
You will develop vital industry skills in the handling and analysis of large and complex datasets, undertaking empirical applications of machine learning techniques using a programming language such as Python.
In term 2, you will further develop your knowledge of financial technology and how it is applied to develop, implement, and evaluate trading strategies.
You will also receive further training in quantitative techniques and support for the skills required to successfully conduct empirical research in the area of financial technology.
Two modules can be chosen from a wide range of options that will enable you to focus on any of the distinct sub-areas of finance in which the impacts of financial technology have become prominent (green and sustainable finance, investment management, corporate finance, and banking).
The dissertation will allow you to draw on all the material that you have covered in the taught components and will provide you with an opportunity to execute a piece of original research on a topic of your choosing related to finance or financial technology.
There may also be the opportunity to conduct your dissertation in partnership with an external organisation on an Applied Project.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc Financial Technology.
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree (60% or higher) or an international equivalent in:
Computing (including Computer Science and Data Science); Economics; Engineering; Finance; Mathematics or Physics.
If your degree subject is not listed above, you must have evidence of an upper second-class honours degree (60% or higher) which includes three different units of mathematics (see Maths qualification requirements ) with 60% or above (or international equivalent) in each unit.
Specific module requirements would still apply, which can be met in either the undergraduate or postgraduate qualification.
The programme will provide a first-rate educational foundation to develop your career in any aspect of the financial services sector with a focus on financial technology.
This could be in 'fintechs' themselves, or in more traditional investment management, corporate finance, or banking firms.
Successful graduates from the programme will have a combination of conceptual knowledge in finance, an understanding of financial markets and instruments, and skills in data analysis and programming.
These attributes are of considerable demand in the industry given the rapid and continuing growth in this area in recent years and the reported lack of suitably qualified individuals.
The programme, and in particular the skills imbued through the dissertation, will also provide an excellent springboard for progression to doctoral study.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-financial-technology-with-data-science:
MSc Financial Technology with Data Science
From crowdfunding to cryptocurrencies, and from automated trading to Alipay, recent innovations in financial technologies have revolutionised the way we spend, save, borrow, and invest.
Companies in the financial services sector are now able to intelligently harness data to provide tailored products and services; big technology corporations offer financial services to customers through their social media accounts; and disruptive technology startups have quickly scaled to challenge the dominance of traditional banks by developing new forms of finance from the ground up.
This MSc offers an opportunity to join the financial technology revolution.
You will learn the key design features of a number of financial technology applications and will develop skills to implement, assess and engineer these technologies.
You will also develop an understanding of the computational, statistical and machine learning principles necessary for insightful large-scale data analysis used in data-driven finance.
Hosted by a world-leading engineering faculty, this is a technology-focused MSc and not a finance or accounting programme that is traditionally provided by a business school.
Therefore, we expect applicants to have a strong background in computer science, engineering or a numerate science.
A background in economics or finance is not expected or required.
This MSc is likely to appeal to applicants looking to start or advance their careers in data-driven finance and technology.
The UK is a world leader in financial technology and the Bristol region has a flourishing fintech ecosystem.
The programme has been co-designed with industrial partners and will offer opportunities to engage with industry on real-world commercial projects
On entry, you will take one of two foundational units, depending on your previous experience.
Students without software development experience will take a unit in Software Development, Programming and Algorithms; alternatively, students with software development experience will take a unit in Statistical Computing and Empirical Methods.
When you arrive, your unit choice will be decided, based on your previous experience, in consultation with your personal tutor.
The remainder of the programme consists of compulsory units such as Large-Scale Data Engineering; Introduction to Financial Technology; Introduction to AI and Data Analytics; Advanced Financial Technology; and Financial Technology Group Project.
All students will complete their studies with an individual research or implementation project of their choosing from a selection proposed by project supervisors.
This unit will provide students with first-hand experience in planning, running, documenting, and presenting a substantial piece of original work in the field of financial technology.
The aim of this unit is to give students a substantial opportunity to integrate material from all taught units that they have studied as part of the programme, to demonstrate the breadth and depth of their learning on the MSc.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc Financial Technology with Data Science.
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent in a Numerate Science, Computer Science, or Engineering.
The following degrees are also acceptable:
This programme has been co-designed with industrial partners to ensure that graduates are equipped with highly in-demand analytical, statistical and programming skills suitable for a range of technology careers in the financial services sector, as well as data scientist and data engineer roles in other non-finance industries.
Graduates will also be prepared for careers in research and development or could go on to launch a fintech startup.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-gender-and-international-relations:
MSc Gender and International Relations
This programme examines and deploys perspectives from feminism, gender studies, cultural studies and sexuality studies, along with interdisciplinary research in international political economy, civil-military relations, international development and the study of men and masculinities.
Each unit is delivered and assessed by an essay (or equivalent form of written submission).
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Gender and International Relations.
Many sectors - such as the civil service, NGOs and charities - require an MSc and some volunteering or internship experience.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-geographic-data-science-and-spatial-analytics:
MSc Geographic Data Science and Spatial Analytics
Are you passionate about using data and analytics to improve cities and solve spatial problems?
The MSc in Geographic Data Science and Spatial Analytics will help you to achieve your ambitions.
Join a School ranked first in the UK for 'Geography and environmental studies' research (THE analysis of REF 2021) and learn how to utilise cutting-edge tools and methods from the data science domain to analyse spatial data in order to tackle challenges spanning across various spatial scales: from neighbourhoods and cities to regions and supra-national systems.
Whether your background is in Geography, Planning, or Social Sciences more broadly, or in numerate subjects such as Computer Science and Engineering, this programme will help you succeed in the dynamic field of Geographic Data Science and Spatial Analytics.
You will master data science and machine-learning algorithms, tools, and data structures, and apply them to understand core theories and concepts in urban analytics and city science.
You will be able to employ cartographic and geographic theory and concepts to map and model big geographic data.
You will understand the main engineering concepts and principles around scientific computing and data infrastructure and use them to model smart cities and urban digital infrastructure.
The MSc in Geographic Data Science and Spatial Analytics builds upon the Quantitative Spatial Science (QuSS) research group within the School of Geographical Sciences and its longstanding history and excellence in quantitative geography and spatial analysis.
You will take four compulsory units and select two optional units from the list of postgraduate units offered by the School of Geographical Sciences.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Geographic Data Science and Spatial Analytics.
A key component of the programme is the dissertation, which is well aligned with the programme's philosophy.
Dissertations will be written in a paper format following the principles of reproducibility - for instance using open-source computational notebooks such as RMarkdown/Jupyter.
The dissertation will provide you with practical experience of formulating, designing, and undertaking a substantive and original piece of geographic data science research.
You will be introduced to key principles of research design and research ethics through intensive training in this unit.
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or international equivalent in any subject.
You will also need to have achieved 60% minimum (or international equivalent) in at least one of the below modules:
This MSc provides graduates with the skills needed for successful careers as data scientists and data consultants in private and public sector.
Students have gone on to work in consultancy and engineering companies, and also governmental and third sector organisations.
Top graduates can populate research institutes and think-tanks and support the advancement of Geographic Data Science.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-global-development-and-environment:
MSc Global Development and Environment
More of the world's extreme poor now live in middle-income than in low-income countries.
These changing socio-economic dynamics, alongside processes such as climate change, transnational migration and globalisation, demand a global consideration of the state of the planet.
Reflecting these trends, concepts of 'development' have evolved away from an understanding of something that takes place in the 'Third World' or 'Global South' and towards notions of global 'Sustainable Development' .
Contemporary global challenges demand the linking of environmental issues to conventional foci of development (like health, urbanisation, poverty, food security and migration).
They also demand an understanding of how the world's resources (such as water, energy, land, minerals, demography) are allocated and managed, and how contestations over these distributions play out.
This programme is aimed at talented graduates seeking to develop or enhance their expertise in the fields of development and environment.
You will develop the capacity to critically analyse the large-scale drivers of environmental consumption and stewardship, and how these interlink with and produce developmental outcomes.
You will explore the relationship between international, environmental and developmental concerns and current socio-political events, from the COVID-19 pandemic to political and military tensions in Eastern Europe and the Middle East.
You will gain a perspective that is at once global and interdisciplinary while also paying attention to locality (place) and people's agency in forging a just and sustainable future.
The School of Geographical Sciences is ranked first in the UK for 'Geography and environmental studies' research (THE analysis of REF 2021) and has an outstanding reputation for teaching and learning.
It builds upon Bristol's existing research strengths in these fields, with links to the University's Cabot Institute , Perivoli Africa Research Centre , Elizabeth Blackwell Institute , Jean Golding Institute , and Bristol Poverty Institute .
The programme is structured around three core units.
You will also choose three optional units and complete a research dissertation.
The core programme unit is Global Development and Environment: History, Theory, Practice.
You will also be required to undertake The Policy and Management Consultancy unit, which will provide you with an opportunity to develop practical skills by working in small teams to address real-world policy and management challenges facing external clients including public agencies, private organisations and NGOs.
The third core unit is Sustainability, Risk and Resilience in the Urban Age, which will introduce you issues pertaining the our urbanising planet, including migration and global urban governance.
Subject to availability, students will be able to choose three optional units dealing with topics ranging from research methods to postcolonial critique, environmental policy, GIS and remote sensing.
Unit availability can only be confirmed on an annual basis, therefore any choices made by part-time students at the outset of the programme for their second year of study will be provisional.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc Global Development and Environment.
Please note this Masters programme requires group work and regular class presentations.
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent in Biology, Botany, Ecology, Forestry, Microbiology, Zoology, Biology, Chemistry, Earth Science, Physics, Anthropology, Communication Studies, Criminology, Economics, Geography, Politics, Psychology, Sociology, Social Work, or professional degrees (Medicine, Architecture, Planning or Engineering).
Candidates with non-standard degree subjects plus evidence of a minimum of one year relevant work experience in the following roles will also be considered: policy-facing roles, government departments, development or environmental consultancies, multilateral organisations or NGOs.
Students completing this programme typically go on to work in government, the non-profit sector, multilateral organisations and private companies including development and environmental consultancies.
The intensive research training will also prepare you for further postgraduate study.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-global-health-policy:
MSc Global Health Policy
The MSc in Global Health Policy will enable you to understand current and future global health policy challenges, to critically question the interplay between knowledge, evidence, policy-making and power, and to design sustainable and equitable policy solutions.
This interdisciplinary social sciences programme is designed to provide you with the knowledge and skills you need for real-world global health influence.
It combines theory and practical applications through a range of taught units and a policy evidence toolkit, and through independent work which may be either a dissertation or a work-based unit with a host organisation.
You will learn about some of our most pressing transnational health and care challenges, such as pandemic response and preparedness, the health impacts of climate change and poverty, ageing, mental illness, food security, migration and health, and global increases in long-term health conditions.
Research-rich units will encourage you to apply critical analyses of policymaking to global health case studies within and between Global North and Global South geographies.
Teaching is led by staff who specialise in social and public policy, sociology, global governance, social inequality and poverty, political economy, and epidemiology.
You may also be taught by guest lecturers who influence and make global health policy, and will have opportunities to develop campaigns, interventions and research projects that directly address key priorities in the field.
You will gain insight into social science research design using qualitative/quantitative or mixed methods and learn how to evaluate data quality and relevance in different contexts.
This learning is extended by your exposure to a toolkit of applied evidence approaches such as health impact assessments, realist evaluation and systems thinking – all of which are in increasing demand in the sector.
If you choose to apply for the Work-Based Applied Research Project unit, you may have the opportunity to further embed these skills by working on a co-produced research-based project with a host organisation.
The MSc Global Health Policy will also support you to develop communication, engagement, evidence interrogation, knowledge translation and co-production skills.
This programme will provide you with the opportunity to examine the power dynamics of a fluid global sector of critical importance and to become the change-makers of the future.
Learn more about our research with the World Health Organisation to tackle malnutrition and obesity in China.
The programme comprises six units plus a dissertation or work-based research project with a host organisation.
Four of these units are core units and the other two units are chosen from a number of options.
For the dissertation, you will carry out an extended piece of research on an approved topic which is assessed in the style of a draft journal article (up to 10,000 words).
Alternatively, you can apply to take the Work-Based Applied Research Project unit.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content of our MSc Global Health Policy.
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent in a Social Science, Humanities, Clinical, Medical or Allied Health discipline.
Other academic backgrounds may be considered on a case-by-case basis if you can demonstrate 18 months relevant experience as a policy maker, advocate, practitioner or researcher.
International scholarships available
Think Big postgraduate scholarships Awards of £6,500, £13,000 and £26,000 for each year of study.
Think Big about Policy Studies scholarships Awards of £13,000 for applicants to MSc Global Health Policy.
To make the application process easier, you only need to submit one scholarship application.
With one application we consider you for all applicable Think Big scholarships, providing that you meet the necessary eligibility requirements.
Other funding options Think Big is the University of Bristol’s flagship scholarship scheme.
There are a range of other scholarships and bursaries available.
Visit our Student Finances page to search for further information on funding for prospective UK and international postgraduate students.
Future employment opportunities may include: further academic research; policy roles in local and national governments and local and international NGOs working on global health issues; and policy development and leadership positions in global institutions such as the World Health Organisation, World Bank and United Nations.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-global-operations-and-supply-chain-management:
MSc Global Operations and Supply Chain Management
This specialist programme will appeal to graduates aiming for a managerial or consulting career within global operations, logistics or supply chain management in the private, public or third sector.
You will learn how to manage and improve global supply chain operations and develop an appreciation of its role and function in the context of international organisations.
This programme examines the effects of global trade and business and the significance of grand challenges, such as increasing digitalisation and innovation in product and service development, international environmental sustainability regulation, and corporate social responsibility and ethics issues.
The programme reflects contemporary themes and developments within operations and supply chain management.
You will explore how global supply chains are managed and will acquire the skills and confidence to challenge, innovate and solve problems.
We enjoy close links with industry, government and voluntary sectors, providing opportunities to engage with supply chain professionals.
You will hear from sector experts in guest lectures, and there may be the option to participate in a live consulting project with a client organisation.
The knowledge and skills you gain will give you a competitive advantage in your future career.
This programme is accredited by the Chartered Institute of Procurement and Supply (CIPS) .
This means that on completion of the programme, students with the required work experience can apply to become full members of CIPS without taking further examinations.
A large percentage of our Business and Management research is rated as world-leading or internationally excellent (REF 2021), reflecting its impact on shaping policy and practice.
The programme consists of compulsory taught units and a dissertation or applied extended project.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Global Operations and Supply Chain Management.
An upper second-class honours degree or international equivalent in Business/Management/Social Science degrees.
This must include a 2:1 in at least 1 quantitative unit from the Maths qualification requirements list below or a 'Supply Chain and Logistics' unit.
Single honours Engineering OR Science degrees (with 2.1 in at least 1 unit listed below) may also be considered.
Supply Chain and Logistics and at least one of the Maths modules linked below
If your degree subject is not listed in the main entry requirements, you must have evidence of an upper second class honours degree which includes at least one unit of mathematics with 60% or above (or international equivalent) in each unit.
Bristol has an excellent reputation with employers worldwide, and our graduates are in demand.
We are one of the top 50 universities in the world for graduate employability ( QS Graduate Employability Rankings 2022 ).
Graduates will suit a range of careers across sectors such as manufacturing, retail, e-commerce, international transportation and third-party logistics firms.
We also anticipate our graduates will join consultancy firms and software developers in areas such as distribution network planning, transportation and purchasing.
Typical roles include supply chain analyst, operations strategist, junior management consultant, logistics planner, project manager, production planner, inventory manager and purchasing manager.
Our postgraduate students are given opportunities to engage with industry, increase their professional networks and develop their professional skills and experience while studying.
Find out more about the options available for this programme on the Professional Liaison Network web pages.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-global-wildlife-health-and-conservation:
MSc Global Wildlife Health and Conservation
This unique programme is taught in collaboration with Bristol Zoological Society and features varied practical experience, field trips and mentoring from global experts.
The programme will equip you for a career as a wildlife professional with the skills and knowledge to deal with a variety of practical situations that professional wildlife biologists face on a day-to-day basis.
Unique content with diverse topics
The programme covers the conservation and health of wildlife in situ , and ex-situ (both temporarily for rehabilitation and long-term captive breeding programmes).
You'll learn a wide range of theoretical concepts and practical skills, including:
The curriculum covers surveillance, epidemiology, and control of wildlife diseases, and the ‘One Health’ approach, integrating animal, human, and environmental health.
These concepts are vital for tackling emerging diseases and preventing pandemics.
You will learn ecological surveying techniques and gain knowledge in using new technology, such as GIS, remote sensing, and Species Distribution Models, to address wildlife conservation issues.
Additionally, you'll be introduced to effective conservation principles and practices to combat biodiversity loss and climate change.
You’ll develop advanced research skills that may be used to progress to a PhD and/or academic career, if you choose to do so.
Global networking opportunities
We emphasise global wildlife health and conservation.
You'll benefit from our experts and guest lectures, workshops, and seminars by specialist researchers, conservationists, and wildlife veterinarians, offering valuable networking opportunities.
There are also field visits to important wildlife locations near Bristol.
You'll be supported in developing and conducting a research project in your area of interest.
Our students have collaborated with charity and academic partners worldwide, with many projects published in academic journals .
Our Global Partners:
Clifton, Langford
The programme is split into two elements.
A taught element provides training in six core units.
A research element gives you the opportunity to carry out an applied project on a wildlife topic of interest to you.
You will undertake a literature review, collect and analyse data, and present your results as a written report suitable for publication.
Units include:
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Global Wildlife Health and Conservation.
The MSc is based at the Bristol Veterinary School in the village of Langford near the Mendip Hills in Somerset.
Many small group workshops and practical sessions take place with the Bristol Zoological Society; in Clifton Bristol and at Bristol Zoo Project, allowing you to gain hands-on experience of wild animal care while working behind the scenes in a modern zoological setting.
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree (or international equivalent) in a Veterinary or Zoology subject.
Other subjects will be accepted, provided they contain a minimum of 50% relevant Biology content; this can be demonstrated with modules related to Whole Organism Biology, Anatomy or Physiology.
Relevant modules could include:
If you do not meet the module requirement, we will also consider your application if you have studied Geography, Neuroscience or Psychology with A-level Biology at grade C (or international equivalent) or above.
You should show evidence of completing a research project as part of your degree.
Evidence of at least two years relevant work experience in the fields of:
This programme has been carefully designed for those aspiring to a career in wildlife health, conservation and management.
Potential employers include national parks, zoological gardens, animal rehabilitation centres, wildlife hospitals, environmental NGOs, conservation charities and government agencies with statutory wildlife responsibilities, both in the UK and overseas.
Our graduates have gone on to work in a range of exciting roles globally, progressing wildlife conservation from positions of influence in Europe, North America, South America, Asia and Africa.
Employers include:
Charles Wheeler (MSc Global Wildlife Health and Conservation)
“The connections with Bristol Zoological Society really stood out to me when making the decision to apply to Bristol Veterinary School.
The practical experience with such a wide range of industry partners was integral in guiding my future career.
I am currently working as a Project Officer for the Madagascar & Mascarenes field programmes at Chester Zoo, delivering project management for the flagship project in Eastern Madagascar - which involves habitat restoration, species monitoring and community conservation work.
I’ve been on three field visits to Madagascar since March last year and I got to experience one of my best animal encounters during one of the trips.
While on a hike through the forest I saw four Indri lemurs, one of the largest lemur species in Madagascar, leap overhead and listen to their incredible calls.”
Bristol Veterinary School

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-health-economics-and-health-policy-analysis:
MSc, PG Certificate (Postgraduate Certificate), PG Diploma (Postgraduate Diploma) Health Economics and Health Policy Analysis
Health economics and health policy analysis can enable decision makers to improve resource use and service delivery across health and care systems.
This MSc will enable you to apply economic and policy theory and practice for this purpose, and to a range of complex challenges facing the global community (for example inequalities, mental health, infectious disease, climate change, health and social care provision).
The programme will teach you key concepts in economics and policy by drawing on real-world examples from international and UK contexts.
This applied focus will ensure you are able to communicate and share economic and policy thinking and evidence with various audiences, including policymakers, academics, and the general public.
You will learn a range of analytical techniques and research methods used by professional health economists and policy analysts, including statistics and econometrics, economic evaluation, qualitative and survey methods, evidence synthesis and modelling.
You will also gain valuable practical experience in using appropriate software for qualitative and statistical data analysis, and for building economic models, so that you can confidently select and creatively apply these methods and software in your future careers and make sound, methodological judgements in the absence of complete data.
This MSc encourages you to apply multidisciplinary skills and a multi-stakeholder perspective to health and care challenges.
The programme therefore welcomes professionals and students from multiple backgrounds.
This MSc is particularly suitable for professionals who have experience of working within health care, social care or pharmaceutical settings, and graduates with a degree in economics, health sciences, mathematics, statistics, social policy or pharmacology.
We offer entry levels at Postgraduate Certificate level, Postgraduate Diploma level and Master's level.
These programmes are delivered in a blended learning format (a mixture of in-person and online teaching).
The majority of taught units include in-person teaching blocks lasting 3 days and small group tutorials (face-to-face or online, according to preference) that are each linked to a block of asynchronous online teaching.
One unit has two 3-day teaching blocks alongside some asynchronous content.
For all units, there will also be self-study, including reading, skills development, and formative and summative assessment.
We have three 'topic' units and three 'methods' units.
The first unit which all students must take will be the introductory topic unit, providing the core conceptual base.
Depending on the programme (PGCert, PGDip, MSc) all or combinations of the remaining 5 units will be taken.
Two methods units, covering quantitative and qualitative/survey methods, are delivered in the first semester.
During the second semester, we teach two advanced topic units engaging with complex health systems and global health challenges.
One concentrates on the UK within its global context, and the second on global health and care settings.
Students will also take the final methods unit, covering health economic modelling.
PG Certificate:
PG Diploma:
MSC:
Following completion of the six mandatory units, MSc students will undertake a research dissertation (in a published paper format), enabling them to develop more advanced skills in one area of health economics and/or health policy analysis.
We will endeavour to provide a number of competitive dissertation collaborations with local, national, and international collaborators (subject to funding and availability).
Students who have successfully completed the Certificate or Diploma may be able to progress to the MSc Health Economics and Health Policy Analysis within 5 years of completing their primary health economics qualification.
Visit the programme catalogues for full details of the structure and unit content:
• PG Certificate • PG Diploma • MSc Health Economics and Health Policy Analysis
You will also need to demonstrate evidence of your numeracy skills through one of the following:
This MSc will enable you to work both autonomously and within multidisciplinary teams to implement tasks at the level of a professional health economist/policy analyst/health economic modeller.
Skills and knowledge in health economics and health policy analysis are in high demand both nationally and internationally.
Consequently, this is an area with high employment potential across a range of settings including government, health and care services, research and academia, the pharmaceutical and medical device industries, not-for-profit organisations and consultancy services.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-health-professions-education:
MSc, PG Certificate (Postgraduate Certificate), PG Diploma (Postgraduate Diploma) Health Professions Education
These programmes will help health professionals develop their teaching skills in studying for a postgraduate certificate, postgraduate diploma or MSc.
These programmes emphasise practical application of educational methods and theory, along with the development of reflective, evidence-based practice.
There is a positive, student-focused approach to teaching and learning.
Interactive small-group teaching and flexible, friendly support are among the many strengths of the programmes.
You can also benefit from the networking and contacts in your future career.
The 60-credit certificate can be completed in one or two years part-time.
Following completion of the certificate, the 60-credit diploma can be achieved over one or two years part-time.
On completion of 120 credits, progression to the 60-credit MSc dissertation is allowed.
Alternatively, all 180 credits can be attained through the online programme , studying full-time for one year or part-time for two years.
Foundations of Medical Education - introductory short course Foundations in Medical Education (FMed) is an online short-course suitable for anyone without who is involved in teaching or supervising health professionals and who does not have formal training as an educator.
There are three mandatory 20-credit units for the postgraduate certificate plus three 20-credit units for the diploma.
To achieve the MSc, you will need to submit a 15,000-word dissertation/thesis.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our:
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent in a relevant degree including (but not limited to) medicine, veterinary science, dentistry, pharmacy, biological sciences, psychology and social sciences, or a relevant professional qualification with at least two years' full-time (or equivalent part-time) professional experience.
You should demonstrate interest in clinical teaching through work experience, volunteering or research.
You must be able to access teaching opportunities within your current role.
For entry to the Postgraduate Diploma award, you must have successfully completed the Health Professionals Education (or TLHP) Postgraduate Certificate, or an equivalent qualification from another institution.
For entry to the MSc Modular award, you must have successfully completed both the Health Professionals Education (or TLHP) Postgraduate Diploma and Postgraduate Certificate, or equivalent qualifications from another institution.
Some funding may be available through NHS employers or the clinical academies linked with the University of Bristol Medical School.
For PG Certificate (Postgraduate Certificate), PG Diploma (Postgraduate Diploma) Modular fees please check this page .
These qualifications will prepare you for roles in health professions education, supporting students in the health professions or those in training grades.
Many educators in the health professions have had a clinical career or continue to balance a clinical and academic/teaching career as clinical academics.
Others are practitioners who use their qualification to enhance their personal practice as educators, or to take leading roles in education and training in postgraduate and undergraduate settings.
Health Professions Education

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-health-professions-education-online:
MSc Health Professions Education (Online)
This is an opportunity to complete an online full time (1 year) or part time (2 years) MSc in Health Professions Education commencing in September.
The programme provides current evidence based theoretical knowledge and practical skills aimed at those wishing to develop their educational expertise within their health profession context.
The programme prides itself on the range of health professions who attend and achieve their qualifications.
The multi-professional learning environment of HPE offers you great insight and knowledge of teaching and learning in different healthcare contexts.
Our academic staff have a wide range of qualifications and expertise within education and teaching in further and higher education.
This includes lecturers with clinical, social sciences and business backgrounds.
This is an online programme.
You will benefit from access to modular topic-based asynchronous online materials supported by synchronous online small group tutorials with dedicated lecturers.
There are six mandatory 20-credit units for the taught component of the online MSc plus one 60-credit dissertation unit in which you will need to submit a 15,000-word dissertation/thesis.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content:

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-healthcare-management-online:
MSc, PG Certificate (Postgraduate Certificate), PG Diploma (Postgraduate Diploma) Healthcare Management (Online)
This innovative online programme is designed for those with an interest in pursuing a career in management or with managerial responsibilities in the healthcare sector.
The programme aims to create a new generation of health and care professionals who not only understand the challenges faced by health systems and healthcare organisations but are able to instigate sustainable transformative solutions.
You will benefit from teaching led by leading academics from Bristol Medical School and Bristol Business School, as well as frontline practitioners and health care experts.
This interdisciplinary approach ensures both a comprehensive, research-driven theoretical framework and practice-oriented knowledge and management skills.
The programme will equip you with knowledge and skills to better understand and tackle the shared challenges faced by health systems across the world, including the National Health Service.
It will analyse traditional and innovative models of delivering healthcare provision, and effective leadership of healthcare organisations, with a particular focus on improvements in patient safety and service quality, the use of innovations in technology and the effective allocation of financial resources
The programme is delivered through a blend of live online teaching sessions, recorded content, activities and web-based discussions.
Through collaborative learning environments, you will network and learn from peers from a variety of backgrounds.
Online learning offers the flexibility to study from anywhere in the world, allowing you to manage your own time and resources efficiently whatever your personal and professional commitments.
The programme is delivered online through a blend of self-guided study, real-time tutorials, interactive discussions, and project based experiential learning.
In recognition of the fact that our students are busy professionals who often experience changes in their working conditions, we offer entry levels and exit levels for the programme at Postgraduate Certificate level, Postgraduate Diploma level and Master's level.
Students who have successfully completed the Certificate or Diploma may be able to progress to the MSc Healthcare Management within 5 years of completing their primary healthcare management qualification.
Visit the programme catalogues for full details of the structure and unit content} • PG Certificate Healthcare management • PG Diploma Healthcare Management • MSc Healthcare Management
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent in healthcare subject or discipline, including social work, veterinary and dental qualifications.
Alternatively, a business/management background is suitable.
You are required to be in part- or full-time employment.
Please upload a CV to evidence this.
It is important to note that it is your responsibility to seek permission from your employer to implement an improvement project.
This is vital as 2/3 of the credits for your first year of studies is related to your project implementation.
See the Admission Statement for more information.
Funding is sometimes available through organisation sponsorship, or more commonly through a combination of individual and organisation funding.
This programme is intended for anyone who has an interest in pursuing a career with managerial responsibilities in the healthcare sector.
This includes managers, clinicians and other healthcare professionals who are already working in or with healthcare organisations, or who are interested in developing their careers in this direction.
The programme is also an ideal platform for anyone who does not have prior working knowledge of healthcare organisations but would like to pursue a career in this sector.
On successful completion of the programme you will be enabled to pursue relevant careers in private, public and non-for-profit sectors in several settings including hospitals, commissioners, clinics, treatment centres, health departments, governmental agencies, research institutes, healthcare practices, international healthcare organisations, non-governmental organisations and pharmaceutical firms.
It will provide healthcare professionals from a wide range of backgrounds (e.g.
doctors, nurses, dentists, veterinaries, etc.) with leadership skills and business awareness to enhance the quality of healthcare leadership and management.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-human-geography-society-and-space:
MSc Human Geography: Society and Space
Human geography is a dynamic discipline that has a profound influence on current debates in the social sciences and humanities.
Human geographers focus on the relationships between space and society, particularly the interconnection between environment, place and identity; knowledge; globalisation processes; social justice; and a variety of other vital themes relevant to the contemporary world.
This programme provides you with a rigorous grounding in social theory and mainstream debates and techniques in human geography.
It also offers a thorough training in qualitative and quantitative methods.
Options allow for the development of specialisms in historical-cultural themes, postcolonial and decolonial geographies, spatial modelling, and debates surrounding environmental conflict and science and technology.
You will join a School ranked first in the UK for 'Geography and environmental studies' research ( THE analysis of REF 2021).
This programme is closely linked to the University's Cabot Institute , which brings together multidisciplinary research into all aspects of global environmental change.
The programme has three mandatory units, which introduce key ideas and techniques and provide foundations for your research during the dissertation in the summer months.
You also select three optional units, which provides you the opportunity to shape your MSc programme to suit your research interests.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Human Geography: Society and Space.
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or international equivalent in:
If you are currently completing a degree we understand that your final grade may be higher than the interim grades or module/unit grades you have achieved during your studies to date.
This programme equips you for a career in high-level public research, business or the creative industries, and provides outstanding academic training for prospective PhD students and those seeking a master's-level qualification.
Graduates from this programme have progressed to a variety of careers, including academia, journalism and writing, urban and town planning, housing justice, food poverty initiatives, creating startup businesses, the third sector and research.
Around 40% of our graduates go on to pursue further research training, for example through a PhD.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-human-resource-management-and-the-future-of-work:
MSc Human Resource Management and the Future of Work
The MSc Human Resource Management and the Future of Work is an intensive master's-level specialist programme for graduates who have a prior qualification in social sciences and wish to develop their knowledge and skills in the practice, theory and policy of the world of work.
The future of work has become one of the defining debates of our generation.
While the 'greening' of our economies will create millions of jobs, many traditional forms of work may also disappear.
The digital economy fosters greater connectivity and access to technologies but also has the potential to disrupt labour markets.
The future of work creates many challenges, but countless opportunities exist to improve the quality of working lives and reverse the damages inflicted by global inequality and the climate crisis.
This 12-month full-time programme will appeal to students who want to engage, respond to and be part of the global challenges related to Human Resource Management and the Future of Work.
We aim to develop analytical and confident critical thinkers through research-led teaching.
You will gain insight into the nature of Human Resource Management and the complexity of organisations from a variety of disciplines and will be armed with the relevant knowledge to apply theory to practice.
You will be part of a dynamic and diverse body of staff and students in Bristol and will be taught by experienced academics.
88% of our Business and Management research is rated as world-leading or internationally excellent ( REF 2021 ), reflecting its impact on shaping policy and practice.
Staff in the school are engaged in conducting pioneering research that is shaping policy and practice in the UK, Europe and globally.
Listen to the first episode of our Research Frontiers podcast - 'The future of work'.
You will study core units throughout the programme, starting with core theories and concepts including employment relations, HRM in the global economy and the context of work in the 21st century.
In term two, you will focus on the 'future(s)' and 'alternatives' to work and organisation, and engage in timely debates on what the world of work could look like.
Finally, in the summer term there are two routes available.
The first is an individual dissertation, which provides an opportunity for independent research and in-depth investigation into a topic area that can be adapted to reflect your interests and career choices.
The second is an applied group research project, in which you will be matched with an external business or third sector partner related to human resource management and/or the future of work.
You will then produce a report for the partner organisation which recommends solutions to real world issues.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Human Resource Management and the Future of Work.
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent in a Social Sciences subject, including:
Accounting; Anthropology; Business; Cultural Studies; Development; Economics; Human Geography; International Studies; Law; Management; Policy Studies; Political Economy; Politics; Psychology; or Sociology.
We will also consider applicants who have not completed a degree listed above but have completed a dissertation in a relevant subject to the degree programme, for example human resource management, the future of work or employment relations.
We aim to guide, teach, foster and develop knowledgeable, thoughtful and ethical practitioners who can thrive in a range of future job prospects within a global environment.
Group work, presentations and innovative assessments based on real-life organisations will develop the teamwork and communication skills expected in today's workplace.
This degree provides excellent preparation for all careers in Human Resource Management and you will graduate with many transferable skills.
Students graduating from this degree will find employment in a wide range of for- and non-profit organisations as well as non-governmental organisations, civil society organisations, trade unions, inter-governmental organisations and the third sector.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-human-computer-interaction-online:
MSc, PG Certificate (Postgraduate Certificate), PG Diploma (Postgraduate Diploma) Human-Computer Interaction (Online)
Designing interactive products and services requires a deep understanding of human capabilities, contexts and values; an appreciation of current and future directions in interface technology design; and an understanding of how design can bridge the gap from possibility to reality.
This online MSc in Human-Computer Interaction meets these needs by training skilled Human-Computer Interaction (HCI) specialists who can apply and advocate for a human-centred approach to technology design, evaluation and research.
As a graduate of this programme, you will possess a detailed understanding of HCI theories, frameworks and methods.
You will also have communication and creative problem-solving skills of value in a variety of roles in the User Experience (UX) industry.
The programme has been designed to support applicants in mid-career roles who wish to transition into a position in the UX industry, and new graduates who wish to gain a master’s degree in HCI remotely.
Teaching will be delivered online and largely synchronously through live lectures, labs and seminars by world-leading researchers and educators based in the Bristol Interaction Group .
Recordings of live lectures will also be made available.
This MSc will provide you with opportunities to develop:
By pursuing this programme, you will not only advance your understanding of HCI but you’ll develop a professional identity as a HCI practitioner, contributing thoughtfully and effectively to a field that continues to shape the future.
Live teaching sessions will be scheduled from 2pm – 6pm UK time, so applicants in different time zones should consider if they will be able to attend at these times.
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent in Computer Science, Psychology, Social Sciences, Design, Engineering, Philosophy, Health Sciences or Business.
Applications from other degree backgrounds will also be considered and will need to demonstrate relevant work experience.
The programme will prepare students for a variety of roles in the UX industry, such as UX researcher, user researcher, UX writer, usability consultant, UX designer, and usability engineer.
It will also prepare students for PhD research in Human-Computer Interaction or a related area.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-immersive-technologies-virtual-and-augmented-reality:
MSc, PG Certificate (Postgraduate Certificate), PG Diploma (Postgraduate Diploma) Immersive Technologies (Virtual and Augmented Reality)
Immersive Technologies are transforming how we consume, interact, and experience digital information and media.
Virtual Reality (VR), Augmented Reality (AR) and Mixed Reality (MR) are now being used across numerous and diverse industries, from games and entertainment; theatre and live events; museums and heritage; marketing, advertising, and tourism; architecture, product development, and design; through to simulation and healthcare.
This degree will enable you to translate your knowledge and skills to make engaging immersive content and interactive experiences for diverse audiences.
We will equip you with the technical knowledge and skills to succeed in this exciting and rapidly growing sector.
Throughout the programme you will learn from world-leading academics and work with industry partners.
This programme is designed to equip you with:
The immersive, creative and technology industries are thriving in Bristol and the region, which makes the city an ideal place to study Immersive Technologies.
The MSc programme has been co-designed with industrial partners to meet a growing skills-gap demand and is closely associated with excellent cutting-edge research and facilities within the University in immersive technologies and creative practices, for instance MyWorld .
This ensures the teaching is research-led and gives students insights about how the sector will evolve in the future, along with emphasising an applied and practice-based education.
This programme is linked with MA Immersive Arts (Virtual and Augmented Reality)
This master's degree consists of the following units:
To complete your studies you will carry out a creative and immersive project, with the aim to give you a substantial opportunity to integrate material from all taught units and demonstrate the breadth and depth of your learning on the MSc.
This will provide you with first-hand experience in planning, delivering, and presenting a substantial piece of original immersive and creative work in an academic, civic or commercial environment.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Immersive Technologies (Virtual and Augmented Reality).
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or international equivalent in any numerate discipline.
If you have not studied a numerate discipline, you must demonstrate competency in mathematics with either A-level Mathematics at A* (or international equivalent) or one university-level Maths unit with an achieved UK grade of 60% (or international equivalent).
A Geometry or Software Tools module with a UK grade of 60% (or international equivalent) would also be acceptable.
Graduates from this master's will be capable of developing and deploying immersive applications in a variety of sectors, applying their knowledge to real-world industry challenges, and will be able to innovate and work successfully in interdisciplinary teams.
As diverse sectors pivot to embrace immersive technologies, the demand for graduates with skills in this area has skyrocketed and are becoming integral to a wide range of occupations across the globe.
Students will graduate with a portfolio of work that shows what they are able to do and will have a network of professional contacts to draw on.
Top graduates will be able to proactively advance the development of immersive technologies or go on to further study, either in the UK or internationally.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-innovation-and-entrepreneurship:
MSc Innovation and Entrepreneurship
The MSc Innovation and Entrepreneurship will teach you how to apply your existing undergraduate degree knowledge to real-world business challenges.
We welcome students from any discipline who are thinking about starting up their own venture or building a career adding innovative value to existing organisations and companies.
This programme shares much of its teaching with our other Innovation and Entrepreneurship programmes (MA and MSc) but maintains a broad perspective allowing you to adapt your focus over time.
This course will develop the high-level skills and critical competencies needed for successful organisational innovation and entrepreneurship, through a largely practice-orientated educational approach based on collaborative teamwork across disciplines and cultures.
During the programme you get opportunities to work alongside innovators, entrepreneurs, and their businesses to develop a deep understanding of opportunities and challenges.
In your final project over the summer, you will pull all you have learned to create a product or service as an entrepreneurial or innovative new venture.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Innovation and Entrepreneurship.
Whatever you choose, you will be able to hit the ground running.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-international-business-and-strategy-global-challenges:
MSc International Business and Strategy: Global Challenges
This programme is rooted in two academic domains, International Business and Strategy.
It will suit graduates from any discipline who wish to specialise and critically engage in these subjects.
You will learn to unpack world challenges in new ways, creating an understanding of the complexities of internationalisation, current strategic thinking and sustainability challenges in business and society.
The programme will equip you with a competitive advantage in the graduate jobs market by giving you the tools to deal with the new 'mega-forces' of globalisation driven by technological advancement, climate change, global health crises and geopolitical events.
This MSc draws on cutting-edge research by leading academics who will guide you to explore the Global Challenges facing international businesses and society, such as global warming, increasing migration flows, food insecurity, poverty, and greater competition for increasingly scarce resources.
You will gain the contextual, historical, and political perspectives of experts in these areas to enable them to think critically and solve problems practically in the workplace.
This programme will help you to:
This programme is accredited by the Institute of Sustainability and Environmental Professionals (ISEP), formerly known as the Institute of Environmental Management and Assessment (IEMA), representing sustainability and environmental professionals globally.
Our students are entitled to enjoy free student membership for the duration of the programme.
Graduates from this programme will benefit from studying at a top 10 UK university (QS World University Rankings 2025).
Sustainability is a priority for Bristol, which was the first UK city to attain European Green Capital status in 2015.
The University of Bristol was the first in the UK to declare a Climate Emergency and has sustainability at the core of its strategy.
You will study five core units, one elective unit, and the International Business and Strategy Dissertation.
The first three units cover core theories and key issues in International Business and Strategy, preparing you for advanced units and the research dissertation.
Core units:
Elective unit, studying the impact of sustainability on a domain of your choosing.
Choose one from the below:
The final unit, the International Business and Strategy Dissertation, offers two options: conducting an individual research project on a chosen topic, or participating in a group-based applied grand challenges project with an external partner organisation.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in International Business and Strategy.
Graduates from this programme can pursue an exciting range of career opportunities in international business, strategy and sustainability.
The programme will teach you to respond to a fast-paced and ever-changing business environment, supporting your ambitions to attain strategic positions in business development, strategic management, consultancy, international business development, and sustainability at a senior level.
This programme will give you an understanding of the complexities of international business operations to prepare you for a variety of roles in government, policy design, multinational corporations in all sectors, NGOs and fast-growing 'go global' businesses that are seeking to rapidly internationalise.
Our postgraduate students are given opportunities to engage with industry, increase their professional networks and develop their professional skills and experience whilst they are studying.
Find out more about our Professional Liaison Network .

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-international-development:
MSc International Development
This programme is designed for anyone involved in conceptualising or administering policies related to the Global Development Challenges.
It is especially suitable if you are already involved in planning development strategies, currently working for a non-governmental or governmental organisation in the development field, or planning for a career in development.
The programme combines an intellectual and academic approach with policy-oriented and empirical studies of development.
It addresses three separate, but related, facets of the development process:
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in International Development.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-international-relations:
MSc International Relations
This programme gives a broad assessment of contemporary international relations.
It integrates theoretical approaches with the study of many cases and issues.
It also explores the ways in which the line between the domestic and international is blurred by trade, financial, environmental, strategic, ideological, cultural and ethical issues.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in International Relations.
Read more about Sociology and Politics graduate career destinations.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-international-security:
MSc International Security
There are a growing number of new threats in international security, ranging from civil war, terrorism and transnational crime to the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.
This programme provides you with a theoretical and empirical understanding of the international security environment of the post-Cold War era, including the origins of conflicts and peace, the emergence of new security threats, and the many different agencies involved in conflict prevention, peacekeeping and peacemaking today.
The MSc aims to be empirically relevant by teaching you how to apply theoretical concepts to contemporary conflicts and current affairs.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in International Security.
Find out more about Politics graduate destinations

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-internet-of-things-with-ai:
MSc Internet of Things with AI
Machine learning, sensor networks, and the Internet of Things are pivotal in driving the latest industrial revolution, often referred to as Industry 4.0.
These rapidly evolving technologies are creating a significant skills gap that needs to be bridged to keep pace with development and maintenance demands.
This specialised MSc program in Internet of Things (IoT) with AI is designed to cultivate experts in designing and deploying sophisticated IoT systems enhanced with smart machine learning algorithms.
The comprehensive programme promotes a thorough grasp of IoT frameworks, computer networks and their security, communication standards, and data analysis, as well as mastery in machine learning methodologies, including neural networks, both supervised and unsupervised learning, and deep learning strategies.
You will gain practical skills by directly interacting with cutting-edge IoT platforms and machine learning applications, preparing you to create innovative, data-driven solutions for modern challenges.
The programme also emphasises the ethical and secure management of IoT data, with a commitment to privacy, responsible innovation, and compliance with regulatory standards.
By blending academic theory with practical exercises, this programme aims to prepare you for a variety of roles across multiple industries, such as smart urban development, healthcare, and industrial automation.
The curriculum is also designed to foster a culture of continuous learning and flexibility, positioning graduates to lead in the adoption of new technological trends within their professional endeavours as outlined in the Bristol Futures Curriculum Framework as follows:
The programme is designed to provide a comprehensive educational experience, combining structured learning with independent self-study, preparing students for careers in the IoT industry.
The units in the programme will cover essential topics for aspiring IoT engineers, providing a comprehensive foundation.
The teaching process is designed to cultivate independent learning, enabling students to adapt to new and emerging concepts in this fast-growing discipline.
Emphasis will be given on critical thinking, problem-solving, and practical application through these units.
The programme offers students the chance to enhance their analytical, communication, and experimental abilities.
Throughout the programme, students are expected to demonstrate proficiency in scientific writing, oral presentations, teamwork, problem-solving, utilisation of library and internet resources, and time management.
Formative assessments and small-group tutorials will encourage students to actively seek and appreciate constructive feedback to enhance their self-awareness.
Each student will be matched with a dedicated personal tutor who will provide both academic and pastoral support, engage in ongoing progress discussions, offer guidance on project selection, and assist students in navigating career choices.
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent in one of the following subjects:
Other Engineering and numerate Science degrees may be considered where a UK minimum score of 60% (or international equivalent) is achieved in five modules from the following:
Unfortunately, applicants with an Engineering background in Materials Science.
Mechanical Engineering, Civil Engineering, or Chemical Engineering will not be considered suitable for this programme.
If this is the case, applicants should include their CV (curriculum vitae / résumé) when they apply, showing details of their relevant qualification.
This programme covers the technical, analytical and soft skills required for an IoT engineer and students would likely go on to careers as: IoT Engineer; AI/Machine Learning Engineer; IoT Solutions Architect; Data Scientist/Analyst; Embedded Systems Engineer; Research Scientist; Network Engineer; and Cloud Engineer.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-interpreting:
MSc Interpreting
This programme will no longer be running for the upcoming year of entry but will be open for the 2026/27 year.
This degree is for applicants with a high level of English and Mandarin proficiency who are not afraid of a challenge.
The MSc Interpreting builds a highly versatile portfolio of skills that provide an entryway into the world of professional interpreting and related fields such as international business.
Native English students may have an undergraduate degree in Chinese Studies or experience working in China for example, while native Mandarin speakers might have come from a variety of undergraduate disciplinary backgrounds while having developed an advanced level of English.
Students will be trained bi-directionally in consecutive, simultaneous, and liaison interpreting working with native experts in English and Mandarin.
Through exercises such as shadowing, mock conferences, simulated interpreting exercises and live field trips, you will learn the techniques and develop the skills necessary for professional interpreting work.
In addition, the course engages with content such as the basics of business management, international affairs, training in the use of augmented-intelligence technologies, trauma-informed methodologies, models of communication, and text-based translation.
As essential participants in cross-cultural and multilingual interactions, interpreters can be found at every level of global society.
More than just linguistic intermediaries, interpreters interface with a broad range of scenarios, from grief counselling in the medical field to the highest level of international diplomacy between world leaders through institutions such as the International Atomic Energy Agency.
Interpreters represent not only the most proficient experts in multiple languages, but also those who develop a unique multidisciplinary understanding and ability to perform under extremely high-pressure conditions.
While traditional interpreter training has focused mainly on interpreting skills, our programme takes things one step further by directly engaging with the secondary competencies which are often displayed by experienced interpreters but are seldom taught systematically at postgraduate level.
By offering training in areas such as psychometrics and negotiation, the MSc Interpreting curriculum branches into subjects that build students' understanding and confidence across a range of parallel fields.
The structure of the course allows for students to specialise in different directions in the second semester as their understanding of their future career goals continues to develop with the help of their personal tutor.
Some will prefer to choose to major exclusively in interpreting disciplines, while others may wish to branch out into audiovisual translation or lay a foundation for PhD study and a career involving academic research.
In the first semester, students take three core units covering practical translation and interpreting skills; technological and business fluency; and the role of language professionals in international affairs.
The expertise of the core teaching team is supplemented by contributions from guest lecturers from across industry and international organisations, allowing students to expand their knowledge in new areas with input from both cutting-edge researchers and professionals.
With a mixture of lectures, seminars, and practical skills workshops, the classroom experience is collaborative and dynamic, and students will develop a professional development plan that tracks progress throughout their studies in subject-specific and transferable skills.
Practical interpretation training covers the whole range of modes, such as consecutive, simultaneous, and liaison interpreting, while also developing enhanced memory and presentation skills.
Activities are designed to be engaging and foster peer support.
Personal tutoring is a key component, with tutors who are professional interpreters guiding students through their personal development journey.
All students take Simultaneous Interpreting and Augmented Intelligence Technologies in the second semester, accompanied by a choice of two other units specialising in commercial and/or public service interpreting disciplines, with an option to branch out into other related fields such as Film or Games Localisation with optional units drawn from the MA Chinese-English Translation programme.
The final dissertation offers options for traditional research, practice-based projects, or work-study projects involving summer internships.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc Interpreting.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-leading-strategic-change:
MSc, PG Certificate (Postgraduate Certificate), PG Diploma (Postgraduate Diploma) Leading Strategic Change
This programme was previously called Strategy, Change and Leadership.
This part-time programme is for mid-career to senior leaders and managers who want to increase their leadership impact while managing complex organisations through times of change and uncertainty.
Designed with busy working professionals in mind, this MSc in Leading Strategic Change enables you to gain a master's degree alongside a full-time job.
You will transform your ability to think about and manage organisational change and strategic initiatives.
You will develop the skills and mindset to lead strategic change, based on the latest research and evidence on change management, leadership, and strategy in organisations.
This programme will help you shape and enhance your impact as a leader and strategic thinker.
You will develop a deep understanding of how to thrive in the new technology-enabled environment, manage the complexities of flexible and dynamic working, and lead diverse multicultural and multi-generational teams.
You will learn through a variety of highly interactive sessions, such as case studies, personal reflection and team discussions.
You will be working with globally recognised academics from a range of backgrounds in industry and academia.
This programme attracts a diverse cohort which gives you the opportunity to build a strong network of professionals across a range of organisations in the private, public and third sector.
Bristol is one of the top 10 universities in the UK  and 55th in the world (QS World University Rankings 2025) and is ranked 5th in the UK for research (THE analysis of REF 2021) with 94% of our research rated world-leading or internationally excellent (REF 2021).
Many of our students have been out of education for a while, so we offer support and guidance to help with skills as report writing, conducting research and using electronic library resources.
Support is available through structured workshops, peer-to-peer support and personal tutoring provision.
Home and overseas applicants: 30 September 2025
The programme is delivered through part-time tuition spread across six weeks per unit.
There is a range of assessments, such as reports and group discussions that assess your knowledge and skills related to professional work.
Students are supported by Unit Directors.
This part-time MSc offers flexibility and can be tailored to suit your career in the following way.
You can choose to do a Postgraduate Certificate, Postgraduate Diploma or a full MSc.
There is an opportunity to complete the full master's degree in 2 consecutive years.
It is also possible to work towards the MSc in stages, across 3 or 4 years on a case-by-case basis.
Contact our programme team for further information.
Attendance is compulsory in all taught units.
An upper second-class honours degree or equivalent qualification, and at least five years' relevant work experience, which should include significant managerial responsibility.
Applicants without a degree will be considered on a case-by-case basis where they can provide evidence of relevant professional experience.
Speak to our programme team to find out more.
Funding is sometimes available through employer sponsorship.
We are unable to offer visa support for international students enrolled in this programme.
International students interested in this programme should apply for the online-only version or explore alternative visa options.
You can set up an instalment plan to pay in smaller amounts throughout the year.
You can either set up a Direct Debit or a recurring card payment.
There are deadlines to set up a plan, so make sure you do this in time.
You will need to set up your instalment plan each academic year, even if you pay by the same method each year.
Please note that the fees for this programme are fixed for your two years of study and are not subject to the annual fee review.
Graduates from this programme will be well-equipped for managerial and leadership roles in any sector.
Our graduate outcomes are strong across our Business and Management programmes, with alumni going on to careers in management and leadership, as founders of start-ups, and as consultants in a variety of sectors and companies including IBM, AstraZeneca, Unilever and the NHS.
The University of Bristol is seventh in the UK for employability (QS Graduate Employability Rankings, 2022).
We support our students' employability and engagement with industry through such projects as the Professional Liaison Network, which offers mentoring schemes, networking events and industry-linked projects, Bristol Connect, our exclusive online platform for Bristol alumni, and SETsquared, the world-leading university business incubator.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-management:
MSc Management
Our intensive one-year MSc Management with a specialism in Leadership, Strategy and Change is for graduates from a wide range of subject backgrounds.
It is not necessary to have any prior academic or practical experience in business or management.
This programme is for students who aspire to management-level and leadership roles within their chosen industry.
Our MSc Management pathways provide an introduction to management, followed by a detailed exploration of a specific area of management theory and practice, in this case leadership, strategy and change.
The programme attracts students from around the globe and you will work with students with different backgrounds and interests.
You will develop an in-depth understanding of the theories and practices that underpin leading change in the contemporary organisational context, characterised by volatility, uncertainty, complexity and ambiguity.
You will critically evaluate areas such as strategic leadership and leading complex change, including contemporary leadership challenges such as sustainability, diversity, ethical leadership and leading virtual teams.
We aim to guide, teach and develop analytical and confident critical thinkers.
You will gain insight into the nature of management and leadership, strategy and change, and apply theory to practice through in-class discussions of real cases and practical methods.
Group work and presentations, often based on industry case studies, allow practical application of theory and develop the teamwork and communication skills expected in today's workplace.
Graduates from this programme will benefit from studying at a top 10 UK university (QS World University Rankings 2024).
You will be taught by leading academics whose research tackles the global societal issues facing modern management.
A large percentage of our business and management research is rated as 'world-leading' or 'internationally excellent' (REF 2021), reflecting its impact on shaping policy and practice.
Due to high demand, we will be closing this programme to applicants from China on 13 June 2025.
You will study five core units as well as your specialist unit, Leadership, Strategy and Change.
The core units include Management and Organisation; Strategy, Finance and Accounting for Management; Operations and Marketing Management; Management Research Methods; and Academic, Personal and Professional Development.
You will start by studying subjects that are central to a career in management today, including finance and accounting, organisational behaviour and strategic management.
In the second term, you will deepen your understanding of management by studying operations and marketing management as well as management research methods.
Throughout, we help you to develop the skills necessary to meet the complex and dynamic organisational challenges of the 21st century.
The final part of the MSc Management brings an opportunity for in-depth research and investigation into your area of interest and can be adapted to reflect your career goals.
You can choose from the following routes:
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Management.
We will also consider your application if your grades are slightly lower than the programme's entry requirements, if you have a postgraduate qualification.
We aim to guide, teach and develop knowledgeable, thoughtful and ethical management practitioners who will thrive in a global environment working within international teams.
This degree provides excellent preparation for all careers in management in any sector.
The programme may assist your general career development or help develop skills in particular subject areas, so can provide access to a wide range of careers.
Our Careers Service offers support and online training to help you to identify your career goals, apply for opportunities, and perfect your interview technique during your year of study.
You will have the opportunity to put what you have learned into practice by undertaking a group project for an industry partner.
Opportunities are coordinated by the Professional Liaison Network .
Previous graduates of the MSc Management have gone on to work at a variety of companies and organisations all over the world, including Lloyds TSB, L'Oreal, Prominvest SA, Moscow, Deutsche Bank, United Nations, WWF, LG Electronics, WHO-US, Abercrombie & Fitch, and Marks & Spencer.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-management-csr-and-sustainability:
MSc Management (CSR and Sustainability)
Our intensive one-year MSc Management with a specialism in Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and Sustainability is for graduates from a wide range of subject backgrounds.
This programme is for students who aspire to management-level roles in CSR and Sustainability within their chosen industry.
Our MSc Management pathways provide an introduction to management followed by a detailed exploration of a specific area of management theory and practice, in this case CSR and sustainability.
This programme attracts students from around the globe and you will be part of a cohort with a wide variety of backgrounds and interests.
You will develop an in-depth understanding of the theories and practices that underpin CSR and sustainability in today's organisations.
You will critically evaluate areas including global and social challenges to business, sustainable production and consumption, stakeholder management and engagement, business ethics, and strategic management in social businesses.
You will gain insight into the nature of management, CSR and sustainability and apply theory to practice through in-class discussions of real cases and practical methods.
A high percentage of our business and management research is rated as 'world-leading' or 'internationally excellent' (REF 2021), reflecting its impact on shaping policy and practice.
You will study five core units and a specialist unit, Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability.
The final part of the MSc Management (CSR and Sustainability) brings an opportunity for in-depth research and investigation into your area of interest and can be adapted to reflect your career goals.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Management (CSR and Sustainability).
We aim to guide, teach and develop knowledgeable, thoughtful and ethical management practitioners who will thrive in a global environment.
Our Careers Service offers support and training to help you to identify your career goals, apply for opportunities, and perfect your interview technique.
You will have the opportunity to put what you've learned into practice by undertaking a group project for an industry partner.
Previous graduates of the MSc Management have gone on to work at companies such as L'Oreal, World Wildlife Foundation, Deutsche Bank, LG Electronics, Huawei, Abercrombie & Fitch, and the NHS.
Others have gone on to join startups or to set up their own businesses.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-management-digitalisation-and-big-data:
MSc Management (Digitalisation and Big Data)
Our intensive, one-year MSc Management with a specialism in Digitalisation and Big Data is for graduates from a wide range of subject backgrounds.
This programme is for students who aspire to management-level and leadership digital roles in within their chosen industry.
Our MSc Management pathways provide an introduction to management followed by a detailed exploration of a specific area of management theory and practice, in this case digitalisation and big data.
You will develop an in-depth understanding of the of the theories and practices relating to the digital environments of today's organisations.
You will critically evaluate areas including digital business models, big data, data analysis, online services, the implementation of digital applications, and ethics.
You will gain insight into the nature of management and digital business and apply theory to practice through in-class discussions of real cases and practical methods.
You will study five core units and your specialist unit, Digitalisation, Big Data, and Value Creation.
In term two you will deepen your understanding of management by studying operations and marketing management as well as management research methods.
Throughout, we will help you to develop the skills necessary to meet the complex and dynamic organisational challenges of the 21st century.
The final part of the MSc Management (Digitalisation and Big Data) brings an opportunity for in-depth research and investigation into your area of interest and can be adapted to reflect your career goals.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Management (Digitalisation and Big Data).
Previous graduates of the MSc Management have gone on to work at a variety of companies all over the world, including L'Oreal, World Wildlife Foundation, Deutsche Bank, LG Electronics, Huawei, Abercrombie & Fitch, and the NHS.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-management-entrepreneurship-and-innovation:
MSc Management (Entrepreneurship and Innovation)
Our intensive one-year MSc Management with a specialism in Entrepreneurship and Innovation is for graduates from a wide range of subject backgrounds.
This programme is for entrepreneurial students who aspire to start their own businesses or join start-ups, or students who aspire to management-level and leadership roles in innovation within their chosen industry.
Our MSc Management pathways provide an introduction to management followed by a detailed exploration of a specific area of management theory and practice, in this case entrepreneurship and innovation.
You will develop an in-depth understanding of the theories and practices relating to entrepreneurship and innovation.
You will critically evaluate areas including entrepreneurial strategies, business innovation, sustainable enterprise, and the selection of technology.
You will gain insight into the nature of management, entrepreneurship and innovation and apply theory to practice through in-class discussions of real cases and practical methods.
You will study five core units worth a total of 90 credit points and your specialist unit, Entrepreneurship and Innovation, worth 30 credit points.
The core units include Management and Organisation; Strategy, Finance and Accounting for Management; Operations and Marketing Management; Research Methods and Professional Development.
In the second term, you will deepen your understanding of management by studying operations and marketing management.
The final part of the programme brings an opportunity for in-depth research and investigation into your area of interest and can be adapted to reflect your career goals.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Management (Entrepreneurship and Innovation).

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-management-international-business:
MSc Management (International Business)
Our intensive one-year MSc Management with a specialism in International Business is for graduates from a wide range of subject backgrounds.
This programme is for students who aspire to management-level and leadership roles in international organisations within their chosen industry.
Due to the increasing globalisation of organisations, work and society, this specialism in international business will be relevant to any future career.
It will especially suit students pursuing careers in an international organisation.
Our MSc Management pathways provide an introduction to management followed by a detailed exploration of a specific area of management theory and practice in international business.
The programme attracts students from around the globe and you will be part of a cohort with a variety of backgrounds and interests.
You will develop an in-depth understanding of the theories and practices that enable you to explore the features, organisational processes and challenges of international businesses, critically evaluating how they are affected by social, institutional and political influences.
You will gain insight into the nature of management and international business and apply theory to practice through in-class discussions of real cases and practical methods.
Graduates from this programme will benefit from studying at a top 10 UK university (QS World University Rankings 2024) and learning from leading academics whose research tackles the global societal issues facing modern management.
88% of our business and management research is rated as 'world-leading' or 'internationally excellent' (REF 2021), reflecting its impact on shaping policy and practice.
You will study a series of core units and a specialised unit in International Business..
You will start by studying subjects that are central to a career in international business today, including finance and accounting, organisational behaviour and strategic management.
The final part of the MSc Management (International Business) brings an opportunity for in-depth research and investigation into your area of interest and can be adapted to reflect your career goals.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Management (International Business).
This degree provides excellent preparation for all careers in management but will be particularly relevant to roles in international business that are in great demand across all sectors and industries.
Your final project, which may be carried out with an industry partner, is also a powerful way of showcasing your talent to future employers, providing you with the confidence and platform to launch your own business ideas.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-management-international-human-resource-management:
MSc Management (International Human Resource Management)
Our intensive one-year MSc Management with a specialism in International Human Resource Management (HRM) is for graduates from a wide range of subject backgrounds.
This programme is for students who aspire to management-level and leadership roles in international HRM within their chosen industry.
Our MSc Management pathways provide an introduction to management followed by a detailed exploration of a specific area of management theory and practice, in this case human resource management in an international context.
You will develop an in-depth understanding of human resource management theory and practice across borders.
You will critically evaluate areas including cross-cultural management, comparative employment relations and HRM, and the human resource practices of international organisations.
You will gain insight into the nature of management and international HRM and apply theory to practice through in-class discussions of real cases and practical methods.
You will study five core units and a specialist unit, International HRM.
The final part of the MSc Management (International HRM) brings an opportunity for in-depth research and investigation into your area of interest and can be adapted to reflect your career goals.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Management (International Human Resource Management).
This degree provides excellent preparation for all careers in human resource management in any sector at the local, national and international levels.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-management-marketing:
MSc Management (Marketing)
Our intensive one-year MSc Management with a specialism in Marketing is for graduates from a wide range of subject backgrounds.
This programme is for students who aspire to management-level and leadership roles in marketing within their chosen industry.
The programme offers you a unique opportunity to explore your interest in marketing while gaining a thorough grounding in the core theories and concepts that are central to a career in management.
Our MSc Management pathways provide an introduction to management followed by a detailed exploration of a specific area of management theory and practice, in this case, marketing.
You will develop an in-depth understanding of the theories and practices that enable you to understand marketing in today's organisations.
You will learn about consumer behaviour and consumption, digital marketing, ethical and sustainable marketing, and branding and brand cultures.
You will gain insight into the nature of management and marketing and apply theory to practice through in-class discussions of real cases and practical methods.
You will study core units and your specialist unit is Contemporary and Emerging Issues in Marketing Management.
In the second term, you will deepen your understanding of management by studying consumer behaviour and marketing management as well as management research methods.
The final part of the MSc Management (Marketing) brings an opportunity for in-depth research and investigation into your area of interest and can be adapted to reflect your career goals.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Management (Marketing).
We aim to guide, teach and develop knowledgeable, thoughtful and ethical marketing practitioners who will thrive in a global environment working within international teams.
This degree provides excellent preparation for all careers in marketing management in any sector.
Previous graduates of the MSc Management have gone on to work at a variety of companies all over the world, including L'Oreal, World Wildlife Foundation, Deutsche Bank and Huawei.
Roles include Marketing and Sales Manager, Head of Social Media Marketing and Marketing Executive.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-management-project-management:
MSc Management (Project Management)
Our intensive one-year MSc Management with a specialism in Project Management is for graduates from a wide range of subject backgrounds.
This programme is for students who aspire to management-level and leadership roles in Project Management within their chosen industry.
It will especially suit students pursuing careers in consultancy, engineering or construction, product development, ICT, government, or not-for-profit sectors.
Our MSc Management pathways provide an introduction to management followed by a detailed exploration of a specific area of management theory and practice, in this case project management.
You will develop an in-depth understanding of the theories and practices that enable you to critically analyse and manage projects in our increasingly complex and dynamic world.
We aim to guide, teach, and nurture confident analytical and critical thinkers capable of challenging approaches to projects that too often fail.
You will gain insight into the nature of management and project management and apply theory to practice through in-class discussions of real cases and practical methods.
You will study core courses that contribute to the majority of your credit points, along with your specialised course in Project Management, which provides additional credit points.
You will start by studying subjects that are central to careers in management today, including finance and accounting, organisational behaviour, and strategic management.
These subject areas lay the foundations for your project management specialism, with which you will conclude term two.
The final part of the MSc Management (Project Management) brings an opportunity for in-depth research and investigation into your area of interest and can be adapted to reflect your career goals.
For this Management Research Project you can choose from several routes.
These include an individual dissertation and team-based projects, and applied research for an external organisation.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Management (Project Management).
This degree provides excellent preparation for all careers in management, but is particularly relevant to roles in project management that are in great demand across all sectors and industries.
Among the possible routes for your capstone Management Research Project is the opportunity to put what you have learned into practice by undertaking a group project for an industry partner.
Previous graduates of the MSc Management (Project Management) have gone on to work in a variety of companies and industries, including management consultancy, finance and accounting, energy, software development, construction, manufacturing, and government.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-marketing:
MSc Marketing
This programme, accredited by both the Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM) and the Institute of Data and Marketing (IDM), has been designed for graduates who aspire to advanced study and a career in marketing.
It will prepare you to respond to the marketing challenges posed by today's global business environment.
Our pathways allow you to specialise in marketing strategy or digital marketing, or to pursue a broader marketing degree.
Our MSc Marketing programme will help you achieve industry-recognised CIM and IDM qualifications which are highly sought after by employers, preparing you for a successful career in marketing.
Through the CIM accreditation, MSc Marketing graduates can achieve CIM qualifications at an accelerated pace with exemptions for two of the three modules required for the Level 4 Certificate in Professional Marketing, and one exemption for the Level 6 Diploma in Professional Marketing.
Through the IDM accreditation, our MSc Marketing students can gain a Certificate in Digital and Data Driven Marketing and Student Membership of the Data and Marketing Association (DMA).
By studying MSc Marketing at the University of Bristol, you will become part of a dynamic and diverse body of staff and students.
You will be taught by experienced academics , many of whom have worked at senior marketing roles in industry or are actively engaged in conducting pioneering marketing research at international level.
A large percentage of our Business and Management research is rated as world-leading or internationally excellent (REF 2021), reflecting its role in shaping policy and practice in the UK, Europe and globally.
As an MSc Marketing student, you will have the opportunity to put what you have learned into practice by undertaking a project around a current marketing issue for an industry partner.
Opportunities are coordinated by our dedicated specialist team, the Professional Liaison Network .
Students and graduates will also benefit from the reputation of the University, which ranks in the top 10 UK universities (QS World University Rankings 2024); and top 50 in the world for employability (QS Graduate Employability Rankings, 2022).
This is a specialist programme, so some academic knowledge of relevant subject matter is required through a prior degree that contains some exposure to business, marketing, Social Science or management.
Successful completion of four core units, two optional units and a final project lead to an MSc Marketing award.
The core units provide the essential knowledge and key skills needed to succeed in your marketing career.
As a final piece of work, you may choose between tackling an issue that is theoretical in nature or if applicable, to work in a small group on a real organisational challenge via an applied industry project.
The programme content will equip you with the skills to critically analyse the challenges facing the current global marketing industry.
You will also learn how to formulate an appropriate and innovative strategic response considering the latest developments in the field.
There are three available degree awards, which aim to match your skills and personal interests with contemporary career trends and market demand:
The degree you are awarded will be determined by the combination of optional units you choose to study together with the subject of your final project.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Marketing.
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent in: an essay-based Social-Science subject: for example Advertising, Business, Business Administration (BBA), Management, Marketing, Media/Communications/Journalism, Psychology/Social Psychology or Social Media.
If you have a Commerce degree, you will also need 50% of your final-year modules to be in any of the above subjects, at upper second-class degree level.
STEM and numerate Social Science subjects - eg Economics, Finance, Accounting, Financial Management - are considered unsuitable for this programme, however, your application will be considered if you have relevant work experience (see below).
We will also consider your application if your grades are slightly lower than the programme's entry requirements, or if your degree is in a STEM or numerate Social Science subject, if you have at least one of the following:
The marketing principles included in this programme are demonstrated through academic theory and practical application.
Successful graduates are provided with a strong foundation for a range of careers not only in marketing but for any role that requires an analytical way of thinking and a creative approach to problem-solving.
Graduates of this programme are likely to opt for careers as marketing specialists in multi-national corporations or small-medium enterprises, or create their own marketing firms.
Our recent graduates have gone on to work in various global organisations including Apple, Louis Vuitton, and Nielsen as well as charities and marketing agencies.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-mathematical-sciences:
MSc Mathematical Sciences
Join a University ranked in the UK top five for Maths research (THE analysis of REF 2021) with an excellent reputation for teaching and learning (UK top ten for Maths, QS World University Rankings by subject 2023).
Our MSc in Mathematical Sciences is a flexible and challenging programme, taught by leading experts in the field.
It will help you to develop a wide range of mathematical techniques and gives you a solid foundation for further research or employment at the highest levels.
Under the guidance of an academic mentor, you will be offered a choice of units spanning the breadth of mathematics.
There is a wide variety of combinations of units and themes, allowing you to add units from other schools to create an MSc that closely matches your interests.
The taught element is followed by your chosen research project, which is supervised by an experienced research academic.
The programme gives you the opportunity to increase your understanding of mathematical theory and equips you with fundamental skills in the modelling and analysis of problems.
Our graduates are highly sought after by employers for their strong analytical, communication and organisational skills.
The MSc in Mathematical Sciences comprises a taught component and a research project.
There is an extensive range of possible combinations of units and themes.
An academic mentor will advise you on unit selection and meet regularly with you individually or in small groups throughout the taught component.
You are also encouraged to participate in the wider academic life of the school, including research seminars, reading clubs and social events.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Mathematical Sciences.
You will typically need a strong upper second-class honours degree (65% or higher) or an international equivalent in Mathematics or a very closely related subject such as Mathematical Physics / Maths and Statistics / Statistics and Maths / Maths and Applied Maths / Applied Maths and Maths.
A joint honours degree in Mathematics, such as Maths with Economics / Finance / Physics / Statistics / Computer Science / Philosophy etc.
may be considered if there is sufficient theoretical mathematics content at 65% (or international equivalent).
If you have a relevant postgraduate qualification from one of the accepted subjects listed above, please include your CV (curriculum vitae / résumé) when you apply, showing details of your relevant qualifications.
This programme provides you with skills in quantitative research, reasoning and problem solving that will be valuable in your future career.
Mathematics graduates often go on to PhD programmes or find employment in finance, accountancy, research, teaching or management.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-medical-statistics-and-health-data-science:
MSc Medical Statistics and Health Data Science
The MSc in Medical Statistics and Health Data Science will enable you to engage with the complex statistical and data science healthcare challenges facing the global community, providing high-quality training in statistical and computational methods that are applicable to low-, middle- and high-income settings.
As a medical statistician or health data scientist you will play a vital role in improving the health of populations by conducting statistical research (such as designing clinical trials and epidemiological studies, analysing data and interpreting results) to advance medical knowledge, track or prevent diseases, and improve medications and treatments.
Challenges have arisen over the last decade in the increasing availability of enormous datasets related to human health and healthcare.
Health data science combines expertise in epidemiology and statistics with programming skills to enable analysis of these very large and diverse datasets.
You will be trained in the theory and practice of cutting-edge methods in medical statistics and health data science (for example: causal inference, advanced regression models, infectious disease data analysis and machine learning).
Teaching will focus on building strong quantitative and computational skills, and effective interpretation and communication of research findings.
Concepts, skills and tools are illustrated using real-life case studies and health-related data.
You will gain professional skills such as teamwork, presentation skills, and writing for publication – essential for a successful medical statistician and health data scientist.
Population Health Sciences is a leading centre for research, with numerous opportunities for PhD study and employment on research projects.
Internationally recognised for excellence in the development and dissemination of research methodology such as methods for randomised trials and causal inference.
You will benefit from this established expertise as a student on the MSc.
This MSc has Royal Statistical Society (RSS) accreditation reflecting the high-quality teaching, learning and assessment within the programme.
Teaching methods include lectures, practicals, group work, and workshops.
The taught units form a significant part of the overall degree, comprising compulsory and optional components that allow course customisation based on individual interests.
The dissertation is a compulsory element.
It focuses on a research topic of your choice and is formatted as a journal article with the potential for publication.
Part-time study requires daytime weekday attendance on specific days each year (usually 1-2 days).
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Medical Statistics and Health Data Science.
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent in Aeronautical Engineering, Aerospace Engineering, Astrophysics, Chemical Engineering, Computer Science, Computing, Data Science, Electrical Engineering, Electronic Engineering, Mathematics, Mechanical Engineering, Nuclear Engineering, Operational Research, Physics, Statistics, or Systems Engineering.
If your degree subject is not listed above, you will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent in a Science, Technology, Engineering, or Maths subject, or a Social Science subject.
You will also need:
HDR UK offer scholarships for home students.
Find more information on the HDR UK website .
The University of Bristol Opportunity Bristol scheme offers scholarships (fees and living costs) for UK nationals with home fee status from Black backgrounds.
NIHR pre-doctoral fellowships offer up to two years funding including salary and tuition fees.
You will gain the knowledge and skills for careers in a wide range of professional settings including universities, the pharmaceutical industry, central government, national health services, and other private and public organisations collecting and analysing health data.
There is great demand for well-trained medical statisticians and health data scientists in today's job market.
You will be well placed to apply for a PhD in population health.
The MSc prepares you for a career which could develop into leadership roles, such as academics (lecturers, professors), or directors of research in the private or the public sector.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-molecular-neuroscience:
MSc Molecular Neuroscience
Knowledge of the brain in health and disease is still in its infancy.
Are you passionate about learning more about neuroscience and contributing to our understanding of the functioning of the brain?
If yes, then studying the MSc Molecular Neuroscience will be an excellent starting point.
The curriculum of the MSc Molecular Neuroscience programme is designed to support you in developing your knowledge of the intricate functioning of the brain.
You will learn the basic principles of molecular neuroscience and acquire insight in a variety of experimental methods used in neuroscience research.
Importantly, apart from learning about molecular mechanisms in the healthy brain, you will also explore the molecular mechanisms underlying brain disease, with a focus on neurodegeneration and mental health.
The programme is taught by experts in the fields of molecular neuroscience, neurodegenerative disorders, stress, and mental health.
Teaching sessions by clinicians will give you further insight in the clinical and therapeutical aspects of brain disease.
The teaching on the MSc Molecular Neuroscience is varied, employing a mixture of lectures, tutorials, workshops, master classes, and self-directed learning.
You will develop and practice your communication skills, including scientific writing, and presenting and discussing research data.
Practical teaching sessions in our laboratories and the performance of a research project will give you valuable experience in experimental neuroscience.
The MSc Molecular Neuroscience programme will appeal to graduates wishing to increase their knowledge of, and experience in, neuroscience before starting their PhD studies.
The programme is also of interest to those who want to establish a career in industry, the health service, science communication or clinical trials coordination.
You will be supported in developing your next career steps throughout the programme.
Studying the programme in a part-time/variable mode over two years is possible but will depend on the student's individual availability for study.
This option will first need to be discussed with the programme director.
The MSc Molecular Neuroscience is a one-year full-time programme consisting of six taught units and a research project.
The taught units are divided over two teaching blocks and are followed by the research project.
The taught units cover topics such as cell signalling, genomics, transcriptomics, proteomics, epigenetics, stem cells, neurodegenerative disease including Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s disease, stress, mental health and psychiatric disease, and established and next generation research and therapy methods in neuroscience.
During the research project, you will engage in original research and will write a dissertation and present your research findings during a research colloquium.
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent in biomedical sciences, life sciences, health sciences, biology, chemistry, medicine, psychology or related science discipline such as computer science, physiotherapy and sport science.
The additional bench fee for this programme covers the laboratory-based research project, which accounts for 60 of the 180 credit points of the completed degree.
Graduating from the MSc Molecular Neuroscience can open several different career paths.
Many graduates of the programme have secured PhD studentships in the UK or in other parts of the world, including the USA, Australia and Germany.
This is often followed by a career in research or academia (for example, as a research associate, teaching fellow, lecturer).
Other graduates have gone on to a career in industry, scientific writing or clinical trial coordination.
Some graduates have gone on to study for medical degree programmes after completing the MSc.
Staff are available to discuss prospective career pathways with students who undertake our MSc.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-nuclear-science-and-engineering:
MSc Nuclear Science and Engineering
Nuclear Science and Engineering is an exciting area of research and industrial investment in the UK.
Nuclear energy supplies around 20% of the UK's electricity, and significant investments are underway into the construction of new reactors at Hinkley Point C, with Sizewell C and further new reactors expected in the coming decade.
The existing generation of advanced gas-cooled reactors are been decommissioned, and new, advanced fission and fusion reactors are being designed.
As a result, there is huge demand for graduates with the knowledge and skills to work in the nuclear industry.
Our MSc in Nuclear Science and Engineering teaches you the science and engineering background to the operation of nuclear fission and fusion energy.
The MSc prepares you for a career in industry or academia, combining the strengths of our science and engineering faculties with an established programme of nationally recognised industrial research.
The MSc has been developed and delivered in partnership with industry, including a focus on nuclear professionalism.
After completing the programme, you will be familiar with the nuclear industry and its unique safety culture, which will prepare you to enter the industry or continue in academia.
The programme offers a unique multidisciplinary experience and is a key part of the South West Nuclear Hub .
Our industrial partners, including EDF, Jacobs, NNL, UKAEA and many others, sponsor and provide guidance on some of our student research projects.
In previous years, some students have even received a bursary from partners they have worked with during their placement.
The University of Bristol is ranked in the UK top five for Physics research (THE analysis of REF 2021), with an excellent reputation for teaching and learning.
More information on the MSc in Nuclear Science and Engineering is available on the South West Nuclear Hub Teaching pages .
The programme is delivered full-time over one year.
You will form a cohort attached to the South West Nuclear Hub and will benefit from working with internationally leading research teams in the School of Physics, School of Engineering and School of Earth Sciences.
There are taught and practical elements of the programme.
The taught section consists of core units on Nuclear Science, Nuclear Reactor Engineering and Materials, Nuclear Reactor Physics and Research Skills.
These core units provide a solid foundation in the scientific and engineering subjects essential to the nuclear industry.
In addition, students can pick twenty credit points of optional units, which offer an opportunity to explore topics of particular interest beyond the core content.
Taught units take place during the traditional academic terms, and practical work takes place both during the academic year and over a three-month dedicated research placement in the summer.
The individual research project is supervised by leading academics at the University and is often aligned with key industrial partners, offering an opportunity to experience the industry's technical challenges and professional culture first hand.
The practical programme also consists of a group project, which brings students together in interdisciplinary teams to tackle current problems facing the nuclear industry.
These help develop key skills sought by employers such as innovation, communication and leadership.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Nuclear Science and Engineering.
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree (or international equivalent) in an Engineering or Science discipline.
Applicants with degrees in Geology, Geography, Earth Sciences, Life Sciences or any science subject outside of Physics or Chemistry must demonstrate mathematical knowledge either with a Grade C or above in A-level Mathematics (or international equivalent) or a 2.1 in three different quantitative or physics modules from the following units:
Graduates will leave equipped with a familiarity with the nuclear industry and the specialised nature of its safety culture, and they will be prepared to enter the industry or continue towards further research.
The nuclear industry is expanding significantly as existing reactors are decommissioned, and new reactors are built and designed.
As a result, the demand for graduates with nuclear-specific skills and knowledge is very high and our MSc graduates are very popular with industry recruitment.
Recent graduates have gone on to work in the nuclear industry for employers such as EDF Energy, UKAEA, Jacobs, Frazer Nash, Dounreay, NNL, Mott McDonald, IAEA, Sellafield and Atkins, among many others.
Around a third of our MSc graduates continue in academia after the MSc through PhD study, including projects within the Interface Analysis Centre and the Solid Mechanics Research Group at the University of Bristol, as well as at the University of Oxford, Imperial College London, UCL, Coventry University, Purdue University USA and Chalmers University in Sweden.
School of Physics

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-nutrition-physical-activity-and-public-health:
MSc Nutrition, Physical Activity and Public Health
This programme focuses on developing your skills in research, policy, and practice in the combined fields of diet, physical activity, and public health.
The development of these skills is vital in addressing genuine issues of concern to policymakers and practitioners globally.
The programme will help you to critically examine key interactions at the interface of epidemiology, behaviour change and policy-relevant research in these connected fields.
It will also help you develop important skills in designing and evaluating research and interventions.
You will be taught by academics who are at the forefront of real-world research and whose knowledge is grounded in applied situations.
Recent collaborations have seen research undertaken with the World Health Organisation (WHO), the National Health Service (Meals on Wheels) and national governments in Southeast Asia.
You will learn to address questions such as 'What is the policy implication?', 'What research design will answer this question?', 'What intervention needs to happen?', and 'How will it be evaluated?'.
This will be invaluable in roles where you may be required to pitch your future projects to policymakers, commissioners, and funders.
Skills gained in critical thinking, report writing, and evaluation will also be transferable to your future career.
This MSc was one of the first to recognise the need for specialisation in the three intertwined disciplines of nutrition, physical activity, and public health to tackle non-communicable disease.
The programme will allow you to gain a deeper understanding of the evidence around the role of nutrition and physical activity in public health; the factors that influence people's physical activity and eating behaviours; and how to develop and evaluate nutrition and physical activity interventions.
It will suit graduates or professionals (with or without directly relevant experience or qualifications) who are interested in pursuing a career in nutrition, physical activity, public health or relevant fields.
The complex and inter-discipline nature of these issues mean that applicants with a non-health background are also welcome to apply and the skills developed during this programme are useful in a wide range of career paths.
For example, in the fields of Geography, Economics or Engineering.
The programme is delivered over one year, allowing you to return to work, progress your career and start to bring your knowledge into practice in a short period of time.
We also have a part-time option set over 2 years.
All units are compulsory and there are no formal examinations.
Work is assessed through written assignments, presentations, written reports, infographics, or research proposals.
During the final term, you will complete an original research investigation and dissertation (8,000 to 10,000 words) in the form of an academic paper for a scientific journal on an approved public health-based topic, which will incorporate nutrition or physical activity or a combination of the two.
Part-time students will be given guidance about which units to complete in each year of study.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content of our MSc in Nutrition, Physical Activity and Public Health.
This programme is designed for students who want to pursue careers in nutrition and physical activity-related research, public health policy, public health consultancy, or public health advocacy and legislation, or in implementing programmes that promote health.
Employers of our graduates include:
The programme also has a professional development focus and can enhance the practice and delivery of working professionals such as dieticians, physiotherapists, nurses, kinesiologists, physical trainers or teachers.
Some of our graduates continue their studies towards a PhD degree.
Centre for Exercise, Nutrition and Health Sciences

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-optical-communications-and-signal-processing:
MSc Optical Communications and Signal Processing
Immerse yourself in the dynamic world of optical communications and signal processing with our specialised programme.
You will explore advanced topics in photonics, optical communications devices, systems and networks, equipping you with the expertise to make a significant contribution to this rapidly evolving field.
This programme offers you the opportunity to gain essential skills for a thriving career in optical communications.
Optical fibre communications form the backbone of all land-based communications and are the only viable means to support today's global information systems.
Research at Bristol is contributing to the ever-increasing requirement for bandwidth and flexibility through research into optical switching technology, next-generation optical networks, high-speed modulation, data regeneration and novel semiconductor lasers.
This programme builds on the internationally recognised research strengths of the Photonics and Quantum and High Performance Networks (HPN) research groups within the Smart Internet Lab .
The Photonics and Quantum group is pioneering the emerging field of quantum photonics, achieving significant advancements in photonic crystal fibre light sources, secure optical communications using quantum technology, and innovative quantum gate technologies.
The HPN group is renowned for its extensive research in optical networking.
In addition to units on the fundamentals of photonics, optical fibres, and optical devices, you will engage with cutting-edge topics through specialised units.
Previously, these have included Computer Networks and the Internet, Future Connectivity: From Optical to Quantum, and The Photonics Skills Forge unit, which helps develop practical skills in lab-based experiments as well as theoretical modelling and simulation for photonics.
Join us to become a part of the future of Optical Communications and Signal Processing, and contribute to groundbreaking advancements in this critical field.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Optical Communications and Signal Processing.
Other Engineering degrees might be considered where a UK minimum score of 60% (or international equivalent) is achieved in five modules from the following units:
This programme gives you a world-class education in all aspects of current and future optical communication systems, along with associated signal processing technologies.
It will prepare you for a diverse range of exciting careers, not only in communications but also in areas such as management consultancy, project management, finance and government.
Our graduates have gone on to have rewarding careers in some of the leading multinational communications companies: Huawei, China Telecom, Toshiba, China Mobile and Intel, for example.
Some graduates follow a more research-orientated career path, with a number of students going on to study at PhD level.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-optoelectronic-and-quantum-technologies:
MSc Optoelectronic and Quantum Technologies
Quantum technologies are set to revolutionise society in many ways: from creating new types of computers to solve very difficult problems, very quickly, to making uncrackable communications systems and sensors that operate beyond conventional limits.
The University of Bristol has been pioneering in this worldwide effort for more than 15 years with an approach that uses light and optoelectronic technologies to implement the required devices, circuits and systems.
On this programme you will gain a deep understanding of the design, fabrication and use of the next generation of integrated circuits, sub-systems and systems that combine optics, electronics and quantum engineering for applications in communications, computing, sensing and healthcare.
You will share units with the Quantum Engineering Centre for Doctoral Training and will be taught within the world-leading Quantum Engineering Technology Labs ( QETLabs ) and graduate with highly desirable and emerging skills in optoelectronic and quantum information technologies.
This programme comprises core units, followed by an engineering project, starting during the second term and completed during the summer.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Optoelectronic and Quantum Technologies.
On completion of the taught phase, you will undertake a project working with academics within QETLabs and the Smart Internet Lab on real-world research problems using our state-of-the-art facilities, including our nanofabrication cleanroom and optical laboratories.
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or international equivalent in
Economics and other numerate degrees may be suitable and will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
This innovative MSc aims to train a new generation of engineers to work in a range of companies developing quantum technologies, from corporate giants such as Google, Microsoft, Intel and IBM to startups originating in Bristol such as KETS Quantum Security , PsiQ , QLM and FluoretiQ .
You will also gain excellent preparation to further your studies with a PhD in quantum technologies, and successful graduates will have the opportunity to apply to the Quantum Engineering Centre for Doctoral Training .

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-oral-medicine:
MSc Oral Medicine
This is a one-year, full-time degree programme aimed at qualified dental clinicians looking to develop competency in clinical oral medicine.
It focuses on the recognition, investigation, diagnosis and management of patients presenting with common oral and maxillofacial diseases and will provide a sound grounding in the fundamental principles of UK specialist practice.
It also considers and incorporates the basic principles of evidence-based medicine that are relevant to clinical and modern translational practice.
Contemporary educational methods will be used to determine and monitor knowledge base, as well as using workplace-based assessments for clinical competency.
You will be supervised by clinical and academic staff within an established and integrated specialist clinical training and educational environment.
The clinical teaching will be delivered within the Oral Medicine Department at Bristol Dental Hospital whilst the classroom based teaching will be delivered within the New Bristol Dental School.
There will be continuous verbal feedback and support to help develop skills for individual reflection and self-assessment.
There are high staff to student ratios to ensure a quality individual teaching experience during clinical activity.
Working side by side with clinical experts and specialist clinical and academic trainees you will build a clinical portfolio.
You will undertake a scoping literature review, leading to the submission of a dissertation.
' I have very rarely, if ever, taken verbal examinations.
This changed when I came to Bristol.
Being examined by world-renowned, well-published academics is daunting but by the end of the year, I felt uniquely prepared to tackle any clinical questions.
So when asked how far I’ve come clinically since before I got to Bristol, it's as far as the east is from the west.' Simone, MSc Oral Medicine graduate
Overseas applicants: 12 July 2025.
Home applicants: 11 July 2025.
The programme is designed to provide significant time on the oral medicine clinic.
The programmes will offer closely supervised clinical experience in oral medicine, along with a dissertation unit.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Oral Medicine.
Staff on this programme include: Konrad S.
Staines and Helen Rogers.
You will typically need a Bachelor of Dental Surgery or an international equivalent.
You will also need to provide evidence of recent clinical activity and your work experience as a registered dental surgeon within your CV.
The Oral Medicine MSc does not have course specific funding opportunities.
However, there are general funding opportunities for prospective UK and international postgraduate students.
This programme is aimed at experienced dental practitioners who wish to develop their skills in the provision of oral medicine.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-palaeobiology:
MSc Palaeobiology
This interdisciplinary MSc programme is for students who are passionate about the history of life, mass extinctions, macroevolution, climate change and fossil preservation.
You will learn the latest techniques in phylogenetics, biomechanics and macroevolution, providing you with a strong foundation for independent research to PhD level or for careers in fields such as museum curation, science education, science policy, industry or the media.
Bristol is ranked second in the UK for 'Earth systems and environmental sciences' research (THE analysis of REF 2021) and first in the world for Palaeontology (Center for World University Rankings 2017).
You will join Bristol's established palaeobiology research group and engage in current debates in evolution, systematics and palaeobiology.
You will learn how to analyse problems quantitatively and design experimental approaches to resolving questions in macroevolution and the study of both ancient and living organisms.
A key aspect of the programme is preparing your research project for publication, and many of our previous students' projects have been published in leading international journals.
This programme gives you the opportunity to develop a wide range of professional skills, including research planning, problem-solving and communication.
You will learn to present palaeontological data through talks, visual displays and formal written reports.
You will also develop computational skills in data handling, phylogenetics, macroevolution, functional analysis and 3D digital modelling.
Find out more about the programme and hear from current and former students on our Palaeobiology MSc blog .
The first part of the programme consists of lectures, practical classes, tutorials and visiting speakers, designed to provide a firm foundation in the theory and methodology of the subject.
The final part of the programme consists of a research project leading to a written thesis.
For further information on research projects in the Palaeobiology Research Group, please see the School of Earth Sciences website.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Palaeobiology.
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent in any Science, Technology, Engineering or Mathematics subject (including Anthropology and Archaeology).
Other degree subjects may be considered on a case-by-case basis if you can demonstrate relevant work experience in laboratories or museums; or roles within the Science, Technology, Engineering or Mathematics fields (including fieldwork and university roles).
The degree is research-based and many of our graduates go on to academic careers, usually starting with a PhD.
The MSc is focused on methods and you will learn the latest quantitative and analytical techniques which are highly sought after by PhD supervisors across the world.
The training in professional skills, including writing scientific papers, is also highly regarded.
Some students have gone on to careers in museums and now hold senior positions as curators and collection managers in national and regional museums.
Other career paths include science policy, the media, science education at all levels, commercial work in marketing, consultancy, industry and data science.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-periodontology:
MSc, PG Certificate (Postgraduate Certificate) Periodontology
The postgraduate programme in periodontology is designed to provide practitioners with in-depth evidence-based knowledge and technical skills that can be applied in their practice while pursuing a postgraduate education degree.
The structure of the programme allows practitioners to experience the surgical techniques in periodontology.
You will work closely with the periodontal team to develop understanding, teamwork skills and confidence in treatment planning for advanced periodontal cases and in developing your own case portfolio.
You will be taught by our internationally recognised academic staff and consultants as well as visiting experts in the field.
Access outstanding resources through the Clinical Skills Suite and Clinics at our new School plus Vesalius Clinical Training Unit.‌
Year one - three theoretical/practical units are delivered during year one through distance-learning material and self-directed study.
Practical exercises will usually take place in our clinical skills suite on phantom heads or anatomy centre.
In Year two a further three units are delivered through distance-learning material and self-directed work.
An MSc will be awarded on successful completion of a research project and dissertation in Year three.
Clinical days are offered throughout all years of study, as an opportunity to gain additional experience in observing and treating patients.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc Periodontology.
To assist with the delivery of more advanced NHS dental care outside an acute hospital setting, Health Education England has teamed up with the NHS Local Dental Network to provide financial support for practitioners providing NHS services within the South West.
This is available for dentists who wish to develop their clinical skills by studying on one of our postgraduate programmes.
Applications are assessed on merit and according to predefined criteria by the relevant Managed Clinical Network.
More information is available here.
This programme is aimed at experienced practitioners who would like to develop their skills in providing periodontal care to their patients.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-policy-research:
MSc Policy Research
Researchers, research managers, policy advisers and service planners are all faced with a growing need for research that is timely and relevant.
This programme develops the skills and capacities needed to undertake high-quality social research that speaks to a wide variety of policy contexts.
The programme provides core research training in philosophy and research design in the social sciences, along with introductions to, and further approaches in, quantitative and qualitative methods in the social sciences.
It has a particular emphasis on co-produced research involving communities that are often marginalised or excluded from the process.
While the programme primarily focuses on 'research methods', it also has a clear focus on social justice and how research can improve policy and the lives of those it impacts.
You can choose an optional unit from a range of policy areas such as child and family welfare, gender and violence, health and social care, poverty and social exclusion, and policy-oriented evaluation.
The programme also provides the opportunity to further investigate policy areas of interest through the assignments and dissertation.
We recognise that many of our students will have relevant experience as researchers, service managers/planners or policy advisers, and there will be space for you to reflect on and share your expertise in these fields.
Some units are taught in collaboration with other postgraduate programmes, providing a co-learning environment where you can interact and share insights with students working towards research degrees in social work research and public policy.
The programme is delivered through a combination of intensive block teaching and weekly delivery, to ensure it is accessible to both postgraduate students as well as busy policy professionals and practitioners.
You can accumulate credits flexibly and organise your patterns of attendance to suit your needs and circumstances.
The MSc consists of five core units and one optional unit, along with a dissertation.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure of our MSc in Policy Research.
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or international equivalent in a Social Science discipline such as:
Please note, we will also consider your application if your degree is not listed above, if you have a Master's degree in Social Work or any professional qualification in Social Work and at least 12 months relevant work experience in a social care role (paid or voluntary).
This programme places strong emphasis on the development of policy research and analysis methods, as well as building substantive knowledge.
Graduates from our MSc Policy Research can go on to work as policy researchers and analysts, or research commissioners/managers in public or private agencies, both in the UK and internationally.
Potential employers include local or central government departments; voluntary or charitable organisations; national or international non-governmental organisations; and global institutions such as the United Nations.
Alternatively, our MSc provides students with the core training to further their career in academic research with a PhD in Social Policy .

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-psychology-conversion:
MSc Psychology (Conversion)
This MSc conversion programme is designed for students from non-psychology backgrounds and provides training in the theories and methods of contemporary psychological science.
You will learn the theories of social, cognitive, developmental, biological and individual differences psychology, and develop the skills to understand and apply the research on which these theories are based.
You will also learn how to design research studies and analyse data to provide valid answers to meaningful psychological research questions.
In your dissertation, you will combine these skills and knowledge to develop, carry out and report on a substantial piece of original, empirical research.
Teaching and dissertation supervision is undertaken by internationally renowned academics, who employ a variety of teaching and assessment methods (eg lectures, seminars, tutorials, laboratories, essays, reports, examinations).
These methods help you to develop transferable skills, such as critical thinking, psychological and scientific literacy, research skills, teamwork, and oral and written communication skills, which are valued by employers across a wide range of industries.
They also help to prepare you for further postgraduate study in psychology.
This programme is accredited by the British Psychological Society (BPS) so successful completion makes you eligible for the Graduate Basis for Chartered Membership (GBC) of the BPS.
This is an essential step if you want to become a Charter Psychologist and pursue further professional training in psychology (such as becoming a clinical psychologist, forensic psychologist, or educational psychologist etc).
Overseas applicants: 11 June 2025.
Home applicants: 11 June 2025.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Psychology (Conversion).
Please note that this conversion programme is unsuitable for applicants who have previously completed a bachelor's degree in Psychology unless required due to accreditation.
Please provide more details in your application to clearly explain the reasons for application.
Please include your CV (curriculum vitae / résumé) when you apply, showing details of a postgraduate qualification.
Students enrolled on conversion programmes are commonly seeking to move into psychology from other disciplines.
They are often interested in careers as chartered psychologists, specialising in areas such as clinical, educational, health, sport, counselling, forensic, occupational, neuro or research psychology.
Successful completion of the MSc will provide eligibility for the Graduate Basis for Chartered Membership of the British Psychological Society , which is the first step along any of these professional pathways.
Students who are not planning further postgraduate study will still benefit from the psychological knowledge and transferable skills developed during a conversion programme.
Such knowledge and skills are directly relevant to a wide variety of careers in industries as diverse as health, education, marketing, data science, research, law, finance, human resources and public service.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-psychology-of-education-bps:
MSc Psychology of Education BPS
The MSc Psychology of Education is a British Psychological Society (BPS)-accredited MSc conversion programme that provides students with an excellent grounding in the psychology of education.
It draws on a wide range of theories and methods from across the core areas of psychology and encourages you to consider how they apply to education and educational contexts.
On this programme you will benefit from our longstanding tradition of high-quality research and teaching in this area, and will acquire unique skills in both psychology and research methods.
You will learn how research can inform theory, policy and practice, and how to conduct your own piece of empirical research to answer appropriate questions.
You will also acquire a range of transferable skills such as communication skills, numerical reasoning, computer literacy and teamwork.
The MSc Psychology of Education is designed specifically for individuals who do not already hold a BPS-accredited degree in psychology and who are seeking to achieve Graduate Basis for Chartered Membership (GBC) with the BPS.
Individuals who are already eligible for GBC, having graduated from a BPS-accredited psychology undergraduate programme, will cover similar content to what they have studied previously, but may be interested in this programme because of its applied focus and relevance for pursuing professional training.
The knowledge and skills you will obtain are desired by employers and relevant to a wide range of careers in which an understanding of human behaviour or research methods is relevant.
Successful students will be eligible to apply for GBC with the British Psychological Society, and for further professional training accredited by the BPS.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc Psychology of Education (BPS).
Our goal is to equip our MSc Psychology of Education (BPS) graduates with the tools to demonstrate impact, excellence and distinctiveness in your chosen field.
Graduates of this route have gone on to varied careers in educational psychology, clinical psychology, occupational psychology, and counselling psychology or neuropsychology.
This programme can also lead to careers in:
For more information on psychology careers and accredited courses, please see guidance from the BPS .
Those interested specifically in pursuing educational psychology can explore the Association of Educational Psychologists website .

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-public-health:
MSc Public Health
This programme will develop your interest, knowledge and understanding of the three domains of public health: health improvement, health protection and healthcare services.
Your learning will be informed by the highest quality research and be focused on, and reflective of, the public health challenges in the UK and internationally.
You will experience and contribute to a wide range of face to face and lectures, workshops, practicals and guest talks as well as asynchronous lectures and activities.
The programme will provide you with a firm theoretical grounding in the principles and practice across the topic areas of public health, health improvement, epidemiology and statistics, research methods and evaluation, health protection, health economics, ethics, and healthcare services.
Through the units you will develop essential knowledge, understanding and critical awareness of the current approaches to public health practice and research.
Through the course you will develop your perceptive, critical, and reflective skills.
We encourage you to be curious about the discipline, develop your ability to frame questions, work effectively with others and listen and to contribute to informed discussions.
By completing tasks and assessments you will develop a range of skills directly relevant to working in the real world of public health, including undertaking statistical analysis, writing protocols, short reports, blog posts and short answer questions.
For your dissertation you will undertake a research project, chosen by you, and write this as a journal article, which you may then choose to publish as a peer-reviewed publication.
You will graduate with an expansive set of skills that will have directly prepared you for careers in public health or a further higher degree in this field.
The programme covers many parts of the Faculty of Public Health's Diplomate Exam.
Beyond this programme you will have the opportunity to meet and study with (through shared units) students from other MSc programmes within the school, including Epidemiology,  Health Economics and Health Policy Analysis and Medical Statistics and Health Data Science, enhancing your skills of transdisciplinary thinking.
The Department of Population Health Sciences has international excellence in research methods, health protection research, and developing and evaluating public health interventions.
The Centre for Public Health is a member of the National Institute of Health Research's School for Public Health and Health Protection Research Unit in Behavioural Science and Evaluation.
Teaching methods include lectures, practicals, group work, workshops and seminars.
Teaching will take place on Mondays, Tuesdays and Thursdays for full-time students.
For part-time students studying over two years, teaching will take place on Mondays and Tuesdays in year one and on Thursdays in year two.
All taught units are compulsory, as is the dissertation, which is undertaken in the final term and over the summer.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Public Health.
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent in Medicine, Veterinary Science, Dentistry, Pharmacology, Nursing, Physiotherapy, Occupational Therapy, Other Allied Health professionals, Biomedical Science, Physiology, Biology, Statistics, Epidemiology, Health economics, Health services management, Health or social policy, Geography, Psychology , Sociology, Anthropology, Environmental health, Global health.
This programme is also open to those successfully appointed to the Public Health training scheme in the UK, evidence to support your appointment should be included in your application.
You will also need a quantitative unit/module at a minimum of 55% or an international equivalent such as Epidemiology or Statistics.
Or A-Level Mathematics Grade C or above.
Or AS-level Mathematics grade B or above.
Or GCSE Mathematics Grade B or above.
Graduates from our MSc are working for UK Health Security Agency, local government, charities and universities in a range of public health roles including health improvement, health protection, systematic reviews, cohort studies and data analysis.
The MSc prepares students to move into careers which, with further work experience and training, would enable them to work in roles such as consultant in public health, director of public health, strategic director of health charities, public health government policy advisers, and lecturers, senior lecturers and professors of public health.
The University of Bristol has a dedicated careers service that is able to support you throughout your time with us to explore your career options.
Students can talk to staff at the careers service through live chat or face to face on campus and graduates can access free, professional, and unbiased support for up to three years after leaving University.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-public-policy:
MSc Public Policy
What is public policy?
Who is it shaped by?
Which institutions are involved?
What impact does it have on an economic, social and cultural environment that is globalised?
This programme engages with contemporary policy concerns and the increasing complexity of the policy environment.
It explores the contested dynamics of policymaking and policy implementation and provides students with the skills to understand, critically evaluate and develop policy alternatives in a local, national and international context.
The programme seeks to prepare the next generation of policymakers to address a range of policy issues and understand the role and impact of different stakeholders, including business and the voluntary sector as well as international and regional organisations.
It is intended for those who aspire to pursue professional career options, including policy planning, policy consultancy and policy officer positions for local and national government, international organisations, and non-governmental organisations.
As well as considering general policy concerns, the programme gives you an opportunity to choose from a range of substantive policy issues, which might include the international analysis of poverty and social exclusion; public management and organisations; migration, asylum and human rights; the economics of public policy; environmental policy; or corruption and public policy.
Every unit considers policy in an international and comparative context.
If you choose to apply for the Policy Analysis Capstone unit, you will explore a current societal concern for a policy audience and gain experience of developing a toolkit of policy options which you will then assess using analytical methodologies.
Students on this programme will benefit from being taught by academics who are leaders in their areas of research.
Find out more with these videos exploring scholarships, international studies and the student perspective.
If you are interested in improving policy and practice through research you may be suited to the MSc Policy Research programme which provides core training in design, philosophy and quantitative and qualitative methods.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content of our MSc in Public Policy.
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent in a Social Science discipline such as:
We will also consider your application if your degree is not listed above, if you have evidence of significant, relevant work experience (minimum 18 months paid or unpaid) in the following sectors/areas: mid- to high-level policy work for local or national government or third sector/voluntary/community-based organisation (Manager, Director, Policy Officer, Researcher, Analyst, Policy Maker, Political/Civil Office).
Graduates from our MSc in Public Policy frequently work in roles that focus on strategy, policy development and implementation, or policy research.
Potential employers include local or central government departments; national or international non-governmental organisations; and international institutions such as the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund and the United Nations.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-reproduction-and-development:
MSc, PG Certificate (Postgraduate Certificate), PG Diploma (Postgraduate Diploma) Reproduction and Development
This innovative blended learning programme will provide you with a comprehensive understanding and set of skills relevant to the exciting and important field of human reproduction and development.
Please note, this programme is delivered mostly via distance learning , with a short period of time in Bristol (up to three weeks per year).
You will study fundamental systems, principles and processes, including the physiological basis and endocrine regulation of gamete formation, fertilisation, implantation and pregnancy.
From practicing clinical experts, you will learn about the symptoms, causes, and mechanisms of reproductive disease and dysfunction, as well as the clinical management of infertility, assisted conception, pregnancy complications and endocrine disorders.
You will learn about and discuss cutting-edge academic and clinical research with internationally-recognised researchers.
You will also develop your own research skills and be encouraged to think critically about the historical, social, political and legal context of current issues relevant to this exciting, fast-moving field.
Our interdisciplinary programme is designed to appeal to a wide range of postgraduate students.
A unique aspect of our programme is the combination of face-to-face teaching with web-based technology to support distance learning.
Intensive teaching workshops are held online and in Bristol each year, delivered by expert academics, scientists and health professionals.
These workshops are made up of lectures, research seminars, group work, and practical sessions that provide an overview of relevant laboratory methodologies and clinical practices.
Teaching from the workshops is then augmented by innovative online materials, assignments and activities to help you to consolidate your learning.
An interesting variety of assessment activities will enable you to showcase and enhance your understanding and transferrable skills.
For example, producing posters, infographics and delivering presentations will demonstrate your ability to communicate complex scientific and clinical information to a range of different stakeholders, including healthcare professionals, patients and research funders.
Master's students will write a research dissertation based on their own in-depth exploration of the research literature around a focused topic related to reproduction and development.
The master's programme consists of six mandatory taught units and a research project unit, including a literature review, dissertation, and an oral poster examination.
The six taught units are comprised of interactive, synchronous (live) workshops followed by a period of independent, asynchronous, internet-based home study.
Each unit involves a one-week intensive workshop.
The first three taught units run in Autumn (September to October) each year as a live interactive online workshop.
The next three units will run in January as a face-to-face workshop in Bristol.
There is no travel required for the Autumn workshops as these are exclusively delivered online, but you should ensure you are able to fully participate in all the scheduled teaching sessions that are timetabled (UK time) in this period.
Attending the teaching workshop linked to each unit is compulsory if you wish to successfully complete that unit.
Students attend online as well as Bristol-based workshops for up to three weeks per workshop.
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent in a Biological Science, Medicine, Medical Sciences, Clinical Science and Human Sciences.
The programme is also open to Members of the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists.
Please include your CV (curriculum vitae / résumé) when you apply, showing details of a relevant postgraduate qualification in Biological Science, Medicine, Medical Sciences, Clinical Science and Human Sciences.
Students on the programme come from a variety of countries and backgrounds; all have an interest in reproduction, infertility and development, or wish to pursue careers in these areas.
Clinical students follow the programme for progression and promotion in their discipline, or as a foundation qualification to specialise in IVF and infertility, or obstetrics and gynaecology.
Our clinical graduates use knowledge and research skills to aid publication, develop their practice and enhance their expertise in reproductive medicine.
Scientific graduates go on to work in a clinical or diagnostic setting, training as clinical embryologists or andrologists, through the NHS Scientific Training Programme.
Our science graduates have also used this MSc as a springboard to non-clinical or clinical research and PhD studentships.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-robotics:
MSc Robotics
This MSc will provide you with the ability to understand, design and implement modern robotic systems.
Robotics is increasingly prominent in a variety of sectors, for example, manufacturing, health and remote exploration of hostile environments such as space and the deep sea, and as autonomous and semi-autonomous systems that interact with people physically and socially.
This programme exposes you to a wide range of advanced engineering and computer science concepts.
It offers the opportunity to carry out a practical robotics research project and to make use of the resources at the Bristol Robotics Laboratory , one of the UK's most comprehensive robotics innovation facilities and a leading centre of robotics research.
The programme is jointly awarded and jointly delivered by the University of Bristol and the University of the West of England, both based in Bristol, and therefore draws on the combined expertise, facilities and resources of the two universities.
The Bristol Robotics Laboratory is a collaborative research partnership between the two universities with a vision to transform robotics by pioneering advances in autonomous robot systems that can behave intelligently with minimal human supervision.
Please note that teaching for this programme is delivered at both the University of Bristol and the University of the West of England campuses.
Students attending the programme will be given free transport passes to travel between the two universities.
Clifton, University of Bristol
Frenchay Campus, University of the West of England
The programme comprises a number of core and optional units.
During your second term, you will start working on a substantial piece of research work that will make up one third of your overall MSc.
It is possible to work on this project with researchers based at Bristol Robotics Laboratory or in conjunction with one of our many industrial partners.
Within the Bristol Robotics Laboratory, there are a number of themes from which projects may be chosen.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Robotics.
You must also have a module in C/C++, Java, Python, MATLAB or other similar formal programming languages.
Robotics is a vast field spanning areas such as electronics, mechanics, software engineering, mathematics, physics, chemistry, psychology and biology.
Career opportunities include diverse professions, including careers in the automotive industry, aerospace industry, advanced manufacturing, deep sea exploration, space exploration, food manufacture, the health sector, pharmaceutical production and industrial quality control.
Bristol Robotics Laboratory

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-science-communication-for-a-better-planet:
MSc Science Communication for a Better Planet
Global climate and biodiversity crises, the COVID-19 pandemic, net zero emissions targets, and moves to restore and rewild the environment have put scientific evidence at the very centre of policymaking, economics and social behaviour.
Collaboration towards a better future for our planet depends on political engagement and understanding, public trust and scientific literacy, and robust challenges to fake news and misuse of data.
Science communication has never had a more important role to play in empowering people to become agents of positive change at this critical time.
This programme will train you up in a wide range of science communication techniques, including:
Units will be delivered by world-leading experts across the biological sciences and communications fields, all who are passionate about their research areas and the power of scientific communication.
You will also work with professional communicators and life coaches to build personal resilience and develop skills in teamwork, empathy, listening, widening participation and peer review.
You will build your own portfolio of communication outputs throughout the year, so you’ll finish with a suite of examples of your work for future employers.
You will be supported to gain work experience and professional mentoring, including through your four-month final project, which can be in Bristol, London, the rest of the UK or overseas, and will be tailored to your career aspirations.
This programme is delivered by the School of Biological Sciences, so you will be based in the stunning Life Sciences Building, which is designed as a green, collaborative space for enhanced learning, including a dedicated science media suite.
The school is located right in the middle of the university campus in the beautiful Clifton area, so you are a few minutes from central Bristol.
The city, known as ‘Green Hollywood’ with the natural history filmmaking ecosystem centred around the BBC, is also a life sciences and tech innovation hub for the south-west of the UK, providing many exciting employment opportunities.
Please visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Science Communication for a Better Planet.
You will typically need a strong upper second-class honours degree (65% or higher) or an international equivalent degree in any subject.
You will build your own exciting portfolio of creative science communication outputs, including press releases, social media campaigns, briefing documents, blogs, vlogs, podcasts, films, feature articles, physical and virtual events.
You will also undertake an extended project working in a professional context according to your career aspirations (for example placement, internship, or expedition).
You will graduate with unique skillsets, making you highly employable in many sectors, including science, journalism, filmmaking, publishing, policy, teaching, wellbeing and event management.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-scientific-computing-with-data-science:
MSc Scientific Computing with Data Science
Are you a recent graduate in a Physical or Life Science who would like to learn more about computing and how it is applied to advance scientific research?
This programme will help you achieve your goals.
Schools in the Faculty of Science are all ranked in the top 5 for research in the UK (THE analysis of REF 2021) and Bristol is ranked in the top ten in the UK for Natural Sciences (QS 2024).
Develop your skills in coding, machine learning and high-performance computing and learn how to apply these to cutting-edge computational problems drawn from across the sciences.
Scientific computing is an interdisciplinary field that uses computer science, data science and digital technology to solve problems across a wide range of subject areas, including maths, engineering, biology, physics, chemistry, geography and earth sciences.
Whatever your scientific background, this programme will train you in coding and data science, building on your core scientific knowledge and giving you a robust appreciation of what can be achieved by combining these skills.
You will master modern programming languages, data science and machine learning algorithms, and apply them to problems in your chosen science.
You will understand the main software engineering concepts and principles involved in scientific computing and data science and use them to model complex scientific systems, giving you an edge in a competitive and fast-changing labour market.
Through project work, industrial networking and visits, you will have opportunities to build contacts, opening up additional job opportunities once qualified.
Most of your core teaching will be delivered by academics linked to Bristol Scientific Computing (BriSC), who are based in the Faculty of Science.
BriSC brings together experts from across the University whose teaching and research focus on applying the latest computational techniques to key scientific problems, such as changes in the earth's atmosphere, the reactions of molecules or how galaxies are formed.
The learning of programming languages and computational techniques is most effective when it is practice-based.
Therefore, the computing units in this programme are mainly delivered through interactive workshops and student-led activities, supported by seminars and tutorials.
The MSc in Scientific Computing with Data Science builds on the University of Bristol's unique strengths and facilities as a world-class centre for supercomputing , data science and data-intensive research.
This programme will admit students with any scientific background.
Prior computing experience is useful but not essential; you will be streamed according to your computing knowledge to bring everyone to the same level at the end of your initial coding course.
You will be taking compulsory units covering:
In addition, you will take a group project, applying coding and data analysis to problems set by industrial and academic partners, as well as choosing additional credits from a range of final year options from our undergraduate programmes (depending on your qualifications and timetabling).
To complete your studies, you will carry out a individual research project, which you can choose from a selection proposed by project supervisors.
This project will provide you with first-hand experience in planning, running, documenting, and presenting a substantial piece of original work, applying your computing skills to a cutting-edge challenge in science.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Scientific Computing with Data Science.
This course is intended for Physical/Life Science graduates.
Unfortunately, applicants with a Computer Science degree are not suitable for this programme.
Natural/Physical Sciences:
The below Life Science degrees will be considered if you can demonstrate competency in Maths with at least one undergraduate Maths module at 60% (or international equivalent) or above.
:
Examples of Maths modules at 60% (or international equivalent) or above includes:
Engineering, Mathematics and Statistics degrees will also be considered if applicants have a minimum of four science modules at 60% (or international equivalent) or above.
Examples of modules include:
Computing experience is not essential.
This MSc provides graduates with the skills needed for successful careers in computing, data analysis and scientific research in private and public sector roles.
Through interactive workshops and project work, you will develop a strong foundation in how to apply modern computing to solve problems in science, providing you with an edge in a competitive and fast-changing labour market.
In addition, project work provides you with an opportunity to build contacts, with the potential to open up additional career opportunities once qualified.
This will be supported by opportunities for networking with industrial users of scientific computing through lectures, visits and, where appropriate, projects.
This will be an intense and focused programme for experienced learners.
Projects provide extensive opportunities to develop skills in communication, presentations, technical writing, project management and group work, as well as developing networking skills and industry contacts.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-social-and-cultural-theory:
MSc Social and Cultural Theory
This programme provides an introduction to a range of debates within the so-called 'cultural turn' in sociological studies.
Increasingly, sociologists are looking to the concept of culture as a source of explanation - and questioning - in their studies of contemporary social formations.
The MSc in Social and Cultural Theory addresses both theoretical and substantive elements of this cultural turn.
The works of key thinkers in social and cultural theory are explored, while the role of cultural explanations within theories of race and ethnicity, class, gender relations, sexuality and the sociology of religion (among others) is also given both theoretical and empirical consideration.
These issues are situated within the framework of analyses and critiques of wider debates and discourses in social and cultural theory.
They cover questions such as postmodernism, postfeminism and postcolonialism.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Social and Cultural Theory.
Find out more about School of Sociology, Politics and International Studies careers .

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-social-innovation-and-entrepreneurship:
MSc Social Innovation and Entrepreneurship
To thrive in a disrupted world you will need creativity as well as commercial acumen to change things for the better.
The MSc Social Innovation and Entrepreneurship will teach you how to apply your passion to change the world through real-world business challenges, including:
We welcome students from any discipline who are thinking about building a socially purposed career either in large commercial organisations or startups.
This programme shares much of its teaching with our other Innovation and Entrepreneurship programmes (MSc and MA) but has a specific focus on social value and social innovation.
You will develop the high-level skills and critical competencies needed for successful social innovation and entrepreneurship, through a largely practice-orientated educational approach based on collaborative teamwork across disciplines and cultures.
During the programme you get opportunities to work alongside social-purpose businesses and organisations to develop a deep understanding of their opportunities and challenges.
There are no exams, only coursework, which typically includes both individual and group assessments, and you will get the chance to work in interdisciplinary teams throughout the year.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content of our MSc in Social Innovation and Entrepreneurship.
You may create a social entrepreneurial venture or join an existing one.
Whatever you choose, you'll be able to hit the ground running.
You will have built a network of contacts to draw on whether you are starting-up or seeking innovative roles.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-social-science-research-methods-management:
MSc Social Science Research Methods (Management)
This programme provides comprehensive training in the process of research conceptualisation, design and operationalisation.
It has been carefully formulated to reflect the training recommended by the Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC) .
It is particularly suited for those seeking a career as a social science researcher or planning to go on to a PhD in Management .
The programme delivers a thorough theoretical and practical grounding in the variety of qualitative and quantitative data collection methods available to social scientists and in the principal methods of analysing data.
The programme also covers the philosophies underpinning the research process, ethical considerations, and social theory.
You will be encouraged to apply your methods training to your substantive research interests.
You will be taught by leading academics whose research tackles global societal issues across a range of social science and management-related disciplines.
Our research groups and centres are:
A high percentage of our business and management research is rated as world-leading or internationally excellent (REF 2021), reflecting its impact on shaping policy and practice.
This programme comprises six taught units followed by a dissertation.
The dissertation presents you with an opportunity to pursue an independent, in-depth study of a topic relating to management and organisation, reflecting on the theoretical, empirical and/or methodological issues covered in the taught element of the programme.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Social Science Research Methods (Management).
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent in Sociology; Research Methods; Business; or Management degrees.
An upper second-class undergraduate honours degree or international equivalent in Anthropology, Business Ethics, Communication Studies, Criminology, Education, Geography, History, International Development, International Studies, Law, Media Studies, Organisational Behaviour/Theory, Politics, or Public Health.
This must include a 2:1 or equivalent in at least 3 different management or work/organisation related units, including:
Business Ethics/Corporate Social Responsibility, Critical Perspectives on Work/Organisation, Corporate/Organisational Culture, Digital Business, Grand Challenges, Management (HRM/Strategy/Governance/Leadership), Management Consulting, Marketing, Operations Management, Organisational Behaviour/Theory, Organisational Studies, Project Management, Public Management, Research Methods, and Sociology/societal concepts.
Specific module requirements would still apply and can be met in either undergraduate or postgraduate qualification.
Bristol has an excellent reputation with employers worldwide and our graduates are in demand.
The programme will provide you with a sound basis for further study at doctoral level or for your future career in a wide range of fields and organisations, including business, the public sector and third sector organisations.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-social-science-research-methods-politics:
MSc Social Science Research Methods (Politics)
This MSc provides Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC)-approved research training in politics and international relations.
We aim to provide a thorough grounding in practical methodological skills through hands-on experience and the critical exploration of relevant examples and case studies.
It is particularly suited to those seeking a career as a social science researcher or continuing to PhD level, including ESRC-funded doctoral study.
The School of Sociology, Politics and International Studies promotes a close-knit student community with easy access to members of staff who all give a high priority to teaching and supervision while maintaining high-quality, high-volume research.
The programme provides thorough theoretical and practical knowledge of the variety of qualitative and quantitative data collection methods available to the social scientist, and the main methods of data analysis.
You will also cover the research process, ethical considerations and social theory.
You will be encouraged to apply your methods training to substantive research interests.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Social Science Research Methods (Politics).
Applicants must have evidence of at least one quantitative and one qualitative module/unit at 2.1 or equivalent.
Alumni of our MSc programmes go on to further study at PhD level or pursue research jobs in government or private sector, for example in the House of Commons, the World Bank and the think tank Demos.
Find out more about Politics graduate career destinations.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-social-science-research-methods-sociology:
MSc Social Science Research Methods (Sociology)
This programme reflects the expertise of our School of Sociology, Politics and International Studies in research methods training.
It provides comprehensive training in the whole process of research conceptualisation, design and operationalisation.
The programme is particularly suitable for those seeking a career as a social science researcher or going on to a PhD, including Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC)-funded doctoral study.
It has been carefully formulated to reflect the training recommended by the ESRC and has been accredited as a research training programme.
You will develop a thorough theoretical and practical grounding in the variety of qualitative and quantitative data collection methods available to the social scientist, and in the principal methods of analysing data.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Social Science Research Methods (Sociology).

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-social-work:
MSc Social Work
This two-year professional programme is designed for people who want to qualify and practise as a professional social worker.
The programme leads to a nationally and internationally recognised professional social work qualification and graduates are eligible to register as a qualified social worker with Social Work England.
Qualifying for a postgraduate degree at Bristol means that you can work with both children and adults.
You will support people to identify their strengths and build their self-confidence, help them to overcome problems in times of crisis, and link with other services.
The teaching staff at Bristol include experienced practitioners who have worked in a variety of social work settings including child and adult safeguarding, domestic violence and abuse, school social work, foster care, physical and learning difficulties, mental health, youth offending, and hospital social work.
At our research-intensive university, the programme's teaching team is also active in research, holding a wide range of funded social work research projects nationally and internationally.
Working as a social worker requires an ability to appraise complex and difficult situations, drawing on social science research, social work theories and intervention methods.
To be considered for enrolment in this programme you will need to demonstrate an understanding of social work (this could be within the United Kingdom or internationally).
Upon completion you will have a thorough understanding of social policies and a firm grasp of the legal powers and duties that underpin practice in England.
The MSc in Social Work combines university-based learning with two extended periods of supervised practice as a student social worker.
Your practice placements will consist of learning across two contrasting practice settings, together with skills training.
By completing this degree, you will be eligible to register with a social work regulatory body (such as Social Work England ) and practise as a qualified professional social worker in a range of settings, and in a number of countries (contingent upon country-specific requirements).
You will develop an understanding of the structural and personal factors that lead to disadvantage, oppression and discrimination, and learn how to apply this understanding to your practice.
You will develop values and skills as a reflective practitioner, appraising relevant evidence - including research - to evaluate your own and other people's work and to contribute to the development of policy and practice.
To explore the programme in more depth, view these videos which include interviews with previous students.
More general information about the role and duties of social workers in the United Kingdom can be accessed through the British Association of Social Workers (BASW).
BASW is the UK's professional membership organisation for social workers.
Overseas applicants: 20 June 2025.
Home applicants: 4 July 2025.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content of our MSc in Social Work.
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent in any subject and English and Mathematics GCSE grade 4 (C) or above or international equivalent.
A Personal Statement must be uploaded (maximum 750 words) demonstrating evidence of interest in social work as a professional qualification and evidence of commitment and motivation to work as a social worker.
Relevant work and life experience and understanding of social care, social work and commitment to the values and ethics of social work should be included.
Curriculum Vitae must be uploaded.
This should include any relevant health/social care related experience.
Two references required: one academic and one professional (two professional references can be accepted if you graduated more than two years ago).
Each year, the NHS allocates a certain number of bursaries to students on our MSc in Social Work.
Following interview, the University notifies successful students if they are being recommended for an NHS bursary.
Our bursaries are restricted to students ordinarily resident in England.
If you are interested in being nominated for a bursary, early application to our programme is advised.
For full details of eligibility criteria, students should contact the NHS Business Services Authority .
After successfully completing this master's degree, you will be eligible to register with Social Work England and practise as a qualified professional social worker.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-social-work-research:
MSc Social Work Research
This programme creates links between social work research and practice in a range of settings.
You will be taught the necessary skills to undertake research into social work and social care as a practice-based professional, a postgraduate research student or a policy-focused professional.
This degree will help you acquire vital tools to maximise your work in addressing genuine issues of concern with policymakers, managers, practitioners and service users in social work and social care.
We recognise that many of our students will have relevant experience as researchers, service managers/planners or policy advisers, and there will be space for you to reflect on and share your expertise in these fields; providing an opportunity to learn from your peers.
Some units are taught in collaboration with other postgraduate programmes, providing a co-learning environment where you can interact and share insights with students working towards research degrees in public policy and policy research.
Please note: This programme does not include practical training or lead to a professional qualification in social work.
If you want to study for a qualification in social work practice, please see the MSc in Social Work .
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure of our MSc in Social Work Research.
Please note, other academic backgrounds may be considered.
This programme places strong emphasis on the development of social work/care research methods and analysis, as well as building substantive knowledge.
Graduates from our MSc Social Work Research can go on to careers as social work and care researchers or analysts, or research commissioners/managers in public or private agencies, both in the UK and internationally.
Alternatively, the programme provides students with the core training to further their career in academic research with a PhD in Social Work .

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-society-politics-and-climate-change:
MSc Society, Politics and Climate Change
What are the social and political dimensions of climate change?
What impact does climate change have at local, state and international levels?
How do we understand the actions of communities and international organisations in response to a changing planet?
This programme investigates the complex social and political impacts of a changing climate, and examines the ways in which we can respond to crisis.
While you will be made familiar with current technical arguments about the nature of the climate crisis, the focus is on its social and political dimensions.
You will explore cutting-edge approaches within the social sciences to understand framings of and responses to the climate crisis.
You will engage with themes including: climate crisis and political economy; the effects of climate change on international relations; sustainability and development; resilience and disasters; green transitions; and the origin and potential of green social movements to foster social and political change.
This programme is intended for those who aspire to a professional career in addressing climate change in the public, private or not-for-profit sector.
Critical skills are embedded throughout the programme to ensure that you have the requisite capacities to address social and political problems arising from our changing planet, and to help shape a more sustainable future.
You will have the option of working on a dissertation research project for a partner organisation, gaining crucial experience to further your career aspirations.
There are several mandatory taught units and one optional unit, with a recommended list provided.
Additionally, students will undertake a dissertation, with the possibility of working on a project defined by a public- or private-sector stakeholder.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Society, Politics and Climate Change.
This programme will equip you to become a leader in preparing for, and responding to, climate change.
As such, you will be ideally placed to take advantage of the growing employment market related to the climate emergency response.
Career skills are built into the entire programme, and opportunities will be provided to develop communication skills, working independently and part of a group, and research capacities.
Our programme has been developed with the input of stakeholders to ensure that we are providing the academic and technical training desired by employers.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-socio-legal-studies:
MSc Socio-Legal Studies
The MSc in Socio-Legal Studies blends rigorous research training with interdisciplinary insights on how law interacts with society.
Emphasising empirical research and practical application, this programme prepares you to influence future legal and social policies, positioning you at the forefront of socio-legal change.
Offered jointly by the Law School and the School of Sociology, Politics and International Studies (SPAIS), the programme explores contemporary legal issues from multiple perspectives.
You will develop strong empirical research skills and theoretical insights, enabling critical examination and effective influence on legal and social policies.
Ideal for those interested in the dynamic relationship between law and society, this MSc is perfect for aspiring academics, PhD candidates, and professionals seeking to impact legal and social change.
It provides robust research training, practical dissertation experience, and interdisciplinary perspectives, preparing you for careers in NGOs, government, or broader socio-legal fields.
Ranked third in the UK for legal research excellence (REF 2021), the University of Bristol ensures you are challenged and inspired by world-leading academics.
The programme is part of the South West Doctoral Training Partnership , offering interdisciplinary pathways with researchers from Bristol, Bath, UWE, and Exeter Universities.
You will study two core units in the Law School and three core units in the School of Sociology, Politics and International Studies.
You will take optional units, chosen from across most of the Faculty of Social Sciences and Law, as well as units designed especially for this MSc offered by the School of Sociology, Politics and International Studies, and units in the Law School, which are taken alongside LLM students.
Methods of assessment will depend on the optional subjects chosen, but could include essays, presentations, or written examinations.
Your dissertation will build on the optional units you have chosen and develop the approaches taken in the core units.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Socio-Legal Studies.
OR an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent non-law degree in a related field, such as Sociology, Social Policy, Social Welfare, Public Administration, Social Administration, Demography/Population Studies, Geography, Economics, Political Science, History and Philosophy.
The Faculty of Arts, Law and Social Sciences has an allocation of 1+3 (MSc and PhD) and +3 (PhD) ESRC scholarships.
The MSc in Socio-Legal Studies:

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-sociology:
MSc Sociology
This programme gives you the opportunity to extend your core sociological knowledge and understanding.
It will also bolster your understanding of the subject if your background is in a related area, but you do not have specialist knowledge of sociology.
The key learning goals are to develop your critical use and comprehension of social theory, while gaining a grounding in methodologies and techniques of enquiry.
There is also a focus on distinctive, substantive sociological topics, such as ethnicity, multiculturalism, gender, sexuality, social movement, digital and technology, religion, and culture.
The dissertation gives you the opportunity to pursue a sociological project of your choice in greater depth, while still providing close academic supervision.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Sociology.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-stem-cells-and-regeneration-online:
MSc, PG Certificate (Postgraduate Certificate), PG Diploma (Postgraduate Diploma) Stem Cells and Regeneration (Online)
This innovative online programme will immerse you in the exciting field of stem cell biology and regeneration.
You will be guided from the origins of this field through to its application (and potential applications) in treating human disease, covering the latest developments and technologies available for study in this area.
Programme content is delivered by active researchers, giving you the opportunity to engage with the latest breakthroughs.
Lectures, online discussions, group work and assessments are delivered fully online.
This offers you more flexibility than traditional campus-based courses as you can study in your own environment at your own pace.
This online-learning model, together with a part-time study option, makes the programme particularly appealing if you want to combine full-time employment with study.
There are six mandatory taught units and a research project/dissertation.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our online:
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent in Biological Sciences, Health Science, or Medicine (including Veterinary and Dental Qualifications).
Students on this programme usually undertake a literature review or similar for their dissertation, but it is possible for students to complete an optional lab-based project.
Bench fees apply only to students who come to Bristol for 6-8 weeks to complete research project unit CSSBM2001.
This must be arranged in consultation with a supervisor and project unit lead, we cannot guarantee that students will be able to take on an optional lab-based project.
Please contact the admissions team to request more information.
£2,268 for the optional lab-based project .
The programme can open up a number of different career opportunities.
It can be used as a pathway to further studies (for example, a PhD) which in turn could lead to a research or academic career in the field.
It can also open up opportunities in private industry, for example:
Bristol Medical School: Translational Health Sciences

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-structural-engineering:
MSc Structural Engineering
The MSc in Structural Engineering is designed with the current and future needs of the construction industry in mind.
It is intended for graduates who wish to gain advanced engineering skills and stay at the forefront of developments in the structural engineering field.
This is a unique one-year full-time MSc programme focused on industry-relevant skills, with the opportunity to gain specialist knowledge via one of the two curated pathways, ‘Composite Materials and Sustainable Design’ and ‘Asset Management and Digital Transformation’, which are carefully designed to adapt you to the changing requirements of the future structural/civil engineer as highlighted by professional bodies like the Institution of Civil Engineers (ICE) and the Institution of Structural Engineers (IStructE).
You will learn from world-leading experts and benefit from state-of-the-art research facilities, including the Heavy and Light Structures Lab, the Bristol Composites Institute Lab, and the Soil-Foundation-Structure-Interaction Lab.
You will gain advanced skills in construction materials, analysis, and civil infrastructure design with the core units of the MSc programme.
With the pathway ‘Composite Materials and Sustainable Design’, you will develop specialist knowledge in new materials like fibre-reinforced polymers, structural retrofitting, and sustainability criteria in the design process.
With the pathway ‘Asset Management and Digital Transformation’, you will specialise in asset and data management in civil infrastructure using systems-level thinking and mathematical and sustainability approaches.
You will develop knowledge of practical civil engineering design and learn from invited guest lecturers from industry and academia.
Two additional unique features of this MSc programme are (i) a field trip that will enhance your learning in construction procedures and manufacturing workflows and (ii) a summer design project that simulates real-life conditions in an engineering company, working with academic and industrial supervisors to strengthen the skills necessary for a successful career in the industry.
The MSc course is a 12-month full-time programme with subject areas relevant to structural/civil engineering and emerging technologies and materials in the profession's future.
A strong set of core engineering units will provide a common platform of underpinning skills and knowledge at a postgraduate level in advanced structural analysis, including finite element methodologies and dynamic loadings like earthquakes, and advanced structural materials and design.
You will benefit from a series of seminars, as part of the Research and Professional Skills unit, learning the most recent advances in structural engineering from distinguished invited academic and industry experts.
You will select one of the two curated pathways, ‘Composite Materials and Sustainable Design’ or ‘Asset Management and Digital Transformation’, to gain specialisation in ‘new’ materials and sustainable design or in systems thinking approach and digital tools, respectively.
Depending on your optional units, you may design and retrofit civil engineering structures like bridges with composite materials, create a project brief and assess solutions against sustainability criteria, debate state-of-the-art digital technologies for the delivery of integrated infrastructure and asset health monitoring, use mathematical modelling towards the achievement of UN sustainable development goals.
As part of your programme, you are also required to attend a field trip within the UK to visit construction and manufacturing sites.
Having successfully completed the taught component, you will develop a RIBA (Royal Institute of British Architects) stage 2 project, working in groups and independently, to be submitted at the end of the academic year.
Other Engineering subjects will also be considered on a case-by-case basis.
We will also consider other non-Engineering degree subjects if you have at least one of the following:
Fees for the field trip are included in the postgraduate-taught fees.
As a graduate of the MSc in Structural Engineering, you will be better equipped to tackle challenging engineering problems with a holistic approach and make a difference within the sector.
You can find yourself working for engineering design and construction firms in the UK or worldwide or, alternatively, for non-governmental organisations in the field of sustainability.
You will also be equipped with unique skills that will support you in roles in the sector of composites engineering, data management, digitalisation, finance, and decision-making.
Graduates may also choose to pursue a career in academia and expand their knowledge in an exciting topic of their interest.
Whatever you choose, you will develop a range of transferable skills, such as problem-solving, critical thinking, and teamwork, and you will have a number of professional contacts to draw on.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-sustainable-engineering:
MSc Sustainable Engineering
The MSc in Sustainable Engineering is designed for graduates who wish to deepen their knowledge of the subject through a one-year taught programme that culminates in a supervised, research-based dissertation.
With a growing world population, demands to meet the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals, and in recognition of the climate crisis affecting the planet, engineers have an increasing responsibility to be well-versed in issues concerning sustainability.
This programme will provide you with the theoretical and practical knowledge to create and maintain a more sustainable world within your chosen area of engineering.
This degree combines foundational knowledge and skills in sustainable engineering with a specialism in one of three pathways:
A unique feature of our programme is that the dissertations are researched and written in groups, with each individual student making their own contribution.
As such, you will decide on the topic with your group members and under the guidance of staff.
This approach of working with other engineers, who may be on different pathways, reflects real-life engineering.
Our four core units focus on developing skills and knowledge in sustainable engineering, in addition to providing a foundation for completing the research-based dissertation project.
In the first term, the Sustainable Systems unit offers you an overview and appreciation of the complex challenges associated with creating sustainable systems, providing the ‘big picture’ context in which we engineer solutions.
In the second term, the Sustainable Design unit focuses on the delivery of real and impactful sustainable solutions, including the design tools that can be used to assist you in making sustainable decisions (for example, lifecycle analysis tools, sustainability checklists, sustainability software tools).
Two other core units (Innovation, Entrepreneurship and Enterprise in the first term and Research Skills in the second term) further prepare you to complete the supervised group dissertation project.
You will also take two pathway-specific units, which will allow you to further specialise in your chosen area of engineering.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Sustainable Engineering.
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or international equivalent in an Engineering or Engineering-related subject, including Computer Science, Maths, Physics, Technology/Technological based subjects.
This programme will give you the knowledge, skills, and tools to be successful in creating sustainable engineering solutions in a variety of industries and settings.
Depending on your chosen pathway and your individual interests, you could go on to work as a civil, structural, or mechanical engineer in an engineering firm; a renewable energy consultant; in product development; or in government.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-teaching-english-to-speakers-of-other-languages-tesol:
MSc Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL)
This flexible MSc has been developed for teachers and other TESOL professionals – such as educational administrators, inspectors, materials or curriculum developers, assessment specialists, and policymakers – as well as those planning to undertake doctoral study in TESOL or applied linguistics.
The programme particularly values the professional experiences that participants bring.
It provides a learning context in which you can reflect on your professional practice, the policies and diverse contextual factors that frame it, the theoretical frameworks that inform it, and the research that exists or could be conducted to substantiate or refute intuitive judgments.
Eligible students will have the opportunity to gain an internationally recognised professional certificate (Cambridge English CELTA) in addition to MSc TESOL.
The Cambridge CELTA course is delivered by an external provider and attracts an additional fee.
Entry criteria apply.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL).
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent.
Applicants who hold an upper second-class honours degree (or international equivalent) in a degree subject not listed above will also be considered but need to demonstrate a minimum of one year's full-time (or part-time equivalent) classroom teaching or other TESOL-industry relevant experience.
Examples of the types of roles we consider relevant are:
Both UK and international MSc TESOL (Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages) graduates find employment in public and private sectors globally, with many leveraging their postgraduate degrees to advance in academia, policy, or specialist education roles.
MSc TESOL graduates pursue careers in:
You will have access to our Careers Service and Professional Liaison Network , which provide professional mentoring, networking events and advice about the education sector.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-technology-innovation-and-entrepreneurship:
MSc Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship
To launch a successful technology career you will need more than just technical skills – you will need to understand your users and your business.
The MSc Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship will teach you how to apply your existing undergraduate degree knowledge whilst developing your design skills and commercial understanding, by:
We welcome students from any technology-based discipline who are thinking about building a career either in technology-focused organisations or startups.
This programme shares much of its teaching with our other Innovation and Entrepreneurship programmes (MSc and MA) but focuses specifically on the development and deployment of technology to create new value.
During the programme you get opportunities to work alongside technology businesses to develop a deep understanding of their opportunities and challenges.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content of our MSc in Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship.
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent in a technology discipline (eg any engineering or science discipline, life sciences (eg biotech), computer science, etc).
Other academic backgrounds may be considered on a case-by-case basis if you can demonstrate 2 years relevant professional experience as a technologist or other technically-proficient role, for example, a role in the science, life sciences or engineering sectors.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-translational-cardiovascular-medicine:
MSc, PG Certificate (Postgraduate Certificate), PG Diploma (Postgraduate Diploma) Translational Cardiovascular Medicine
This programme aims to develop your interest in translational cardiovascular research and medicine, and equip you with an enhanced knowledge, understanding and critical awareness of the current approaches and emerging research in this area.
As you learn on our programme, you will gain an appreciation of how laboratory-based research into cardiovascular disease informs the development of novel therapeutics and clinical interventions in cardiovascular medicine; ‘bench-to-bedside’ research.
Our research-rich teaching delivered by clinicians and scientists will enhance your knowledge and understanding of several cardiovascular diseases; and you will study multiple aspects such as risk factors, epidemiology, pathophysiology, current and emerging therapies.
Moreover, we will teach you how to be critical of the research underlying current clinical practices in cardiovascular medicine.
You will also learn how research is conducted, including design of experimental and clinical studies, current research techniques and clinical skills, and how research data is critically analysed and interpreted.
You will then apply this knowledge to your own research project on a focused topic related to translational cardiovascular medicine.
The programme is designed to appeal to a wide range of students, including biomedical scientists, allied health professionals and clinicians.
A variety of assessment and teaching activities will enable you to foster development of key academic, research and transferable skills to prepare you for employment, or to study for a further higher degree in this field.
You have the option to study by distance learning or on campus, full time or part time.
Campus-based students will attend lectures, tutorials, journal clubs, visits to clinical settings and workshops.
The MSc programme consists of 6 taught units and a research project.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Translational Cardiovascular Medicine.
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent in a biological, health or medicine-related science subject, or medicine.
Examples of acceptable degrees include but are not limited to: Anatomy, Biochemistry, Biology, Biomedical Science, Cardiac Physiology, Clinical Sciences, Forensic Science, Genetics, Healthcare Sciences, Life Sciences, Medical Science, Medicine, Microbiology, Molecular Biology, Neuroscience, Perfusion Science, Physiology, Pharmacology, Pharmacy, Pharmaceutical Science, Psychology, Vascular Science, Veterinary Sciences.
Bench fees only apply to students who choose to take the optional lab-based project for the MSc award only.
£2,268 for the optional lab-based project.
Our MSc programme is suitable for a wide range of students: basic scientists, clinicians and allied health professionals (for example, radiologists, cardiac physiologists, perfusion scientists, and cardiac nurses).
The programme may help you apply for a PhD, for additional training (for example, the NHS Scientist Training Programme or Clinical Perfusion), or enhance your existing career as an allied health professional or clinician.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-translational-cardiovascular-medicine-online:
MSc, PG Certificate (Postgraduate Certificate), PG Diploma (Postgraduate Diploma) Translational Cardiovascular Medicine (Online)
You can then apply this knowledge to your own research project on a focused topic related to translational cardiovascular medicine.
You have the option to study by online learning or on campus , full time or part time.
For online-learning students, lecture and tutorial material will be available online, alongside synchronous and asynchronous support from tutors.
Optional workshops (up to five days per year) will be held in Bristol, comprising tutorials, journal clubs, practical workshops and visits to clinical settings.
The MSc programme consists of six taught units and a research project.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our online MSc in Translational Cardiovascular Medicine.
Our programme is suitable for a wide range of students: basic scientists, clinicians and allied health professionals (for example, radiologists, cardiac physiologists, perfusion scientists, cardiac nurses).

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-water-and-environmental-management:
MSc Water and Environmental Management
If you want to pursue a career tackling local and global water and environmental challenges, this MSc will equip you with the fundamental technical and management skills to do so.
We teach both academic and practical skills so that you will discover how you can contribute to the sustainable management of water resources and the environment.
The exciting range of optional units means that you can choose the right balance of quantitative and qualitative skills: from environmental data science and machine learning applications to sustainable systems and disaster resilience.
Our teaching staff include leading water researchers at the University of Bristol and environmental practitioners with experience in private and government sectors such as the Environment Agency or Met Office.
The prestigious Global Ranking of Academic Subjects (GRAS) from Shanghai Ranking has recently placed Bristol 1st in the UK and 14th in the world for the outstanding quality and depth of our research into water resources (2022).
Places are limited and allocated on a continuous basis from September 2025 until all places are filled.
Core units provide skills and knowledge to help you understand the basic principles of water and environmental management, including the fundamental processes that govern the water cycle through the climate and hydrological systems, together with the interdisciplinary skills required to work in this field.
Optional units extend your fundamental understanding by teaching you relevant skills on data analysis, modelling techniques, systems thinking tools, and how these enable real-world decision making.
During these units you will also develop significant academic research skills to prepare you for the culmination of the MSc.
Your dissertation will be supervised by one of our expert tutors covering a wide range of topics and applications.
Visit our Water and Environmental Research group webpage to learn more about our research.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Water and Environmental Management.
You will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent in an Engineering, Science, Computing, Maths, Geography, Environmental Management or Studies, Resource Conservation, Finance, Investment, or Economics subject.
The programme is aimed at those planning to become water and environmental engineers, scientists, or managers and allows graduates to pursue both technical and management career paths.
The programme is also suitable for students who may wish to undertake a PhD.
Graduates of the course now work for engineering consultancies and professional service firms, water companies, government agencies, and as university researchers.
Students may wish to become student members of the Chartered Institution of Water and Environmental Management .

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/msc-wireless-communications-and-signal-processing:
MSc Wireless Communications and Signal Processing
This MSc covers a range of advanced topics related to wireless communications and communications-related signal processing, including associated enabling technologies.
It provides an excellent opportunity for you to develop the skills required for careers in some of the most dynamic fields in wireless communications.
This programme builds on the internationally recognised research strengths of the Communications Systems and Networks group within the Smart Internet Lab .
This group conducts pioneering research in a number of key fundamental and experimental work areas, including spatial channel measurements and predictions, information theory, advanced wireless access (cellular and WLAN) and RF technologies.
The group has well-equipped laboratories with state-of-the-art test and measurement equipment and first-class computational facilities.
This MSc provides in-depth training in design, analysis and management skills relevant to the theory and practice of the wireless communications industry.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our MSc in Wireless Communications and Signal Processing.
This is a challenging taught master's programme, covering aspects of current and future wireless communication systems and associated signal processing technologies.
It will prepare you for a diverse range of exciting careers - not only in communications but also in management consultancy, project management, finance and government.
Our graduates have gone on to have rewarding careers in leading multinational communications companies, including Huawei, China Telecom, Toshiba and Intel.
Some graduates follow a more research-focused career path, with a number of students going on to study for PhDs at leading universities.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/music:
PhD, MMus, MPhil Music
The Department of Music is a centre of research excellence in both composition and musicology.
In composition, there is no particular house style, but we are well known for a number of areas, including:
The department also provides access to a wide network of opportunities for professional and amateur performance.
In musicology, research strengths include not only the Western art music tradition, but also screen media, non-Western (Turkey, East Asia) and popular music.
We have particular depth of expertise in the early Middle Ages (especially Spain), and in the 19th and 20th centuries (including the music of France, Britain, Germany, and Soviet Russia).
We also have strengths in Anglophone vernacular traditions, including jazz and hip hop; opera, film music and the history and philosophy of technology; music and migration; and cultural and reception history more generally.
MPhil (Composition, Musicology): a standalone, one-year (full-time) research degree.
Students will undertake their own research project, concluding in the submission of a portfolio of 25-35 minutes of music and analytical/contextual commentary (c.4,000-5,000 words), or a 25,000-word dissertation.
Either a dissertation or a composition portfolio may include a performance component as part of one coherent project (in flexible proportions, details to be discussed with the department of music).
Students may have the option to audit units from our taught master's programmes if relevant to their research.
MMus (Composition): a standalone, two-year (full-time) research degree.
Students undertake own research project, concluding in submission of a portfolio of 50-70 minutes of music and an analytical/contextual commentary (c.8,000-10,000 words).
).
It may include a performance component.
PhD (Composition, Musicology): a research project undertaken across three to four years, culminating in a portfolio of either 75-120 minutes of music and an analytical/contextual commentary (c.
15,000 words), an 80,000-word thesis, or a combination of musicological and compositional components as part of one coherent project (in flexible proportions, details to be discussed with the Department of Music).
A Music PhD may include a performance component.
As well as having the option to audit taught units, there may be the potential for PhD students to assist on or teach units relevant to their research.
The PhD, MMus and MPhil can be studied via distance learning.
MPhil (Musicology): An upper second-class degree or international equivalent.
MPhil (Composition): An upper second-class degree or international equivalent, plus a portfolio of representative compositions.
Please note acceptance also depends on evidence of readiness to pursue a research degree: students will normally not be admitted without having experience equivalent to a taught MA in composition.
MMus (Composition): An upper second-class degree or international equivalent, plus a portfolio of representative compositions.
Additionally, acceptance will also depend on evidence of a suitable level of professional accomplishment: students will normally not be admitted without having experience equivalent to a taught MA in composition.
PhD (Musicology): A master's qualification, or be working towards a master's qualification, or international equivalent.
PhD (Composition or Musicology): A master's qualification, or be working towards a master's qualification, or international equivalent.
Applicants without a master's qualification may be considered on an exceptional basis provided they hold a first-class undergraduate degree (or international equivalent) and/or can demonstrate evidence of a sustained and high level of professional accomplishment.
In all cases, applications must be supported by a portfolio of representative compositions.
Please note: applicants may be registered on the MPhil or the MMus degree in the first instance.
A significant number of graduates from this programme develop careers in higher education or work on high-level research projects in the field of music.
Others take up careers as composers and musicians.
Research is structured in several interlinked clusters :
Faculty of Arts, Law and Social Sciences Admissions

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/oral-and-dental-sciences:
PhD, MSc by research Oral and Dental Sciences
The school combines laboratory-based and clinically-applied research and fosters a high level of collaboration between research groups in University.
The research programme is funded by internal and external grants from charities, research councils, NIHR, UoB, industry and government.
Our postgraduate students belong to broad research communities in the Faculty of Health Sciences and the Bristol Doctoral College, and benefit from the wide training opportunities in addition to their specific subjects.
Not fixed.
An upper second class honours degree (or international equivalent) or a master's degree with a lower second class honours degree (or international equivalent) in a relevant subject.
Please contact Bristol Dental School for information about funding.
After completing this course, career opportunities include post-doctoral research, academia and research in industry.
The School hosts three overarching research themes:
Embedded within each research theme are the clinical research and patient communities, providing an infrastructure that - through high quality clinical trials, biobanking and recording, and cohort studies - delivers translation of pre-clinical research aligned with the research themes, as well as the clinical specialties fundamental to dental research.
Epidemiology and health services research (HSR) and Microbiology and materials (M&M) articulate combined research strength across the school to address critical national and global health challenges.
Key areas of focus include the links between oral health and systemic disease, antimicrobial resistance, next generation materials, head and neck cancer, cleft lip and palate, health services research methodology and developing trauma-informed care pathways.
Education research (ER) encompasses a range of pedagogical studies, including decolonising the dental curriculum, and approaches that exploit our educational platform to ensure that undergraduate dental students are engaged in clinical research and so graduate as research-informed, research-active dentists who continue this commitment into primary care.
Liz Hemmings, Postgraduate Admissions Administrator
117 4557759
fohs-pgadmissions@bristol.ac.uk
Professor Bo Su, Postgraduate Research Co-Director
b.su@bristol.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/pg-certificate-postgraduate-certificate-clinical-conscious-sedation-and-anxiety-management:
PG Certificate (Postgraduate Certificate) Clinical Conscious Sedation and Anxiety Management
This programme is for dental practitioners wishing to develop competence, knowledge and skills to feel confident in the provision of conscious sedation and anxiety management.
It will allow you to gain experience with intravenous sedation and your knowledge will be developed through distance learning modules and study days.
Clinical skills will be acquired during supervised clinical placements in Bristol (Emersons Green) for Oral Surgery patients, and as you progress through the certificate you will gain a greater understanding of pharmacological and non-pharmacological pain and anxiety control.
The Anxiety Management unit will provide you with a knowledge and critical understanding of the theoretical framework that underpins cognitive therapy, including self-help and behavioural approaches.
You will have 20+ mentored cases to become an accredited sedation provider in as little as 5 days.
Immediate life support training is also included as part of this programme.
Students are offered the opportunity to combine this programme with the Postgraduate Certificate in Clinical Oral Surgery to graduate with a Postgraduate Diploma in Clinical Oral Surgery, Clinical Conscious Sedation and Anxiety Management.
This modular programme is divided into three units.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our Postgraduate Certificate in Clinical Conscious Sedation and Anxiety Management.
You will also need at least one year's demonstrable postgraduate clinical experience.
This course will provide clinical experience for the delivery of intravenous dental conscious sedation during oral surgery procedures only.
Therefore, you should be an experienced general dental practitioner with confidence in delivering routine (level 1) oral surgery, ideally with some experience of surgical procedures (level 2).
More detail on level 1 and 2 procedures can be found in the NHS England Oral Surgery Clinical Standard .
We are happy to discuss applicant experience and the training provided on this course prior to application.
Click here for more information.
This programme is aimed at experienced dental practitioners who want to develop their skills in providing conscious sedation for their patients in practice, with additional clinical experience in Oral Surgery.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/pg-certificate-postgraduate-certificate-clinical-neuropsychology-practice:
PG Certificate (Postgraduate Certificate) Clinical Neuropsychology Practice
The programmes at the University of Bristol have run since 2010 and are delivered in partnership with North Bristol NHS Trust, which includes a large regional neurosciences and major trauma centre.
Our Clinical programmes aim to engage and inspire clinicians to enhance their skills in Clinical Neuropsychology and support entry on to the British Psychological Society's (BPS) Specialist Register of Clinical Neuropsychologists (SRCN).
This certificate is accredited by the BPS Division of Neuropsychology and will support you in developing the practice competencies required for entry on to SRCN.
This degree is for applicants pursuing qualification in adult or paediatric neuropsychology.
In order to accrue relevant clinical experience, it is your responsibility to secure paid employment within a neuropsychology service during your enrolment on the certificate.
This support is provided by clinicians on the SRCN and offers opportunities for feedback on case reports, including a practice viva experience and a thorough review of your progress halfway through your study with us.
This programme is largely online and can be taken from home or work, with the viva for the clinical practice dissertation taking place in Bristol or online.
Please see the Neuropsychology programme web page for more information.
Please note that acceptance on this certificate requires evidence of research competencies meeting standards and requirements for entry to the SRCN.
If you do not meet the 8 year doctoral requirement, or have a doctoral background you can indicate the training you have undertaken and its research component on the Research Competencies Form submitted with your application.
Checking research competency status is an issue for any UK programme supporting entry to the SRCN.
For January 2025 start: Closed.
The certificate consists of a clinical practice dissertation that delivers the equivalent to the BPS Qualification in Clinical Neuropsychology (QiCN) portfolio requirements.
As such it requires the submission of six clinical cases, satisfactory performance in a viva, along with evidence of clinical practice and supervision.
Please visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our Postgraduate Certificate in Clinical Neuropsychology Practice.
You will typically need to be registered with the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) as a practitioner with a specialism as 'Clinical', 'Educational' or 'Counselling'.
In addition, applicants should have the BPS qualification in Clinical Neuropsychology (QiCN) knowledge component certificate from UCL, Bristol, Salomon's (Canterbury) or Glasgow.
Applicants who do not have the knowledge component from the prior list but have taken the PGDip or MSc Applied Neuropsychology at the University of Bristol can be considered.
Applicants must also demonstrate how you meet the Research Competencies requirement for the programme.
For further information on other potential sources of funding please check this University of Bristol website which includes an online funding search tool.
This certificate provides professional training in clinical neuropsychology.
The certificate is accredited by the British Psychological Society (BPS) Division of Neuropsychology and supports you in developing the practice competencies required for entry on to the Specialist Register of Clinical Neuropsychologists (SRCN).

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/pg-certificate-postgraduate-certificate-clinical-oral-surgery:
PG Certificate (Postgraduate Certificate) Clinical Oral Surgery
This programme aims to develop your knowledge and enhance your clinical skills.
Following a series of study days and clinical teaching revising the foundation skills for oral surgery practice, students will undertake a clinical attachment within Bristol Dental School.
This will include hands-on surgery covering a range of routine and complex oral surgery procedures under the supervision of a specialist team in the Oral Surgery department.
Students can graduate with a Postgraduate Diploma in Clinical Oral Surgery, Clinical Conscious Sedation and Anxiety Management when combining this programme with the Postgraduate Certificate in Clinical Conscious Sedation and Anxiety Management.
There are 3 units that make up the PG Certificate in Clinical Oral Surgery.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for this programme.
You will also need at least one year's work experience in dentistry post graduation and must be registered with the UK General Dental Council; a current GDC registration certificate must be uploaded with the application.
You must submit all required documents to the specifications detailed in the programmes Admissions Statement to be considered for review.
This programme is aimed at dental practitioners who want to develop their skills in providing clinical oral surgery for patients in their workplace.
Please note: part-time study is only open to international students who have the appropriate immigration permission to be in the UK.
Please contact out student visa team for advice.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/pg-certificate-postgraduate-certificate-clinical-perfusion-science:
PG Certificate (Postgraduate Certificate) Clinical Perfusion Science
This blended learning programme includes high-quality, research-led education that focuses on adult and paediatric perfusion principles and practice.
This addresses both the academic and professional requirements to enable perfusionists to practice in Great Britain or Ireland.
The programme is specifically for Limited Registrant clinical perfusion scientists who have secured a post at an accredited cardiac centre in Great Britain or Ireland.
Limited Registrants will usually have a primary perfusion qualification from overseas, and a minimum of 12 months post-qualifying experience working as a perfusionist, or be GB or Ireland accredited perfusionists who have not practised for 4 years or more.
It will equip you with enhanced knowledge, understanding and critical awareness of the current approaches and emerging research in the field.
It includes:
In conjunction with work-based clinical practical training, this will provide you with the essential skills for employment as a clinical perfusion scientist in GB or Ireland, or further qualifications in this field.
The PG Certificate in Clinical Perfusion Science consists of four taught units (including the work-based clinical practice and assessment).
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for the Postgraduate Certificate in Clinical Perfusion Science.
Students study by blended learning while working/training as Limited Registrant perfusionists in accredited hospitals in Great Britain or Ireland.
In-person teaching and exams are delivered in four intensive study weeks in Bristol.
Self-directed learning and assessments are undertaken remotely in allocated distance learning weeks.
To be successful in your application, you must have secured a clinical perfusion scientist Limited Registrant post at an accredited centre in Great Britain or Ireland.
Completion of this programme allows graduates to practice as accredited clinical perfusion scientists in Great Britain or Ireland.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/pg-diploma-postgraduate-diploma-applied-neuropsychology:
PG Diploma (Postgraduate Diploma) Applied Neuropsychology
The taught content of the Diploma is identical to the taught content we provide when training qualified clinical psychologists to specialise in clinical neuropsychology.
While this programme is not formally accredited by the BPS, if you complete the Diploma and go on to study a BPS-accredited doctorate in clinical psychology or counselling psychology, your Diploma could be retrospectively recognised as meeting one of the key professional requirements for entry to the BPS Specialist Register of Clinical Neuropsychologists.
On the Diploma you will learn about a range of neuropsychological disorders and pathologies, as well as focusing on principles of assessment, formulation and rehabilitation.
We also cover neuroanatomy, neuroscience methods and theories of brain function.
Around 80% of our taught content is delivered by practising clinicians, and you will also receive weekly clinical tutorials (during term) that allow you to discuss different aspects of programme content and help prepare you for a range of different career options.
This programme is suitable for those looking to pursue a research career, professional positions (e.g.
Assistant Psychologist) or further clinical training (such as a Doctorate in Clinical Psychology).
Please see the Neuropsychology programme web page for more information
There is also an online version of this programme for international students wishing to study from their home country.
For January 2025 start: 25 November 2024.
For September 2025 start: Overseas applicants: 25 July 2025.
For January 2026 start: 25 November 2025.
Please visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for the Postgraduate Diploma in Applied Neuropsychology.
If you have studied a joint degree, you will typically need an upper second-class honours degree or an international equivalent, with at least half of your degree content in psychology.
Example of relevant modules might include Brain and Behaviour, Psychobiology, Neuropsychology, Neuroscience of Behaviour.
Please contact our student visa team for advice.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/pg-diploma-postgraduate-diploma-applied-neuropsychology-online:
PG Diploma (Postgraduate Diploma) Applied Neuropsychology (Online)
This online diploma is only available to students who live outside the UK and have an undergraduate degree in psychology or a related discipline.
The taught content of this diploma is identical to the taught content we provide when training qualified psychologists in the UK to specialise in clinical neuropsychology.
The programme therefore delivers an authentic reflection of clinical practice.
You will learn about a range of neuropsychological disorders and pathologies as well as focusing on principles of assessment, formulation and rehabilitation.
Around 80% of our taught content is delivered by practising clinicians, and alongside lectures you will engage in online tutorials with clinicians and academics.
The programme will deepen your knowledge and skills in clinical neuropsychology and help prepare you for work or further training in a range of neuropsychology and clinical positions.
This flexible online programme allows you to avoid the costs of studying abroad, while the part-time option allows you to continue working and maintaining other commitments.
All aspects of delivery are identical to the UK-based programme.
All lectures are streamed live on the internet and recorded for you to replay at any point, and exams/timed assessments are online.
This diploma is also available as a Bristol-based programme , while our MSc in Applied Neuropsychology includes a research project as part of the degree.
The programme consists of five taught units:
Please visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for the online Postgraduate Diploma in Applied Neuropsychology.
As such, it will support those with aspirations for further clinical training, such as clinical neuropsychology, or a career in clinical research.
Please note that for the neuropsychology training on this Diploma to be recognised within the UK, you would also need to take a UK Doctorate in Clinical Psychology or Counselling Psychology that was professionally accredited by the British Psychological Society.
Graduates of our Applied courses who later become Practitioner Psychologists and are registered with the UK Health & Care Professions Council (HCPC) can enrol on our supplementary certificate courses in clinical practice and have their prior Diploma course with us count toward recognition as a professional neuropsychologist.
This programme offers the same levels of training that could help you to address those challenges in your country.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/pg-diploma-postgraduate-diploma-clinical-neuropsychology:
PG Diploma (Postgraduate Diploma) Clinical Neuropsychology
This BPS accredited programme offered by the University of Bristol has run since 2010 and is delivered in partnership with North Bristol NHS Trust, which includes a large regional neurosciences and major trauma centre.
Almost all clinicians opt to take this programme part time although full time study is available.
Our clinical programmes aim to engage and inspire clinicians to enhance their skills in Clinical Neuropsychology and support entry on to the British Psychological Society's (BPS) Specialist Register of Clinical Neuropsychologists (SRCN).
This diploma is accredited by BPS Division of Neuropsychology and delivers the adult knowledge component of the competency requirements for advanced training in clinical neuropsychology.
We promote a biopsychosocial scientist-practitioner approach and strongly advocate for neuropsychological research to be relevant and applicable to patient care, and for clinical practice to be underpinned by a thorough and ongoing engagement with scientific research/evidence.
In-person attendance at teaching weeks (two per year for part-time study) is encouraged but is not mandatory and this flexibility suits those with busy professional lives, family responsibilities, disability and other factors impacting on travel to Bristol.
Lectures are recorded and can be watched live or whenever is convenient, and exams/timed assessment will be held online.
If you are interested in this course because you want to enter the SRCN, then you will also need to complete the practice component (e.g.
our Certificate in Clinical Neuropsychology Practice ).
Acceptance on that certificate requires evidence of research competencies meeting standards and requirements for entry to the SRCN.
Completion of a BPS accredited doctorate in clinical psychology or counselling psychology within 8 years of starting the practice component meets research competency requirements.
If you wish to determine whether your existing research competencies are sufficient for SRCN please contact the team at: postgrad-psychology@bristol.ac.uk .
You must submit all required documents as detailed in the programme�s Admissions Statement to be considered for review.
All our programmes enhance clinical confidence and competency.
This programme supports the "knowledge component" required for entry to the BPS Specialist Register of Clinical
Neuropsychologists (SRCN).
Those interested in this programme may also be interested in our MSc in Clinical Neuropsychology which delivers both the knowledge component and "practice component" required for entry to SRCN within a single degree.
Alternatively, after completing this diploma, you might be interested in our Certificate in Clinical Neuropsychology Practice which delivers the practice component within a single degree.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/pg-diploma-postgraduate-diploma-orthodontic-therapy:
PG Diploma (Postgraduate Diploma) Orthodontic Therapy
Our Postgraduate Diploma in Orthodontic Therapy will enable you to become a competent clinician with the necessary skills, knowledge and behaviours to work as an Orthodontic Therapist.
As well as being able to register with the General Dental Council (GDC), you will gain the skills to modify practice throughout your career in response to scientific and technical advances in the field.
Bristol Dental School is located in a £36 million purpose-built Dental School.
You will have exclusive access to cutting-edge technology, state-of-the-art facilities and experienced dental professionals.
University of Bristol Dentistry is ranked 3rd in the UK (Complete University Guide Subject Rankings 2024), with outstanding results for our research in the Research Excellence Framework 2021.
You will be taught pre-clinical skills in our brand-new training facilities prior to commencing your clinical training in your workplace under supervision of your clinical supervisor.
You will benefit from a variety of teaching methods during your training that will help you to develop the confidence to deliver tailored advice and orthodontic care within the GDC scope of practice as an Orthodontic Therapist.
August 31 2025.
Bristol Dental School / Workplace.
The Postgraduate Diploma in Orthodontic Therapy is a 1-year programme.
In your first month, you'll attend intensive lectures, seminars, and practical sessions.
The "Foundation to Practice" unit covers dental anatomy, physiology, evidence-based practice, and essential operative and management skills for high-quality orthodontic care.
After this unit, you'll start clinical practice, treating patients under your specialist orthodontist's guidance, developing skills, and building a treatment case portfolio.
You and your sponsoring practice arrange the workplace placement, overseen by the School.
The close working relationship between you and your clinical trainer facilitates confidence, engagement, communication and independence.
Monthly study days enhance your understanding of orthodontic mechanics and treatment delivery.
As your knowledge grows, you'll learn prevention techniques, referral pathways, and further develop clinical skills.
You'll also gain critical appraisal skills, attend journal club meetings, and complete an appraisal project.
By the end of the year, you will be competent in treating patients under close supervision.
Qualification as an Orthodontic Therapist requires successful completion of our programme in conjunction with attaining the Diploma in Orthodontic Therapy from the Royal College of Surgeons Edinburgh.
The Bristol programme will prepare you for the Royal College of Surgeons examinations.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our Postgraduate Diploma in Orthodontic Therapy.
Once qualified you can register with the General Dental Council (GDC) and work in a variety of settings, including orthodontic specialist practices, hospital orthodontic departments, salaried dental services, and industry.
You will be a vital part of any orthodontic team, able to work collaboratively and provide oral healthcare advice to a wide range of patients.
Applications will open soon.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/pg-diploma-postgraduate-diploma-theoretical-and-practical-clinical-neuropsychology:
PG Diploma (Postgraduate Diploma) Theoretical and Practical Clinical Neuropsychology
Professional programmes in Clinical Neuropsychology have been offered at the University of Bristol since 2010.
The programmes are delivered in partnership with North Bristol NHS Trust.
Our clinical programmes aim to engage and inspire clinicians to enhance their skills in Clinical Neuropsychology and support entry on to the BPS Specialist Register of Clinical Neuropsychologists (SRCN).
This diploma is designed to support the adult knowledge and practice component of the competency requirements for advanced training in clinical neuropsychology.
This diploma is similar to our MSc in Clinical Neuropsychology but it allows you to bring forward learning and case experience from your DClin in order to streamline and accelerate the postdoctoral training required to enter the SRCN.
To be eligible to apply to this degree, you must be studying a DClin at a UK University which has a collaborative agreement with the University of Bristol.
You can find a list of collaborating institutions on our website (scroll to the bottom of that web page).
Those interested in applying to this programme may wish to discuss the process with their DClin team and also find out more about how to apply .
This programme is largely online and can be taken from home or work.
Our courses delivering the practice component require evidence of research competencies meeting standards and requirements for entry to the SRCN.
Thus the gap between completion of DClin and this degree must normally be less than 8 years, and anyone considering a significant deferral should contact us to discuss.
The programme consists of four taught units and a Clinical Practice Portfolio.
The Clinical Practice Portfolio meets the Practice Component requirements for entry to the SRCN.
It includes six case reports.
At least one case report (max of two) formally undertaken within the DClin can be used in the Practice Component submission (if sufficiently neuropsychological).
Please visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our Postgraduate Diploma in Theoretical and Practical Clinical Neuropsychology.
You will typically need to be registered as a Clinical Psychologist with the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC).
You will typically be studying or have studied on an approved degree from one of our collaborating institutions (for the list of collaborating DClin programmes please see the School of Psychological Sciences website).
If you have not studied at a collaborating institution but have completed the MSc Neuropsychology programme at the University of Bristol (discontinued in 2014) you will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
In order to meet BPS accreditation requirements, you must pass an online entrance assessment (comprised of two parts) set by the University of Bristol.
The two parts are both weighted at 50% of the overall assessment mark, and applicants must score 50% or higher in the combined mark to pass.
Applicants must be able to provide evidence of a minimum of six months' practice experience plus at least one case report (maximum of two) formally undertaken within the prior training programme of our collaborating institution.
Please note: the first stage of application is to submit an Expression of Interest form to the School at postgrad-psychology@bristol.ac.uk .
This programme is for those who wish to gain and demonstrate the UK's highest level of competence in professional clinical neuropsychology.
It is designed to provide both the knowledge and practice competencies required for entry on to the Specialist Register of Clinical Neuropsychologists (SRCN).

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught/pgce-education-secondary:
PGCE Education (Secondary)
We have a long history of training teachers and our most recent Ofsted report praised our students for their level of subject expertise and strength in curriculum design.
Our one-year programme is available in a range of secondary subjects and will lead to both a postgraduate qualification (PGCE) and qualified teacher status (QTS), enabling you to teach across the 11-19 age range.
In addition, you will gain up to 60 master's-level credits that you can put towards an MSc in Education .
We work in partnership with more than 40 local schools, offering two routes into teaching – university-led and Lead Partner route – allowing you to choose the programme that best suits you.
Our PGCE programmes are current, challenging and innovative, and are informed by both our own extensive research in the field of education as well as current practice.
You will spend two thirds of your time on placement in at least two contrasting schools.
Notably, our programme includes a short placement in a primary school, as well as offering the opportunity to gain experience in a special school.
The remaining time is spent at university where you will join our diverse student community.
At Bristol you will be given a personal tutor in your specialist subject, ensuring you receive the very highest levels of both pastoral and professional support.
Our strong community and student support set us apart from other providers and are frequently commented on by both students and external inspectors.
In the most recent Ofsted report, inspectors praise the well-developed partnership at the University of Bristol, and the strong connections between university and schools, saying: ‘Great care is taken to match trainees to their placement schools.
This helps ensure that trainees have the opportunities and expert support they need to be successful’.
As a result, trainees’ experiences in schools are ‘consistently positive’ and they ‘learn how to teach engaging lessons and promote good behaviour’.
The application cycle will open in October/November each year.
Early application is advised as places may fill quickly.
There are four major components of the programme, which are strongly interrelated and are designed to equip you with the knowledge, understanding and practical skills you will need to pursue a successful teaching career and become a reflective practitioner.
The subjects offered are:
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for all subject options on the PGCE Education (Secondary).
Prior to admission to the programme, all students are required by the Department for Education (DfE) to have:
Note: Equivalence tests for GCSEs will only be considered in exceptional circumstances.
Such applications will be assessed and reviewed by the subject tutor, programme director and PGCE administration manager.
The Department for Education offers bursaries for eligible students.
For further information please refer to their funding page .
The programme is approved by the Department for Education and leads to recommendation for Qualified Teacher Status (QTS) .
A large proportion of our student teachers are employed in education after completing the PGCE programme, with many finding employment in the South West.
As a teacher from the University of Bristol PGCE, you will be highly valued by schools both locally and nationally; they will appreciate your thorough preparation in teaching and high level of subject knowledge.
Our 2024 Ofsted inspection report praised the standard of our newly qualified teachers observing ‘Graduates from the programme flourish, with some undertaking leadership roles.
They are well prepared for the role of a teacher’.
The report notes that preparation to teach A level and GCSE is a strong feature of the PGCE and that ‘all trainees gain substantial experience of teaching students in post-16’.
They also noted the ‘highly motivating experience’ for trainees who take part in short placements in specialist settings.
Apply using the GOV.UK online application system.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/philosophy:
PhD, MPhil Philosophy
The Department of Philosophy has a reputation for high-quality research across the subject.
We are particularly well known for our strength in logic and the philosophy of science and mathematics, as well as expertise in ethics, formal epistemology, metaphysics of science, phenomenology and the philosophy of medicine.
We have an exciting seminar/colloquium and conference programme, including regular seminars in philosophy and history of science, medicine, mathematics and logic, as well as weekly departmental seminars with visiting speakers, various reading groups, and joint sessions run with the Departments of Physics, Mathematics, Politics, English, History and Medicine.
We also host the Centre for Science and Philosophy , which promotes the interpretation of science through collaboration with other disciplines.
The principal research areas of the Department of Philosophy are:
The majority of graduates from this programme develop careers as academics in higher education, while maintaining the capacity to undertake new and innovative research in the field of philosophy.
The department currently hosts four major research projects:

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/physics:
PhD, MSc by research Physics
The School of Physics at Bristol University is one of the best Physics research environments in the UK - Bristol Physics research is ranked 4 th in the UK (THE analysis of REF 2021).
Our success today is built on immensely strong foundations: for more than 100 years, Bristol Physics has made major research contributions, including the discovery of the pi meson (Nobel Prize in Physics, 1950) and fundamental advances in quantum mechanics.
As a research student you will be a member of the Physics Graduate School , which comprises a community of up to 250 students from a diverse global background, and with a great gender balance.
We have strong interactions with industry, and are well connected to the unique Bristol start-up and SME community, with opportunities for placements during your research programme and joint training activities.
Our Physics Graduate School organises social and scientific events to support you, coordinates skills training in Physics, organises induction, builds a community, and helps you navigate through the University procedures.
We will also support your professional development as a teacher - many of our research students take up roles as paid Graduate Teaching Assistants for part of their working week, helping to support undergraduate programmes.
The School of Physics has a world-class reputation for cohort-based research training and has over the past ten years received UK national funding for Centres of Doctoral Training in Functional Nanomaterials, Condensed Matter Physics, Quantum Engineering, Particle Physics, Artificial Intelligence Machine Learning, and Advanced Computing.
Our research degree programmes are offered across six diverse research themes .
For informal discussions before making an application, prospective students are encouraged to contact either the academic lead in the research theme of interest for guidance, or the potential supervisor for project discussions.
For your application you will need a CV, a personal statement introducing yourself and outlining your motivation for research, and details of your qualifications.
Please see our Admissions Statement for more information.
Research Area: Please make sure to indicate your preferred area of research at the top of your personal statement.
This will help us to process the application effectively.
Choose from the research themes of the School of Physics:
If you have already contacted a potential supervisor or are replying to a studentship advert, please indicate the potential supervisors name on the application form.
However, for opportunities linked to School of Physics funds, it is advised the application should be with us before the end of the calendar year.
A first degree in physics or a related subject, normally at a level equivalent to at least UK upper second-class honours, or a relevant postgraduate master's qualification.
In each academic year, the School of Physics has a number of scholarships for PhD degrees, which are awarded competitively to candidates with the highest research potential.
The type of scholarship varies according to the research theme of the PhD opportunity.
Applicants are encouraged to contact the Academic Contact in the research theme of interest for more information.
The School also typically receives a number of University of Bristol PGR Scholarships each year.
The School also offers a number of MScR Research Bursaries , which provide financial support for part of the costs of the MScR research degree.
We warmly welcome applications from candidates who are applying for funding in their home country, for example; your own Government scholarships, China Scholarship Council (CSC) scholarships, Commonwealth scholarships, charities.
Graduates with Bristol Physics research degrees are highly valued by employers and universities across the world, as evidenced by our research graduates working successfully in a huge variety of fields spanning finance, large corporates, high-technology start-ups, education, academia, and many more.
For all these professional occupations, the skills you will gain through your research degree will be invaluable.
A Bristol Physics research degree will equip you with a unique set of skills: the ability to analyse problems; the capability to plan a project; the expertise of communicating complex ideas; the ability to work independently for periods but also to work productively as part of a team; the confidence to write technically at different levels; and an ease in presenting and speaking.
Your degree will give you many opportunities to practice and refine these important skills.
All of these and more are highly valued by employers looking for leadership, initiative, numeracy, and an ability to plan and execute strategically.
The School of Physics has a strong international reputation across various research fields.
The main themes include:
Astrophysics
Academic Contact: Dr Natasha Maddox natasha.maddox@bristol.ac.uk
Researchers study phenomena like extrasolar planets, black holes, galaxies, clusters, and cosmology using world-class telescopes.
Theoretical and computational work interprets these observations, utilising Bristol’s supercomputing facilities.
Students present at major conferences and engage in international projects, gaining training in observations, data analysis, and computational methods.
Materials and Devices
Academic Contact: Dr Natasa Vasiljevic n.vasiljevic@bristol.ac.uk
This theme focuses on innovative applications of physics in industries through advances in materials and devices.
Research areas include semiconductor devices, nuclear materials, surface physics, and nanomaterials.
The Centre for Device Thermography and Reliability (CDTR) leads in optimizing thermal management and electrical performance of devices.
The Interface Analysis Centre (IAC) and the EMAM group also explore material surfaces, nuclear materials, and aerospace applications, collaborating with key industry players.
The Nanophotonics and Biophysics group focuses on imaging and characterization techniques for biological and medical applications, with strengths in scanning probe microscopy and surface physics research involving ultrathin films and catalysis.
Particle Physics
Academic Contact: Dr Sudarshan Paramesvaran sudarshan.paramesvaran@bristol.ac.uk
This theme is at the forefront of data analysis and operations for the CMS, LHCb, LZ and NA62 experiments.
They work on the leading edge of research and development on novel detectors and systems for future experiments, such as the LHC upgrades, DUNE, Mu3e, XLZD, Linear Colliders and other related fields of study and research.
More details on the research program and available areas for postgraduate study can be found on our website .
Quantum and Soft Matter
Academic Contact: Prof Antony Carrington a.carrington@bristol.ac.uk
Soft matter includes materials where thermal energy plays a key role, such as colloidal particles that exhibit non-equilibrium behavior.
Our research explores quantum and classical matter, with a strong focus on high-temperature superconductors and liquid interfaces.
Students work with low-temperature and high-pressure techniques to investigate phase transitions and novel phenomena in condensed matter.
Quantum Engineering Technologies
Academic Contact: Dr Carrie Weidner c.weidner@bristol.ac.uk
Quantum technologies enable tasks beyond classical systems, such as factoring large numbers or simulating quantum systems.
Research focuses on quantum computing, communications, and sensing.
Students work on creating devices and protocols for quantum information processing, exploring theory and experiments in these areas.
Theoretical Physics
Academic Contact: Dr Stephen Clark stephen.clark@bristol.ac.uk
Theoretical physics complements experimental work, interpreting results.
Bristol’s notable contributions include the discovery of the Aharonov-Bohm effect and the Berry phase.
Our research explores topological defects, solitons, and phase transitions in condensed matter, using novel computational techniques and machine learning for statistical physics.
Students engage with quantum information research and the foundations of statistical mechanics.
Ms Eszter Szatmari, Deputy Student Administration Manager
117 455 1117
physics-pg@bristol.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/physiology-pharmacology-and-neuroscience:
PhD, MSc by research Physiology, Pharmacology and Neuroscience
The School of Physiology, Pharmacology and Neuroscience has an international reputation for research excellence in cardiovascular biology,neuroscience, and cell signalling.
The school is highly committed to training the next generation of scientists from both the UK and overseas, taking great pride in the standard of our postgraduate provision.
New students enter an exciting and diverse research environment in which we support and challenge our postgraduates to excel.
All postgraduates receive extensive research and transferable skills training.
The school is well supported by programme and project grants, particularly from the Medical Research Council (MRC), the Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council (BBSRC), Wellcome Trust, Cancer Research UK and British Heart Foundation (BHF), enabling the school to provide a vibrant environment for research.
We offer both three- or four-year PhD programmes and one-year Masters by Research (MScR) projects.
However, if you wish to join in September 2025, please apply by 30 June 2025 if you are an overseas student and 31 July 2025 if you are a home student.
The school usually has 70 research postgraduates at any one time, working in a wide variety of subject areas and adopting a range of different research approaches.
Read more about our Physiology, Pharmacology and Neuroscience Research Areas and research in the Faculty of Life Sciences .
Details of the members of staff that could serve as supervisors are available on Cardiovascular and Cell Signaling and Neuroscience .
We may consider MSc by research and MSc applications from candidates with a lower second-class degree (or international equivalent - Applying from your country | International students | University of Bristol ).
Funding to support postgraduate studentships is available from the BBSRC, BHF, and MRC (eligibility criteria apply and allocation is competitive).
A limited number of University Scholarships are also available.
International students are often self-funded or supported by funds from their own governments.
MScR students are usually self-funded.
Self-funded projects usually also require a bench fee.
Details about funded studentships are listed on the Faculty of Life Sciences website and Bursaries and scholarships | Current students | University of Bristol .
The majority of our postgraduate students become highly productive researchers through the course of their studies, publishing in leading peer-reviewed biomedical journals.
Most go on to post-doctoral research in academia and industry, both in the UK and abroad.
Others use the significant transferable skills gained during their study to enter postgraduate-level employment including in publishing, project management, science communication and policy.
The school is committed to promoting the advancement of under represented groups in science, and we provide an environment that allows everyone to meet their full potential during their studies.
The School of Physiology, Pharmacology and Neuroscience encompasses internationally-recognised research groups with interests extending from the whole animal, human disease models, cell signalling and neuropharmacology to cardiovascular/respiratory function, tissue repair and regeneration, synaptic plasticity and the study of sensory and sensorimotor systems in the intact brain.
The diversity of this research is reflected in the wide range of postgraduate projects available.
A number of research groups use the world-class Wolfson Bioimaging Facility , which contains state-of-the-art light and electron microscopes.
The school has strong links with the pharmaceutical industry and has forged collaborative research programmes with a number of companies.
The school collaborates with clinical colleagues, aiming to translate our discoveries to the clinic to treat a wide array of diseases: from neurological and neuropathic disorders to cancer and cardiovascular disease.
+ 44 117 374 6625

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/politics:
PhD Politics
This degree provides an opportunity to conduct advanced political research in an interdisciplinary school.
You will study with internationally renowned Politics and International Relations scholars in a dynamic and supportive research environment.
Our research activity is guided by focusing on key themes:
You will join an international community of students working on a range of politics and international relations issues.
Our staff also have particular expertise across a range of cultural and social theory and champion diverse research methodologies.
We aim to advance theory, knowledge and methods at the cutting edge of Politics and International Relations.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/population-health-sciences:
PhD, MD, MSc by research Population Health Sciences
The Department of Population Health Sciences is part of Bristol Medical School .
Staff in the department participate in extensive national and international research collaborations and provide health policy advice for government organisations and international bodies.
Staff and students in the department are also members of the cross-faculty Bristol Population Health Science Institute .
Many Population Health Science members are also affiliated with the MRC Integrated Epidemiology Unit (IEU).
The department is multidisciplinary and includes statisticians, epidemiologists, geneticists, sociologists, psychologists, anthropologists, health economists, public health physicians, medical ethicists, data scientists, neuroscientists, and various community-based physicians and nurses.
We are keen to attract graduates from all these disciplines to carry out postgraduate research.
Please visit the school website to see current opportunities.
Deadlines are advertised on the school website at various times throughout the year.
We welcome enquiries at any time of the year.
An upper second-class honours degree (or international equivalent) or a lower second-class honours degree (or international equivalent) with a master's degree in a subject relevant to the proposed research.
To register for an MD you must hold an MBChB.
Applicants must have identified two potential supervisors who are willing to support the research proposal.
A selection of fully funded PhD opportunities are available within the department.
Cross-institutional PhD studentships are available through the GW4 PhD Biomedical and Clinical programmes , enabling students to benefit from the diversity of expertise and resources across the GW4 network of universities.
The MRC Integrative Epidemiology Unit provides four-year PhD opportunities on cross-disciplinary projects exploring the causal effects of potentially modifiable exposures on health.
The department also hosts health data science studentships funded through EPSRC Centres for Doctoral Training.
Other funded studentships are available for projects in many research areas within the school.
Funded opportunities are advertised on the school website as they become available.
Some funding opportunities are restricted to UK citizens.
Most of our final-year research students express a wish to continue in research.
The majority of recent PhD graduates now work in the academic sector, with others working in the health and private sectors.
In addition to excellent research training, our students develop a range of transferable skills to ensure they have the best possible opportunities whatever their chosen career.
Research in the Population Health Sciences department encompasses a number of academic areas:
Many research groups, centres and units work across more than one of these themes, reflecting the highly multidisciplinary environment in the department.
Please check the Population Health Sciences school page for current projects.
Find out more about our staff in the Bristol Medical School .
Students who have already secured funding, or are looking to secure personal funding, must contact potential supervisors to discuss research topics before applying.
Sharen Hockey O'Keefe, Graduate Administration Manager
117 928 7274
brms-pgradmin@bristol.ac.uk
117 455 7759

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/practice-oriented-artificial-intelligence:
PhD Practice-Oriented Artificial Intelligence
Due to high demand this programme has now closed for applications for 2025/26 entry.
Practice-oriented artificial intelligence is about bridging the gap between complex problem domains such as those found in science and research, and Artificial Intelligence (AI) algorithms and techniques that could be used to solve problems in those domains.
We need AI experts with the ability to act as a bridge between domain experts and AI technology.
But rather than delivering 'AI for x' experts for a fixed domain 'x', which might quickly lose its importance or utility, our Practice-Oriented Artificial Intelligence (PrO-AI) doctoral training programme will deliver experts with the flexibility to adapt to new domains during the course of their career.
The PrO-AI CDT pulls together the University of Bristol's proven track record in doctoral AI training and its unique and comprehensive strengths in AI applied to a range of science and research areas including health, environment and energy, and creative industries, to deliver highly-trained AI innovators with the transferable skills to deliver societal impact across domains.
The PrO-AI training programme consists of a Foundation Year followed by three years of PhD study.
Practice projects offer 'deep dives' into a research domain.
You will liaise with domain experts to get an understanding of their expertise, expectations and success criteria.
Exploring different domains will allow you to acquire the transferable skills that will be key when moving between domains in your future career.
The 'Foundations of Practice-Oriented AI' module will run in a student-led, 'flipped classroom' manner and covers:
Academic mentors attend the sessions to gauge their mentee's knowledge and identify areas where further study will be beneficial as part of the 'Research Orientation' module, which completes your foundational training in an individual-centred manner and guides you on the way to choosing a research topic for the summer project and subsequent PhD research.
Throughout your programme you will participate in and build an online portfolio of transferable skills training inspired by the Vitae Researcher Development Framework .
This includes training in areas such as responsible innovation, entrepreneurship, hosting visitors, organising events, public engagement, and citizen science.
The CDT is primarily aimed at students with a first class degree in engineering or science and with strong programming skills, but applicants with suitable skills acquired in employment will also be considered.
Applicants need to have prior knowledge and experience with selected contemporary AI techniques and demonstrate this in their application.
The CDT programme has funds to support approximately ten studentships per year including tuition fees, stipend, research and travel expenses.
Applications received from self-funded/sponsored international students are welcome and will be considered.
Graduates will have the sought-after skills to adapt quickly to a problem domain in science and research that they haven't worked in previously.
They can become part of new and existing world-class research groups, as well as pursue highly rewarding careers in a variety of industries around the world.
Our industry partners cover a broad range of AI technologies and play different roles in enhancing the PrO-AI training programme.
Current partners operate in the following industry sectors:
Read about our Bristol AI research groups .
For further information, please see the guidance for how to apply and the information on our webpages .
Admissions team
Programme enquiries
proai-cdt-admissions@bristol.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/psychology:
PhD, MSc by research Psychology
Studying human behaviour in the School of Psychological Science will give you the opportunity to be part of a vibrant postgraduate community and a world-class research department with more than 30 internationally recognised academic staff.
The programme aims to provide students with outstanding and cutting-edge training from the purest research into psychology to interdisciplinary research in a wide range of areas.
These include advancing the frontiers of cognitive science into engineering or educational applications, investigating the neural mechanisms underlying human behaviours, and developing integrated interventions to improve health and wellbeing.
Our postgraduate students are a very important part of the School's research culture and a key component in maintaining our international research reputation.
Current research areas can be found on the School of Psychological Science Research page .
A first or upper second-class honours degree (or international equivalent) in psychology or a related discipline is required for entry to the PhD and MSc by research programmes.
Students may be eligible to apply for funded scholarships, for example, doctoral training centre scholarships and University of Bristol scholarships.
Details of these and other scholarship opportunities, such as the China Scholarship Council programme, are published on the School of Psychological Science website and the Faculty of Life Sciences website.
Many of our PhD graduates continue with a career in academia; others work in the private sector or in government institutions.
The School is committed to promoting the advancement of underrepresented groups in science, and we provide an environment that allows everyone to meet their full potential during their studies.
Research activity in the School is organised into the following research themes.
Within each theme, there is a set of focused research groups.
· Health and Wellbeing
· Mind and Brain
· Self and Society
An important feature of this research structure is the extent of collaboration across research groups and across themes.
All groups address fundamental questions and look at the impact of their work more broadly in industry, healthcare, education and society.
The school usually has up to 70 research postgraduates at any one time, working in a wide variety of subject areas and adopting a range of different research approaches.
Read more about our Psychology Research Areas and research in the Faculty of Life Sciences .
You must also contact these supervisors by email in advance of making your application.
It is compulsory to indicate the names of one or two supervisors whose research interests you, and to contact these supervisors by email in advance of making your application.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/quantum-information-science-and-technologies:
PhD Quantum Information Science and Technologies
The Quantum Information Science and Technologies (QIST) programme offers a unique postgraduate training and development experience for those wishing to pursue a career in the quantum information science and technologies sector.
It supports both fundamental and applied research that will enable new forms of computation, sensing, and communications that address major societal challenges.
Combining the expertise at the University of Bristol and the University of Sussex, the aim of the QIST CDT is to train the UK's best quantum scientists and engineers, capable of working in all areas of the burgeoning QIST ecosystem.
The QIST CDT boasts a bespoke training model, an evolution of the decade-long Quantum Engineering CDT, tailored to the training needs of QIST that disrupts the tradition of training PhD graduates for academic careers.
At the core of the programme you will receive cutting-edge training in experimental and theoretical quantum information and quantum technologies.
Furthermore, you will also receive specialised training in entrepreneurship, project management, collaborative working, academic practice, science policy, and communication skills.
This holistic programme will hone your ability to work effectively in diverse teams, with peers from varied backgrounds in physics, chemistry, mathematics, engineering and computer science.
The first year of the programme is a balance of taught courses, seminars, workshops, and group and independent research projects, with both theoretical and practical aspects.
This training offers a first-class foundation for developing and completing a PhD project with our wide range of academic and non-academic supervisors and partners.
Furthermore, this cohort approach to learning creates an environment that is both stimulating and empowering.
It also supports the creation, growth and development of personal and professional networks from the first day, broadening your technical understanding and enabling you to put your research into context.
The QIST CDT training extends beyond the first year, with cohort and cross-cohort activities, alongside multiple chances to explore several professional opportunities, from academic secondments, to industrial placements and internships with our partners working on science communication, outreach, science policy and entrepreneurship.
Ultimately, the CDT offers the opportunity to undertake world-class postgraduate research coupled with an unrivalled opportunity to learn and understand the foundations of quantum physics and then apply them to real-world situations to help shape the future of the quantum information science and technology sector.
Please see the Quantum Engineering webpage for deadlines.
Interviews for a September 2025 start are likely to take place in March 2025.
Year 1 is a cohort-based training programme with modules delivered by the University of Bristol and the University of Sussex plus either one 6-month-long independent research project or two 3-month-long exploratory research projects.
Successful completion of Year 1 is required to progress.
Years 2-4 is the research phase leading to the PhD degree.
An upper second-class degree (or international equivalent) in physics, electrical engineering, computer science, maths, chemistry or in other relevant physical sciences.
Studentships covering fees, a travel budget and a stipend at an enhanced rate (currently £20,237 per annum tax free) are available to UK/Overseas students.
Underpinned by world-class research and industrial expertise, our four-year doctoral programme offers a stimulating experience for those seeking academic excellence and a route into the growing quantum technologies industry.
Our extensive network of academic and industrial partners provides the opportunity to collaborate on cutting-edge science.
You will also be supported to develop a range of complementary skills including entrepreneurial business skills, knowledge of commercialisation, creative thinking, teamwork, communication skills and project management.
See the QIST CDT webpages for further information about the centre's areas of research:
Lin Burden, Postgraduate Administrator
117 456 0850
QIST-CDT@bristol.ac.uk
Quantum Engineering CDT
Sussex Centre for Quantum Technologies: University of Sussex

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/religion-and-theology:
PhD, MPhil Religion and Theology
The Department of Religion and Theology has a thriving and innovative research culture and includes leading researchers in the thought and practice of Buddhism, Christianity, East Asian Religions, Judaism, Islam, Philosophy of Religion, Theology and Ethics.
We are thinking across historical periods and through a variety of critical approaches using ethnographic, linguistic, historical, philosophical, and theological methods.
We provide many opportunities for postgraduates to build a strong portfolio of skills and experiences in preparation for an academic career and professional life beyond university.
We often collaborate with the interdepartmental Centre for Medieval Studies .
We invite you to participate in the stimulating intellectual and social life of the department, with fortnightly research seminars and guest lectures that bring all staff and students together.
MPhil: a one-year (full-time) research degree.
Students have the option to audit a wide selection of BA units giving you the opportunity to study subjects you might have missed out at BA level or want to develop if they are relevant to your research.
Students who register on the MPhil may choose to exit with the MPhil after the normal one year period of full-time study (or two years part-time study) or submit for upgrade to PhD.
The majority of graduates from this programme develop careers as academics in secondary and higher education while maintaining the capacity to undertake new and innovative research in the field of religion and theology.
The department has developed a research agenda based on a rationale of depth, and is highly recognised for its distinctive research environment and culture, ranking 15th in the UK for Theology and Religious Studies ( THE analysis of REF 2021).
Staff and postgraduates are also engaged in Faculty of Arts, Law and Social Sciences interdisciplinary research themes and centres: Centre for Medieval Studies ; Centre for Material Texts ; Centre for Health, Humanities and Science .
Equally, individual academics have established distinctive research areas that attract a number of research students.
The department has expertise in the following areas:
The University of Bristol Religion and Theology department is recognised as having a characteristic and outstanding focus on Abrahamic religions and Buddhist Studies.
The department has produced exceptional research in both these areas, realising the potential for interdisciplinarity between the two clusters and across the Faculty of Arts, Law and Social Sciences.
Dr Rita Langer
117 928 8169
Rita.Langer@bristol.ac.uk
Department of Religion and Theology

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/russian:
PhD, MPhil Russian
The Department of Russian has an outstanding record of research.
We pride ourselves on our strong, active research culture, and the research interests of staff span a broad range of disciplinary emphases.
We can support postgraduate research in many areas within the following broad fields:
Our postgraduates are a key part of the research community and are integrated into the research activities of the School of Modern Languages and the faculty.
The MPhil and PhD are available via distance learning.
MPhil/PhD: A master's qualification, or be working towards a master's qualification, or international equivalent.
A large number of graduates from this programme develop careers in higher education or work on high-level research projects in the field of Russian; some graduates take up careers in translating and interpreting.
Research staff in Russian studies have been involved in the following initiatives at Bristol:
Department of Russian

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/social-policy:
PhD Social Policy
Our policy experts come from a wide variety of backgrounds in social policy research, social work, sociology, poverty, gender violence, disability studies, childhood studies, health and social care, urban studies, economics, psychology, physical activity, nutrition and health sciences, based within seven specialist research centres .
We particularly welcome applications on topics with direct relevance to national and international policy concerns.
Studying social policy equips students with a wide range of knowledge and skills across various interests and fields.
As a result, studying social policy and developing skills in analysis and research is relevant to work in many different policy settings and subject areas.
Previous University of Bristol social policy students have gone on to work in research and teaching in higher education, policy-related fields, local government, other public sector bodies and third sector organisations.
Careers have included those related to health and welfare, community work, the criminal justice system, higher education, management and consultancy.
The school houses seven specialist research centres:

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/social-work:
PhD Social Work
A PhD in Social Work equips students with the skills and experience to apply social research methods and tools to critically examine some of the most pressing contemporary issues in social work practice, policy and education.
Students are encouraged to develop a topic of interest that directly relates to their own practice experiences or is of wider interest and relevance to the delivery of social work services and support to disadvantaged individuals and groups, either in the UK or overseas.
Students will be supported to develop research questions and design a study that enables them to rigorously research their topic of interest and make an original contribution to the knowledge base of social work.
Topics may directly explore practice issues or contribute more broadly to social work knowledge, working with specific groups and communities and addressing systems of inequality and social disadvantage.
Where appropriate, students are encouraged to work in collaboration with relevant organisations and user and interest groups to ensure their research outputs and key findings can directly inform social work practice and service delivery.
We are a multidisciplinary, research-intensive school which brings together theory, policy and practice.
Our policy experts come from a wide variety of backgrounds in social policy research, social work, sociology, gender violence, childhood studies, disability studies, health and social care, history, human geography, economics, psychology, physical activity, nutrition and health sciences, urban studies, and poverty, based within seven specialist research centres.
Supervisors in social work bring diverse interests across child and family social work (for example, looked after children; adoption and fostering; supporting parents with substance misuse or learning disabilities; domestic violence responses and interventions) and adult social care (for example, disabled adults' social care needs; housing and homelessness; mental health social work; social work with older people and carers; inclusive service provision for LGBTQ+ individuals).
The school is an exciting environment for postgraduate studies; we welcome students from the UK and abroad to join our diverse and highly-rated research team.
We particularly welcome applications on topics with direct relevance to national and international social work and policy concerns.
Studying social work will equip you with a wide range of skills across a broad spectrum of interests and fields.
The skills in analysis and research you will develop are relevant to vocational or non-vocational work in many different settings.
Previous graduates have gone on to have careers in higher education, policy-related fields, local government, other public sector bodies and third sector organisations.
Careers have included those related to health and welfare, social work practice, academic posts, community work, the criminal justice system, management and research consultancy.
Senior Postgraduate Admissions Administrator

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/sociology:
PhD Sociology
This degree provides an opportunity to develop your own research expertise by studying a sociological issue in an interdisciplinary school.
You will study with internationally renowned sociologists in a dynamic and supportive research environment.
They are involved in funded research, research centres and groups looking at everything from digital economies and futures, food security, and integration, to music festivals, migration, modern slavery and social inequalities.
You will join an international community of students working in a range of sociological areas.
You will be assigned two PhD supervisors whose current active research interests and expertise are relevant to your chosen research area.
We aim to advance theory, knowledge and methods at the cutting edge of Sociology.
Our aim is not just to monitor the social world but to contribute to a better understanding and to ways that might improve it.
For more information about application deadlines for PGR scholarships, please see below Funding.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/sociotechnical-futures-and-digital-methods:
PhD Sociotechnical Futures and Digital Methods
The PhD Sociotechnical Futures and Digital Methods is linked to the interdisciplinary South West doctoral pathway of the same name.
This degree provides an opportunity to conduct advanced research on digital methods and sociotechnical futures in an interdisciplinary school.
You will develop a comprehensive understanding of the social and political dimensions of technological transformation as occasioned by, for instance, the digital revolution, green energy or artificial intelligence.
It will also equip you with interdisciplinary methods to study the nature of technological change: the ways it shapes society, and the ways it is shaped by society.
You will study with internationally renowned scholars of science and technology, politics and international relations in a dynamic and supportive research environment.
We aim to advance theory, knowledge and methods to better equip researchers to understand and address technological transformations and their social and political implications.
The PhD in Sociotechnical Futures and Digital Methods will combine both taught and research components.
You are required to complete this taught component, unless you can provide evidence that you have undertaken this training before joining the programme.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/south-west-biosciences-doctoral-training-partnership-bbsrc:
PhD South West Biosciences Doctoral Training Partnership (BBSRC)
The South West Biosciences Doctoral Training Partnership (SWBio DTP) is led by the University of Bristol, together with the Universities of Bath, Cardiff and Exeter, alongside Rothamsted Research.
This partnership also includes the following collaborative partners: Marine Biological Association (MBA), University of Plymouth, Swansea University, UCB Pharma, University of the West of England (UWE) and SETsquared Bristol.
This partnership has established international, national and regional scientific networks, and widely recognised research excellence and facilities.
We aim to provide you with outstanding interdisciplinary bioscience research training, underpinned by transformative technologies.
You will be recruited to a broad, interdisciplinary project, supported by a multidisciplinary supervisory team, with many cross-institutional PhD projects available that build on the expertise of each of our partners.
There are also opportunities to:
Further information can be found on the SWBio DTP website .
This programme will close for applications on 11 December 2024
Our structured training programme will ensure you are well equipped as a bioscience researcher, supporting careers into academia, industry and beyond.
First year
We provide a broad awareness of the fundamental research approaches in biosciences and how they could be applied to real-life situations through:
Note: You will need to complete the first year to progress into your second year of studies.
Also, if you are unable to continue your PhD, an MRes exit route is available upon completion of the first year.
Further information >>
Second to fourth years
The remaining years will be more like a conventional PhD, where you will focus on your PhD project.
Note: The PhD thesis must be submitted within 4 years (full-time equivalent) of starting the programme.
Placements
To help broaden your career horizons, you will undertake
These are to provide you with highly desirable skills, experience and knowledge that can be applied to many career sectors.
About our placement schemes >>
Cohort activities
You will have the opportunity to join many partnership cohort activities, such as student conferences, workshops and outreach events.
Here you will meet students across the partnership, giving you access to a thriving multidisciplinary and supportive student network.
About our cohort activities >>
To find potential supervisors visit this page.
To check the latest entry requirements click here.
Information on eligibility and funding can be found at the SWBio website.
Fully-funded studentships are available for home students.
If you do not meet the home criteria, you will be classed as an international student.
A limited number of funded-studentships are available for international applicants .
Students who complete this programme are likely to enter research careers within academia or industry, or careers in non-governmental organisations (NGOs), teaching, public engagement or government.
A wide range of research projects are advertised each year.
These are hosted across many schools.
Sue Summerill
fls-gam@bristol.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/superconductivity:
PhD Superconductivity
The Superconductivity CDT programme aims to develop knowledge and understanding as well as conduct research in the broad interdisciplinary subject of superconductivity.
The subject area is at the forefront of efforts to reduce use of fossil fuels, improve healthcare and develop novel quantum technologies.
The training aspects of the CDT will give students holistic knowledge of the various aspects of superconductivity, ranging from the fundamental science, through the development of new materials and the optimisation of existing ones, and to the use of superconductors for applications ranging from magnets for nuclear fusion reactors and magnetic resonance imaging machines, power transmission, and quantum devices such as those uses for quantum computing applications.
The programme will draw on knowledge from Physics, Chemistry, Materials science and Engineering.
The programme includes training in transferrable skills such as writing and presentations skills, outreach and public engagements, and business and entrepreneurship.
A key aspect of the programme is that it has an emphasis on encouraging students to work together both as a cohort and between different year groups.
It contains several specific mechanisms to promote cohort development.
These include three cohort-wide residential training weeks distributed over the academic year, an annual conference, cross-cohort group projects and seminars, and shared mentoring.
Students will benefit from each other's knowledge and insights, understanding and taking interest in problems outside of their specialism and contributing to each other's progress and training through peer-to-peer learning.
Students are recruited to the CDT to work on specific research projects.
A list of available projects is available to view here .
September 2025 start: 1 August 2025
The first year of the programme consists of a series of modules which transitions students from undergraduates to independent scientists ready to pursue research in superconductivity at the graduate level, or alternatively to work outside academia with high-level expertise in the field.
This is accomplished through a balance of taught courses, seminars, and group and independent research projects, with both theoretical and practical aspects.
The course is delivered in partnership between the Universities of Bristol, Cambridge and Oxford.
Our industrial and facility partners enrich these courses by delivering lectures that demonstrate real-world applications of superconducting technologies within their organisations.
A central aspect of the programme is the PhD Research project.
This begins right at the start of the course and continues throughout, thus giving students perspective on the taught part of the course and building engagement.
Visit our programme catalogue for full details of the structure and unit content for our PhD in Superconductivity.
A master's qualification, or be working towards a master's qualification, or international equivalent.
A number of fully funded scholarships (Fees + Stipend ) are available.
Graduates completing a PhD in this subject area go on to a wide range of different careers including: research scientist in industry or international research laboratory, software development, patent attorney and academic research.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/sustainable-futures:
PhD Sustainable Futures
The interdisciplinary pathway in Sustainable Futures seeks to produce a new generation of researchers who can address the pressing social issues of sustainability in the context of global environmental change.
Sustainability research asks how ecosystems and human wellbeing can be maintained and enhanced in the long term, given rising populations, limited natural resources and a fragile environment.
The field, with its clear applied focus and strong strategic future-directed policy implications, has social sciences at its heart.
The programme requires a broad interdisciplinary approach and an understanding of economics, law, the politics and psychology of sustainability, and the geography and demographics of those affected.
We therefore deliberately expose students to a broad range of material to help them appreciate and understand interconnected perspectives and to provide them with skills to work effectively across disciplines.
We welcome students from a wide range of disciplinary backgrounds.
ESRC funding: Internal deadline - 2 December 2024
ESRC deadline - 12 noon on 14 January 2025
Those applying for the ESRC funded pathway "Climate Change, Sustainability & Society" apply via the PhD in Sustainable Futures.
PhD students will follow the structure of the School of their primary supervisor and attend any mandatory units as required by this, unless they are exempted from individual units after applying for Recognised Prior Learning.
ESRC/SWDTP-students may be required to take additional credits as determined by SWDTP.
A minimum of an upper second class honours degree from a social sciences or law discipline, and a master's qualification, achieving at least a merit (or equivalent) with appropriate research training.
The Faculty of Arts, Law and Social Sciences has an allocation of MSc/MRes + PhD and PhD only ESRC scholarships.
The PhD in Sustainable Futures falls under the SWDTP pathway "Climate Change, Sustainability and Society" and the PhD can be combined with MSc/MRes degrees under this pathway within the Faculty.
The length of these scholarships will be dependent on training needs and can vary, with the shortest generally being 3 years 6 months (for PhD only).
The ESRC deadline is:  12 noon 14 January 2025.
Please visit the school's fees and funding web pages for further information.
The PhD in Sustainable Futures offers useful preparation for related careers in the public, private or civic sectors, as well as in academia.
In the public sector, it may open opportunities in government departments and agencies at international, national and local levels.
In the private sector, it provides training and analytical skills of relevance to careers in consultancy or environmental management, for example.
In the civic sector, it can lead to careers with environmental NGOs or development bodies.
The pathway draws on expertise from the schools, institutes and research centres at the Universities of Bristol, Bath, Exeter and The University of the West of England (UWE).
University of Bristol
University of Bath
University of Exeter
The University of the West of England
Key research interests
You will have two supervisors from different disciplinary perspectives.
Your supervisors convene joint meetings regularly and attend an annual one-day workshop for all pathway students.
117 455 1269
Professor Margherita Pieraccini
m.pieraccini@bristol.ac.uk
South West Doctoral Training Partnership (SWDTP)

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/technology-enhanced-chemical-synthesis:
PhD Technology Enhanced Chemical Synthesis
Based at the School of Chemistry, our alternative to the traditional PhD offers a unique training period designed to strengthen your research techniques and introduce new technologies and digital methods for Chemical Synthesis through lab rotations.
You will benefit from developing a range of transferable skills (including presentation, teamwork and problem-solving) and broader professional skills to enhance your employability.
After successfully completing the training element, you will embark on a research project related to Chemical Synthesis.
During this time, your scientific development will continue to be enhanced by entrepreneurship training and further professional and academic courses provided by our industrial partners.
As a result, you will end your PhD as a well-rounded candidate for careers in both industry and academia.
We are seeking applications from students with interests covering the whole breadth of the synthetic chemistry spectrum.
We encourage applications from students who would like to carry out research in areas including:
Applications are welcomed from students with or expecting to gain a first or upper-second class honours MSci/MChem (or equivalent).
This is one of the two CDTs hosted by the School of Chemistry offering training in a number of different disciplines.
Application deadlines will be advertised on our CDT in Technology Enhanced Chemical Synthesis website .
At the start of the PhD programme, you will participate in an 8-month taught training period in Synthetic and Digital Chemistry.
The training programme is designed to strengthen your research techniques and introduce new technologies for chemical synthesis.
The main goal of Synthetic and Digital Chemistry training is to enable you to make an informed choice of PhD project.
You will develop research proposals during brainstorming sessions, and undertake short rotations in synthetic chemistry labs - contributing to the group's research aims - before selecting your PhD project.
In addition, we provide training in automated and high throughput synthesis, computational methods for synthesis design and new reactor technologies, alongside research lectures by world-renowned academics, who are leaders in their fields.
You will also benefit from developing a range of transferable skills through a series of workshops, virtual lab experiments and a journal club.
A progression interview will be held in Spring, after which you will begin the process of selecting your PhD project area.
Having explored potential research projects in chemical synthesis during the brainstorming sessions, you will choose your preferred areas of research in May and will start working on your three-year PhD research project in June of the first year.
Find out more about the PhD project areas .
Full details of the structure and unit content for the first year of this programme will be available in the unit and programme catalogue , subject to approval.
An upper second-class honours MSci/MChem degree in chemistry, or international equivalent.
We have a number of EPSRC and university funded studentships, which will be allocated to successful candidates (national and international).
This PhD programme has grown out of our previous Chemical Synthesis PhD.
Graduates from this programme are currently working in a range of sectors, including further academic research, pharma, agro and biotech industries, patent law and teaching.
We cover the breadth of chemical synthesis and strongly encourage cross-disciplinary research projects.
Our research activity is underpinned by the latest in synthetic chemistry technologies such as automated reaction optimisation, AI for synthesis design, data-driven discovery and predictive methods.
Research interests of our staff include:
We currently work closely with several companies in the chemical and pharmaceutical sectors, including Astex, AstraZeneca, Bayer, GSK, Merck, MSD, Pfizer, Syngenta and Vertex.
CDT in Technology Enhanced Chemical Synthesis Programme Delivery Team
Krissy Stothard, CDT Administration Manager
bcs-cdt@bristol.ac.uk
Professor Jonathan Clayden, CDT Director
Centre for Doctoral Training in Technology Enhanced Chemical Synthesis

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/theatre-and-performance:
PhD, MPhil Theatre and Performance
The Department of Theatre offers supervisory expertise in a wide range of subject areas, including early modern theatre and performance practices; 19th- and 20th-century theatre and performance histories and practices; contemporary British theatre; adaptation and translation of theatre and performance; contemporary performance practices; performance archives; dance histories and practices; the role of the body in performance; philosophy and performance; virtual and augmented reality; immersive theatre and audience studies.
The department has particular strengths in historical research, digital and immersive theatre, and practice-as-research.
We offer the opportunity for practice-based projects as well as projects based in the archives of the Theatre Collection , an accredited museum and archive service housed in the department.
The Theatre Collection is the second-largest theatre archive collection in the UK with particular strengths in theatre in the South West, 19th-century theatre, post-Second World War theatre, live and performance art, scenery and costume design, and theatrical or related artwork.
Should research proposals span various disciplines, a supervisory team will be assembled across departments and faculties to meet the needs of the project.
A large number of graduates from this programme develop careers in higher education or work on high-level research projects in the field of theatre and performance.
Some graduates take up careers in directing and producing.
There is a lively postgraduate community in the department which shares research through regular reading groups, symposia of current postgraduate research, and sharing performance and research work in progress.
The department has a programme of research seminars and public talks, and strong partnerships with regional theatre and performance companies and arts organisations.
Beyond the department, students participate in interdisciplinary research clusters, centres and institutes, working with colleagues across the University and the South West.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/translation:
PhD, MPhil Translation
The School of Modern Languages has particular research strengths in translation studies.
Fields of research interest include: audiovisual translation; translation technologies (especially machine translation); media accessibility; translation history; literary translation (including poetry, drama, fiction, practice-oriented research); adaptation studies; and the ways in which translation is used and perceived by institutions and by civil society.
Languages include Catalan, Chinese, French, German, Italian, Portuguese, Russian and Spanish.
The School's translation activities benefit from extensive collaborations with outside institutions and networks, including the Institute of Translation and Interpreting (ITI) , the Chartered Institute of Linguists and the Association of Programmes in Translation and Interpreting Studies (APTIS) .
The Penguin Archive and the Theatre Collection , housed at the University, offer important resources for research in translation publishing and performance.
The School also owns a Tobii eye tracker and a copy of iMotions software, which we use for data analysis in screen studies and translation process research.
We welcome applications from students wishing to pursue tailor-made research to master's or doctoral level in any of the above areas.
Our postgraduates are fully integrated in a professionally and personally supportive departmental community.
We encourage you to attend and give papers at School and University research events, as well as national and international conferences.
Funding is available to support fieldwork and participation in external events.
We support you in developing a full range of academic skills, including teaching.
Our research facilities foster interdisciplinary collaboration between all departments through research seminars and other events and include the Multimedia Centre : a specialist language centre comprising a language laboratory, media suite, a library of foreign films, newspapers and magazines, and an 18-seat screening room.
Graduates from this programme have progressed to careers in higher education or have gone on to work on high-level research projects in the field of translation.
Some graduates take up careers in freelance translating and interpreting.
Further information about the school's research groups can be found on the School of Modern Languages webpages .

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/translational-health-sciences:
PhD, MD, MSc by research Translational Health Sciences
Translational Health Sciences is part of the Bristol Medical School.
Staff and students are based in high-quality research and clinical settings across the city, including the Bristol Royal Infirmary, Southmead Hospital and the advanced laboratory facilities in the Dorothy Hodgkin Building.
The school undertakes laboratory-based, translational and applied research, fostering excellent collaboration between staff and students.
It comprises a mix of fundamental and clinically trained scientists, enabling collaborative translational and healthcare research using a wide range of techniques, from molecular biology to epidemiology.
Our work focuses on clinical research and a significant part of this has translated to clinical trials that are led by the school.
These include ongoing trials related to:
These studies are complemented by translational clinical studies, engaging both clinical and preclinical scientists.
Our extensive national and international collaborations both in industry and academia contribute to a first-class working environment in which to undertake interdisciplinary research and teaching.
This research degree is also available via online learning.
Visit our potential supervisors for this programme and view their profiles for details of their research and expertise.
An upper second-class honours degree (or international equivalent) or a master's degree with a lower second-class honours degree (or international equivalent) in a biological, biomedical, or related subjects.
For an MD, you must hold an MBChB .
Research council funding is restricted to UK students.
The number of opportunities available will be determined by supervisor and funding availability.
Self-funding is an option.
The majority of our postgraduate students develop into highly productive researchers publishing in leading peer-reviewed journals.
Most go on to postdoctoral research in academia and industry, both in the UK and overseas.
Find out about all our research groups on our Bristol Medical School site .

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research/veterinary-sciences:
PhD, MSc by research Veterinary Sciences
Postgraduate research in the Bristol Veterinary School is largely based at the Langford campus, which houses a large number of research groups along with Langford Vets and the University farm.
The strength of the school's research programme is greatly enhanced by its position within the Faculty of Health Sciences.
Our research extends from the fundamental to the applied and we collaborate with other research groups in the faculty and beyond, building on a policy of integration of basic science with veterinary activities.
Our postgraduate students are members of the Faculty of Health Sciences graduate school and benefit from the training opportunities it provides.
We welcome enquiries and applications from prospective MScR and PhD students.
Langford
This research degree is also available via distance learning.
You can find the names and contact details of potential supervisors within the different research groups at Bristol Veterinary School here
An upper second-class degree (or equivalent qualification) in a relevant subject.
We advertise fully funded studentships across the year.
These are listed on the school website .
We recruit both veterinary and basic science students to our postgraduate programme.
Many of our graduates go on to pursue academic positions in universities, performing a range of research, teaching and clinical roles.
Other graduates have been recruited by research institutes (for example, BBSRC), government bodies (for example, Defra) or industry (for example, pharmaceutical, animal feed) where they perform research and advisory roles.
Some veterinary graduates perform specialist clinical activities in veterinary practices.
Research activities in the school are focused on two research themes and encompass both clinical excellence and strong basic science.
Our themes
Population Health
This theme embodies a multidisciplinary approach to studying the health of populations, spanning molecules to communities of animals including the human animal through One Health approaches.
Global Food Security
Research in this theme addresses major challenges to sustainable intensification of livestock production, including epidemiology, infectious disease, nutrition and management, 'One Health', parasitology, veterinary public health, animal behaviour and animal welfare.
Our underpinning research communities
Interdisciplinary and cross-theme/group research is encouraged and supported.
There are four Research Communities underpinning our two main themes:
Animal Welfare and Behaviour
This spans fundamental studies of cognition and emotion - through validation of animal welfare assessment methodologies - identifying and quantifying welfare problems and their causes in farm, laboratory, companion and working animals, as well as to implementing research-based solutions in the real world.
Infection, Inflammation and Immunotherapy
The community brings together several research strengths ranging from the fundamental to more applied research with potential for impact, which all collectively benefit from being part of a university-wide infection and immunity research theme.
The research areas include immunology, microbiology, epidemiology, mathematical modelling, infectious diseases, zoonoses, parasitology and social science approaches.
Clinical Research
This community focuses on naturally-occurring diseases within the clinical caseload and is directed towards the prevention and treatment of animal and human diseases.
This community brings together veterinary clinical specialists engaged in high-quality clinical research, working in new clinical and imaging facilities, with biomedical scientists who study fundamental physiological mechanisms and disease processes.
One Health Approaches to Antimicrobial Resistance (AMR)
Research is promoted and facilitated by the 'AMR Force', an active and inclusive group of enthusiastic researchers.
Work is carried out in the South West, nationally and internationally, and the team are interested in decreasing antibiotic use while improving animal health through a plurality of approaches addressing differing styles and attitudes.
Data platforms and infrastructure
The school has a coordinated multidisciplinary approach to realising 21st century veterinary research and is developing platform technologies, data analytics and biobanking facilities to support cohort studies and high-quality clinical trials.
With the completion of both the CIEL poultry research facility and the John Oldacre Farm Platform, a highly instrumented dairy farm on site, a wide range of data-intensive studies are possible to tackle grand challenges in both animal and human health.
These studies are supported by strong links to data-intensive research and facilities across the University.
Interdisciplinary research is a major strength of the school and is reflected by our participation in these University and UK initiatives:

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/visits-open-days/campus-tours:
Our campus tours provide an opportunity for prospective postgraduate students to learn more about the University of Bristol.
Please note: Our campus tours are currently closed and will recommence at the end of October 2025
Alternatively, you can take a virtual tour from the comfort of your own home.
You'll be able to look inside our buildings to see our facilities and understand what life will be like as a student here.
Sign up to our online student life webinars.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/visits-open-days/postgraduate-fairs:
We attend many postgraduate education fairs across the UK each year, both in person and virtually.
These events give you the opportunity to chat to members of the team, discuss your plans and find out more about the support available to our postgraduate students.
Bristol Careers Fair
If you live outside the UK, our International Office lists visits to your country .
Read stories from our current postgraduates to learn more about student life at Bristol.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/visits-open-days/postgraduate-chats:
Chat live with a current postgraduate student on Zoom and discover what life at Bristol is really like.
Please note: Our online chat sessions are currently closed and will re-open in April 2026.
By participating in these sessions, you agree to our postgraduate ambassador chats code of conduct (PDF, 66kB) The sessions will be recorded to ensure the safety of all participants.
The recordings will not be shared .
If you have any questions, please email postgraduate-recruitment@bristol.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/international/why:
Discover more about the University and why you should choose Bristol for your studies.
The University of Bristol is a UK top 10 university with an international reputation for high-quality education and research.
Bristol is ranked 8th in the UK, and 51st in the world, in the latest QS World University Rankings (2026).
We offer more than 600 undergraduate and postgraduate degrees in a comprehensive choice of subjects.
We also run foundation programmes, short-term study options and summer schools.
Browse our courses and programmes.
Bristol is a friendly and diverse place to study.
The University is home to around 30,000 undergraduates and postgraduates.
Over 28% of our students are international, with more than 150 countries represented.
The Global Lounge is a multicultural hub that hosts social events and cultural celebrations throughout the year.
Find upcoming events at the Global Lounge.
As a member of the Russell Group of UK research-intensive universities, Bristol tackles some of the world’s greatest challenges, and we are proud to be ranked 5th in the UK for research ( THE analysis of REF 2021).
Bristol has been named Research University of the Year 2026 in the Daily Mail University Guide (2026) for ‘constantly pushing at the boundaries of human knowledge’.
The content of our courses and programmes is built around this innovative research.
Join us to work at the cutting edge and learn from expert academics at the forefront of their fields.
Find out more about our research.
Bristol graduates are highly sought after by employers in the UK and overseas.
The University is joint 7th in the UK in the latest QS Graduate Employability Rankings (2022).
Find out how our Careers Service can support you during your studies and for up to 3 years after graduation.
If you have the ability to succeed at Bristol, concerns about funding should not stop you from applying.
Scholarship opportunities for international students include our Think Big programme.
For students joining us in 2025, we have invested up to £6 million in scholarships that can help fund your tuition fees.
Browse scholarships for international students.
The University is at the heart of Bristol, one of Europe's most exciting and creative cities.
Bristol is a friendly, safe place to live and is home to people from 187 nationalities, speaking 91 languages.
Take a virtual tour of our campus and city.
Bristol is committed to sustainability.
We were the first university in the UK to declare a climate emergency.
Our environmental research has global impact, and we have an ambitious green strategy.
Find out more about our green initiatives.
Bristol is a great place to be a student.
Our active Students’ Union (Bristol SU) helps you get the best from campus life, whatever your interests.
Bristol SU supports more than 350 student-run clubs and societies, including over 50 country-specific and religious societies.
Explore the societies you can join.
We understand the challenges of studying abroad.
We will help you stay healthy, safe, and supported in your time at Bristol.
Our Student Services support all aspects of university life, so you can make the most of your studies.
Find out how we support international students.
Sign up for our email updates to receive exclusive information and download our International Guide.
Discover the wide range of courses and programmes available at the University.
Find out more about studying at the University of Bristol by contacting the International Office.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/international/courses:
Prepare for your undergraduate degree in the UK with the International Foundation Programme.
Find out more about the different undergraduate courses at Bristol, leading to a bachelor's degree.
Find out more about the different taught and research programmes available, including master's degrees and PhDs.
If you attend one of our international partner universities, transfer your studies to Bristol with our Global Transfer Programme.
Study at the University of Bristol for a year or a semester of your undergraduate degree.
Explore opportunities for international undergraduates to study in Bristol during the summer.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/international/countries:
Find out how to apply to study at the University of Bristol from your region.
The University of Bristol welcomes applications from international students, and we accept a wide range of qualifications for undergraduate and postgraduate study.
If you have studied at a school, college or university outside the UK, please select your region below for information about our typical entry requirements, scholarships and education representatives.
If your region or qualification is not listed, please contact us for advice.
Entry requirements vary for each course.
Please check our undergraduate or postgraduate course listings for details of specific requirements.
Some regions’ degrees or awarding universities should be accredited for us to be able to consider them in an application for postgraduate study.
Where this is the case, this will be stated in the region-specific guidance below.
Find further information for staff about qualification equivalences.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/international/fees-finance:
Find out the costs of studying and living in Bristol, and how you can apply for our international scholarships.
Tuition fees will depend on your course and your fee status.
You can view current and past undergraduate, postgraduate taught and postgraduate research tuition fees .
Find out the fees for other courses at Bristol:
Find out how and when to pay tuition fees .
We have a range of scholarships for international students that may help you to fund your studies, including our Think Big undergraduate and postgraduate scholarships.
Scholarships for international students
Students are classified as Home or Overseas for fees purposes.
Read our guidance on fee status .
It's important to budget and plan your finances before you arrive in the UK.
Find out about living expenses in Bristol.
If you want to look for a part-time job during your time in Bristol, read more about working during your studies .
Criminals will try to target students to steal their tuition fee payments.
Please follow the below tips to stay safe:
Visit our student finances pages for money advice and more information on tuition fees, living costs and scholarships.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/directory/visas:
Student Visas can support you on matters related to your Student visa status.
Student Visa Advisers can offer guidance to prospective and current students.
We can help you ensure that you meet UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) requirements and rules.
Read our Statement of service .
We recommend that all Student visa holders read the following important information to ensure they understand the conditions of their visa:
We provide information, support and advice on:
We are also able to produce a number of letters for students, please refer to this page for more information.
We do not advise on the following:
Although we cannot advise on the following, we have included the information below as resources that could help whilst living and preparing to live in Bristol.
Cost of Living
We support colleagues to ensure that we comply with our Student visa (Previously Tier 4) sponsor licence duties.
Please do not give visa advice to students - contact us on student-visas@bristol.ac.uk .
Find out how to contact us .
Global Lounge celebrates various significant dates in the global calendar, such as Lunar New Year, Diwali, Day of the Dead and Thanksgiving.
All of these events are open to all students and staff across the University – and the majority of them are free to attend and include free refreshments and entertainment .
To view all upcoming events, please see the Global Lounge website.
Please see the International Students page for general advice and support.
We are aware that some international students have been specifically targeted by criminals pretending to be from a legitimate organisation (such as UKVI).
They telephone students to demand money and claim that, if they are not paid quickly, there will be damaging consequences.
UKVI will never contact you by telephone to ask for money.
We are aware of fraudulent letters from the Home Office being sent threatening to revoke students visas and asking them to contact the UKVI regarding their attendance.
If you receive a letter from the UKVI regarding cancelling your visa where you are not expecting this please contact us before responding to the letter so we can help identify if it is genuine.
See the following for more information and advice about how to protect yourself: UKVI's Fraud, tricks and scams guidance , UKCISA's Frauds and scams page and UKVI Action Fraud Advice (PDF, 132kB) .‌

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/international/guidance-for-agents:
This area is designed to help you advise and support your students, and to manage applications to the University of Bristol on behalf of international applicants.
We value our partnerships with our international agents and the support they give to their students.
The University of Bristol is committed to the UK Agent Quality Framework (AQF) and pledge to create and maintain the highest standards of agent management, ensuring the UK remains a leading study destination for international students.
We continue to work to ensure that the relationships between recruitment partners, applicants and the University remain fair and transparent.
We have signed the pledge to ensure our standards are in-line with the Good practice guide for education agents and the National Code of Ethical Practice for UK Education Agents , as published by the British Council.
We encourage all our agent representatives to circulate the Study UK guide to choosing an education agent to students seeking their services.
Agents and agencies use the Agent Portal to create, submit and manage postgraduate applications to the University of Bristol on behalf of international applicants.
Sign in to the Agent Portal
Read the guidance document on how to use the Agent Portal.
This includes information about how to:
Agency managers have the role of 'super users' in the Agent Portal.
Super users can:
This form is to be completed by applicants to postgraduate programmes who wish to use the services of an official University of Bristol agent.
It also includes our data protection statement.
Agents may need to complete a tagging form to inform us of undergraduate applicants they are supporting to apply to the University of Bristol.
The form will link the agent with a submitted application.
If the applicant has used the agent's UCAS Apply Centre, the application will be automatically linked and you do not need to complete the form.
The form must be completed if:
Link an undergraduate application
If you have any issues with the agent portal or require further information, contact international-office@bristol.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/international/contact:
The International Office works in teams to deliver a range of services.
The office forms part of the Global Engagement Division and is based at 31 Great George Street, Bristol.
If you have a question, choose the appropriate team or use the general enquiries number.
We support prospective undergraduate and postgraduate students with application enquiries and qualification equivalencies.
Phone: +44 (0)117 205 2644 Whatsapp: +44 (0)745 815 8625 Email: support@international.bristol.ac.uk
You can also live chat with us.
Our International Recruitment Team can also provide bespoke campus tours, tailored specifically to your interests.
To arrange a visit, please email us with details such as:
Please note that we require two weeks’ notice to organise tours.
Email: international-office@bristol.ac.uk .
This team works with students applying via to Bristol via the Global Transfer Programme.
Prospective students can get in touch on our Global Transfer Programme webpages .
The Centre for Study Abroad team manages incoming and outgoing short-term student and staff mobility.
Phone: +44 (0)117 39 40207 cfsa-inbound@bristol.ac.uk
Phone: +44 (0)117 39 40205 bristol-abroad@bristol.ac.uk
This team:
For queries relating to University of Bristol funded international scholarships including Think Big, Commonwealth and Chevening scholarships please contact international-scholarships@bristol.ac.uk
For queries relating to international sponsors and sponsored students, contact: international-partnerships@bristol.ac.uk
International sponsored students should also familiarise themselves with the International Sponsored Student Policy .
Prospective Global Transfer Programme students can get in touch on our Global Transfer Programme contact page .
University representatives who would like to collaborate with Bristol can share their proposals and priorities via email: international-partnerships@bristol.ac.uk
For queries relating to the China Scholarship Council, contact: bristol-csc@bristol.ac.uk
Phone: +44 (0)117 39 40198 (9 am to 5 pm UK time, Monday to Friday) international-office@bristol.ac.uk
University of Bristol staff and students can find additional contact details through the contact directory .
International Office Global Engagement Division University of Bristol 3rd Floor 31 Great George Street Bristol, BS1 5QD United Kingdom
If you want to visit the office you must first phone to check that the team that you need is available.
Note that visa/immigration advice is provided by Student Visas , not the International Office.
Expert advice on UK student visas is offered by Student Visas .

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/accommodation/apply:
Who can apply for accommodation, how to apply and what happens if you get a room offer.
Find out if you are guaranteed a room offer.
Check the application dates and when we will respond.
Learn about the tenancy agreement and dates, and how to cancel a tenancy.
Find out how to apply for accommodation.
Find out h ow we send accommodation offers, and what to do if you receive one.
Check what you need to do a fter accept ing a room offer .

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/students/life-in-bristol/accommodation/university-accommodation:
If you're currently living in University accommodation or just about to move in, these pages have information on everything you need to know about life in our residences, from arrivals day until the time you move out.
What to bring with you and what to expect when you arrive.
Paying your rent, moving rooms and other tenancy information.
What's on in your residence and how to join social events.
Information on wi-fi, parking, post, laundry, lost keys and more.
Guidance to help you and your flatmates stay safe and healthy.
Access wider support services available to students.
Guidance and information that is specific to your residence.
Contact details for the teams working in accommodation.
Important information on moving out of your residence.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/accommodation/language-students:
We offer University accommodation for students on the 10-week and 6-week pre-sessional academic English course, or the Certificate in English Language Teaching to Adults (CELTA).
You will get an offer of accommodation if you apply by the deadline.
The room would be for your whole pre-sessional course.
You would live:
You would have access to wellbeing support all day and night.
Our rooms are suitable for unaccompanied pre-sessional students.
To apply, you must already have an unconditional offer and have paid your course deposit.
When to apply:
To apply for accommodation:
You should include your budget and any medical conditions in your application, so we can offer a suitable room.
You will be invited to choose or accept your room from:
If you did not declare any medical conditions, you can select a room using the Accommodation Portal.
You will be able to see the available residences and room types and choose one.
If you declared a medical condition, we will choose a suitable room for you.
You can view and accept the offer in the Accommodation Portal .
After your room is confirmed, you must:
You can move into your room on:
We will email you before you arrive, with information about planning your journey, arriving at your residence and collecting your room key.
You must complete the Accommodation Induction in the Accommodation Portal.
This will help you prepare for your pre-sessional accommodation.
The address and postcode for your accommodation can be found on the residence guide pages .
You can pre-order kitchen equipment and bedding from Accommodation Supplies at Pattersons .
The items can be delivered to your residence and stored for up to 10 days before you arrive.
You must move out of your pre-sessional room by 6 September 2025.
To live in University accommodation after your pre-sessional course, you must also apply for undergraduate or postgraduate accommodation .
This room will probably be different to your pre-sessional room.
Manor Hall costs for a:
To cancel your room, email student-accommodation@bristol.ac.uk .
You will receive a full refund if:
If you cancel your room after 7 days, you will not receive a refund.
You cannot move into another student’s room.
This includes taking over another student’s tenancy or sub-letting a room.
This would breach your tenancy conditions.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/accommodation/study-abroad:
Study Abroad students can apply for University accommodation for Semester 1 or Semester 2.
Check if you are guaranteed University accommodation for your study abroad placement.
Semester 1 students can a pply for accommodation from 8 April 2025 .
Responses and offers are sent in late July.
Semester 2 students can apply from October to November 2025.
Responses and offers are sent in November 2025.
Find out how to apply for accommodation .
Semester 1 students arrive in September.
Semester 2 students arrive in January.
Study Abroad accommodation costs: semester one (September entry) 2025/26
Study Abroad accommodation costs: semester two (January entry) 2025/26
If you are not guaranteed an offer of University accommodation, you should look for accommodation in the private sector .

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/accommodation/privately-rented:
We provide advice for students who need support with finding or living in private rented housing.
Resources to help you find private accommodation in Bristol.
If you live in private accommodation and need support, we can help you.
What you need to know if you are moving out of University accommodation and into private rented accommodation .
If you are a current student and have lived in University accommodation, we can provide you with a rent reference.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/accommodation/community:
All students, whether living in University or privately rented accommodation, are part of the local community.
The University takes pride in the value that our students bring to Bristol, in terms of voluntary activity, collaborative initiatives and enrichment of the diversity and culture that makes Bristol special.
The University also recognises the challenge of integrating students with the wider population and has a range of measures in place to address this.
The University employs a Community Liaison Officer to lead on maintaining good community relations and proactive initiatives which integrate students with local residents.
Part of this role is to communicate with residents' associations and neighbourhood forums to develop joint approaches to community cohesion.
The University treats complaints about student misconduct in the community very seriously and there is a process in place to monitor reported problems.
The Bristol Student Community Partnership (BSCP) was established to promote student and community relations and cohesion.
Read the partnership meeting minutes.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/accommodation/contact:
If something in your accommodation breaks or needs repairing, you should request a repair or maintenance.
Your residence guide tells you how to do this.
You must report issues as soon as possible so we can fix them quickly.
You can view your accommodation fees in the Accommodation Portal.
Your financial statement will show what your invoices.
For questions about your financial statement or rent payments, email student-fees@bristol.ac.uk or call +44 (0)117 428 3000.
The phone line is open between Monday to Friday, 9 am to 4.30 pm.
If you have missed a rent payment, email finance-creditcontrol@bristol.ac.uk for support.
If you need support with using or logging into the Accommodation Portal, visit the Accommodation Portal help page .
Your Residence Guide includes the contact details for your residence.
You can also contact your Student Support Centre for help from our facilities team.
Get support with finding private accommodation .
If you live in private accommodation, you can find guidance on our Housing Advice pages .
Find out how to contact us about students living in your neighbourhood .
We prefer to speak to students directly.
If you contact us on behalf of a student, we need their consent to speak with you.
This is because of our confidentiality policy .
If you are worried about a student or their wellbeing, check our information for parents page .
If you have experienced an issue with your accommodation or are dissatisfied with our service, you can raise a concern or complaint .
Complaints can only be made by students.
Contact us to get support from an advisor.
Email student-accommodation@bristol.ac.uk
Call +44 (0)117 374 6637 .
Our phone lines are open Monday to Friday, from 9 am to 4:30 pm.
Tell us your student number to help us answer your enquiry.
In some cases, w e may need to send your question to another team.
All information you share with us will be handled sensitively.
We will do our best to resolve your accommodation issues.
If we cannot provide the outcome you would like, we will try to find the best possible solution.
Please treat our staff with kindness and respect.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/accommodation/about/costs:
The costs of University accommodation and how to request support.
Accommodation costs are based on:
Utility and internet bills are included.
Check the benefits of University accommodation .
Accommodation costs are fixed for each tenancy.
Compare accommodation costs for the full academic year.
There are different accommodation costs for:
Postgraduate applicants must pay £500 when you accept a room offer.
This amount will be removed from your first rent payment.
If your room is in Chantry Court, Deans Court or Woodland Court, you may need to pay another way .
These residences have different tenancy agreements because they are managed by another organisation.
If you cancel your tenancy before you arrive, your rent in advance could be refunded.
You do not need to pay rent in advance if you are:
If your room is in Chantry Court, you may need to pay rent in advance.
You will be contacted about this.
If your room or communal areas have been damaged or need cleaning when your tenancy ends , you may need to pay a fee.
If you cancel your tenancy early, you may need to continue paying rent.
To estimate your student loan, visit the Student Finance website .
You may be able to apply for:
We can also offer support with money and budgeting .
You need to tell us your maximum accommodation cost when you apply for University accommodation , so we can offer a room within your budget.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/accommodation/about/room-types:
The rooms in University accommodation vary to suit different budgets and preferences.
You can tell us your preferred type of room when you apply for University accommodation .
You can also give your preference for a shared bathroom that is gender-neutral or same-sex.
We have some adapted and accessible rooms for students with accommodation needs .
A bedroom in a shared student flat.
You share a bathroom with your flatmates.
We clean shared bathrooms.
Some single rooms have a sink.
You are responsible for cleaning it.
Bed sizes are single or small double.
These rooms have a private bathroom with a toilet, shower and sink.
En suites usually cost more than single rooms.
Twin rooms are prioritised for students with lower budgets.
Prices are per person.
They are shared between two students of the same gender.
Each student gets a single bed, desk and cupboard space.
Most twin rooms share a bathroom with flatmates.
Studios are prioritised for postgraduate students who have a higher budget, or students with accommodation needs.
A larger private room including a bed, cooking facilities and ensuite bathroom.
You are responsible for cleaning the bathroom.
Bed sizes are small double or double.
Every room has a grade, which reflects its overall condition, size and age.
All our residences are different ages and layouts, so there is variation within each grade.
You do not give a room grade preference when you apply for accommodation.
It is chosen for you based on room availability and your maximum accommodation cost .
S mall er , olde r rooms that are not recently refurbished.
Some have an unusual layout.
Medium size, with a normal layout.
Larger or recently refurbished rooms.
They may be in a residence with better facilities.
We provide bedding and towels for these rooms.
We wash your bedding every two weeks.
You get fresh towels every week.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/accommodation/about/flat-profiles-:
We offer some flats for students with specific preferences, for social, cultural or practical reasons.
Each University residence contains several types of flat.
You cannot bring alcohol into the flat.
Visitors who have been drinking alcohol cannot enter the flat.
Flats that are only for female students, or only for male students.
Guests of another sex can visit the flat.
Check our guest policy .
University staff or contractors of another sex can enter the flat.
They will give you notice before they arrive.
Some flats are both single sex and no alcohol flats .
Flats for students who want to live with other lesbian, gay, bisexual, trans, queer or non-binary students.
There are gender-neutral bathrooms in some of our other flats too.
F lats f or u ndergraduate students, aged 21 or o lder .
Flats for undergraduate students who want a quieter lifestyle.
We cannot control external noise.
These flats are not available for postgraduate students, whose flats are usually quieter.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/accommodation/about/catered-accommodation:
About living in catered accommodation, including meals times, food and dining rooms.
Students living in catered accommodation get two meals provided every day.
View meal times .
Meals are cooked by our award-winning catering team.
We use nutritious, seasonal ingredients from local suppliers.
Breakfast includes:
Lunch and dinner include:
Our international menu changes every day.
We have themed meals for special occasions, including Christmas, Diwali and Lunar New Year.
Our catering team do allergy training every year.
We are not an allergen-free University.
If you have an allergy, you should contact uob-catering@bristol.ac.uk to let us know.
You can also tell us about your allergies during the accommodation induction , after you accept a catered room.
We provide meat, vegetarian and a plant-based options at every meal.
We only use Halal chicken and lamb.
Nuts are not used in our kitchens.
Meals are provided in the residence dining room, where you can eat and socialise.
There are accessible dining rooms in Badock Hall, Clifton Hill House and Wills Hall.
Hiatt Baker’s catered meals are served in Badock Hall’s dining room.
The flats in catered residences do not have a kitchen.
Instead, they have a small pantry where you can prepare snacks and small meals.
Pantries have:
Feedback for our catered accommodation includes:
We have five catered residences .
You can tell us if you want catered or self-catered accommodation when you apply for University accommodation .

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/accommodation/apply/guarantee:
We will offer a University room to students who meet the terms of our accommodation guarantee.
Find out if you meet the terms.
We guarantee a room offer for:
You must also:
We may offer rooms that are not in our advertised residences.
Apply for accommodation .
We do not guarantee a room offer for applicants who:
You can still apply for accommodation and we will try to offer you a room.
Look for accommodation in the private sector , in case you do not get a University room offer.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/accommodation/apply/key-dates:
Find out when you can apply for University accommodation and when we will respond.
To be guaranteed a room offer, you must meet the terms of our accommodation guarantee .
If you get a place at Bristol through Clearing, you can apply for accommodation through Clearing .
Undergraduate applicants can apply for accommodation after you make Bristol your firm, first choice university.
You cannot apply for accommodation if Bristol is your insurance choice.
Postgraduate applicants can apply for accommodation after you pay your course deposit.
Current students, including International Foundation Programme students, who want to live in University accommodation can apply for returner accommodation .
Pre-sessional students can apply for pre-sessional accommodation .
Study abroad students arriving in January can apply for Semester 2 accommodation .
You can apply for accommodation 24 hours after your place at Bristol is confirmed.
Rooms are not allocated on a first come first served basis.
If you apply and have an unconditional offer by 30 June, we will respond in mid-July.
If you apply and have a conditional offer by 30 June, we will respond from 18 August.
Undergraduate students cannot apply for accommodation between 28 July at 6 pm and 14 August at 8 am .
F rom 14 August at 8 am , any new or current students can apply for accommodation.
I f you get a place at Bristol through Clearing , you must apply for Clearing accommodation by 31 August to be guaranteed a room offer.
You can still apply after 31 August, as accommodation may still be available.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/accommodation/apply/terms:
Information about University accommodation dates, tenancy agreements, and how to cancel a tenancy.
Before you apply for University accommodation, it is important for you to read and understand the following information .
Your tenancy agreement is a legal contract between you and your landlord.
It contains:
Download a sample tenancy (PDF, 368kB) .
You can sign the tenancy agreement when you accept a room offer in the Accommodation Portal .
If your room offer is for Chantry Court, Deans Court or Woodland Court, you will sign the tenancy agreement after you accept the room offer.
It will be sent to you by the nomination property provider .
You must sign the tenancy agreement to finish accepting a room offer.
W e manage our accommodation in line with The Student Accommodation Code .
This describes what to expect from us, and your responsibilities as a tenant.
Your room offer contains the start and end dates for your tenancy .
Tenancies for the full academic year start in September.
They are between 38 and 51 weeks long.
Vacations at the end of teaching block (semester) 1 and teaching block (semester) 2 are included.
View the tenancy lengths for different residences .
If your course continues after the tenancy end date, you can find short-term private accommodation .
Some students have shorter tenancy dates.
Study abroad students live in University accommodation for one semester.
Pre-sessional students live in University accommodation for 6 or 10 weeks during the summer.
How to cancel your tenancy , before or after the start date.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/accommodation/apply/how-to-apply:
Find out how to apply for University accommodation and what room preferences you can give.
You need your University of Bristol student number to apply for accommodation .
This is sent to you by email when we confirm your place of study at Bristol.
When applications are open you can:
In the application form, you must give your:
You can also choose to give your preferred:
We will try to offer you a room that meets your budget and accommodation needs .
We will also try to meet as many of your other preferences as possible.
You are unlikely to get a room offer that meets all your preferences, as our accommodation is limited.
Find out about room offers .

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/accommodation/apply/offers:
Find out how we respond to accommodation applications and what to do if you get a room offer.
We respond to all accommodation applications by email.
Check when you will get a response to your accommodation application:
If we send you a room offer, it will include:
You will get up to one room offer.
You cannot change your offer or swap rooms with another student.
Check if you are guaranteed a room offer .
Pre-sessional students receive offers a different way.
You must respond to your room offer by the deadline in your email.
To accept, you need to read and sign the tenancy agreement using the Accommodation Portal .
If you are a postgraduate applicant, you may also need to pay some rent in advance .
If you decline or do not respond on time, your room offer will be cancelled.
You will not get another offer.
You should find private rented accommodation instead .

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/students/life-in-bristol/accommodation/university-accommodation/residence-guides:
Your guide to living in University accommodation, including instructions specific to your residence and other important information.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/students/life-in-bristol/accommodation/university-accommodation/building-services-and-facilities/repairs:
What to do if you something in your University accommodation is damaged or not working correctly.
If something in your University accommodation breaks or needs repairing, you need to request a repair online.
Follow the instructions in your Residence Guide .
You should provide:
You must report issues as soon as possible so we can help you quickly.
If you do not tell us about an issue, you may need to pay a fee when you move out.
By requesting a repair, you are agreeing that our staff or contractors can get access to your room or residence .
Our maintenance staff always carry identification and you should ask to see it.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/students/life-in-bristol/accommodation/university-accommodation/community:
What to do if you lose your room key, need minor first aid, or want to use your residence’s sports facilities.
If your residence is managed by the University, you can contact us for support with:
Find out how to get support with something else .
Call +44 (0)117 428 3300 at any time.
Or email residences-facilities@bristol.ac.uk .
For in-person support, go to your Student Support Centre.
Opening hours are Monday to Friday, 7am to 7pm.
Residence
Support centre address
Student Support Centre Hiatt Baker Hall Parry's Lane Bristol BS9 1AD.
Student Support Centre Clifton Hill House Lower Clifton Hill Clifton Bristol BS8 1BX.
If your residence is managed by a different housing provider, your Student Support Centre contact details are:
Opening hours are Monday to Friday, 9 am to 4 pm.
Student Support Centre Senate House Tyndall Avenue Bristol BS8 1TH

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/students/life-in-bristol/accommodation/apply-to-stay-in-university-accommodation/short-term-summer-accommodation:
Current students can apply for short-term summer accommodation in a University residence, subject to availability.
Applications for short-term summer accommodation for 2025 are open.
The deadline for applications is at midday on Thursday 14 August.
Accommodation will be available from Saturday 7 June to Saturday 30 August.
We offer short-term summer accommodation in some of our University residences.
To be eligible for short-term summer accommodation, you must:
Short-term summer accommodation will be very limited.
To apply, you need to:
If you want to amend or cancel your application, email student-accommodation@bristol.ac.uk .
We need at least 5 working days to process applications.
If a suitable room is available on the dates you have requested, we will send you an offer.
We will aim to contact you no later than 1 week before your requested check-in date.
We will ask you to login to the Accommodation Po rtal to view and respond to your offer.
You must respond by the deadline stated in the offer email.
Failure to do so will mean your offer will be cancelled.
If a room within your stated budget is not available we will contact you to discuss alternatives.
If a suitable room is not available, you will need to look for accommodation in the private sector .
You can view your invoice on your financial statement.
This will be available within seven working days of accepting your offer.
You will then have 30 days to pay for your short-term summer accommodation.
For payment instructions, visit our Pay your fees page .
You will also need to pay a £50 cleaning fee.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/news/2024/september/ai-awards-2024.html:
Press release issued: 13 September 2024
But that wasn’t all.
The University of Bristol initiative REASON Open Networks Project bagged AI Award for High Tech & Telecom, rounding off a successful night for colleagues in the Faculty of Science and Engineering .
From AI supercomputing to driving AI innovation within the telecom industry, responsible AI systems and interdisciplinary collaboration, the University’s contributions aim to set global benchmarks for academic institutions and business.
For over two decades, Bristol has remained at the forefront of AI advancements, consistently driving forward solutions that address pressing challenges in fields as diverse as climate research, robotics, and healthcare.
From the creation of autonomous robots in the 1940s and one of the first MSc programs in machine learning in 1998, the University continues to shape the University’s leadership in AI research.
This is most evident by the recent launch of Europe's most powerful supercomputer Isambard AI , backed by a £225m investment from the UK government.
Professor Judith Squires , Deputy Vice-Chancellor and Provost, said: “This award celebrates our remarkable strength in the field of AI.
“We are particularly proud to be delivering the UK’s national Artificial Intelligence Research Resource – Isambard-AI, ensuring that Bristol will play a vital role in the next surge of global technological discovery.
“When fully operational next year, Isambard-AI will be one of the most powerful and sustainable supercomputers for AI research anywhere in the world.
"The team is excited about the huge potential for scientific progress that this project represents: areas such as healthcare and robotics are expected to benefit hugely, and automated drug discovery and climate research should be accelerated.
“We also look forward to welcoming our first cohort onto our new undergraduate programmes next year.
“We’re very excited for what the future holds.”
Associate Pro Vice-Chancellor of Research & Innovation for the Faculty of Science and Engineering Professor Annela Seddon attended the event and accepted the prize.
She said: “We have a long history of AI research, innovation and education at the University of Bristol and we have always believed in the transformative power of AI to improve lives.
“At Bristol, we excel at connecting experts across disciplines—whether it’s working alongside our partners in government, industry, or civil society to co-create responsible and impactful AI solutions.
“These partnerships, and the ground-breaking research happening across our institutes and centres, demonstrate Bristol’s commitment to a more sustainable, prosperous, and inclusive future for all.”
Pro Vice-Chancellor for Global Engagement Professor Michele Acuto added: “This accolade rewards decades of pioneering research.
“A deep-rooted history of AI innovation has placed the University of Bristol at the forefront of international efforts to safeguard this technology to drive societal change for the better.
“We are tremendously proud of our colleagues.”
The project, Realising Enabling Architectures and Solutions for Open Networks (REASON) brings together the entire telecommunication R&D supply chain, to develop a roadmap for open 6G networks.
The project team meticulously crafted an award submission that showcased how the project is revolutionising network capabilities through cutting-edge AI applications, setting new standards for efficiency and performance in the sector.
Professor Dimitra Simeonidou , Director of the Smart Internet Lab, said: “AI will revolutionise future networks design, operations and service delivery.
“The DSIT funded REASON project is pioneering AI solutions for future networks and particularly 6G.
“Working in partnership across academia and industry we have demonstrated considerable leadership in the field.
“We are delighted and honoured that this leadership has been recognised with this National AI Award.”
Recently Bristol emerged as the fifth most AI-ready city in the UK, according to the SAS AI Cities Index 2024, which annually reveals the cities that are most likely to benefit from the growing appetite for AI.
The National AI Awards was launched to spotlight the remarkable advances and contributions in the field of artificial intelligence.
Their mission is to honour the brilliant minds and innovative companies driving AI technology forward, making a profound impact across private and public sectors.
Associate Pro Vice-Chancellor of Research & Innovation Professor Annela Seddon with the award for 'AI University of the Year'.
Juan Parra Ullauri with AI Award for High Tech & Telecom.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/news/2025/july/mumbai-campus.html:
Press release issued: 29 July 2025
Due to open in summer 2026, the Mumbai Enterprise Campus will be the University’s first international campus.
It's a historic moment and a first in transnational education for the University, which next year celebrates its 150 th anniversary and also opens the doors to its new Temple Quarter Enterprise Campus .
The University worked closely with partners and the Indian government to identify Mumbai as an optimal location due to the city's strong reputation for technology, innovation and the arts – areas which align closely with Bristol's own strengths.
Approval was officially granted in New Delhi at an event celebrating the fifth anniversary of India's National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 - a transformative framework aimed at modernising India’s education system.
Professor Evelyn Welch, Vice Chancellor and President of the University of Bristol, was formally presented with a Letter of Intent from Vineet Joshi, the Honourable Secretary Higher Education and Acting Chairman of the University Grants Committee.
Professor Welch said: "We are absolutely delighted to announce our intention to create a new campus in Mumbai which marks a pivotal transformation in our 150-year history and a powerful, globally inclusive future we’re proud to build in partnership.
"Developing an in-country base has long been part of our international strategy and supports our ambition to be a top 50 global university.
"Less than two weeks ago, we launched the UK’s most powerful supercomputer in Bristol, and next year we will be opening the doors to our new Temple Quarter Enterprise Campus.
At such an important time for the University, we are pleased to develop partnerships across the globe which will have meaningful impact."
Mirroring the University’s new Temple Quarter Enterprise Campus, the Mumbai Enterprise Campus will bring together industry, academics, students and local community partners within a thriving entrepreneurial ecosystem.
Initial subjects taught at undergraduate and postgraduate level will focus on areas of global distinction for Bristol such as data science, economics, finance and investment, immersive arts and financial technology, expanding to computer science and AI, business and management.
The University is also planning to offer scholarships as part of its award-winning Think Big programme .
Graduates from the Mumbai campus will benefit from global-standard curricula and strong industry linkages, creating seamless pathways to international careers while strengthening India’s skilled workforce.
Through this development, the University of Bristol - last month named the 51st best university in the QS World University Rankings 2026 - will seek to blend transnational education with its innovative research and global civic engagement.
It will grow the University's global reach while contributing tangibly to its long-term sustainability and resilience.
Professor Michele Acuto, Pro Vice-Chancellor for Global Engagement at the University of Bristol, said: "This is far more than a new location; it's a purposeful extension of our vision to meet our learners and communities where they are, and to do so with respect, integrity, and deep local engagement that sets us apart as a global civic institution.
"We will do so from day one together with our local partners, to co-create a campus that stands as a global gateway connecting with the vibrant energy and innovation of Mumbai where business, technology and arts converge – reflecting and amplifying the international vision, interdisciplinary strengths and outward-facing spirit of our home institution.
We look forward to sharing more detail on these exciting plans over the coming months as they develop."
Christina Scott, Acting British High Commissioner to India, said: "I am delighted Bristol University have received their Letter of Intent to launch a comprehensive branch campus in India, opening new opportunities for students to access high quality UK educational institutions right here in India.
"The Prime Ministers of the UK and India have committed to nurture the next generation of global talent through our education and skills partnership, and today’s announcement will further deepen collaboration between our countries."
Alison Barrett MBE, Country Director India, British Council, said: "The University of Bristol receiving a letter of intent to establish a campus in Mumbai is another step forward and underscores the success of the National Education Policy 2020.
"Aligned with the shared ambition outlined in the UK-India Vision 2035, this move reflects a genuine commitment to meeting learners where they are, supporting innovation, interdisciplinary learning, and inclusion.
"It is wonderful to see Bristol ranked top 51 globally, bringing its world-class strengths in data science, AI, economics, financial tech and immersive arts to India.
This move will open up new pathways for talented students and equip them with future-ready skills."
Professor Evelyn Welch, Vice-Chancellor and President of the University of Bristol, receives the Letter of Intent from Vineet Joshi, the Honourable Secretary Higher Education and Acting Chairman of the University Grants Committee.
Professor Evelyn Welch, Vice-Chancellor and President of the University of Bristol, shakes hands with Shri Dharmendra Pradhan, India's Minister of Education.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/university/dates:
We have designed our academic year to support students to study and to make the most of their university experience.
Find out how the year is structured and how you can make the most of your time in Bristol .
Staff can find more information about the Structure of the Academic Year .
Teaching block 1 (TB-1)
16 September to 6 December 2024
22 September to 12 December 2025
21 September to 11 December 2026
TB-1 consolidation week (your school will inform you about the activities and attendance requirements for this week)
21 to 25 October 2024
27 to 31 October 2025
26 to 30 October 2026
TB-1 assessment period
9 to 13 December 2024
15 to 19 December 2025
14 to 18 December 2026
Teaching block 2 (TB-2)
13 January to 4 April 2025
19 January to 1 May 2026
18 January to 30 April 2027
TB-2 consolidation week (your school will inform you about the activities and attendance requirements for this week)
17 to 21 February 2025
23 to 27 February 2026
22 to 26 February 2027
TB-2 assessment preparation week
31 March to 4 April 2025
27 April to 1 May 2026
26 to 30 April 2027
Academic dates relate to the standard teaching, examination and term dates for students at the University.
Some undergraduate and postgraduate programmes do not follow standard term dates – we will inform students on these programmes.
Taught postgraduate students on most programmes use the summer months to complete a dissertation or research project.
Current students and staff can add the key dates calendar to your own calendar .

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/university/governance:
How the University is governed and managed, including the constitution, decision-making bodies and the Executive Group.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/university/freedom-of-speech:
Freedom of expression and academic freedom are foundational rights at the heart of our mission and our values and we affirm our obligations in respect of freedom of speech.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/university/relationships-with-defence:
The University of Bristol is ranked among the world’s leading research-intensive universities.
We have a successful track record of translating scientific discoveries into positive real-world advances.
We work with organisations in a wide range of sectors, including those operating in the defence sector.
It is important to recognise that organisations operating in the defence sector usually do much more than arms manufacturing and development.
For example, some also develop wind tunnels, creating materials for lighter, more fuel-efficient cars and planes which will benefit the environment.
Others create electric vehicle propulsion systems.
Where we do have relationships with organisations operating in the defence sector, our work is either related to their civil sectors or some other socially beneficial purpose.
For example, work to prevent the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.
We do not facilitate the sale or manufacture of conventional weapons and armaments to military regimes.
However, we recognise that certain research areas have the potential for ‘dual use’ in defence applications.
For example, digital technology domains such as artificial intelligence and cyber security.
UK universities have a clear duty to maintain academic freedom and a legal obligation to ensure freedom of speech within the law.
Our University constitution states that our academics:
“…shall have freedom within the law to question and test received wisdom, and to put forward new ideas and controversial or unpopular opinions, without placing themselves in jeopardy of losing their jobs or privileges.”
As long as the activities are lawful, the University will not prohibit a member of our community from:
Every university partnership is different.
We undertake due diligence checks on each partnership to make sure we are using our expertise in compliance with UK law to influence positive change.
We want to be open about whom we partner with and why, and are proud of the work we do.
We aim for a high degree of transparency in our partnerships.
However, we cannot be fully transparent as there are sometimes complexities, commercial considerations and confidentiality agreements in place for partnership contracts.
Following a series of meetings with students and staff, we have committed to working together to further enhance transparency where we can.
We undertake in-depth due diligence on public, private, voluntary and commercial organisations who we work with.
This includes financial, reputational and national security considerations in compliance with laws, including: the National Security and Investment Act, Export Controls Act, Academic Technology Approval Scheme, Foreign Influence Registration Scheme, and the Freedom of Speech Act.
As stated in our Ethics of Research Policy and Procedure , we expect all researchers to fully consider the current and future ethical implications of their work.
Faculty Research Ethics Committees (RECs) have responsibility for establishing and monitoring procedures for approving research proposals in their faculty.
All RECs report to the University Ethics of Research Committee (UERC), in accordance with the Ethics of Research Policy and Procedure.
In accordance with our Research Governance and Integrity Policy , the University does not knowingly collaborate with, or accept any monies from, sources of funding where the aims of the bodies concerned are:
We developed the University’s endowment investment policy in consultation with student representatives.
It governs how our endowment funds are invested.
Adhering to this policy means that all our investments are consistent with our status as a charitable organisation and an institution working for the public good.
The investment policy includes a specific requirement to make positive investments.
It also restricts the University or its agents from investing in entities that:
Our overriding aim is to have no exposure to arms organisations or organisations involved in in human rights abuses.
However, there may be cases where an organisation is involved with primarily civilian technologies which could also have a military application, or where there might otherwise be some ambiguity about how their outputs may be used.
The University appointed Rathbone Greenbank as investment managers for our Endowment Funds in 2017.
Rathbone Greenbank Investments has a track record of managing ethical and sustainable investments.
In addition to the University’s investment policy, they have their own criteria for conducting due diligence on investments before deciding to include them within their investible universe.
This is based on both publicly available sources and Rathbones’ own research.
Before considering an investment for inclusion, Rathbones must satisfy themselves that it does not cause significant social or environmental harms.
We are in regular discussion with Rathbones and are confident that their approach is sufficiently robust to meet the University’s investment policy requirements .
Read about our endowment fund management , and see the most recent Portfolio Investment Report.
Organisations operating in the defence sector do not sponsor our careers events.
We let our students know the business area of all organisations attending our careers fairs, including organisations operating in the defence sector.
Many organisations operating in the defence sector usually do much more than arms manufacturing and development.
They may provide services and products for defence sector clients but would not be considered first and foremost an ‘arms’ organisation.
Organisations operating in the defence sector are clearly labelled on our careers system, so students know if an organisation works in the sector.
We strive to be impartial and help our students make informed choices around ethical careers and recruitment , and about organisations at our careers events.
For example, we work with Windo at all our careers fairs to help students understand the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) credentials of employers.
We provide dedicated areas at all our careers events for students to be able to protest peacefully.
Where appropriate, we have offered students the opportunity to have their own stand at events to proactively engage other students about their respective missions.
If you are interested in having a stand at a careers event, contact the careers service .

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/university/anti-racism-at-bristol:
The University is committed to tackling racism across the entire institution.
We will work with our communities to create long-lasting, positive change.
To tackle the racism and inequalities our racially minoritised communities face, we need to understand the University’s complex ties to the transatlantic trafficking of enslaved African people.
We also need to understand the impact of its legacy.
What started as a call to change the names of our iconic buildings has grown into a commitment to a Reparative Futures programme.
While we will take some immediate actions, we embark on a ten-year journey that will help the University evolve into a more inclusive institution.
It’s a journey of listening, learning, understanding and action, so we can create a more positive future.
Taking action to support the implementation of the University’s strategic objectives in relation to anti-racism.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/women:
We have a proud history of giving women equal opportunities and are committed to promoting equality through attracting and promoting talented female staff.
Women, both past and present, can inspire our teaching and work today.
We were the first higher education institute in England to admit women on an equal basis to men.
Find out more about key women in our history and gender equality today.
We shine the spotlight on some of Bristol's wonderful women, learning about their experiences and celebrating their achievements.
Find out about how our gender-related research has had an impact on policy, law and learning.
Find out what University staff, students and alumni think about gender equality on our blog .
View a series of ten portraits, specially-commissioned to celebrate notable Bristol women who have changed the institution – and the world.
Read more about the project in our press release .
Today we continue to strive for gender equality in the workplace.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/university/history:
Before the University of Bristol, there was University College, Bristol, which existed from 1876 to 1909.
Its history can be traced back to the efforts of John Percival, headmaster of Clifton College, to press for the establishment of such an institution.
In 1872, Percival wrote to the Oxford colleges observing that the provinces lacked a university culture.
The following year he produced a pamphlet called 'The Connection of the Universities and the Great Towns', which was well received by Benjamin Jowett, Master of Balliol College, Oxford.
Jowett was to become a significant figure, both philosophically and financially, in the establishment of University College, Bristol.
In June 1874, a meeting took place at Bristol's Victoria Rooms 'to promote a School of Science and Literature for the West of England'.
Percival and Jowett spoke at the meeting, and won the support of Albert Fry and Lewis Fry, members of an influential and affluent local family.
University College, Bristol finally opened its doors at 9 am on Tuesday 10 October 1876 in rented premises at 32 Park Row.
Initially there were two professors and five lecturers offering courses in 15 subjects.
The College was open to men and women on the same basis (except in medicine).
During the first session, 99 day students registered (30 men and 69 women) and 238 evening ones (143 men and 95 women).
Alfred Marshall, a groundbreaking economist, served as Principal of the College until 1881.
He taught evening classes while his wife, Mary Paley, the first woman lecturer, taught during the day.
Her fee was deducted from her husband's salary.
The second Principal was William Ramsay, discoverer of the so-called noble gases.
He left in 1887 (and received the Nobel Prize for Chemistry in 1904), but remained influential in the College's efforts to become a university with its own Royal Charter.
His successor was Conwy Lloyd Morgan, a geologist and zoologist who also became a pioneering experimental psychologist.
He, too, was closely involved in the campaign for full university status, and would eventually become the University of Bristol's first Vice-Chancellor.
For University College, Bristol, life was a financial struggle, although in 1890 it received a £2,000 boost from the local Technical Instruction Committee.
There was more good news in 1893 when the Bristol Medical School, which had been created in 1833, was formally incorporated into the College.
Further encouragement came in 1896, when Commissioners from the Treasury reported that 'there is evidently vigorous life in the place, and the work done is of the University type'.
The foundation of the University College Colston Society in 1899 was another highly significant development, drawing a broad spectrum of influential figures into supporting the College.
The campaign for a Charter gained momentum in 1904 with the appointment of Morris Travers as Professor of Chemistry.
Travers, who had been recommended for the job by former Principal, William Ramsay, was an energetic and decisive man who set about gaining financial and political support for Bristol's plans.
He was backed by some powerful individuals, including Lewis Fry, Chairman of the College Council, R B (later Lord) Haldane and members of the Wills family.
By 1906, Lewis Fry felt ready to put the plan to promote a university for Bristol on a formal footing, and an executive committee was formed.
However, problems continued - Travers left to direct a research institute in India that year, and it proved very difficult to lift the College's endowment above the total of £30,000 that had been donated by members of the Wills and Fry families.
Everything changed on 14 January 1908, when HO Wills promised to donate £100,000 - a massive sum - provided that a Charter was granted within two years.
The Wills gift set off a chain reaction, and more money was raised within 24 hours than had been attracted during the previous three decades.
Now things really started to move.
After years of discussion, it was agreed that the Merchant Venturers' College and elements of the University College - formerly rivals - would merge to form a new Faculty of Engineering.
Furthermore, the City Council offered the proceeds of a penny rate (some £7,000 a year), subject to a Charter being obtained.
Best of all, when a petition for a Charter was submitted to the Privy Council, it met with royal favour.
On 24 May 1909, 33 years after University College opened, the Charter, approved by King Edward VII, came into effect.
It was a day of celebration across Bristol.
Get an understanding of the University’s complex historical links to the transatlantic trafficking of enslaved African people.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/university/distinctions:
The academic quality of the University is reflected partly in the Nobel Prizes and Fellowships associated with the University community.
The University of Bristol has been awarded the Queen’s Anniversary Prize for Higher Education - the highest accolade for any academic institution – in recognition of its leading-edge research in obstetric and neonatal practice , which has made a positive difference to mothers and babies throughout the world and for its world-leading research in volcanology , which has been applied across the globe to reduce a variety of risks posed by active volcanism.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/university/facts:
Information about the University, including senior officers, student numbers, and financial data.
Visit the Executive governance and Executive group page for more information.
Read the Annual Report and Financial Statements for full details.
The University was founded in 1876 as University College, Bristol.
It was the first higher education institution in England to admit women on an equal basis to men.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/university/strategy:
Our mission explains why we exist, our reason for being and what we do.
Our vision states where we want to be, and what we set out to achieve by 2030.
Our future success will depend upon our three pillars – the University’s core activities and areas of strength.
The pillars are in turn dependent on us making the best use of our resources, which we term our enablers .
Embedded within all our activities in the pillars are our cross-cutters – three key areas of focus.
In everything we do, we must remain true to our values .
These encapsulate how we do things and are what make us the University of Bristol.
Our 20 contributors to our vision and strategy film represent just a small cohort of our wonderfully diverse, skilled and friendly community at Bristol.
To make a positive impact locally, nationally, and globally by addressing society’s greatest challenges through our distinctive education, innovative research and the value we place on excellence, inclusivity and partnership.
Read our executive summary
By 2030, we will be firmly established among the world’s top 50 great research-intensive universities, and the top 10 in the UK.
Find out more about our vision

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/university/publications:
Information on the University's endowments, its investment policy and quarterly reports

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/virtual-tour:
Copy this URL to share a direct link to this view.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/arts-law-social-sciences:
Find undergraduate foundation programmes.
Find undergraduate courses.
Find postgraduate taught programmes and courses.
Find PhD opportunities and funding.
Transform your ideas into impact by working with our staff and students.
Programmes and opportunities for schools, young people and mature students.
View our upcoming events.
Read our latest news.
View our Youtube playlist.
Get in touch with us - faculty contacts and information.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/academic-language:
For more than twenty years, the centre has been helping people develop their academic language and literacy skills.
Find out more about our vision, our accreditation, and our reputation for excellence .
We offer resources and training for University staff.
We also run professional development courses for people involved in the discipline of Teaching English for Academic Purposes.
We work with students at all levels and from a wide variety of backgrounds.
Whether or not English is their first language, we help people learn to communicate more effectively.
All our offerings are tailored and adjusted to students’ needs.
Our SharePoint pages offer information on collaboration for University staff.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/innovation:
Intranet
At the Centre for Innovation and Entrepreneurship, we equip the next generation of changemakers with the skills, mindset, and experience to turn challenges into opportunities.
Blending design thinking, creative practice, and entrepreneurial insight, our programmes prepare students to tackle complex problems.
We deliver education that allows you stand out in an increasingly challenging global environment.
Come to Bristol and study at the multi-award winning Centre for Innovation and Entrepreneurship.
Partnerships with private, public and social sectors are key to how we extend our impact beyond the walls of the university.
Explore the benefits of partnering with CfIE.
Pioneering education approaches delivered by a team combining deep industry experience with academic excellence.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/school-of-arts:
Student intranet
Our school has a lively research culture and holds a high esteem both nationally and internationally.
Find people who work in the School of Arts by name, research area, group or other profile details.
The School of Arts is a central hub for activity across anthropology, archaeology, film, music, philosophy and theatre at the University of Bristol.
Read more about the School of Arts on the Arts Matter blog.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/economics:
The School produces world-class research combining advances in economic theory, structural modelling and econometrics with innovative research in public policy.
With over 97% of our economics and econometrics research rated either 'world-leading' or 'internationally excellent' (REF, 2021).
We are the 5th most targeted university by the top UK employers (High Fliers 2024).
We offer: mentoring, internships, work experience and much more.
Hear stories from our economics students, alumni, and academics.
Visit our Economics blog .

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/education:
Explore our undergraduate courses, postgraduate study, and PGCE (Postgraduate Certificate in Education) secondary education programmes.
Whether you're a student, educator, researcher, or simply passionate about the transformative power of learning, our blog is your go-to destination for insightful articles, expert perspectives, and engaging content.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/humanities:
Staff
School of Humanities Office 11 Woodland Road Bristol BS8 1TB
Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Friday: 10am-12 noon, 2pm-4pm.
Wednesday: 10am- 12 noon
There are five departments comprising the School of Humanities, which itself forms part of the Faculty of Arts, Law and Social Sciences.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/sml:
Our research focuses on select fields across a broad range of visual and literary cultures, including Medieval Studies, for which we are globally recognised.
Find people who work in the School of Modern Languages by name, research area, group or other profile details.
The school's Multimedia Centre provides our students with dedicated, state-of-the-art facilities to enhance their studies.
Read more about the School of Modern Languages on the Arts Matter blog.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/sps:
Read our graduate blog and learn more about the careers available to Policy Studies' students.
Children’s voices, family transitions and everyday care – chairing sessions at ICFC 2025
Rethinking parenting, care and children’s roles in society: keynote speeches from ICFC 2025
How to make sure the new grooming gangs inquiry is the last
Read all blog posts

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/spais:
Read world-class research, news and expert opinions from staff and students in the department.
Read the highest-marked dissertations from our sociology and politics students.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/business-school:
Focusing on driving change towards a more sustainable, inclusive and prosperous world.
Find people who work in the University of Bristol Business School.
Explore the latest updates from our academics and students and find out more about our research, alumni, student life and more.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/law:
We are ranked #3 in the UK for excellence in legal research.
Find out about the impact of our globally renowned research - and influential role of our research centres as incubators for innovation.
The University of Bristol is the 5th most targeted university by leading UK employers (HighFliers 2024).
We offer hands on experiences of law, internships, mentoring, networking and more.
Find out where your law degree can take you from students and alumni: visit our Law Student Blog .
Discover the work of our world-leading academics: visit our Legal Research blog .

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/health-life-sciences:
Courses for experienced healthcare practitioners and researchers.
Health and life sciences opportunities for schools, young people and mature students.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/dental:
Watch students and staff show you around our new £36 million purpose-designed dental school in Bristol City Centre, offering cutting-edge technology and state-of-the-art facilities.
We're ranked 3rd for Dentistry in the The Times Good University Guide 2025 and 4th in the Complete University Guide 2026.
Information about treatment.
Outstanding results in the Research Excellence Framework 2021 in Public Health, Health Services and Primary Care; and Clinical Medicine.
Celebrating our impact in Bristol one year on with stories from staff, students and partners who have championed brilliant initiatives.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/medical-school:
Staff and PGR student intranet
Bristol Medical School is a leading centre for collaborative and multi-disciplinary research.
The school comprises two departments: Population Health Sciences and Translational Health Sciences
The school's mission is to deliver excellent research, focused on improving the health of individuals and the population, and to develop the next generation of clinicians and scientists.
Our vision is to develop our world-leading reputation for health research, and embrace educational innovation that will nurture skilled, adaptable and resilient clinicians and scientists, through our undergraduate and postgraduate teaching, and our research .

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/vet-school:
Find out out about world-class research and excellent laboratory facilities.
Explore “behind the scenes” stories from our students, alumni and staff at Bristol Veterinary School
‌‌

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/health-professions-education:
The Health Professions Education (formerly Teaching and Learning for Health Professionals) programme offers a Master's level taught programme.
It supports the staged delivery of postgraduate Certificate, Diploma and MSc study.
The Health Professions Education (HPE) programme runs with a focus on collaborative study days and supportive student and tutor interaction.
We provide a clear academic pathway so that you can develop your teaching and learning practice.
Please watch our programme video below to see what it's like to study with us.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/anatomy:
Our mission is to provide appropriate, relevant and inspiring anatomy teaching and learning at any level from primary school pupils as part of outreach projects, to consultant surgeons wishing to research new procedures.
Learn more about studying with us.
A national leader in the field, hosting advanced and specialist training.
Contact a member of the School of Anatomy.
Information on donating your pets body for education, teaching and research.
Find out more about donation and how bodies are used.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/biochemistry:
Our innovative online learning platform helps students conduct successful experiments in the lab.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/biology:
Staff and postgraduate intranet
The School of Biological Sciences has international leading research expertise in a wide range of biological disciplines from genomics to macroecology, and across all levels of biological organisation from molecules and cells to entire ecosystems.
This places us in a unique position compared with many biology departments across the world.
We have the capability to provide diverse perspectives and novel solutions to the largescale challenges we face.
Our degree programmes are flexible , and all students complete field courses or laboratory workshops and independent research projects chosen from a wide range of options.
Take a look at our 360° virtual tour of the building.
We are delighted to be working with AccessAble to provide our students, staff and visitors with useful and up-to-date information about the accessibility of our buildings and grounds.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/cellmolmed:
Teaching students how to become successful scientists, in an environment where we undertake world class research.
Our work is focused on the study of cancer biology, infection and immunology and stem cell biology.
More about our research .

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/phys-pharm-neuro:
Our work is focused across the themes of cardiovascular science, cell biology and neuroscience.
Find people who work in the School by name, research area, or group.
Read career stories of individual staff.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/psychology:
To provide outstanding, research-led teaching that equips our undergraduate and post-graduate students for a range of futures both within psychology and beyond.
The school undertakes fundamental and applied research that contributes to knowledge and understanding of human cognition and behaviour.
Find people who work in the School of Psychological Science.
The School of Psychological Science is committed to providing a positive working environment for all staff and students.
We actively promote the career development of under-represented and minority groups in science.
Find out how you can get involved and participate in our research.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/science-engineering:
The Science Partnership Office (SPO) supports and promotes long-term partnerships between scientists, industry, government and the community.
The Industrial Liaison Office (ILO) helps industry to engage with both students and academics in Engineering subjects.
We're passionate about giving school-aged children opportunities to create, explore and learn about the latest ideas in science, engineering, computing and mathematics.
Keep up to date with the latest faculty news.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/chemistry:
The School of Chemistry is committed to providing a positive working environment for all staff and students.
The award-winning Bristol ChemLabS project comprises modern, well-equipped teaching laboratories with teaching delivered through our unique Dynamic Laboratory Manual.
Want to solve chemistry problems in an interdisciplinary subject that combines data science, advanced programming languages and machine learning technology?
Our new taught MSc will provide you with the computational skillset to do so.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/science-engineering/schools/civil-aero-design:
Leading on innovation in sustainability, resilience and performance, to address the climate emergency and achieve net zero.
Focus on: Materials, infrastructure, mobility, and the environment.
Civil Engineering | Aerospace Engineering | Design Engineering
Postgraduate study | PhD study
+44 (0)117 37 46690
Student enquiries: CADE-student-enquiries@bristol.ac.uk
Staff enquiries: CADE-staff-info@bristol.ac.uk
Other enquiries: engineering-info@bristol.ac.uk
Professor Ian Craddock
Lesley Barry
School of Civil, Aerospace and Design Engineering Queen's Building University Walk Bristol BS8 1TR
View on map
AccessAble guide
If you are a prospective student or have an admissions query:
Undergraduate choosebristol-ug@bristol.ac.uk +44 (0)117 394 1649
Postgraduate (taught) choosebristol-pg@bristol.ac.uk +44 (0)117 394 1649
Postgraduate (research) admissions-engpgr@bristol.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/science-engineering/schools/computer-science:
Leading and capitalising on the diversity of computer science and informatics and their ties to users, applications, and other disciplines.
Focus on: Computer science, AI, Vision and informatics.
Computer Science undergraduate courses
+44 (0)117 37 46666
Student enquiries: COMS-student-enquiries@bristol.ac.uk
Staff enquiries: cs-exec@bristol.ac.uk
Professor Mike Fraser
Liz Heal
School of Computer Science Merchant Venturers Building 75 Woodland Road Bristol BS8 1UB

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/earthsciences:
Intranet Fieldwork Safety
World-leading research makes our School one of the UK's top four departments of its kind, internationally recognised for leadership in volcanology, environmental change and geochemistry.
Academics discuss their research .
We are committed to good employment practices and a supportive working environment for all staff.
The School of Earth Sciences has been ranked second in the country in the REF2021 results.
Overall, 100% of our research was rated as ‘world leading’ or ‘internationally excellent’.
Of this, 67% was ranked as the highest 4* category.
In the School of Earth Sciences, 100% of our impact case studies were also considered ‘world leading’ or ‘internationally excellent’
If you require details on accessibility regarding our buildings, please follow the links below:
Life Sciences Building
University of Bristol Access Guides

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/science-engineering/schools/elec-mech:
Leading on innovation and developing knowledge capitalising on the links across mechanical, electrical and electronic engineering.
Focus on: Whole life cycle manufacture, energy and communications.
Electrical and Electronic engineering | Mechanical Engineering
Mechanical and Electrical Engineering
+44 (0)117 37 46687
Student enquiries: EEME-student-enquiries@bristol.ac.uk
Staff enquiries: EEME-staff-enquiries@bristol.ac.uk
Professor Aydin Nassehi
Zoe Watt
School of Electrical, Electronic and Mechanical Engineering Queen's Building University Walk Bristol BS8 1TR

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/science-engineering/schools/eng-maths-tech:
Leading and capitalising on mathematical approaches to a diversity of topics within and beyond engineering.
Focus on: AI/data science, life and health science, robotics and mathematics for engineering.
Undergraduate courses
+44 (0)117 37 46653
Student enquiries: SEMT-student-enquiries@bristol.ac.uk
Staff enquiries: SEMT-staff-enquiries@bristol.ac.uk
Professor Anthony Mulholland
Jan Farmery
School of Engineering Mathematics and Technology Ada Lovelace Building Tankard's Close Bristol BS8 1TW

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/geography:
Intranet Safety Field trips
Reflecting our research expertise, our cutting edge courses are taught by leaders in their respective fields.
Our research addresses physical and social scientific questions of global significance.
Find people who work in Geography.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/maths:
Find out about the school and what our students think about studying here.
Applied Mathematics , Mathematical Physics , Probability, Analysis & Dynamics , Pure Mathematics & Statistical Science
Is doing research in mathematics a creative process?
Mathematicians discuss their research .
See an example of the kind of research the school is working on in this film
We are delighted and proud to have come 4th in the REF2021 for Mathematical Sciences.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/news/2023/october/kef-results.html:
Press release issued: 3 October 2023
Bristol was ranked third for the number of spin-out companies and, for the third year running, placed within the top 10 universities for attracting investment in this year’s Research England Knowledge Exchange Framework (KEF) results.
Cementing its reputation as a leader in research commercialisation, the University secured 9 th spot for overall annual spin-out turnover totalling some £44 million.
Spin-outs from the University also raised an impressive £61m of investment between August 2021 and July 2022.
KEF reviews the wide range of activities higher education institutions pursue with partner organisations for the benefit of society and the economy.
Demonstrating its commitment to advance sustainable solutions and reach net-zero carbon emissions, the university is proving a trailblazer in pioneering technologies to support green energy delivery.
For example, Perceptual Robotics provides robotics services for the renewables industry, conducting autonomous wind turbine inspections with Artificial Intelligence and drones.
The spin-out raised more than £3m investment so far this year, its largest ever.
Kostas Karachalios, Perceptual Robotics Chief Executive Officer and University of Bristol alumnus, said: “Perceptual Robotics has a proud history in inspecting and processing data from wind turbines and blades onshore with trusted partners across Europe and the UK.
With this latest investment, we look forward to continuing our vital work into offshore inspections and advanced analytics, guaranteeing our customers have everything they need to ensure their assets are delivering time and again.”
Its self-service software uses autonomous technology to collect high-quality wind turbine data at speed.
After landing, an AI system automatically processes the images to detect any damage and quickly provides clients with all the information they need to carry out preventive maintenance, significantly reducing turbine downtime, while also improving safety and cutting costs.
Building on this green track record, Actuation Lab is driving forward future cleaner energy sources through its development of hardware to prevent catastrophic gas leakage, allowing safe and sustainable use of hydrogen.
This spin-out is the brainchild of three postdoctoral researchers from the university who are now applying the latest innovations in materials, manufacturing, and origami-inspired design to rethink industrial hardware.
The team has found its niche developing solutions for industries traditionally slow to adopt new technologies but recognising the urgent need to adapt and change.
Dr Simon Bates, Actuation Lab co-founder and CEO, said: “I’m very proud of the team we have built.
As well as working towards our goals with a real passion, we have a very honest and supportive group of people.
We have also found these qualities in our new investors, which is key to giving us the best chance at growing Actuation Lab into one of the foremost hardware companies in the country.”
Perceptual Robotics and Actuation Lab are among just two of more than 20 spin-outs to land significant investment over the past year.
Dr Andrew Wray, Director of Research Impact at the University of Bristol, said: “The spin-out ecosystem in the Bristol region keeps growing.
The University is fortunate to have a superb team of commercialisation experts who identify intellectual property, plan the route to market, and create spin-outs ready for incubation and investment.”
Bristol is fast becoming a hub for deep-tech start-ups and spin-outs with incubators and accelerators including SETsquared Bristol, QTIC and Science Creates giving companies access to invaluable training, mentoring and finance.
The full results of KEF 2023 are available on the Research England website .

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/news/2023/march/bristol-subjects-among-best.html:
Press release issued: 22 March 2023
Forty subjects offered at the University have placed in the QS World University Rankings by Subject 2023 , which surveyed 1,597 of the world’s best universities.
Three University of Bristol subjects were in the world’s top 20, 10 were in the top 50 and 27 in the top 100.
The results found that for Social Policy and Administration Bristol was 14 th best in the world and fifth best in the UK, for Veterinary Science Bristol was 16 th best in the world and third best in the UK; and for Philosophy Bristol was 20 th best in the world and sixth best in the UK.
Other highlights include:
Eighteen of Bristol’s subjects are in the top 10 of UK universities, according to QS.
Evelyn Welch, Vice-Chancellor and President at the University of Bristol, said: “It is fantastic to see so many of the subjects we teach here at Bristol included in such a globally significant survey.
“Every day, our hard-working academics are expanding human knowledge across a full range of topics.
Their ideas and discoveries shape the world, and it’s great to see this being recognised by QS.
“I would like to take this opportunity to thank our staff for all they do to make Bristol such a special university.”
Although QS surveyed 1,597 universities in this study, it estimates there are at least 26,000 universities in the world.
QS World University Rankings by Subject 2023 used five criteria to assess the universities: academic reputation; employer reputation; citations per academic paper; impact of published works; and international research network, which looks at research conducted with global partners.
In June last year, QS ranked the University of Bristol as the 61st best university in the world, 18th best in Europe and 9th best in the UK.
Please note, the QS World Subject Rankings use different, often broader, subject headings to the University of Bristol and other institutions.
For example, Bristol teaches Earth Sciences as opposed to 'Earth and Marine Sciences'; Social Policy as opposed to 'Social Policy and Administration'.
Two University of Bristol students outside The Palm Temple, a campus art installation by Luke Jerram.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/campaigns/equitable-health-research:
Discover a determined, compassionate community dedicated to the possibility that everyone can reach their full health potential.
Research Excellence Framework (2021)
Complete University Guide (2025)
Associate Professor Bai Li is leading a ground-breaking research project which simultaneously addresses undernutrition and overnutrition.
Previously, the two issues have only been considered in isolation.
This new approach would enable more systemic change to improve thousands of lives at once.
One person dies every four minutes from a snakebite and, of the 2.7million who are bitten every year, it is estimated 400,000 suffer life-long injuries (World Health Organization).
A consortium led by University of Bristol researcher Christiane Berger-Schaffitzel, in conjunction with Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine, University of Liège, Aix-Marseille University, and iBET, has created a new anti-venom approach.
They are confident it will provide a much more effective, accessible and cheaper solution for treating snakebites.
The Children of the 90s research project, led by Professor Jean Golding, has contributed to more than 3000 health studies.
This award will enable further pioneering research to improve healthcare.
The groundbreaking MySmile study is investigating a link between periodontitis and Alzheimers.
Researchers are trialing gold standard periodontitis treatment for Alzheimer's patients as a method to slow memory loss.
Researchers at the University of Bristol found that over dependancy on management consultancies in the NHS causes inefficiency, inflates demand for external consultants and costs trusts an average of £1.2 million a year.
T he Francis Crick Institute are investigating potential links between regular blood donations and a reduced risk of diseases such as l eukaemia , type two diabetes and heart disease.
Further research is necessary to determine whether the se health benefits are the result of correlation or causation.
BSc Biology student Lydia Mapstone graduated determined to improve child health.
Her experience at the university, and a passion for behavioural ecology, immunology, and evolutionary biology, inspired her to innovate in the biotech industry, leading to the establishment of BoobyBiome.
With the single mission to improve health for all, the Elizabeth Blackwell Institute is a world-leading hub for driving innovation in health by nurturing world-class research from discovery to real world health improvements.
A forerunner of synthetic biology research, teaching and innovation, Bristol BioDesign institute leads research collaborations on wide-ranging applications from health to food security.
A world-leading centre for translational cardiovascular research and the leading academic cardiac surgery centre in the UK, the Bristol Heart Institute brings together scientists and clinicians to prevent, predict, detect, reduce and treat cardiovascular disease.
Pursue an exciting future and join our community of over 3,000 postgraduate researchers from all over the world.
Find out more about our research and the projects we're involved in.
Connect with experts in your field.
Our culture of innovation, community and outstanding facilities enables our researchers to achieve their ambitions.
Contact
Policies

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/campaigns/climate-netzero-research:
Discover a world-leading community of researchers confronting the climate crisis head on.
...
and environmental sciences (REF 2021)
LEAF Green Lab Certification
QS World Sustainability Rankings (2025)
A new study has revealed for the first time that ancient carbon, stored in landscapes for thousands of years or more, can find its way back to the atmosphere as CO₂ released from the surfaces of rivers.
In the second of three episodes about the world of nuclear energy production in the UK, researchers from the School of Physics discuss why nuclear and renewable energy need to work together to make for a much more stable electricity system.
Scientists at the University of Bristol have created soft robots from rice paper which biodegrades safely within 32 days.
Heatwaves are an increasing problem for our health, society and nature, and disproportionately affect people depending on where they live, even in the same city.
In this video, Dr Eunice Lo explores these issues and potential solutions.
A new report has revealed how the 100 most populated cities globally are becoming increasingly exposed to flooding and drought, illustrating just how differently and dramatically climate change is expressing around the globe.
Around 252 million years ago, the world suddenly heated up.
Over a geologically brief period of tens of thousands of years, 90% of species were wiped out.
But what does that tell us about weather patterns today?
And how does simulating the earth's greatest mass extinction reveal new understanding of El Niño?
Achieving net zero by 2050 requires innovation, collaboration, and an interdisciplinary approach.
We’re advancing cleaner transport, smart energy systems, and sustainable industries while working towards a just transition that leaves no one behind.
Through partnerships and collective action, we can build a fair, inclusive, and sustainable future for all.
The introduction of North American Grey Squirrels in the UK has had a devastating impact on the native Red Squirrel population.
A domination of resources and the spread of disease forced red squirrels into woodland 'strongholds', isolated areas vigilantly monitored and managed to prevent the invasion of greys.
This data, power and labour intensive process relies on filming feeding stations, which risks attracting grey squirrels.
Bristol PhD student Will Cresswell sought to address this, trialing passive acoustic monitoring (PAM) as a long-term and entirely non-invasive alternative.
the University of Bristol's Cabot Institute for the Environment works with academics, students, and research partners, as well as local and international communities, governments and individuals.
Together we help solve the biggest global environmental challenges.
We understand that finding solutions requires different perspectives, expertise, and action .
Find out more.
Discover an exciting future and join our community of over 3,000 postgraduate researchers from all over the world.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/campaigns/cultural-creative-research:
Discover how we are combining research, community and technology to provide a catalyst for innovation in the creative and cultural sectors.
C omplete University Guide 2024
Bristol-led MyWorld initiative
QS World Rankings by subject 2023
You might not expect to find tech solutions in Homer's Iliad, but Professor Genevieve Liveley is using classical texts to challenge traditional approaches to cyber security.
Analysis of the relationship between technology and society in the Classics is helping uncover insights into modern problems.
Technological advances have changed how w e watch TV.
From viewing scheduled content determined by broadcasters, we now use mobile phones, the internet, cellular networks, streaming platforms and more.
Exploring how we engage with TV, as something tangible and familiar, provides an opportunity to explore how sociodigital change happens.
The Flow project develops and trials new creative immersive music production workflows to overcome current challenges of moving between stereo and immersive formats.
Dr Emma Cole at the University of Bristol has collaborated with some of the world’s most influential theatre practitioners to bring to life fragments of ancient tragedy and to realise their potential for experimental performance.
Like other outdoor action sports, mountain biking has traditionally been a male-dominated sport.
Project FIAS has been established to address this issue and understand the strong role of the media and marketing in fostering the sport’s culture and its inclusivity.
Central to the plot of the Netflix series, Kaos, are four prophecies.
Each of the prophecy’s four recipients interprets, and therefore acts upon, the prophecy in a way that makes sense to their own lives.
Their connected fates highlight the series’ theme of interconnected destinies and the inescapable nature of prophecy.
Convener of creativity.
Cultivator of collaboration.
Driver of dialogue.
As the Public Art Coordinator at the University of Bristol, Martha Crean is an advocate for access to art for all, connecting artists, researchers and local communities to support exciting art commissions for the new Temple Quarter Enterprise Campus.
The Centre for Creative Technologies encourages collaborative research across the University for academics working with or on creative technologies – whether analogue or digital – from film and print to gaming and VR.
Transforming our understanding of what it means to be human in the 21st century, Brigstow mobilises and connects people through playful research - providing an environment to consider how to address society's knotty problems.
Researching the histories, art and thought of people of African descent, the Centre works with academics, artists and practitioners nationally and internationally to produce world-leading research in Black humanities.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/campaigns/data-digital-research:
Discover the world-leading digital, data and technological research that’s advancing how we view our world.
University spinout report (2021)
In partnership with Science Creates
Levelling Up Power Tech League 2021
A Bristol-based start-up has developed technology which could change how millions monitor sight loss, paving the way for home and community-based diagnosis.
Self-driving cars which eliminate traffic jams, instant healthcare diagnosis, and feeling the touch of loved ones from across continents all took a step closer to reality, thanks to pioneering new research in semiconductor technology led by the University of Bristol.
University of Bristol researchers are part of two projects receiving £12m in funding.
They'll play a key role in developing the technology that makes the future of quantam internet possible.
Space is a key feature of social life.
But does the digitalisation of society affect its spatial dimensions, and if so, how?
Can we decide the future?
Our Centre for Sociodigital Futures challenges preconceived notions of the future through interdisciplinary social and digital research.
We tend to imagine borders as physical objects—walls, barbed wire, features of the landscape like The Channel, an officer in a booth.
But today’s borders are digitised.
Future borders will be ‘efficient, smart, and responsive’ thanks to biometrics, facial recognition software and fully digital records of immigration status.
But as sociodigital technologies, whose futures are they playing out?
Chloe Martindale, specialises in cryptography.
In this article she explains that whilst current cryptography is doing a good job of encrypting our data online and keeping it safe - there is a new technology on the horizon that will render existing cryptographic protocols useless.
That technology is quantum.
Bringing together quantum scientists and engineers at the forefront of all major areas of theoretical quantum information science and experiment.
Transforming the way we create new digital technology for inclusive, prosperous and sustainable societies - shaping a digital future that works for all.
A central hub for data science and data-intensive research connecting a multidisciplinary community of experts across the University and beyond.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/campaigns/social-justice-research:
Find out how we are championing human rights and demanding a more just world.
Times Higher Education analysis of REF 2021 (UK)
Social justice publishing by Bristol University Press
QS World University Rankings 2024
Our hub brings together the expertise of academics from across 27 disciplines and 9 countries.
Working with people with lived experience and partner organisations, we deliver cutting-edge gambling research that supports awareness, prevention and treatment of gambling harms.
Researchers from the Veterinary School are pioneering new interdisciplinary approaches to one of global health’s most urgent challenges, Antimicrobial Resistance (AMR).
By establishing the world’s first AMR Conflict and Security Community, they’re building vital connections across health, defence, and policy sectors.
Professor Emma Hitchings is combatting misconceptions around divorce and finances.
Her research on the impact of financial remedy law on ordinary people continues to inform policy and law reform.
In 2024, over 65% of Bristol University Press titles addressed issues aligned with UN Sustainable Development Goals.
See how they're uplifting world-changing research in their inaugural impact report.
In the debut episode of the Transforming Society Podcast, hosted by Professor Martin Parker of Bristol Business School, organising experts discuss making a difference in a world in crisis.
Kenya’s female freedom fighters were the silent heroes of the anti-colonial movement.
The oral histories of women Britain forcibly resettled in the 1950s offer important insights into life in the resettlement villages - and how these unarmed women sustained the freedom fighters during this fraught period of Kenya’s history.
Bristol researcher, Lucy McCarthy, together with Anne Touboulic (Nottingham University) are set to launch an online hub for buying and selling farm produce.
The Circular Agriculture Hub confronts the UK’s shocking record on food waste and food poverty, and aims to provide desperately needed income for smaller-scale farmers.
An interdisciplinary network committed to new thinking on people and movement.
A creative space to engage with migration in theory, policy and practice
Internationally recognised for a multi-disciplinary approach to the study of the health of populations, spanning molecules to communities, to policy-influencing.
Working towards the eventual eradication of world poverty.
Developing practical solutions and policies to drive more effective anti-poverty initiatives.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/campaigns/bristol-supercomputing:
Advancing research and discovery with high-performance computing
Led by the University of Bristol, the Bristol Centre for Supercomputing builds on the University's expertise in high performance computing, establishing the centre as a leading host for some of the UK’s most sophisticated supercomputers.
With a strong history in AI research, the centre attracted a £225 million UK government investment to develop Isambard-AI, a dedicated AI research supercomputer.
Poised to rank among the world’s top 10 supercomputers, Isambard-AI will position the UK as a global leader in AI.
The centre is also home to Isambard 3, a world-class supercomputer, offering over six times the performance of its predecessor, Isambard 2.
Built for more traditional computation, Isambard 3 will focus on research in a wide range of areas like clean energy and health.
Isambard-AI is the UK’s fastest and most powerful supercomputer, purpose-built for AI research.
Designed to provide open-source intelligence, it is transforming research and driving AI-led breakthroughs in critical areas like automated drug discovery and climate research.
Ranked 11th most powerful in the world, 6th most powerful in Europe and 4th greenest in the world, Isambard-AI is able to process in one second what it would take the entire global population 80 years to achieve.
Isambard-AI is a critical part of the AI Research Resource (AIRR), enabling researchers from the UK and across the globe to accelerate their research projects for the benefit of all.
Built for breakthroughs, powered by people.
The fully operational Isambard 3 is one of the UK's most powerful CPU-based supercomputers , boasting over 55,000 cores and delivering six times the performance of its predecessor, Isambard 2.
It leverages novel technologies including the Arm® Neoverse™-based NVIDIA Grace CPU Superchip, has an expanded storage system to support data-intensive workloads, and is set to support research in diverse fields such as clean energy and medicine.
Isambard 3 is located at the National Composites Centre site alongside Isambard-AI, and shares sustainable qualities, including advanced cooling methods and the ability to recover and reuse waste energy.
Read more articles >
'We needed the power of Isambard-AI – without it, we wouldn’t be doing the project.'
Isambard-AI launched by Rt Hon Peter Kyle, Secretary of State.
5440 NVIDIA GH200s deliver over 21 ExaFLOP/s when running at 8-bit for cutting edge AI workloads.
Powering AI progress requires more than smart algorithms, it demands serious computing capability
The primary source of information about all BriCS facilities and services
Explore our vacancies at Bristol Centre for Supercomputing
Discover the features and functions of Isambard-AI
The University of Bristol runs an internal process to applying for time on Isambard-AI.
Further details to follow.
The national call for access to Isambard-AI is run through UKRI.
This is open to all researchers throughout the UK via the button below.
The University of Bristol runs an internal process for applying for time on Isambard 3.
Applications are assessed on a rolling basis, and you can expect to hear the outcome of your application within a month of applying.
Click the link below to apply.
External applications are currently closed.
When they open, applications can be made via a UKRI “Access to HPC” call.
The next call date is currently unknown and we will update this page when it opens.
Apply for time on Isambard 3 (Internal only)
Have a general query or want to talk to us about how you can engage with our facilities for your research?
Contact us today.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/news/2024/december/bristol-12th-most-sustainable-university.html:
Press release issued: 10 December 2024
Released today, the influential rankings also placed Bristol as the 5 th most sustainable university in the UK and the 7 th in Europe.
QS judged 1,744 universities on more than 50 criteria, from their environmental research and teaching, to the gender balance of their staff and their community outreach.
Bristol came 2 nd in the world in the ‘equality’ category, which looks at criteria like universities’ disability support, and how their research improves global equality when judged against the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals.
This year’s rankings included 341 more institutions than last year’s, making Bristol’s rise of five places to 12 th all the more impressive.
Prof Evelyn Welch, the University’s Vice-Chancellor and President, said: “This is an exciting moment for the University, and although we still have a long way to go, we are delighted that our efforts toward creating a more sustainable future have been recognised.
“Becoming more sustainable is complicated at a University that undertakes all sorts of scientific experiments and has many Georgian buildings which, although beautiful, were not built with the environment in mind.
“So to everyone who made this possible – to our students, staff, alumni, supporters and our friends in the community – thank you all.”
The University of Bristol’s researchers are tackling some of the planet’s greatest issues – from climate change and biodiversity loss to improving health outcomes and addressing domestic violence – and are passing their knowledge onto the next generation of young minds through their teaching.
The University is home to the world-leading Cabot Institute for the Environment and it is the first University in the world to receive Green Labs certification for all of its laboratories – 990 in total.
It offers dozens of scholarships that support disadvantaged groups and hosts the Perivoli Africa Research Centre , which champions transformation in research collaborations with African partners such as University of Cape Town.
Many of its senior leaders are women and the University has achieved the Silver Athena Swan Charter accreditation in recognition of its efforts on gender equality.
The University’s community engagement includes school outreach programmes , 18,000 free consultations for Bristol locals since its Dental School moved in the city centre and its Barton Hill Micro-campus .
Its Temple Quarter Enterprise Campus will house community spaces when it opens in 2026 and has been a driver for new inclusive employment initiatives.
Prof Michele Acuto, the University’s Pro Vice-Chancellor for Global Engagement, said: “The success in these rankings is a testament to the hard work and talent of our amazing community, and we are particularly proud of the 2 nd place in equality.
“The improvement underscores how seriously our work is committed to make substantial headways on the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals
“We are proud that our work in research, teaching and civic engagement tackles head on global challenges like climate change, whilst attending closely to inequality and poverty, aiming to make a difference both here in Bristol and internationally.”
Students, including Bristol Students’ Union, have played a big part in driving the University toward a more sustainable future
Axelle El-Hani studied for a Zoology BSc at the University and is now enrolled on its Science Communication for a Better Planet master’s.
She said: “I’m really happy to hear about this success.
“I know students in my department really care about nature and the environment and this shows that it’s not just limited to students: academics, support staff and the whole university care about a sustainable world.
“I’d love the university to do even more – and to be louder about what it is already doing for the environment.”
Other recent sustainability successes at the University include:
Bristol hosts a Met Office Academic Partnership , which is led by Professor Dann Mitchell, Professor of Climate Science and Met Office Joint Chair in Climate Hazards at the University of Bristol.
As part of that, Bristol is leading the human health component of the UK's gold-standard climate change risk assessment.
The University of Bristol Botanical Gardens , established in 1882, blooms with more than 4,500 species of plants.
In June, Bristol entered the Times Higher Education’s ‘University Impact Rankings 2024’ , coming in the top 100.
The University's Wills Memorial Building with the Somerset countryside in the background

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/news/2025/july/isambard-launch.html:
Press release issued: 17 July 2025
The £225m new Isambard-AI facility , developed by the University of Bristol in close partnership with HPE and NVIDIA , is able to process in one second what it would take the entire global population 80 years to achieve.
Such impressive processing speeds offer capacity never seen before in the UK, allowing researchers and industry to harness the huge potential of AI in fields such as robotics, big data, climate research and drug discovery.
The supercomputer, which is built and run by the Bristol Centre for Supercomputing (BriCS) , and based at NCC on the Bristol and Bath Science Park, was officially launched by Peter Kyle, the Secretary of State for Science, Innovation, and Technology.
It is a key part of the UK Government’s AI Research Resource (AIRR), intended to boost the country’s capabilities in responsible and cutting-edge AI development.
Isambard-AI, alongside the Dawn supercomputer at the University of Cambridge, will see the UK's compute capacity increase to 23 AI ExaFLOPs - the equivalent of everyone in the UK spending 85,000 years doing what the full AIRR will do in one second.
That means everyone in the UK would have needed to start calculating more than 80,000 years before Stonehenge was built – without taking a break.
Named after revolutionary engineer Isambard Kingdom Brunel – a nod to the region’s historic contributions to engineering and innovation – Isambard-AI was built in partnership with HPE, using next-generation supercomputing with HPE Cray EX that is optimised for AI workloads with 5,400 cutting-edge NVIDIA GH200 Grace Hopper Superchips.
Not only is it the 6 th fastest supercomputer in Europe, it is also the 4 th greenest in the world according to the Green500 list.
Built to be incredibly energy efficient, the facility exclusively uses zero carbon electricity.
It has been built in a low-carbon, modular data centre, installed by Oakland Construction, leading to a reduction in carbon emissions of around 72% compared to traditional build methods.
It also utilises HPE’s 100% fan-less, direct liquid cooling technology to deliver up to 90% reduction in cooling power consumption.
There is also potential to recycle the waste heat output for nearby homes and businesses.
The University of Bristol was chosen to host the new national supercomputer research facility thanks to its long history of world-leading AI research and expertise in high performance computing.
Named ‘AI University of the Year’ in 2024 , the university will also be training the AI pioneers of the future by offering a new fully-funded Government-backed master’s degree in artificial intelligence through the Spärck AI scholarship .
Professor Evelyn Welch, Vice-Chancellor and President of the University of Bristol, said: “This is a pivotal moment for AI in the UK and the University of Bristol is proud to be at the heart of it.
We have a long history of AI research, innovation and education and now we are home to the UK’s most powerful AI supercomputer.
“Together with HPE and NVIDIA, we have delivered this remarkable national facility at pace, in just under 24 months.
Due to its impressive power, working at speeds 100,000 times faster than an average laptop, we will soon see Isambard AI deliver transformational research and breakthroughs that will ultimately improve people’s lives.”
The team at the Bristol Centre for Supercomputing (BriCS) has used its experience, combined with the latest modular data centre techniques, to complete in under two years what usually takes four to five years, progressing the Isambard-AI project at unprecedented pace.
Professor Simon McIntosh-Smith, Director of the Bristol Centre for Supercomputing, said: “Isambard-AI places Bristol at the centre of the AI revolution, spearheading AI innovation and scientific discovery in important areas such as drug discovery and climate research.
“I’m incredibly proud of our team and how we’ve worked so closely with partners to develop this national facility which will establish Bristol and the UK as an international hub for AI research.”
Today’s launch follows the Technology Secretary launching a ten-year plan to boost the country’s AI compute capacity.
This will increase the UK’s ability to deliver the next generation of game-changing breakthroughs while building up the strengths of Britain’s wider AI sector.
Secretary of State for Science, Innovation, and Technology, Peter Kyle said: “Today we put the most powerful computer system in the country into the hands of British researchers and entrepreneurs.
Isambard-AI doesn’t just close the gap with our international competitors – it propels the UK to the forefront of AI discovery.
“With our AI Research Resource now fully up and running, the UK is home to the raw computational horsepower that will save lives, create jobs, and help us reach net zero ambitions faster.
“This is our Plan for Change in action, building the compute infrastructure that makes Britain a magnet for the world’s brightest minds and boldest ideas.
The breakthroughs delivered by the AI Research Resource will define the next decade, from AI tools that spot cancer earlier, to materials that help make clean energy cheaper than fossil fuels.”
Researchers at the University of Bristol are using Isambard-AI to help analyse recordings from wearable cameras and other smart devices to help people perform tasks better at home – something which holds immense promise for assisting dementia patients in the future.
Videos contain far more information than images or text, but research in video understanding has been limited due to the hardware needs of handling the sheer volume of such data.
This new capability of Isambard-AI is opening up exciting possibilities, including capturing footage directly from individuals in the early stages of dementia and training an AI model to help trigger stronger memories later on.
Other examples of research enabled by the supercomputer include using AI to analyse MRI scans - meaning cases of cancer can be identified sooner and patients can then be given personalised treatment plans; improving our understanding of over 30 key proteins involved in a number of diseases to help develop future treatments; and the monitoring and analysis of dairy cattle herds to detect changes in social behaviour which can serve as early indicators of subclinical diseases.
Neil MacDonald, Executive Vice President and General Manager, Server, HPE, said: “As one of the fastest AI supercomputers in the world, Isambard-AI is a vital tool in ensuring the UK remains globally competitive in the AI race.
By identifying AI infrastructure as a critical national asset, the UK Government is putting the right strategy in place to be a world leader in AI.
Supercomputers like Isambard-AI are incredibly complex machines, requiring a large amount of accelerated computing, high-performance networking and innovative direct liquid cooling, and generational advances in public service delivery, healthcare, education and innovation will not be possible without them."
John Josephakis, Global Vice President of Business Development for HPC and Supercomputing at NVIDIA, said: “Isambard-AI supercomputer is a vital national asset, providing researchers and innovators with advanced AI and high-performance computing resources.
“The system is a step toward establishing sovereign AI capabilities and will accelerate breakthroughs in areas like climate science, healthcare, and data analytics to drive scientific discovery and economic growth.”
Richard Oldfield, CEO of NCC, said: “Hosting Isambard gives us the opportunity to harness world class digital and AI research, applying it across the product lifecycle to transform UK industry.
We are accelerating the development of better products and processes to deliver stronger outcomes.
That’s how we drive economic growth.”
Helen Godwin, the new Mayor of the West of England, said: “The country’s fastest supercomputer is right at home at Bristol and Bath Science Park.
Isambard-AI, hosted by the University of Bristol, will help power innovation and research that will further put our part of the world on the map.
Its rapid analysis will speed up scientific advances, changing life in ways that we can scarcely imagine.
This supercomputer has remarkably been built in less than two years, with businesses and researchers in the West and beyond now able to apply to use it to power our future.”
Applications are now open for researchers and SMEs to use Isambard-AI, with more than 80 teams having already applied - demonstrating huge demand for this step-change in UK compute capability.
Facts about Isambard-AI
Technical specification
Peter Kyle, Secretary of State for Science, Innovation, and Technology, switches on Isambard-AI
Professor Evelyn Welch, Vice-Chancellor and President of the University of Bristol, with Peter Kyle, Secretary of State for Science, Innovation, and Technology
Professor Simon McIntosh-Smith, Director of the Bristol Centre for Supercomputing at the University of Bristol inside the Isambard-AI data centre

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/research/institutes:
Our institutes position the University among the world's leading research-intensive universities, making it the top destination for students and staff internationally.
Specialist Research Institutes reflect Bristol's strength and depth in key specialisms.
University Research Institutes draw together thematic, multidisciplinary research spanning the breadth of our University.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/research/publications:
Search for research publications, journal papers, conference materials, theses and other research outputs produced by authors at the University of Bristol.
Search or browse research outputs
Explore our research:

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/research/facilities-and-equipment-for-hire:
The University offers a range of high-spec, state-of-the-art facilities that are fully supported by expert technicians.
These spaces and equipment are available to hire for external researchers and industry partners.
Click through to the pages below to book the services or equipment you need.
The Faculty of Engineering at the University of Bristol has some of the best and most unique wind tunnel facilities in the country, including an Aeroacoustic wind tunnel, a low-turbulence wind tunnel, a pressure-neutral acoustic wind tunnel for propeller research, a high-speed subsonic and supersonic jet facility, and a large 7'x5' close-circuit wind tunnel.
Engineering; Aeroacoustics; Aerodynamics; Propeller testing; 7x5ft Closed Test Section Wind Tunnel with speeds of up to 60m/s; Low Turbulence Wind Tunnel designed for faster speed testing up to 100m/s, equipped with particle image velocimetry equipment (PIV) and a test section of approximately 0.8m x 0.6m; Aero acoustic Wind Tunnel, an anechoic chamber approximately 7m x 4.5m x 3.5m and fully anechoic down to 160Hz, this has a velocity range of 8m/s to 12m/s; The pressure-neutral acoustic wind tunnel is a closed-loop, open section wind tunnel.
With a velocity range of 5m/s to 35m/s; Currently being built Boundary Layer Wind Tunnel, with a test section which will span over 18m in length and capable of creating a boundary layer of 25cm thick; Jet noise facility allows a flow of compressed air of between Mach 0.1 and 1.4.
Unique national research facility with state-of-the-art instrumentation focused on biogeochemical processes in aquatic and terrestrial systems, including low temperature environments.
Bespoke analytical and consultancy services upon request.
The ICP-OES is the Agilent 710 simultaneous spectrometer.
It utilizes emission spectrometry and is a multi-element analytical technique allowing the detection of most elements at concentrations ranging from a few ppb to hundreds of ppm.
This is a versatile technique; due to its wide concentration ranged covered it is widely used for Environmental and Geological samples, both for major and trace elements.
The spectrometer is coupled to an auto-sampler for large sample throughput.
Inductively Coupled Plasma – Optical Emission Spectrometry; Trace analysis of aqueous solutions; Metal, CA, Na and K ion detection; Soil leachate analysis; Spectroscopy; Agilent 710 ICP-OES; Inductively Coupled Plasma Optical Emission Spectrometer
The Bristol Aerosols and Colloids Instrument Centre (BACIC) is a collection of shared-use instrumentation supporting research in aerosol and colloidal sciences.
Our Automated Workstation (Chemspeed Technologies) is available for automated parallel chemical synthesis, with capabilities including inert atmosphere, solids dispensing, temperature control from −70 °C to 120 °C, high pressure (up to 80 bar) and integrated solid-phase extraction with dedicated LC-MS off-line analysis.
The Bristol Genomics Facility is a core facility based in the Life Sciences Building.
We have Illumina NextSeq & MiSeq sequencers for high and low output next generation sequencing, and are one of only a handful of providers in Europe to offer both 96 and 384-plate format Thermofisher (formerly Affymetrix) microarray processing.
Our services offer the entire workflow from experimental design through to data analysis.
DNA and RNA sequencing, analysis and quality assessment; Microarray expression analysis; High-throughput Genotyping; Real-time quantitative PCR; Capillary sequencing and genotyping; Bioinformatic support
The Bristol NanoESCA Facility is the newest and one of the most advanced surface analysis instruments in UK.
The NanoESCA II offers extraordinary surface sensitivity and energy resolution, further enhanced by being housed in some of the quietest labs in the UK.
High-resolution surface chemical state analysis; Photoemission electron microscopy (PEEM); Multichannel XPS; SPA-LEED; Imaging and spectroscopy/diffraction modes; Low energy electron diffraction; Specialist light sources; In situ annealing and sputtering; UHV suitcase; Materials analysis; Scienta Omicron NanoESCA II monochromated x-ray source
BRAMS is a new state-of-the-art radiocarbon dating facility at the University of Bristol.
Jointly based in the Schools of Chemistry and Arts, BRAMS provides a radiocarbon dating service to both University of Bristol researchers and to external academic and commercial users.
The MICADAS accelerator mass spectrometer is a high-precision and compact instrument that is capable of measuring radiocarbon dates on even the tiniest of samples.
It is capable of analysing samples as both graphite targets and CO 2 gas, with applications ranging from archaeology through to palaeoclimatology, past and present environmental studies, and geosciences.
The Bristol Centre for Nanoscience and Quantum Information (NSQI) is the University's dedicated research centre for nanoscience and quantum information activities, located next to the main HHW Physics building.
The upper floors house the Quantum Engineering and Technology Labs (QET Labs) and the Quantum Engineering Centre for Doctoral Training (QE-CDT).
The lower ground floor comprises fifteen state-of-the art Low Noise Labs (LNLs), which provide extremely stable low noise environments for both quantum research and research at the nanoscale and beyond.
Purpose built low noise and ultra-low noise labs achieving vibration levels lower than the lowest recognised criteria (Vibration Criteria G – VC-G) plus protection from electrical noise; Soundproof chamber; Class 1000 clean room; Technically supported; Sample preparation laboratories
Open to all researchers at the university and accessible for external organisations as well, our cleanroom enables wafer-scale micro and nano fabrication.
It comprises several class-1000-rated rooms and houses process tools for lithography, dry etch, deposition, chemical processing, post processing and characterisation.
These tools are used for rapid prototyping of a range of devices, including photonic structures, microfluidics, micro-lenses, integrated circuits and MEMS
Several class-1000-rated rooms; Wafer-scale micro and nano fabrication; Houses process tools for lithography, dry etch, deposition, chemical processing, post processing and characterisation; Rapid prototyping of a range of devices, including photonic structures, microfluidics, micro-lenses, integrated circuits and MEMS
The EQUALS laboratory is a unique facility that combines strong walls and strong floors allowing a wide range of different types of structures (e.g.
intake towers, bridges, buildings etc.) to be tested.
The facility also houses the shaking table so that large-scale dynamic tests can be performed in addition to more conventional static or pseudostatic testing.
Engineering; Seismic qualification; Vibration testing; Structural testing; 3x3m 6-degree-of-freedom 5g shaking table with 15 tonne payload capacity; Strong floor and reaction walls and hydraulic actuator portfolio for bespoke test set-ups
The Electron and Scanning Probe Microscopy Unit provides solutions for imaging and analysis at the nanoscale.
The unit houses two scanning electron microscopes, two scanning probe microscopes and three transmission electron microscopes.
Scanning electron microscopy (SEM); Transmission electron microscopy (TEM); Atomic force microscopy (AFM); Nanoscale imaging and analysis; Full technical and training support; Chemical imaging and analysis; JEOL 200 Kv Field Emission Gun TEM 2100F with STEM; Electron diffraction; Gatan digital camera; Oxford Instruments Energy Dispersive X-ray analysis system (80mm2 SSD; Aztec); Gatan Cryo holder and heating holder; JEOL 120 Kv 1400 TEM with Gatan digital camera; JEOL 120 Kv 1200 Mk2 TEM with SIS digital camera; JEOL SEM IT300 LV with Oxford Instruments Energy Dispersive X-ray analysis system (80mm2 SSD; Aztec); JEOL Field Emission Gun SEM 6330 with Gatan Cathodoluminescence and Oxford Instruments Energy Dispersive X-ray analysis; Bruker Multimode 3 with Quadrexed Nanoscope 3D controller; Bruker Multimode 8 PeakForce QNM allowing conductivity and quantitative material property (including modulus, adhesion, deformation, and dissipation) mapping; Vacuum coating (C and Pt/Pd, Au); Ultramicrotomy; Critical point drying and freeze-drying
The electron microbeam laboratories provide a service to the Earth and Environmental science community as well as to all departments within the University of Bristol.
The laboratories consist of two scanning electron microscopes SEM) and two electron probe microanalysers (EPMA), which enables us to provide a full range of electron and x-ray imaging, together with in-situ chemical analysis of both major and minor elements heavier than carbon.
Nanoscale imaging and quantitative compositional analysis; Materials analysis; Training in Electron Microscopy and X-ray microanalysis methods; Spectroscopy; Hitachi S-3500N variable pressure microscope equipped with Thermo Noran energy dispersive spectrometer (EDS x-ray detector); Environmental secondary electron detector (ESED) and BSE detector, JEOL JXA8530F Hyperprobe (EPMA); Field Emission Gun electron source; Cameca SX100 microprobe; 5 wavelength dispersive spectrometers; Energy dispersive spectrometer
The Flow Cytometry Facility comprises high speed digital benchtop cytometers for analysis and a state of the art Fluorescence Activated Cell Sorter (FACS) for isolating populations of interest from a wide variety of cells or other particles.
High speed digital benchtop cytometers and a state of the art Fluorescence Activated Cell Sorter (FASC)
Our high-performance transmission electron microscope enables the visualisation of organic and biological specimen at near-atomic detail.
It is ideal for screening and optimising cryo-samples and acquiring high-quality images for down-stream analysis.
We have a range of equipment that staff and students can be trained to use.
Experts are also available to provide help and guidance.
Histochemistry; Fresh and fixed, frozen sectioning; Fixation and staining; Wax processing; Immunocytochemistry; Immunofluoresent staining; Image capture; Consultancy; Clinical studies; Cryostat x4.; Sliding microtome with peltier cooling x1; Rotary microtomes x4.; Thermo Excelsior processor; Medite TP15 processor; Medite embedding centre; Slide printer; Cassette printer; Leica DM750 microscope with integral digital camera; Motik SMZ-168 dissecting microscope with integral digital camera with bespoke thermal stage for orientation of wax embedded tissue; Vast range of stains; 10L Liquid nitrogen dewar; Virtual Microscope; Shandon knife sharpener
The Illumina facility is run by the Bristol Bioresource Laboratories and is located at the Learning & Research Building, Southmead Hospital.
We offer Illumina microarray processing and expertise accessible to both internal and external researchers.
The laboratory has an Illumina iscan, autoloader and array processing robot and offers processing of illumina microarray based assays.
Illumina microarray processing and expertise; Methylation analysis; DNA analysis; SNP genotyping arrays; Bioinformatics support; Dedicated Biobank storage facility; Illumina iscan, autoloader and array processing robot
The IAC hosts a wide range of advanced materials science analysis techniques.
Please contact us for more information.
In addition to conducting materials science research we also perform analysis and consultancy services to industry.
Materials analysis; Focused Ion Beam (FIB); Electron and Optical microscopy; Spectroscopy; X-ray diffraction; Thermogravimetric Calorimetry (DSC); Imaging; High-Speed Atomic Force Microscopy
A customer-focused group of veterinary services, providing specialised care and an extensive range of capabilities.
With our 24/7 clinics, you can count on skilled clinicians, imagers, anaesthetists, nurses, and support staff dedicated to your pet’s wellbeing.
Veterinary services; Animal welfare; Diagnostic Laboratories; Farm Animal Practice; Small Animal Hospital; Stables Equine Practice; State of the art diagnostic imaging facilities including X-rays, ultrasound scans, Computed Tomography (CT) and Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) scanning; Quantitative real-time PCR; TB testing; Laboratory and post-mortem facilities
The mass spectrometry facilities at Bristol enable you to look at molecular ions and fragmentation patterns for almost any species including biological samples that were, until a few years ago, impossible to study using these techniques.
Mass spectrometry; Chemical mass spectrometry; Material analysis; HPLC-MS/UPLC-MS; LC-MSn; Nano-LC-MS; IMS-MS; Accurate mass, EI, CI, ESI, nanospray and Maldi MS; Thermo Scientific Orbitrap Elite High resolution (MSn) mass spectrometer with UPLC/HPLC; Waters Synapt G2S IMS-TOF mass spectrometer with Nanomate source; Bruker Daltonics UltrafleXtreme 2 High resolution MALDI-TOF/TOF mass spectrometer; Bruker Daltonics micrOTOF Focus II High resolution TOF mass spectrometer; Applied Biosystems 4700 Proteomics MALDI-TOF/TOF mass spectrometer; Bruker Daltonics Esquire 6000 Ion-trap mass spectrometer with HPLC; VG Autospec 3 sector (double focussing) mass spectrometer
The NMR Facilities in the School of Chemistry are some of the best equipped in the UK, with 12 solution-state NMR spectrometers (300-700MHz) used for research and undergraduate teaching, as well as being available for industrial use
Biological NMR; High-field Nuclear Magnetic Resonance spectrometry; Protein and small molecule structure analysis; Protein-ligand binding studies; Chemical NMR; Solution state Nuclear Magnetic Resonance spectrometry of small molecules; Multinuclear and diffusion NMR; Molecular structure and mixture analysis; Bruker 700 MHz spectrometer with 1.7 mm cryoprobe ; Bruker Avance 400; Bruker Avance 300; Bruker 500 MR NMR Spectromer  with 13C cryoprobe ; JEOL Eclipse 300 NMR Spectrometer; JEOL ECS 400 NMR Spectrometer; JEOL ECS 300 NMR Spectrometer; Varian 400 MR NMR Spectrometer; Varian 500 VNMRS NMR Spectrometer; Varian INOVA 600 MHz NMR Spectrometer; Varian VNMRS 600 spectrometer with cryoprobe
The facility provides a service to multiple research groups across the University of Bristol, but also to many groups from major UK Universities and to industrial partners.
The Facility’s user base encompasses a diverse range of research areas, including cell biology, neuroscience, cardiovascular science, infection and immunity, cancer research, evolutionary biology, oral health, small animal medicine and plant and agricultural sciences.
Protein Separation; Protein identification; Quantitative Proteomics (SILAC, TMT); Phosphoproteomics; Serum Proteomics; LC-MS service; Orbitrap Fusion Tribrid Mass Spectrometer with up-stream Ultimate 3000 nano-LC system (Thermo Scientific); LTQ-Orbitrap Velos Mass Spectrometer with up-stream Ultimate 3000 nano-LC system (Thermo Scientific); DigestPro automated digestion unit (Intavis Ltd.); 2 x Ultimate 3000 stand alone LC systems for peptide fractionation (Thermo Scientific); GE Healthcare IPGphor3 Isoelectric Focussing Units; GE Healthcare Ettan DALT Twelve and Six Separation Units; GE Healthcare DALT Twelve Gel caster; GE Healthcare Typhoon 9400 Variable Mode Imager
The UKCRIC Soil-Foundation-Structure Interaction Laboratory is a state of the art facility designed to enable research into the structural-geotechnical boundary, supporting the UKCRIC mission to underpin the renewal, sustainment and improvement of infrastructure and cities in the UK and elsewhere.
Engineering; Soil-structure interaction; Seismic qualification; 6m x 4m 2g biaxial seismic shaking table with 50 tonne payload capacity; 1.2m x 1.2m 6-degree-of-freedom 8g shaking table with 500kg payload capacity; 6m x 5m x 4m deep soil test pit with surrounding strong floor for bespoke placement of multiple actuators up to 1Mn; Vibration testing
The Wolfson Bioimaging Facility provides expert microscopy support for researchers at the University of Bristol and beyond.
An extensive range of advanced fluorescence imaging systems (including confocal, widefield, multiphoton, super-resolution microscopy, TIRF and FLIM) are positioned alongside high specification electron microscopes (TEM and SEM) to provide exceptional opportunities for microscopy applications.
Latest-state-of-the-art light/optical and electron microscopy; Cell and life sciences imaging for biological and biomedical research; Leica SP5 confocal imaging systems (3, incl 1 with resonant scanner and hybrid detectors); 2 Leica SP8 confocal systems (with resonant scanner and hybrid detectors); Leica SPE confocal system; Ultraview Spinning Disk; Widefield imaging systems (6, various specs); Leica TIRF microscope; Leica SP8 Multiphoton; Leica SP8 Fluorescence lifetime imaging microscope; Leica SP8 STED (super-resolution); Leica SP8 fluorescence correlation spectroscopy; Perkin Elmer Opera LX high content screening system; Essen IncuCyte high throughput live cell imaging system; Tecnai 12 -FEI 120kV BioTwin Transmission Electron Microscope (TEM); Tecnai 20 -FEI 200kV LaB6 Twin Lens Transmission Electron Microscope (TEM) including HAADF-STEM detector and cryo capabilities; Quanta 400FEI FEG Scanning Electron Microscope (SEM) with cryo attachment; Vitrobot; High Pressure Freezer, Leica EMPACT2 + RTS; Cryo-ultramicrotome; Ultramicrotome; Photo-oxidation light microscope (Correlative Microscopy); Cryo fluorescence Light Microscope (Correlative Microscopy)
A purpose-built crystallography laboratory houses 3 single crystal diffractometers and one powder diffractometer.
All of the single crystal diffractometers are equipped with modern kappa-geometry goniometers.
Two of these have conventional fixed Mo-anode X-ray tubes and are used for routine samples.
The third is a dual microfocus source (Mo and Cu) instrument with a sensitive CPAD detector.
The laboratory also houses a high throughput powder X-ray diffractometer equipped with a linear detector, robotic sample changer and 30 silicon wafer sample holders.
Single crystal X-ray structure determination/analysis (90-400K); Absolute structure determination; Routine powder X-ray diffraction measurements; Variable temperature powder X-ray diffraction measurements (16-300K); Bruker D8 Advance Powder Diffractometer; Bruker Microstar Rotating Anode Copper Diffractometer; Bruker Kappa Apex II Molybdenum sealed tube single crystal diffractometer
This is a world-class facility delivering practically-based understanding of anatomy for clinical practice.
It aims to provide the highest quality surgical and non-surgical clinical training alongside encouraging and facilitating the development of high quality, sustainable learning through Continuing Professional Development and postgraduate training.
The Palaeobiology Research Group hosts the Faculty's micro-CT X-ray tomography facilities in the Life Sciences Building.
This facility is available for all users in the Palaeo group, as well as to both other members of the University and to external users.
Micro-CT X-ray imaging; 3D imaging and analysis; Imaging suite workstations and software for 3D visualisation and analysis; Nikon XT H 225 ST CT scanner; Imaging lab with high spec workstations and software for 3D visualisation and analysis of tomographic datasets
With many Research Groups sharing resources and competition for funding continually increasing it is more important than ever to be confident in the quality and authenticity of your cell lines.
Mycoplasma can be devastating, resulting in misleading results and unpublishable data.
In the Bristol Medical School, we run monthly Mycoplasma testing using InvivoGen MycoStrip Mycoplasma Detection Kits.
Clinical studies; Cell culture; Cell Line Authentication; Repository Production; Over Passaging of Cells; Cross Contamination; Infection Identification and Control; Quarantine
Please note that this page is currently under review and is being temporarily managed by Dr Caroline Jarrett .
To request changes, please email Caroline with the details.
These services are an additional resource available to those within the University of Bristol.
A database of equipment and facilities available at the University of Bristol.
For larger, manufacturing-based services, try the NCC .
Access over 1,700 items of shared equipment across GW4 – from mass spectrometers, to lightning simulators, to supercomputers – with our Equipment Database.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/research/environment:
Empowering every voice in research.
Building a culture of collaboration, integrity, transparency and shared success.
At the University of Bristol, we are committed to fostering an inclusive and supportive research culture where every voice matters.
From researchers and technicians to research professionals and PGR students, we value the contributions of all those who drive innovation and discovery.
In our Research Culture Vision, we set out our aspirational, medium-term vision for research culture at the University of Bristol – the end state we hope to reach by 2030.
To move us towards realising our vision, the Research Culture Committee have published an annual implementation plan that will include specific areas of focus for that year, and how success will be measured against pre-defined criteria.
This annual plan will be overseen by Research Culture Committee, which will review progress against these objectives at the end of the year, and approve the plan for the next year.
This will allow us to constantly refine our approach, and update our objective and indicators of success, as we as an institution progress and the sector evolves.
In 2021, the University of Bristol created the role of Associate Pro Vice Chancellor for Research Culture in recognition of the importance of fostering and sustaining a positive environment for research, and supporting those engaged in the research process.
In 2022, the Research Culture Committee was established as the main body that now leads on research culture activity across the University.
Made up of academic researchers, research professionals, technicians and others, the committee aims to ensure a positive research culture supported by a cycle of continuous improvement.
It is responsible for creating a vision, strategy and annual action plan for improving research culture.
There are various groups that feed into the Research Culture Committee, which itself feeds into the University Research Committee.
This structure gives staff and post-graduate students the power to escalate their thoughts and concerns related to the research environment which can lead to institution-wide changes.
We have received continued funding from Research England to support activity to improve research culture.
We received funds in 21-22, 22-23, 23-24 and will receive further funds in 24-25 academic year.
A number of diverse projects have been carried out thanks to this funding; you can find more information about our work across this page, including a list of the work we have funded to date.
Each year we host our Festival of Research Culture to bring colleagues from across the University together for a day of talks, interactive sessions and networking.
We share our progress towards building and maintaining a positive research culture, give colleagues information on how they can contribute and invite attendees to view and contribute towards our ever-evolving vision and strategic plan.
Keep up to date with what we are doing in this space
Are you UoB staff?
Find more information and resources on our internal SharePoint site.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/business/working-together:
We help organisations from the public, private and third sectors to access the world-leading, in-depth knowledge and highly specialist skills, tools and facilities of the University of Bristol - and to implement the very latest discoveries, innovations and technologies.
We deliver the very best outcomes for business, for customers, for communities and for the world.
We can help you to:
From short-term projects to long-term R&D partnerships and from large multi-national corporations to local start-ups, every one of our collaborations is different - flexing to suit your needs and the pace at which you are ready to work.
From initial scoping to final outcomes, w e'll work alongside you to understand your unique objectives , demands, challenges and aspirations - and spark creative and innovative collaborations by connecting you with subject-matter experts and insight from all three faculties of the University of Bristol.
The academic analysis we can offer is rigorous, independent and open to scrutiny, providing credible evidence that your organisation can rely on.
BT is working with the University of Bristol to develop cutting - edge research around new network technology and put this into operation in the network.
NHS organisations in Bristol and the S outh West collaborate throu g h a nationally- recogni s ed Academic Health Science Centre partnership with University of Bristol.
Rolls-Royce and the University of Bristol work in partnership to deliver the next generation of low-carbon transport.
GSK and the University of Bristol have a long standing partnership advancing sustainable health outcomes.
The Met Office draws on expertise from eight universities across the UK to tackle the impact of global weather events and climate change.
Find out more about how we can work together.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/business/innovate-and-grow:
For new businesses, we have a long history of launching and nurturing through our sector leading incubators.
Work with us to help you to grow.
For established businesses, we can connect you with technologies, start-ups and people that will help you innovate and thrive.
Together, we can create new solutions and ways of engaging.
Some of the ways that you can innovate and grow with us are:
Our Research Commercialisation team can help you to explore how our technologies could drive your business forward.
Contact the Research Commercialisation team to talk about our technologies that are available for licensing.
Engine Shed is a thriving business and community hub located next to Temple Meads station.
It’s the ideal place to bring teams together with a range of spaces made for collaboration.
It brokers partnerships and delivers programmes that support inclusive and sustainable economic growth for the region.
We offer a range of business incubation and tailored programmes to help you to start or grow your business.
Link up with specialist centres:
SETsquared Bristol is a world-leading tech incubator for start-ups, offering early-stage entrepreneurs a bespoke business programme.
The Quantum Technology Enterprise Centre offers a 12-month pre-incubation programme providing tools and training to develop quantum and deep technology businesses.
The Quantum Technologies Innovation Centre (QTIC) offers affordable access to two high specification laboratories, a flexible laboratory space, office space and specialist technical advice for emerging quantum enhanced and quantum inspired businesses.
Bristol Robotics Laboratory (BRL) Hardware Incubator supports hardware companies to progress from desktop prototypes, through to batch and mass production.
Pervasive Media Studio offers residencies for over 100 artists, creative companies, technologists and academics exploring experience design and creative technology.
The Network for Creative Enterprise offers business support for creative individuals and small companies to develop a creative idea into an economically sustainable business.
Science Creates has laboratory, office and event space for deep tech start-ups in its incubators Unit DX and upcoming Unit DY.
Discuss how you can support entrepreneurs or invest in early-stage companies.
Contact us

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/business/students:
The Bristol Skills Profile focuses on nine essential skills, enabling graduates to bridge the gap between their academic studies and the world of work.
It enables students to reflect on, develop and articulate their skills.
Speak to our team about how you can use the profile to frame your recruitment activity and attract students and graduates with the right skills and talent for your organisation: employer-services@bristol.ac.uk .
Our students are the next generation of world-leading talent.
We offer free and cost effective ways to engage with students during their studies and when they graduate.
We can also raise awareness of your organisation and help you recruit.
There are lots of options to engage with students and graduates.
We will tailor a solution that fits your needs and are open to creative and new ways of working.
Some of the ways that we can work together are:
Short opportunities for students or recent graduates to work for your organisation.
They typically last between 1 and 16 weeks.
Advertise your part-time job, internship or full-time graduate role , free of charge, on our online jobs portal, to reach over 30,000 students and recent graduates.
A relationship with one or more students where you will provide advice, support and guidance.
If you have a challenge within your organisation or you would like a new perspective on how to do something, you might be able to pose a question or project for a student, or group of students, to work on as part of their degree course.
A Placement Year normally takes place between the second and third year of a degree course.
A student will work for your organisation as part of their degree programme.
There are various recruitment fairs and events that you can attend.
Find out more on our Careers Service webpages .
Fund an individual PhD student or engage with cohorts of PhD students through our Doctoral Training Centres .
This will give you the opportunity to shape research and benefit from working with a high-quality students.
Whether you need fresh ideas, niche skills or just lots of enthusiasm, students are the perfect addition to your team of volunteers.
Find out more on the Student's Union website .
Our Careers Service has direct access to 30,000 and graduates.
Whether you want quick access to an individual student for a specific project or you are looking for a dynamic engagement plan to support your significant recruitment needs, they will work with you to tailor a solution that suits your needs.
Contact the Careers Service .
Our Faculty Teams provide tailored opportunities to connect with students in particular subject areas.
Contact our Faculty Teams .
Hear from an organisation who have benefitted from connecting with our students.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/business/research:
Collaborate with our researchers to gain competitive advantage.
At Bristol, we are working at the frontiers of research - much of it is carried out in a highly collaborative way and co-created with partners.
This is what turns world-leading research into world-changing impact.
The research portal is our definitive research information source, allowing you to view information about our researchers and their projects, activities and publications.
The University's three Faculties work across disciplines and drive pioneering discoveries, technological advancements and new ways of thinking.
Our Research Institutes are centres of excellence that reflect Bristol's strength and depth in key specialisms and draw together thematic, multidisciplinary research spanning the breadth of our University.
Combining our research with the expertise and reach of partners, we can drive societal, environmental and economic benefit.
Our research will not only help your organisation thrive but together, we can shape the future.
As an academic institution, we access funding from public bodies and charitable trusts to push forward research in important areas - very often, this is done in collaboration with our partners.
We also have schemes to support priority areas such as encouraging innovation, diversity and helping small organisations to engage with us.
UKRI brings together the seven Research Councils, Innovate UK and Research England.
The UKRI website has useful information about their work and upcoming funding calls.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/business/use-our-facilities-:
Engine Shed is an enterprise hub with a range of spaces made for collaboration including individual hot-desking, coworking, private offices, meeting rooms and event spaces.
The space has a Members’ Lounge for individual bookings or informal groups.
It is accessible on a pay-as-you-go basis.
The University venues and events team offers a wide choice of rooms, lecture theatres and exhibition spaces to accommodate small meetings and large events of up to 800 delegates.
Residential events offer group accommodation for conferences and workshops.
Gain day access to our libraries with our library visitor access .
The Temple Quarter Enterprise Campus is currently in construction in the heart of the Bristol Temple Quarter development.
Scheduled to open in 2026, the campus will co-locate students, researchers and enterprise partners in outstanding facilities that will enhance our collective strengths across research, innovation, learning, and collaboration.
The main academic building will be home to 2,500m² enterprise space, including labs for the Quantum Technologies Innovation Centre and a further 1,300m² for partners and their staff.
Ideas and projects will be conceived in a range of tailored, dedicated facilities including a Design Thinking Suite, Executive Presentation Suite and partners will have access to the Design Factory.
Visitors can use our Wifi .

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/business/contact-us:
Is your organisation interested in accessing research, technology, networks, facilities or expertise to help you innovate, gain new skills or insights, solve problems or shape policy or practice?
Bristol Innovations, the University of Bristol’s catalyst for innovation, can help.
Contact us at: bristol-innovations@bristol.ac.uk
Find answers to other common enquiries:

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/campaigns/bristol-innovations:
The University of Bristol's catalyst for innovation.
We offer businesses access to cutting-edge research, technology and talent, creating breakthrough solutions and scalable commercial opportunities that drive growth.
Building on a proud culture of equity and inclusion, we’re working to grow the value and diversity of Bristol as a global leader for innovation - with new investment from industry and government.
At the heart of the University of Bristol’s new Temple Quarter Enterprise Campus , the Bristol Innovations Zone (BIZ) is a transformative, interdisciplinary approach to collaborative innovation.
With flexible co-working and event spaces, specialist labs, state-of-the-art equipment, skills training, support services and events, we’re growing an active community of forward-thinking businesses into a dynamic innovation ecosystem.
Opening fully in 2026, BIZ offers start-ups, scale-ups and corporations a gateway to in-depth interdisciplinary collaboration with expert researchers from all faculties of the University of Bristol – working on high-impact innovation to address critical business challenges.
For over two decades, Bristol has remained at the forefront of advances in AI.
Crowned ‘AI University of The Year’ in 2024, we lead two UKRI flagship hubs (AI for Collective Intelligence and  INFORMED-AI) and two UKRI Centres for Doctoral Training (Practice-Oriented AI and Interactive AI).
We are also home to Isambard AI – one of the world’s most powerful and sustainable supercomputers, backed with £225 million from UK government.
Bristol’s Smart Internet Lab is one of the UK’s most renowned information and communications technology research centres.
It is a focal point for investment that is powering 6G and a co-founder of the UK Telecoms Innovation Network (UKTIN), which co-ordinates 500 advanced telecoms companies and is driving the agenda for growth.
From photonics to computing, sensing, measurement and cryptography, quantum has the potential to transform the way we tackle global challenges.
With a cross-disciplinary team of over 150 academics, dedicated support services and purpose-built facilities at our Quantum Technologies Innovation Centre, Bristol is a pioneer in the field.
The NCC and the Bristol Composites Institute form a world-leading composites R&D hub, providing expert advice, training and support with over £250m invested in state-of-art automated composite manufacturing technologies.
We are also a co-founder of MATcelerate ZERO, a collaboration that aims to accelerate the commercialisation of new materials to help us meet emissions targets.
Delivered in collaboration with over 30 business partners, the £11 million UKRI-funded REWIRE Innovation and Knowledge Centre at the University of Bristol is developing the next generation of semiconductor power device technologies, to aid the delivery of net zero ambitions and enhance the resilience of the UK’s semiconductor supply chain.
Discover how your business can work in partnership with the University of Bristol to help achieve your objectives, solve challenges, develop skills and innovate to help you prepare for the future.
Access policy-relevant research from across the University of Bristol, including policy briefings and bespoke reports tailored for non-academic audiences.
Find out about technologies and spin-out companies from the University of Bristol - and how you can work with them to drive your business forward.
Embed innovation in your business with expert consultancy and collaborative research and development funding.
Grow your business with incubation and training from SETsquared Bristol.
Tech startups and entrepreneurs receive bespoke business support, alongside an investor and adviser network and a community of startups and scaleups.
Access cutting-edge facilities at Bristol's Quantum Technologies Innovation Centre, including high-spec dry labs, equipment and workspace, plus a network of some of the most exciting companies in quantum and deep tech.
Join Engine Shed, Bristol’s innovation hub next to Temple Meads station.
Connect, collaborate and grow with access to space, membership, training and events.
Find out how community groups, organisations and the public can collaborate with our researchers to address societal challenges and improve lives.
Sign up to receive regular updates.
Get the latest innovation and enterprise news from the University of Bristol.
Our digital publication Foresight provides authoritative, in-depth insights into the business of innovation, helping readers understand the implications and practical uses of ground breaking scientific and technological developments.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/news/news-feeds:
The University of Bristol's latest news items are available via an RSS feed, available at https://www.bristol.ac.uk/news/news-feed.rss
Newsfeeds of the individual news categories are also available:
If you have the appropriate software, you can pick up our latest news stories directly from your own site or news aggregator.
You will be able to see the news story headline, date and a taster of what the story is about.
If a particular news story interests you, then just click on its link and you will be taken to the full news story on our site.
If you wish to know more about RSS and newsfeeds, try one of the following:

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/news/2025/august/university-challenge-2025-26.html:
Press release issued: 18 August 2025
University Challenge, a long-running British television quiz show, pits teams of university students against each other in a battle of brains.
Over 100 institutions applied for this year’s programme, but the University of Bristol is one of only 28 who made it onto the televised episodes.
This year’s University of Bristol team consists of captain Hugo Goodwill (Meng Aerospace Engineering), Lewys Jenkins (BSc Mathematics), Lois Connolly (BA Liberal Arts), Nathaniel Joyce (MSci Biology) and reserve team member Madhu Kannan (MSci Psychology and Neuroscience).
The Quiz Society at Bristol runs a competitive three-stage process to select members of the University Challenge team.
A 100-question written quiz open to all students is followed by a round of buzzer-style questions for the top performers.
Finalists then undergo individual interviews led by the committee and past contestants.
From this, a team of top performers is assembled to represent the university on the national stage.
Hugo Goodwill, University of Bristol Team Captain, said: “It is a once-in-a-lifetime experience to compete in University Challenge.
As a huge fan of the show, it’s been an amazing opportunity to take part, especially as I tried out for the Bristol team three times before being successful in my final year of university”.
Last year’s team had an impressive run in the 2024/25 series of University Challenge, reaching the semi-finals.
Building on that momentum, this year’s team is eager to showcase their knowledge and expertise.
The University of Bristol will appear on University Challenge on BBC Two at 8.30 pm on Monday, August 18.

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/news/2025/august/chrissie-thirlwell-swim.html:
On 24 August, Chrissie will join more than 2,400 competitors from across the globe, swimming 6.5 kilometres from Asia to Europe, battling strong currents to cross one of the world's busiest shipping lanes as part of the Bosphorus Cross-Continental Swim.
It’s the latest in a long track record of crossing continents covering many miles of open water that Chrissie has been swimming since 2005; including ten years of Olympic distance triathlon training, a 40km swim across the English Channel in 2007, swimming with Orcas across 20km of the Gibraltar Straight in 2013, swimming from the UK to USA from the British to US Virgin Islands in 2014, and being the first woman in her age group to complete the swim in the Alcatraz duathlon in 2014.
This latest challenge brings to an end Chrissie’s crossing continents swim series of UK – Europe, Europe to Africa, UK – USA and Europe to Asia.
It is doubly significant because it is in memory of Chrissie’s lifelong friend, Kirsty Widdowson, whose resilience, humour and courage inspired Chrissie to raise money for the Marfan Trust, a charity that supports families affected by Marfan syndrome, a genetic condition that affects the body's connective tissue and which affected Kirsty’s life until she died earlier this August.
“Kirsty lived a wonderful life and wasn’t at all defined by Marfans,” says Chrissie.
“I’m doing this in her memory with her family’s blessing.
The fact she would have said I was crazy makes me want to do it even more!”
Chrissie is accustomed to balancing the challenges in her training with her academic commitments and in fact believes that the two are not only complementary, but essential to her success in both.
“It is hard to fit it all in but I know that it makes me happier,” says Chrissie, who wakes at 5am most mornings to either go trail running, outdoor swimming or to strength train before her work day begins.
“Being outdoors is important to me, as is channelling the energy I have in a way that means I can do whatever I need to do.
I have a really supportive husband and labradors – who swim and run with me – and I often train with friends, which not only makes it more enjoyable, it means I stick to my training plan.
“In my job, I find it helpful that I feel very fit and strong.
It goes hand in hand with the demands of the job.
I tell my students the same thing; it’s important to get your head into a different space – you don’t have to climb a mountain or run a marathon; it can be knitting or any other activity, you simply need to do something that makes you happy.”
At the time of writing, Chrissie had raised almost £3,000 for the Marfan Trust, which as well as supporting patients and families, funds research into the condition.
“I’ve previously fund-raised for cancer charities and various children’s charities,” adds Chrissie.
“I wanted to do this in memory of Kirsty who was the most amazing, warm, funny and generous woman who I’d known since we were born three weeks apart.
She encountered significant health problems through her life, but she was incredibly strong and resilient when navigating these.
I saw her shortly before she died and knowing medically what I do, I knew it might be the last time we were together, she still managed to laugh at my terrible jokes.
She never held herself back.”
“I was always going to fundraise when I planned to do this swim, but I hadn’t decided which charity to do this for.
When Kirsty died it became really obvious.
I remember how the Marfan Trust supported Kirsty’s family when she was young, and with my medical background, knowing that they support research into Marfan syndrome, it became even clearer why this matters so much.”
Chrissie already has her sights set on her next challenge, simultaneously preparing to train in Pilot Gig rowing once this swim – and another in the Arctic afterwards – is complete (all the while keeping her other commitment as front woman on the electric ukulele in her band, Otter Chaos): “I really do believe it’s absolutely essential to prioritise your health and happiness, especially as we age.”
Chrissie’s fundraising page is on Just Giving - https://www.justgiving.com/page/chrissie-thirlwell-1
Chrissie’s sporting achievements in full include: 10 years of Olympic triathlon, and one 1/2 Ironman in USA; completing the London and New York marathons, training for the channel with a 6-hour swim around Gozo; many, many hours swimming in Dover harbour over 4 months training for eventually swimming the English channel; swimming the Gibraltar straight; the UK Virgin Islands to US Virgin Islands; Lake Zurich; Alcatraz duathlon; the River Dart 10k swim; swimming around and between the Isles of Scilly; the Italian lakes; Lake Bled; the Oman Fjords and around Formentera in Ibiza.
Chrissie in action on one of her epic swims
Image credit: Chrissie Thirlwell
Chrissie with her friend Kirsty Widdowson when they were students
Chrissie Thirlwell

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/news/2025/august/research-university-of-the-year.html:
Press release issued: 14 August 2025
The guide, published online today (14 August) to coincide with A-level results day, chose Bristol out of 128 universities featured due to its impressive record in world-leading research.
It specifically identifies the 'formidable record' the University is building in AI research, a rise in research grants and contract income of £91m, and the research and innovation focus of its new Temple Quarter Enterprise Campus due to open next year.
The accolade follows Bristol being named AI University of the Year at the National AI Awards in 2024 and the recent launch of the UK’s fastest supercomputer, Isambard-AI .
Overall, Bristol has risen an impressive ten places to 8th in the league table, scoring highly in research income (2nd), research quality (4th) and first year completion (6th).
Alastair McCall, Editor of the Daily Mail University Guide, said: "Bristol is constantly pushing at the boundaries of human knowledge.
It is one of the big global players in research and is positioning itself to be at the forefront of the next industrial revolution with its artificial intelligence (AI) research capabilities.
"Bristol was the standout choice to be the Daily Mail Research University of the Year 2026.
A £91m jump in competitively won research grants and contracts year on year has helped propel the university back into the UK top 10 in the wider Daily Mail University Ranking.
"The award also acknowledges the huge potential of the new Temple Quarter Enterprise Campus , due to fully open in 2026.
The development has played a key part in the regeneration of part of Bristol city centre and will add significantly to the university's teaching and research heft as a centre for digital, business and social innovation.
"This year's launch at the university of the £225m Isambard-AI supercomputer , supported by the UK government, will help make Bristol one of the university destinations for anyone interested in technology that will shape the future of our working world."
The guide praised Bristol's efforts to make a Russell Group education as affordable as possible thanks to the range of bursaries available and its work to encourage applications from under-represented groups.
It also highlighted 'booming' applications with more than 63,000 students naming Bristol as one of their five UCAS choices in 2024 thanks to the University's reputation for 'producing in-demand graduates'.
Professor Evelyn Welch, Vice-Chancellor and President of the University of Bristol, said: "I am delighted to see Bristol recognised as the Research University of the Year.
I want to thank and congratulate all our academic, technical and professional services staff who have contributed to this wonderful accolade through their hard work.
"I am also very proud that our world-leading research feeds directly into our curriculum.
Our Bristol students are able to work with globally recognized experts who are pushing the boundaries of today's knowledge and skills, making this a very exciting place to study as well as undertake research."

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/news/2025/august/ncmd-falls.html:
Press release issued: 13 August 2025
The University of Bristol-led analysis, draws on unique data from the National Child Mortality Database (NCMD), which records all child deaths in England before their 18th birthday.
In this report, researchers examined demographic data and the circumstances surrounding 16 deaths of children under the age of 11* as a result of falling from a window or balcony between 1 April 2019 and 31 May 2025.
The research found 44% (7 cases) of these incidents involved children aged under five and from the most disadvantaged areas in England.
In addition, 56% (12 cases) involved children living in social housing or privately rented accommodation.
Alarmingly, 92% (12) of falls occurred from windows or balconies in flats where safety measures such as locks or restrictors were either absent, not functioning, or not in use.
In several cases, families had reported broken windows to landlords or local authorities, sometimes repeatedly, but repairs had not been made quickly enough.
In some cases, housing issues were reported, for example, overcrowded accommodation.
This meant that the physical living space was small for the family leading to limited space to position furniture in places that were safe for young children.
Professor Karen Luyt , Programme Director for the National Child Mortality Database, Professor of Neonatal Medicine at the University of Bristol and Healthier Childhoods lead at NIHR ARC West , said: “The aim of this research is to understand the circumstances surrounding these falls so that we can learn from these tragic events and ultimately prevent them.
“Our report includes several recommendations for local authorities, private landlords, and professionals working with families with young children.
One of the simplest yet most crucial actions is to ensure that appropriate locks are installed on windows and balcony doors—and to prioritise fixing them when issues are reported by families.”
The Child Accident Prevention Trust (CAPT), one of the leading charities working in the field of home safety , highlight that one of the most common reasons young children fall is that their rapid development takes parents and carers by surprise, for example, a toddler might astonish their parents when they climb on something that they had previously been unable to reach.
Katrina Phillips, Chief Executive of the Child Accident Prevention Trust said: “It’s heart-breaking that so many young children are put at risk and their parents feel powerless to protect them.
“With temperatures rising year on year, it’s crucial that families with small children in social or private rented housing are a priority for protection.
“No child should die or suffer life-changing injuries from something as simple as fixing a window lock or restrictor.”
The research team would like to recognise all Child Death Overview Panels (CDOPs) who submitted data for the purposes of this report and all child death review professionals for submitting data and providing additional information when requested.
In particular, the research team extend special thanks to the parents and public contributors who remain at the heart of the NCMD programme.
NCMD report
‘ Deaths of children aged under 11 years as a result of a fall from a window or balcony’ by NCMD Programme
*Exclusions in this report Deaths of children that occurred abroad or falls from another location other than a window or balcony (e.g., a roof) have been excluded from this analysis.
Deaths of children aged 11 or over have been excluded from this analysis.
As different factors may contribute to the deaths of children aged 11 years or over, these deaths were excluded to ensure the learning identified in this report was appropriately themed around accidental falls from windows or balconies.
The exclusion criteria outlined here mean that the data published here may differ to previous reporting.
About the National Child Mortality Database (NCMD) programme The National Child Mortality Database (NCMD) programme is commissioned by the Healthcare Quality Improvement Partnership and funded by NHS England.
It supports national learning from child deaths to improve outcomes and reduce preventable loss of life.
Current advice for families from the Child Accident Prevention Trust
For further current advice, visit: capt.org.uk/falls-from-open-windows/

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/news/2025/august/animal-career-advice-event.html:
Press release issued: 11 August 2025
The animal career advice drop-in session is open to anyone interested in working with animals, including school leavers, people seeking a career change, or looking to re-enter the workforce.
There will be lots of hands-on activities (using models) to give people an idea of the kind of activities that working with animals can involve.
The drop-in session on Wednesday 13 August runs from 2 to 4 pm at the University of Bristol’s Hartcliffe Micro-campus, located in the Gatehouse Centre, Withywood .
The event is part of a two-year project between the University of Bristol Veterinary School , Bristol Animal Rescue Centre (Bristol A.R.C.), Langford Vets , and the Bristol Paws Project to identify ways of supporting pet owners in the Hartcliffe area of Bristol.
Using the University’s micro-campus, local pet owners are invited to drop-in sessions to learn about different aspects of pet care over a cuppa, and pick up free pet food.
Dates for future community drop-in sessions, which will feature themed discussions, are:
The sessions aim to connect local pet owners with useful resources and general pet care advice, such as feeding, preventative health care, training and grooming, while providing an open space to discuss common issues and solutions.
Sheena Warman , Professor of Veterinary Education and Deputy Head of the Bristol Veterinary School, said: “If you’ve ever dreamed of working with animals – whether you’re just starting out or thinking about a change – this is your chance to explore the possibilities.
“Come along, get hands-on experience, and speak to real professionals to help you take the next step into a rewarding career in animal care.”
The Animal Careers Advice drop-in session (no booking required) will take place on Wednesday 13 August 2025 from 2 to 4 pm at the University of Bristol’s Micro-campus, Gatehouse Centre, Withywood, Bristol BS13 9JN .
The University of Bristol’s Hartcliffe Micro-campus — hosted by Hartcliffe & Withywood Ventures (HWV) —  is located in the Gatehouse Centre, which is run by HWV.
Study at the Bristol Veterinary School The University of Bristol offer a range of undergraduate degrees and a number of postgraduate courses including the MSc Global Wildlife Health and Conservation .
Based at Bristol's Langford Campus , Bristol Veterinary School boasts first-class clinical facilities and encompasses a small animal hospital, a dairy farm, diagnostic laboratories, and farm animal, small animal and equine practices.
About Bristol A.R.C.
As Bristol’s oldest animal welfare organisation, Bristol A.R.C .
has been dedicated to supporting local animals and communities for over 137 years.
They ensure vulnerable animals receive the compassion, care and respect they deserve.
About Langford Vets As an educational veterinary group, with a not-for-profit owner (University of Bristol), Langford Vets are proud to provide your pet with a superior quality of care through our extensive range of specialist capabilities.
We have the largest team of American and European Specialists in the Southwest of England.
We are members of the Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons Practice Standards Scheme.
For more info: www.langfordvets.co.uk/
About the Bristol Paws Project The Bristol Paws Project was set up in 2016 by veterinary and veterinary nursing students from the University of Bristol.
We are passionate about reducing financial barriers to pet ownership and raising awareness of the benefits of the human-animal bond.
For more information, please check out our Facebook page or email us at bristolpawsproject@gmail.com

New sentences found on https://bristol.ac.uk/news/2025/august/nature-food-paper.html:
The study , led by the University of Bristol in the UK and published today in the journal Nature Food , showed the carbon footprint of canteen diners’ weekly meal choices dropped overall by around a third – and saturated fat levels also significantly fell – when selecting from a cleverly reshuffled weekly set menu.
Best of all, diners didn’t seem to realise the difference.
Lead author Dr Annika Flynn, Senior Research Associate at the University of Bristol, said: “Improving people’s dietary habits to deliver meaningful health and environmental benefits is a meaty challenge.
So the scale of benefits generated by our relatively simple intervention of weekly menu manipulation, which didn’t change the actual dishes or recipes themselves and seemed to go unnoticed, were really surprising.
“This sneaky technique could be a game-changer in many different kitchen menu settings, especially given people’s growing appetite to make healthier decisions and the increased drive to reduce carbon emissions globally.”
Changing how people can decide, restricting the number of choices available – for example the legal minimum age to buy alcohol – or disincentivising a particular option – such as the ‘sugar tax’ – are all proven techniques used by governments to drive behaviour change.
Although influencing what people opt to eat is no mean feat, the researchers reckon there are rewards to be reaped among the 42% of UK workers who report eating at a canteen, as well as the millions of children and young people served meals daily at schools and universities.
Chiefly, the researchers wanted to test the theory that specific health and environmental benefits can be delivered by merely rearranging the meal options on a weekly set menu, based on consumer preferences and meal attributes.
That marked the start of a project called SNEAK (Sustainable Nutrition, Environment, and Agriculture, without Consumer Knowledge), supported by the UK Research and Innovation (UKRI) Transforming UK Food Systems for Healthy People and a Healthy Environment Programme.
They teamed up with the University’s Catering Department, which is at the forefront of introducing healthy, more sustainable food options in the higher education sector.
For starters, they used computational mathematics to number crunch data on the popularity of different meals.
Using this intel they then reorganised the weekly menu, swapping meals across the week to change the ‘competition’ between dishes served each day at a catered halls of residence.
Co-author Jeff Brunstrom, Professor of Experimental Psychology at the University of Bristol, explained: “In a nutshell, we rotated two weekly menus comprising three different evening meal choices each weekday.
Typically this would generate 1.4 million menu combinations, but we slashed this by around 90% to 113,400 combinations after simply stipulating one of the meal options must be vegan to cater for diverse needs by students.
But our optimised menu featured the same 15 dishes as the original, just reorganised on different days to boost uptake of the more sustainable, healthier options.”
One of the weekly menus was shown to reduce the overall carbon footprint by 31.4% and saturated fat intake by 11.3%, while the other lowered the overall carbon footprint by 30% and saturated fat intake by 1.4% across some 300 diners.
Dr Flynn added: “Since diners can only choose one evening meal per day, we found it is best to cluster the meals with a high carbon footprint and saturated fat content, such as lasagne and chicken Kiev, on the same day so these more popular options compete against each other.
That means greener options – like lentil chilli and cauliflower curry – are more likely to be chosen across the week.
The net effect is that peoples' total weekly carbon footprint and saturated fat intake is reduced.”
Findings indicated diner satisfaction levels were largely unaffected by the change.
The study also modelled the potential for other notable nutritional and environmental benefits from making the menu switch.
For instance, some menu combinations had the potential to increase fibre intake by 69.2% and salt intake by 14.1%.
Land use and possible over-enrichment of water and soil might also be cut by around a third (31.7% and 33% respectively).
Co-author Alex Sim, Development Chef at the University of Bristol, said: “Over the years students have become increasingly interested in the environmental impact and healthiness of their meals, so they tend to be very receptive to making changes and trying new dishes.
“While there will always be clear favourites, like chicken Kiev and lasagne, vegan options which generally have a smaller carbon footprint, are also proving very popular.
Structuring menus to help further promote these choices is a clear win-win.
We work hard to make these options really flavourful and nutritious, so it’s great to see them going down so well with students.”
The University of Bristol is making significant changes to reduce carbon emissions and is committed to becoming a net zero campus.
For instance, it was the first university in the world to achieve institutional Green Labs Certification for each of its 990 laboratories, and its Source catering provider now shows the carbon footprint on all menus.
The research was funded by a UK Research and Innovation (UKRI) Strategic Priorities Fund (SPF) called Transforming UK Food Systems and is also supported by the National Institute for Health and Care Research (NIHR) Bristol Biomedical Research Centre (Bristol BRC).
Professor Richard Martin, Associate Pro Vice-Chancellor for Research and Innovation at the University of Bristol, said: “Human dietary habits are generating an unsustainable burden on healthcare systems and environmental sustainability globally.
So these results are extremely exciting because they demonstrate how simply changing the competition structure within weekly set menus can help steer millions of people towards making choices which have significantly lower carbon emissions and are healthier too.
“Thanks to the excellent work of our talented researchers and catering experts, we’re leading the field in offering students enticing, well-balanced meals that are also kinder to the environment – a cause they really care about.
We’re already scaling this up by sharing our learnings and innovative recipes with the catering teams of other universities across the country.
There is also the wider potential to apply this technique in other settings, like schools, hospitals, care homes, and workplace canteens.
The collective impact could be huge, and provides exciting food for thought about how a fresh approach to menu design might play a tangible part in helping address a pressing global challenge now and in future years.”
‘Dish swap across weekly menu can deliver health and sustainability gains’ by Annika Flynn, Taro Takahashi, Alex Sim and Jeffrey Brunstrom in Nature Food