# Site: https://www.brookes.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 498
# --------

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk:
Close
Clearing 2025
Apply for a Clearing course now!
Call +44 (0) 1865 535000
Explore our courses
New students
Information for students joining us in September
Postgraduate study
It's not too late to join us in September.
Undergraduate courses
Postgraduate courses
Order a prospectus
Campus tours
“Ranked in the top 10 in South East England”
Times/Sunday Times Good University Guide 2024
“Among the world's top universities in 23 subject areas”
QS World University Rankings by Subject 2025
“Ranked 5th in the UK for teaching”
Times Higher Education Young University Rankings 2023
Oxford Brookes University has been officially recognised as a University of Sanctuary, joining a growing national network of institutions committed to creating welcoming and supportive environments for refugees and people seeking asylum.
Oxford Brookes University is ready to support prospective students through the 2025 Clearing process, offering personalised advice and guidance to help individuals find the right course and take the next step in their academic journey.
Oxford Brookes University’s Formula Student teams enjoyed another successful weekend at Silverstone in the flagship motorsport competition for student engineers.
A consortium led by Oxford Brookes University has been awarded funding from the Arts and Humanities Research Council (AHRC), part of UK Research and Innovation (UKRI), to investigate the barriers to creating healthier places—for people and the planet.
Our team of 800+ experts are addressing global challenges facing society, the economy and technology.
Unlock your organisation's potential with our expertise in optimising productivity and cultivating top talent.
Support for external organisations, students, graduates, and researchers, on their innovation and enterprise pathways
We drive public engagement with our research, innovation and knowledge exchange activities.
Our strategy sets out the focus and priorities for the next 15 years.
We have worked closely with our students, staff, local community and other stakeholders to create a new strategy for Oxford Brookes University for 2020/2021 and beyond.
As part of this work we have articulated our bold and ambitious 2035 Vision Statement as an expression of the kind of institution we want to be in 2035 and the steps we will take in order to achieve this vision.
Find out more about our strategy
Back to top
Campus addresses »
Website monitored by UptimeRobot

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/students:
Global Banking School (GBS) students Notifiable Diseases Reporting Form (Oxford Brookes login required)
Student support & wellbeing
About your academic studies
Your uni experience
Student services A-Z
We expect everyone at Brookes to play their part in building an inclusive, safe and respectful community.
More information and support is available on the sexual consent education webpage.
Free mental health support for all students.
Online community.
Confidential.
24/7.
If you have experienced or witnessed sexual violence, suspicious incidents or harassment, you can report it online anonymously.
Support and advice are also available.
Want to get the most out of your time at Brookes?
Here are three ways to get involved to enhance your academic, personal and social life.
Reach new horizons, stand out from the crowd and develop new skills by sharing and publishing your research.
Develop your interests, gain new skills & enhance your employability through the BrookesEDGE app.
Network with professionals, share experience with other students and support your local community.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/staff:
A - Z for staff
Form for reporting notifiable diseases
The Vice-Chancellor’s Group has been considering how the financial sustainability of the University can be protected going forward, through a financial sustainability plan that puts us in a position to grow our income, manage our costs and maximises our potential to realise the ambitions of the University’s 2035 Strategy.
One strand of our financial sustainability plan is the strategic transformation programme.
The Staff Comms Hub has key information and documents relating to the University’s strategic transformation programme.
More about the strategic transformation programme
Staff Communications Hub*
*requires an Oxford Brookes login
From new starters to wellbeing and everything in between.
Find employment related information here.
Find out more about working at Brookes
People XD - staff portal
Notifiable diseases reporting form
Information for staff and students including support, reporting processes and relevant policies.
Advice and information written specifically for University staff in teaching and student support roles.
Guidance for staff including information about student and staff communications and channels, how to submit content and who to contact for help.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/alumni-and-supporters:
Support for recent graduates
Our community of alumni and supporters brings together professionals from all over the world to relive student memories, make new contacts and support the next generation.
Update your contact details
Access your documents and certificates
Oxford Brookes alumni make a huge difference to the lives of students.
Through sharing your skills and knowledge, giving your time or making a gift you can increase the opportunities for students to fulfil their potential and make a positive difference to the world.
We offer a wide range of events, online and on campus.
Share your story, volunteer at an event or offer a work placement or internship to a student.
Support students and our research work.
Your gift will make a real difference.
As part of our alumni community you have access to career support and a range of benefits and discounts.
A range of services available to recent graduates for three years after you graduate.
All Oxford Brookes alumni qualify for a range of special deals on products and services.
We offer a range of ways to connect - or reconnect - with your fellow Oxford Brookes alumni.
Alumni groups bring alumni together.
They can be subject-based or location-based.
Catch up with former classmates or have a look round our new facilities while reminiscing on old times.
Remembering Oxford Brookes alumni who have passed away
Oxford Brookes University has secured its place among the world’s leading universities, ranking in the top 25% of global institutions evaluated in the QS World University Rankings 2026.
Please fill in our contact form to get in touch.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study:
IT’S TIME TO EXPLORE
Oxford is an ideal student city.
Close to London and well connected but also bursting with things to do, see and experience, you'll enjoy the best of both worlds.
Book on an open day
Deciding where, when and what to study at university are three big decisions to make.
But making them doesn't have to be scary or intimidating.
Whether you're thinking about applying for uni as an undergraduate, postgraduate or international student, all the information you need to make the right choice for you is here – from how to choose a course that meets your needs, to finding student accommodation that fits your budget.
Book on an Open Day
Request a prospectus
How to apply
Why Oxford Brookes?
Campus Tours
Read our helpful advice on how to find the right undergraduate degree for you, how to apply for a course, how to fund your studies and much more, in our section for undergraduates.
From master's degrees and taught courses, to research and teacher training, explore the different postgraduate options available and prepare to take your next steps in studying with us.
Discover why students from over 140 countries choose Oxford Brookes, and get all the information you need to apply for a degree course with us, wherever in the world you may be.
If you know the area you'd like to study but not the exact degree you want to take, our subject area pages will give you more information on the courses we run, and help you figure out which one is right for you.
Studying in another country as part of your degree is a fantastic experience – find out more about studying abroad as a UK student – and about studying in Oxford as an overseas student on exchange.
Discover what the student life in Oxford is really like and explore all our city has to offer – from where to go and what to see, to useful advice for settling in.
Information on tuition fees for new and returning students at Oxford Brookes University.
Fees
Whether you are a new or returning student, there are a variety of funding options available to help finance your studies.
Funding and financial support
On-campus, work-based or distance learning – explore our Short and Continuing Professional Development (CPD) courses, and find out how they can help you take your own career or business forward.
Apprenticeships offer employers a great opportunity to address skills gaps in their organisation.
They provide a training framework for developing a new member of staff; or a way to upskill a current employee.
Find out about opportunities for learning close to home with variety, flexibility and great support.
You can also consider your options for topping up a foundation degree to a full honours degree
Your guide to support you as you settle in to university life, from before you arrive through to the first few weeks of semester.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/subject-areas:
Find a course by subject area
Still deciding what to study at university?
Browse our diverse range of subject areas below to see where your interests could take you.
Each page will give you an overview of the area and the courses that are available.
The accounting, finance and economics courses at Oxford Brookes Business School combine academic study and real-world experience.
Dynamic and engaging classes will help you develop essential skills for your career.
You’ll be able to critically evaluate evidence and make well-informed decisions.
The School of Architecture and the School of the Built Environment offer degrees that prepare you to succeed in careers in architecture, the real estate, property development, planning, urban design and construction sectors.
Explore your passions and engage your creative skills with our range of degrees.
Your creativity will thrive when you join our inspiring and dynamic community of filmmakers, musicians, fine artists, graphic designers, photographers, art directors, theorists, journalists
and publishers.
These degrees are a great foundation for a wide range of careers.
Research led teaching is geared towards developing your professional skills alongside the theory.
The Business and Management suite of courses at Oxford Brookes Business School provides a great foundation for a wide range of careers within any sector of business.
All of our courses focus on developing practical business skills and enabling you to apply your academic learning to solve problems.
Oxford is a beautiful city that offers an unparalleled literary history.
It is the home of many global publishing brands, and our industry network extends to many leading media organisations.
Turn your passion for computers and technology into a career with our computing courses.
Learn to programme and explore advanced approaches such as artificial intelligence.
Pursue a career in diverse fields, including education as an early years professional, primary school teacher, policy-maker or a leader of special education, disabilities and inclusion, or in fields such as health, psychology, and public services.
Oxford is a beautiful city that offers an unmatched literary history.
It is the perfect place to study English, literature and communication whilst also being challenged and inspired.
If you want a career in nursing, midwifery, social work or one of the allied health professions (AHPs) we can give you a great start.
All our degrees are approved by regulatory bodies.
You’ll be learning from clinically experienced staff and will gain work experience in a variety of settings.
Explore some of the most exciting social and cultural themes that shape the society we live in today.
Our degrees in humanities, history, history of art and philosophy prepare you for a wide range of careers.
Our dynamic range of hospitality, tourism and events management courses provide you with both the academic and practical skills needed to succeed in your future career.
In today’s globalised economies, language skills are highly valued by most modern-day employers.
Our programmes continue to capitalise on employability by developing skilled graduates who have high intercultural competencies.
When you study with us you’ll examine pressing legal issues facing global societies and how crime impacts the world today.
Our dynamic range of marketing courses provides you with both the academic and practical skills needed to kick-start your marketing career.
Oxford Brookes has a long standing reputation for delivering top-quality engineering and motorsport degrees.
Turn your passion for road cars, race cars or design into career ambitions on our courses.
Our degrees are designed to prepare you for a career in this important subject area spanning nutrition (including public health nutrition and clinical nutrition), health, sport, exercise science, coaching, and physical education.
When you study with us, you’ll examine some of the biggest issues facing societies today.
You could explore Japanese pop culture as an anthropologist, or the human brain and its challenges as a psychologist.
You could study desertification or smart cities as a geographer.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/courses:
The course you choose will be at the heart of your university experience.
It’s what you’ll probably spend most of your time at Oxford Brookes thinking about.
It’s certainly a choice you need to carefully consider.
Our courses are designed to help you make the most of the opportunities open to you and achieve your best.
Take the next step as a school-leaver to meet the entry requirements needed for degree level study in a particular subject area.
Explore the possibilities with degree courses designed to support you in shaping your pathway to success.
An undergraduate degree from Oxford Brookes helps you take the first step in creating your future.
Whether you’re pursuing a passion, furthering your career or moving in a new direction, Oxford Brookes can offer you excellence in postgraduate study.
You can also consider your options for topping up a foundation degree to a full honours degree.
For employers wishing to upskill their existing workforce, and individuals who wish to learn and develop for professional advantage or career advancement.
Prepare for undergraduate and postgraduate study in the UK.
Improve English skills and prepare for a degree in your chosen subject, and get an introduction to university life.
Explore what Oxford Brookes has to offer you at one of our upcoming events.
Come and visit our campuses and chat with our current students.
Order a free prospectus to give you full details and information on Oxford Brookes University.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/international-students:
Over 3,800 students from around 150 countries choose to make Oxford Brookes University their home.
Discover why.
Apply now
Undergraduate Postgraduate Pathways
We are a modern university situated in the historical city of Oxford.
Experience a university with a global reputation for teaching excellence, exciting student life and strong links with business and industry.
At Oxford Brookes, you will be encouraged, challenged and supported to achieve your goals.
Our ways of teaching, support systems and other activities are designed to give you opportunities to build your confidence and realise your ambitions.
We want to know where you’re aiming and we make it our business to get you there.
Discover what a degree from Oxford Brookes can do for you.
Ranked 6th in the UK for teaching
in The Times Higher Education Young University Rankings 2024
Amongst the world's top universities in 23 subject areas
in the QS World University Rankings by Subject 2025
Ranked 38th out of 122 universities, up 13 places
in the Guardian University Guide 2025
Information on the application process, entry requirements, visa information, and what to do when you receive an offer.
We offer a range of scholarships and funding for international students.
Find out more and apply.
Did you know you can study here for one or two semesters?
Find out more about our exchange and study abroad programme.
Study for an Oxford Brookes-accredited degree abroad with one of our partners.
Our students love Oxford Brookes and we’re sure you will too.
But don’t just take our word for it, explore Oxford Brookes for yourself.
Our Oxford
Bursting with things to do, see and experience, Oxford is an ideal student city.
Whether you’re looking for green spaces and culture or a buzzing nightlife and diverse community, you’ll get the best of both worlds in Oxford.
Our student stories
Going to university isn’t just about developing academically.
You will grow personally too, developing new life skills, confidence, and making connections that will last a lifetime.
Hear from Tori, Romel, Edward, Patrick and Joseph about their experience at Oxford Brookes.
Ready to go: David
David joined Oxford Brookes from Nigeria and went on to launch his own business in the UK after his studies.
Find out more about David’s journey and how Oxford Brookes helped him launch his own business.
We provide regional-specific information, including entry requirements, for countries / regions that send many students to Oxford Brookes each year.
To see information for your country / region please choose from the list.
Are you an international student planning to apply to Oxford Brookes?
Do you have questions about the application process?
Or, perhaps you’ve already applied, and have queries about studying at Oxford Brookes.
Meet our Global Recruitment team virtually in our Global Zoom drop-in sessions, who will be happy to answer any questions you may have, and offer advice on the application process.
The sessions take place between 11.00am and 12.00pm (UK time) on the last Thursday of every month .
A representative from the team will meet students individually.
When you have joined, please wait your turn.
The representative will let you into the session when you have reached the front of the queue.
Before joining the Zoom drop-in session, please ensure the following:
Alongside our Zoom drop-in sessions, our Global team attends many events around the world, meaning you can meet them in-person.
We also host a series of online events and webinars throughout the year, covering various topics to support you in your application journey.
Find out more about our upcoming international events .
Join the Zoom drop-in
As an international student at Oxford Brookes, you'll be supported throughout your journey with us.
Joseph’s journey
It’s about the journey not the destination.
Discover how Joseph stepped out of his comfort zone to know no limits.
Patrick’s journey
A lot of support is available to help you during your studies.
Patrick shares his experience of failure and how he bounced back from it.
Tori’s journey
University is the perfect place to discover new hobbies and gain independence.
Tori shares the opportunities she encountered while studying in Oxford.
Ask a question
Attend an event
Visit our campuses
Talk to a student

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/why-oxford-brookes:
All you need to succeed
We bring together high-quality teaching with courses designed for the real world, great employer links and a first-class careers service.
At Oxford Brookes you’ll enjoy outstanding teaching and fresh new approaches to learning.
A visual round-up of some of our recent achievements in the university rankings, from teaching quality and employability to student satisfaction scores.
Oxford Brookes offers loads of opportunities to build your skills through new activities.
You’ll boost your employability and enrich your experience of university.
Close to London and well-connected but also bursting with things to do, see and experience.
Studying abroad allows you to immerse yourself in another culture and experience university life in a different country.
You’ll have plenty of support so you get the best out of your studies including your own academic adviser and other support staff.
Build your career skills through careers-focused degrees, work placements, outstanding links with industry, and a wide range of careers services.
Key information to help you support your child through the process of applying to oxford brookes.
What’s it like to study at Oxford Brookes?
The best way to get a feel for what it would be like is to come and see for yourself.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/study-abroad-and-exchanges:
Discover a new world
Have you ever considered creating lifelong memories by studying abroad?
Most courses at Oxford Brookes offer this unforgettable experience for one or two semesters during your degree.
Oxford Brookes has partner institutions all over the globe - from Japan to Canada, and Australia to the USA.
Make memories you'll treasure forever, meet people from all over the world and immerse yourself in new cultures.
You’ll return to Oxford Brookes with so many stories to tell and a whole new perspective!
You can study abroad as an Oxford Brookes student, or join Oxford Brookes as an overseas student on exchange.
Why study abroad?
Coming to Brookes
Going from Brookes
“Firstly you get the amazing experience of living and studying abroad – and all that contact with different cultures.
Secondly you get confidence – because you know you can tackle the world by yourself.”
Federica Burani, International Hospitality and Tourism Management graduate, spent a semester at Hong Kong Polytechnic University
Exchange partners
Information for staff
Privacy notice

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/fees:
Find out exactly how much university costs at Oxford Brookes
Whether you’re a current student or are yet to join us here at Oxford Brookes, you can use our fee finder tool to find out the exact cost of your course.
This includes any likely compulsory or optional additional costs that may apply.
Search for your chosen course to give you the exact cost of studying at Oxford Brookes.
Note: If you are looking to study a health and life sciences course, please refer to the course entry page for full details about additional costs.
For any further information about tuition fees on this course please refer to the course entry page or finance-fees@brookes.ac.uk .
Course search
We have a choice of accommodation options available to you, to fit your budget and needs.
Wherever you choose to live, it'll be safe, well-equipped and comfy, so you'll feel at home from the moment you arrive.
Your living expenses will depend on a variety of things, including your accommodation choices and your lifestyle.
Tuition fee increases after 1 August 2025
After careful consideration by the University’s senior management team, Oxford Brookes will be increasing its undergraduate tuition fees for UK students from £9,250 to £9,535 after 1 August 2025, in line with the Government’s announcement and as indicated on the course pages of our website.
Details of fee increases for part-time students after 1 August 2025 can be found in the section below.
If you are eligible to receive a tuition fee loan, this will continue to fully cover the increased fee.
This change will not increase your monthly loan repayments once you leave your course, as this will continue to be based on your earnings rather than on the amount you owe.
The increased fee will mean we can continue to deliver an excellent experience for everyone who chooses to study at Oxford Brookes.
If you have any further questions about the tuition fee increase, the Frequently Asked Questions below may contain the answer.
If you can’t find an answer to your question, please contact us at admissions@brookes.ac.uk (applicants and offer holders) or slcfunding@brookes.ac.uk (continuing Oxford Brookes students).
For further information please see our 2025-26 tuition fees FAQs .
Our postgraduate taught fees vary, but you can find out more by selecting your course using the fee finder or by looking on the course page.
We offer a payment plan to students in receipt of a UK Government Postgraduate loan.
Our postgraduate research fees, including PhD by published work, are £4,712 a year for full-time study (part-time: £2,553) in 2025/26.
For international students they are between £16,100 and £17,500 depending on programme of study.
To confirm the exact fees for your course and situation, please use the fee finder above.
Our undergraduate tuition fees in 2025/26 are £1,190 per single module study.
Our postgraduate taught fees vary, but you can find out more by selecting your course using the fee finder (above) or by looking on individual course pages.
Our postgraduate research fees, including PhD by published work, are £2,356 a year.
For international students they are between £8,050 and £8,750 depending on programme of study.
Please check the individual course pages or use our fee finder for exact fee information.
If you take a work placement for a full year, you will be charged a fee applicable to the academic year in which you take your placement.
The fee for placements for home and international students undertaken in 2024/25 is £1,600 and £1,700 in 2025/26.
If you are a UK student studying a full year abroad with an international university (e.g.
Exchange, Turing) the fees in 2025/26 are £1,430.
International students who study abroad will pay the standard full-time fees.
In 2024/25 the fee for postgraduate placements is £1,600 for both home and international students, except for Business School placements where the fees are £2,100.
For 2025/26 the fee for postgraduate placements is £1,700 for both home and international students, except for Business School placements where the fees are £2,200.
International students studying as undergraduate associates and Study Abroad students in 2025/26 will pay £8,375 tuition fees for a semester (September - December, or January - May), or £16,750 for full year study.
Tuition fees for academic years starting between 1 August 2025 and 31 July 2026 will be:
+44 (0)1865 534400
financefees@brookes.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/funding:
Funding and financial help for prospective and current undergraduate and postgraduate students.
Whether you’re a current student or you’re yet to join us here at Oxford Brookes, you can use our funding finder tool to find out what funding support you may be eligible to apply for.
The tool shows you what funding options may be available to you and is not a guarantee of funding* .
Select your course here to find funding options that are specific to what you want to study.
We know that university can be expensive, but there are also a range of different funding options available to you, through a range of scholarships, bursaries, grants and loans.
For home undergraduate students, you don't have to pay for your tuition fees up front.
The government provides loans to cover your full tuition charges .
You may also be eligible for a loan to help cover living costs.
For home postgraduate students, you can also apply for a Postgraduate Masters Loan to cover some of your tuition and living costs.
You can use our funding search to find the options available for your course and circumstances.
Find out how and when to pay your tuition and accommodation fees.
Using the funding finder search function provides indicative options for funding you may be eligible to apply for and is not a guarantee of funding.
Each source of funding provided by Oxford Brookes University is linked to a page with fuller terms and conditions, which you are encouraged to read.
It is your responsibility to apply on time and to provide truthful answers when applying.
Please note that the University is not responsible for external awards.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/contact-and-meet-us:
Book now for an Open Day
Whether you live locally or on the other side of the globe, there are many different ways to contact us.
Here are all the options, so you can find what's best for you.
Whether you need more clarity about our courses or some assistance with your application, we're here to help.
Chat to a student via our Unibuddy platform.
We love chatting to students.
Find out if and when we will be at a UCAS convention near you.
Facebook X Instagram

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/how-to-apply:
Your journey to Oxford Brookes
Applying to university can feel like an overwhelming process but you can use these pages to find out everything you need to know about applying to Oxford Brookes.
Don't hesitate to email us on admissions@brookes.ac.uk or call us on + 44 (0) 1865 535000 if you have any further questions.
All the information you need to apply for an Oxford Brookes undergraduate course via UCAS.
A step-by-step guide to the application process for people applying via UCAS.
How to make a direct application to Oxford Brookes for an undergraduate or postgraduate course.
Guidance on applying to Oxford Brookes if you are an international student.
Information about entry requirements for different courses, including medical/police clearance, mature students and the new UCAS tariff.
What happens if you miss the application deadline.
Your previous study, work experience and training can count as credit towards your degree.
Details about the terms and conditions of enrolment when you accept an offer of a place at Oxford Brookes.
University can seem daunting - here's everything you need to know.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/new-students:
September 2025
The Student Induction Team are looking forward to welcoming you soon.
We will be here to guide and support you as you settle into university life, from before you arrive through to the first few weeks of semester.
Most students will join the main Induction Week from Monday 15 to Friday 19 September 2025.
Your course team will arrange a programme of activities for you for this week.
This is called your course induction schedule - it will be available to view here from Monday 1 September 2025 .
Please make sure you find and follow this schedule.
If you have any questions about starting at Oxford Brookes please feel free to contact us.
Meet the Student Induction Team
Missed a message?
View the email archive
In the coming weeks, you'll be able to...
...and much more!
Take a look at the new student checklist to find out what you'll need to do in order to be ready to study.
View the new student checklist
Useful topics to think about when you start planning everyday life as a student with us.
Your time at Oxford Brookes starts here!
Find out about the events on offer.
What to expect from your first week as an Oxford Brookes student.
Learn about the support and activities offered by the International Student Advice Team.
Looking for something to do?
Find out about the events open to all new students.
Support and advice for concerns and issues common to new students.
If you missed any of our welcome emails you can download a copy below.
Emails will be added here 24 hours after they are first sent to students.
Got a question about your induction?
Please contact the Student Induction Team .

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/parents-and-carers:
Applying for university is an exciting time, marking an important new phase in a young person's life.
We’ve brought together some key information to help you support your child through the process.
A quick overview of the different stages plus a checklist of the key steps.
An overview of tuition fees, living expenses and how student loans work.
Other possible sources of financial support are also included.
Key information about our halls of residence and the support that’s available.
The support that’s on hand while your child is settling in and throughout their time at university.
Guidance on how you can help them prepare for leaving home and life as a student.
A taste of life beyond studies, from clubs and activities to campus facilities - plus things to do in Oxford.
How studying at Oxford Brookes builds employability and equips our students for their future careers.
A guide to the most common words that come up when applying to university.
Information, guidance and subject taster sessions designed to support prospective students.
You can also sign up to Study Higher’s parents and guardians newsletter.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/outreach:
A central point for prospective students, teachers, and parents to find out more.
Welcome to the Oxford Brookes Outreach Hub, bringing together the range of support that is available to prospective students, teachers, and parents.
Take a look at the pages below to find more about how we can support students in thinking through their future options and gaining the information, skills, and experiences that will help them to progress onto university.
Years 5–11
Age 16+
We've put together some guidance to help you think about how to choose your university, the difference between different degrees and what support you can receive whilst you are at university.
Our study skills service for students, the Centre for Academic Development, has lots of resources available that can help you enhance your skills.
Apply here to become an Oxford Brookes Teacher Fellow.
Within our schools and college outreach, we aim to support teachers in demonstrating several Gatsby Benchmarks through our free activities, talks and workshops.
Download our document to see how we've broken down which Gatsby Benchmarks our offerings can support with.
How our activities meet Gatsby Benchmarks (PDF)
If you're a member of staff at a school or college, why not sign up to our Teacher's newsletter?
We provide information regularly about our upcoming events and activities with students, working with Year 5 up to Year 13.
Sign up to our Newsletter
Chat to one of our current students about what it's like to study at Brookes
Talk to prospective students and applicants on our page on The Student Room
We know it is not the same as visiting us in person, but we've created a range of videos and virtual tours to allow you to explore our campuses and student accommodation at a time, place and pace that suits you.
Take a virtual tour
Come to an Open Day
Transport in Oxford
Living in University Accommodation
Wellbeing
Finding part-time work in Oxford
Motorsport Engineering
Children's Nursing
Architecture
Sport, Coaching, and Physical Education
International Hospitality Management
Law
Business and Management
Criminology
+44 (0) 1865 534900 option 2
schools.liaison@brookes.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/student-life:
Take a look around our accommodation, find out about our support services, and discover why Oxford is a brilliant student city.
Whether you prefer quieter times or a buzzing social life, Oxford Brookes has everything you need to make the most out of student life.
You'll find sports and societies to suit all tastes, excellent accommodation and support whenever you need it.
All within a beautiful city, teeming with things to do.
Close to London and well connected but also bursting with things to do, see and experience, you’ll enjoy the best of both worlds.
Starting university is an exciting time and also a time of great change.
You will have access to comprehensive support and wellbeing services at Oxford Brookes.
Discovering a new city and making it
your home can be one of the most
exciting parts of university life.
We offer
a range of accommodation to suit different needs and budgets.
You’ll soon settle in, meet new people and enjoy living in your home away from home.
You’ll have access to quality facilities and excellent learning spaces specifically designed for your area of study.
Our courses are taught across four campuses, each with their own unique feel and community.
Run by students for students, we represent the student voice so that you can get on and make the most of your time at Oxford Brookes.
Your life at Oxford Brookes is so much more than studying.
You’ll make friends
and memories to last a lifetime.
Get involved in one of our many ensembles, find a quiet space to practice, and socialise with other musicians and music lovers.
Our students love Oxford Brookes for our excellent facilities, stand-out links to industry and placements, and supportive staff.
Romel Yared
"The academics have really helped me in achieving my end goal, especially with my final projects.
They helped me out when I was hitting creative blocks and especially since the second year, they have been pushing me to just exceed my limits"
Tori Baker
"I would tell someone considering university that it is 100% worth going.
It’s not just three more years of education - the experiences you get and the contacts you make may impact your life and career forever"
George Loyd
"The thing that sets Oxford Brookes apart from other universities has to be its facilities.
The John Henry Brookes building is second to none.
Adding to that, the sport here at Brookes is some of the best in the country"
Emilia Gennard
"I am on placement for twelve months and I’ve been working now for five months at the Charlotte Street Hotel in London.
The placement really attracted me to the course because I knew I wanted to get experience in the industry before I went out and graduated"
Dan Pope
"The thing that stood out to me about Brookes was its links with the Children’s Hospital at the John Radcliffe Hospital.
I’ve been really lucky to have a placement on Tom’s Ward, which has been really beneficial to my development"
Read all our student stories
The best way to see yourself as a student at Brookes is to come to an open day.
Our student ambassadors are here to give you an inside look at every aspect of life at Oxford Brookes.
Everything you need to know before making a decision on your offer.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/student-life/oxford:
Download illustrated map of Oxford
“Oxford is a wonderful city, full of history, people and excitement.
It’s a young city as well, so there’s always a lot of events to join in.”
Sabrina Andrade, Media, Journalism and Publishing
As a student in Oxford, you’ll be living and learning in the heart of a knowledge economy, where research, technology, science and motorsports are thriving.
Add to that a healthy arts and culture scene with museums and galleries round most corners, you won’t fail to be inspired.
Diverse and vibrant, The Cowley Road is packed with places offering food from around the world, great pubs, clubs and music venues.
You can search for vintage treasures in the charity shops and pick up your international groceries while you’re there too.
Picnics in South Park, admiring the Spring snowdrops and the arboretum in Headington Hill Park - you’re never far from a beautiful park in Oxford.
Further afield you can explore what the rest of the county has to offer, The Cotswolds, Waterperry Gardens and Blenheim Palace are perfect for a day trip and can be reached by bus.
Oxford is an Instagrammer’s dream.
A walk in the city centre can have you feeling like you’ve wandered onto a film set.
With its beautiful buildings, winding lanes and cobbled streets, Oxford is picture perfect.
Punting is a unique way to see Oxford from a different angle.
Glide leisurely along the idyllic waterways as you sit back and admire the stunning architecture and landscape.
Or try it yourself – without falling in!
You’ll find a mix of high street brands and independent shops in Oxford.
The Westgate Shopping Centre is the main place to shop or grab a bite to eat.
While the covered market gives you a unique experience and dates back to 1774!
If independent and charity shops are more your thing, Cowley, Headington and Summertown are all worth a visit.
Oxford is well connected to the rest of the country.
Whether you want to spend the day in London or explore other cities like Bath or Bristol or visit home, the M40 is a stone’s throw away or you can hop on a bus or train.
Travel in Oxford is supported by bus connections between our campus sites, halls, the city centre and popular student areas.
We know that choosing where to go to university is a big decision and that not all students want the same thing.
Happily, Oxford has something for everyone

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation:
Joining us in September?
Accommodation allocations have now passed.
We will continue to take applications via a waiting list.
Please contact us for more information.
Browse our information for prospective students
Contact Us
Prospective students
Current students
Residence Life
Policies and contracts
Become a Brookes Landlord
We have both halls and housing available to current students for 2025/26 - please see our current student pages for more information.
Inclusive Accommodation
Instalment Calculators
Accommodation Portal
Take a look at the student support and wellbeing services available at Oxford Brookes.
Oxford Brookes offers accommodation for new and existing full-time students who wish to live in our halls and shared houses.
Oxford Brookes University's Halls of Residence and Accommodation Services comply with The Student Accommodation Code of Practice.
Further information on the code can be found on the SAC Website .
Oxford Brookes University and our third party residence providers, Unite Students Ltd, CRM Students Ltd, A2Dominion and Host, will process data in order to arrange accommodation contracts.
The data controller is Oxford Brookes University.
We hold nomination agreements with the third party providers so that students can be nominated to stay inside their student residences.
We will pass on necessary information to these providers, as detailed in our Privacy Notice .
AB.1.01b Abercrombie Building Headington Campus Oxford UK OX3 0BP
+44 (0) 1865 521094
accomm@brookes.ac.uk
Available by phone, email and in-person by appointment only.
Phone: +44 (0) 1865 534444 option 3 then option 2
lettings@brookes.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/student-life/our-campuses:
Our campuses each have their own unique feel and community.
Whatever subject you choose, you’ll have access to quality facilities and excellent learning spaces.
Book a campus tour
Headington Campus is our largest campus and is set across 3 sites (Gipsy Lane, Headington Hill and Marston Road).
Located 1 mile east of Oxford city centre, a scenic walk or short bus ride gets you to the heart of the city.
You'll find a thriving student community living and learning in a modern, uplifting environment.
The student support team, based in the John Henry Brookes Building, provides a full range of support and advice services on campus.
The first-rate academic and leisure facilities on Headington campus include:
Marston Road Site sits 1 mile east of Oxford city centre.
With excellent facilities for Healthcare courses, it’s a great environment for studying.
Find out about facilities, maps, and travel for Headington
Harcourt Hill Campus is 3 miles from Oxford city centre and a 30-minute bus ride from Headington Campus.
All education courses, English Language and Linguistics, Philosophy and Communication, Media and Culture are taught here.
The excellent academic facilities and spaces to relax and socialise include:
Find out about facilities, maps, and travel for Harcourt Hill
Swindon Campus is located in the Delta Business Park in West Swindon.
The location is close to the Great Western Hospital and other placement partners.
Developed to enhance student learning, collaboration and research, Adult Nursing (also available at Headington Campus) is taught here.
State-of-the-art academic facilities include:
Find out about facilities, maps, and travel for Swindon
Chat to a student

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/student-life/brookes-union:
Always here for you.
Find out more about Brookes Union
When you join Oxford Brookes University, you automatically become a member of our Students' Union, Brookes Union.
Run by students for students, we represent the student voice and provide free, independent advice on many issues.
Our Student Reps work hard to represent your views and make sure your courses are the best they can be.
Not only that, we support over 100 societies and run Fresher’s Week and a range of events every year.
So you'll never be short of things to do and activities to get involved with.
We’re here for you so you can make the most of your time at Oxford Brookes.
Belong
Societies are a great way to make new friends.
Whether you want to pursue a passion you already have or try new things, we have over 100 student-led societies .
And if you can’t find one for you, we can support you to start your own.
Fighting your corner
Brookes Union Advice is a free, confidential service which is independent from Oxford Brookes University, and open to all Brookes students.
We provide support on housing matters, academic issues, student finance and more.
Repping for success
We support over 480 Student Reps who represent the views and concerns of students on your course to the University.
They work to bring about positive change to your learning experience, making sure your degree programme is the best it can be.
We also support student networks, enabling students to campaign and build communities together.
Giving back
We help you raise money for charities you care about.
Last year, we raised over £14,000 for Movember, supported Homeless Oxfordshire and planted wildflower meadows on campus.
Brookes Union website
Brookes Union on Facebook
Brookes Union on X

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/brookes-sport:
The home of sport and active wellness at Oxford Brookes University.
Brookes Sport offers a wide range of recreational and competitive sporting opportunities for Oxford Brookes University students, staff and the local community.
Whether you're looking to take up a new sport, get fit or simply relax, we have something for everyone.
Get in touch with us to find out more, or pop into one of our centres for a chat with our friendly team.
When planning your visit, please make sure to review our parking policies .
Customer feedback
iTunes App Store
Google Play Store
There are multiple membership options available for Oxford Brookes students, staff and community members.
From fitness classes to climbing, and gyms to grass pitches for student, staff and community use.
Find out more about the facilities on offer.
TEAMBrookes offers a wide range of opportunities to compete as part of a Sports Club.
Find out more about how you can get involved.
Brookes Climb, based at the Brookes Sport, Headington is Oxfordshire’s premier climbing wall.
Offering open climb and bouldering as well as lessons and courses.
Whatever your interest, motivation or goal, we want to make it easier for Oxford Brookes students and Staff to get active.
Brookes Applied provides opportunities for students to gain real-world experiences to complement their academic learning.
Pride Month has arrived and Brookes Sport is proud to be hosting a vibrant and inclusive line-up of events to celebrate, support and stand with the LGBTQ+ community.
This summer, Brookes Sport are encouraging you to get moving through our Summer of Movement campaign.
A case study on Kieran Kirby, a 2024 Oxford Brookes graduate, exploring how his CIMSPA-endorsed degree helped him progress in his career and what the future holds as he completes his placement.
Nailson, one of our Health and Fitness Advisors, shares the benefits of walking backwards.
See all news

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/student-life/music:
Whether you want to showcase your skills as a player or singer, discover a new talent or simply meet like-minded people from across the University and Oxford, Brookes Music has something for everyone.
Music is an integral part of the life of the University, from our choirs and orchestra to the many student-led music societies.
Whatever your skills and musical interests, at Oxford Brookes you can get involved in one of the many ensembles, find a quiet space to practice, and socialise with other musicians and music lovers.
The University maintains several official ensembles, which are led by staff members from the music team, and also hosts a great number of student-led music societies.
You are welcome to join our:
The Oxford Brookes University and Community Orchestra is conducted by Craig Prosser, Lecturer in Performance.
It welcomes all orchestral instruments.
There are auditions for woodwind to fill a limited number of parts, and for violins for placement.
Past performances included Beethoven’s Egmont Overture, Leroy Anderson’s A Christmas Festival , and a selection of movie favourites.
Rehearsals take place during the semester on Thursdays from 6.00 to 8.00pm, in Richard Hamilton Building, Headington Campus.
For more information email musicperformance@brookes.ac.uk
You can also follow the choir and orchestra on Instagram @brookeschoirorchestra
The Oxford Brookes University and Community Choir is conducted by Craig Prosser, Lecturer in Performance.
Everybody is welcome, from novice to experienced singers - no auditions necessary!
All parts are learnt in rehearsals, with learning files available.
Past performances included Carl Orff’s Carmina Burana and Edward Elgar’s The Snow .
Rehearsals take place during the semester on Mondays from 6.00 to 8.00pm, in Richard Hamilton Building, Headington Campus.
For more information email musicperformance@brookes.ac.uk You can also follow the choir and orchestra on Instagram @brookeschoirorchestra
The chamber choir is an auditioned ensemble for more experienced singers who want to explore an ambitious repertoire.
It is conducted by Craig Prosser, Lecturer in Performance, and meets during the semester on Thursdays from 4 to 6pm in Richard Hamilton Building, Headington Campus.
If you want to sing your favourite tunes – from “California dreaming” to “Circle of life” – in a social atmosphere, the pop choir is the ensemble for you!
No prior experience necessary!
The pop choir is conducted by Craig Prosser, Lecturer in Performance, and meets during the semester on Tuesdays at lunchtime in Richard Hamilton Building, Headington Campus.
The jazz band has traditionally been one of the most prominent ensembles at Oxford Brookes, performing at events such as the inauguration of a new Chancellor.
The jazz band welcomes performers on sax, trumpet, trombone, guitar, bass, drums and others, as well as singers.
It is conducted by composer Dr Paul Dibley.
For more information email musicperformance@brookes.ac.uk and follow the Oxford Brookes Jazz Society on Instagram @objazzsoc
There are two student societies dedicated to performing musical theatre:
The Oxford Brookes Musical Theatre Society musical theatre pieces throughout the year, including showcases and a big production in March (in 2023: Fame ).
In addition to the weekly auditions and rehearsals, there are social meetings to celebrate all things musical.
Find out more about The Oxford Brookes Musical Theatre Society on the Brookes Union website or on Instagram @obmt_insta
The Fortune Singers are a non-auditioned musical theatre choir, which puts on a performance every semester filled with solos, small groups and chorus numbers from a variety of Broadway and West End Musicals.
It also organises socials, theatre trips and open mic nights throughout the year.
Find out more about The Fortune Singers on the Brookes Union website or on Instagram @fortunesingers
Jazz Society
Musical Theatre Society
Pop Music Choir
University and Community Choir
University and Community Orchestra
There are practice rooms in the Music Department in the basement of Richard Hamilton Building.
They are accessible to music students 24/7 and to other students during the opening hours of the building.
No booking necessary, but please be mindful of other activities going on in the building!
For our performances, we use different spaces across campus (Harcourt Hill Chapel, the Forum, Union Hall) and in the community (e.g.
the Bullingdon on Cowley Road and All Saints Church in Headington).
A dedicated performance space will open in the New Headington Hill Building in September 2024.
Oxford has been home to music for over a thousand years.
It hosts the famous chapel choirs at Christ Church, Magdalen College and New College; it has the oldest dedicated performance space in the world, the Holywell Music Room; there are dozens of choirs you could join, such as the famous Bach Choir.
The Oxford Lieder Festival and the concert series at SJE attract the best classical performers of the world.
Oxford also has a thriving rock, pop and jazz scene, with venues such as the O2 and Bullingdon on Cowley Road hosting well-known acts, and many pubs that offer a space to up-and-coming bands.
Follow @MusicAtBrookes on X
Follow Brookes Music on Instagram
musicperformance@brookes.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/student-life/support-and-wellbeing:
When you need help or advice, our friendly, experienced staff are here to help.
Think of us as your personal back up team.
You’ll want to make the most out of student life, but for those times when you need help or advice, we’re here for you.
Dedicated student support coordinators are based within each subject area and are a great first person to go to.
They can give you support on personal issues as well as offering advice and guidance on academic issues.
If you want to register with the GP and dentist, need specialist support or financial advice or you want help with study skills, we’ve got you covered.
Our Inclusive Support Service offers advice and guidance whenever you need it, throughout your time at university.
Specialist support includes:
Find out more about Inclusive Support Service
We offer a wide range of support for your emotional wellbeing while you are a student at Oxford Brookes.
These include one-to-one and online counselling, groups and workshops on a range of issues and self-help resources.
Our service is free and confidential and is governed by the British Association for Counselling and Psychotherapy (BACP).
Find out more about our Student Counselling Service
Our Chaplains and faith advisers are from different faiths and available to everyone.
That means they can provide pastoral care for people from all faiths as well as those with none.
There are spaces set aside for prayer, contemplation and quiet time on all campuses.
There are also regular events including discussion groups, relaxation classes and worship.
Find out more about the Multifaith Chaplaincy
Oxford Brooks hosts Writing Fellows from the Royal Literary Fund (RLF) in London.
The RLF is a charity which supports professional writers through a variety of schemes, including a scheme that places experienced writers into higher education institutions to offer confidential one-to-one tutorials to undergraduate and postgraduate students.
This can be on any aspect of writing and presentation, whether academic assessed and non-assessed work, exam writing or seminar presentation.
RLF Fellows can offer help across the full range of academic disciplines.
All Oxford Brookes students who are in the UK at the time of the consultation are entitled to sign up.
Find out more about the Royal Literary Fund Fellows scheme
Before you arrive, we’re on hand to help with immigration, visas and finance issues.
Once you’re here, we run socials, buddy schemes and offer free English language support to help you settle in as quickly as possible.
You’ll find friends and settle into life at Brookes in no time!
More information for international students
If you need advice or support with your study skills, we have a range of support available for you.
This includes subject librarians to help you with finding resources for your studies and peer-assisted learning helpers.
The Centre for Academic Development also provides one-to-one tutorials, group workshops and online study skills resources to help you reach your full potential.
Learn more help with study skills
“One of the reasons why I decided to study at Brookes was the excellent quality of the disability service.
They supported me from my application to university being successful, right up until the date of my graduation.
I cannot fault them.”
Laura Crofts, Education Studies graduate
As a care experienced student, you may be entitled to extra support such as a bursary, guaranteed accommodation, a named contact as well as help and advice from student support.
Money shouldn’t be a barrier to your success.
Here are some tips to help make your money go a bit further while at university.
Working together to enhance the learning, emotional, physical and spiritual life of the Oxford Brookes community.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/student-life/student-stories:
Studying with us is a great choice, and there's no better proof than the success of our students – read their stories.
But don't just take our word for it, see what they have to say.
“The academics have really helped me in achieving my end goal, especially with my final projects.
They helped me out when I was hitting creative blocks and especially since the second year, they have been pushing me to just exceed my limits.”
Romel Yared, Architecture
“I would tell someone considering university that it is 100% worth going.
It’s not just three more years of education - the experiences you get and the contacts you make may impact your life and career forever.”
Tori Baker, Fine Art
“The thing that sets Oxford Brookes apart from other universities has to be its facilities.
The John Henry Brookes Building is second to none.
Adding to that, the sport here at Brookes is some of the best in the country.”
George Loyd, Criminology
“I am on placement for twelve months and I’ve been working now for five months at the Charlotte Street Hotel in London.
The placement really attracted me to the course because I knew I wanted to get experience in the industry before I went out and graduated.”
Emilia Gennard, International Hospitality and Tourism Management
“The thing that stood out to me about Brookes was its links with the Children’s Hospital at the John Radcliffe Hospital.
I’ve been really lucky to have a placement on Tom’s Ward, which has been really beneficial to my development.”
Dan Pope, Nursing (Children's)

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/research:
FUTURE TH IN KERS
Our team of 800+ experts are addressing the major global challenges facing society, the economy and technology.
Download the Research Degrees Brochure
Children and Young people
Artificial intelligence and data
Healthy Ageing and Care
Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
Creative industries research and innovation
Migration and Refugees
Sustainable and Resilient Futures
Discover More - Staff/Students Only
Oxford Brookes’ research has made a difference and importantly, changed lives.
We use our research expertise and pioneering spirit to deliver economic, environmental, social, cultural, health and wellbeing benefits in the world beyond academia.
Learn how we're helping to solve the world's most urgent problems
Oxford, a city celebrated for its vibrant cycling culture and historic charm, has recently found itself at the heart of a significant discussion surrounding Low Traffic Neighbourhoods (LTNs).
Researchers, academics, professional support colleagues and students provide a diverse programme of events, activities and festivals.
This programme also includes online resources including podcasts, teaching materials and short films.
Through these activities we aim to communicate the work of the University to a wide range of publics in a mutually beneficial two-way process.
By inspiring, informing, listening and discussing together we hope to shape the futures of our local and regional communities as well as our University.
Learn more about our engagement activities
Join us in our research efforts and become a champion of the future.
See our current job vacancies to join our team of researchers.
We also offer a range of Research Degrees and funding opportunities for research students.
Job vacancies
Research Degrees and funding
HR excellence in research award
Concordat to support career development
Access support materials for research-active staff and students.
Research support for staff (login required)
Resources for research students
Research integrity and responsible metrics
Directorate of Research, Innovation and Enterprise
Research ethics statement
The purpose of the REF is for the UK higher education funding bodies to secure the continuation of a world-class, dynamic and responsive research base within UK higher education.
The REF is a process of expert review, carried out by expert panels for each of the 34 subject-based units of assessment (UOAs), under the guidance of four main panels.
Expert panels are made up of senior academics, international members, and research users.
REF 2021 results
Code of practice
REF 2021 guidance
We hold the European Commission’s HR Excellence in Research award.
We work to advance gender equality, representation and progression.
We are committed to supporting the development of all of our researchers.
Oxford Brookes University Headington Campus Oxford UK OX3 0BP
research@brookes.ac.uk
pr@brookes.ac.uk
rd-enquiries@brookes.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/research/ref/2021:
The latest Research Excellence Framework (REF 2021) found that 97% of research at Oxford Brookes was internationally recognised or higher.
It also found that 70% was judged to be of ‘world leading’ or ‘internationally excellent’ quality.
The REF 2021 had an increased focus on 'impact' - research that demonstrates wider benefits beyond academia, including how it brings tangible changes to aspects of society and life, and the public value it delivers.
Research carried out by 416 academics across Oxford Brookes was reviewed, nearly 40% up on the number of academics who submitted research to the Research Excellence Framework 2014.
You can view the full national results on the REF website .
Professor Tina Miller, University Research Impact Lead gives us her reaction to the REF2021 results.
View our Research Impact Showcase
FTE = Full Time Equivalent GPA = Grade Point Average 4* = Quality that is world-leading in terms of originality, significance and rigour 3* = Quality that is internationally excellent in terms of originality, significance and rigour but which falls short of the highest standards of excellence 2* = Quality that is recognised internationally in terms of originality, significance and rigour 1* = Quality that is recognised nationally in terms of originality, significance and rigour U = Quality that falls below the standard of nationally recognised work, or which does not meet the published definition of research for the purposes of this assessment

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/research/research-news:
The Celebrating NMAHPPs (nurses, midwives, allied health professionals, healthcare scientists, pharmacists and clinical psychologists) in Research Conference on 2 July proved to be an exceptional showcase of academic excellence and innovation.
From baked beans to chickpeas, kidney beans, butter beans, black eyed beans and lentils, pulses are cheap, tasty, nutritious and sustainable.
A new study from Oxford Brookes University, funded by the charity Prevent Breast Cancer, reveals how health campaigns can better communicate the link between alcohol and breast cancer - without alienating the very women they’re trying to reach.
The reality of university life for autistic students.
Scientists at Oxford Brookes University have made a major breakthrough in cancer research, developing a new material that can selectively destroy cancer cells while leaving healthy tissue largely unaffected.
From co-production to quiet listening, a two-part podcast explores how patient and public involvement is transforming the way health and social care research is done – and why that transformation isn’t always easy.
Later this month, ‘28 Years Later’—the long-anticipated sequel to ‘28 Days Later’ (2002) and ‘28 Weeks Later (2007)—hits UK cinemas.
Prestigious ENDS Power List recognizes Professor Rajat Gupta for empowering home-owners, communities, and governments in achieving net zero.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/research/research-impact-showcase:
Research impact is defined as a change, effect or benefit that a specific research output has on the economy, society, communities, culture, public policy or services, health, the environment, or quality of life, beyond its academic merits.
In practice, this means that the research conducted at Oxford Brookes University makes a real world difference for the benefit of our communities, whether local, regional or global, including our staff and students.
As a university with a commitment to knowledge exchange and impact excellence, we wish to recognise and celebrate the contribution made by our researchers who are motivated by the desire that their research will make a real difference beyond the University.
Throughout the year, our showcase of research impact will highlight in myriad ways, where and how our research has made a difference and importantly, changed lives.
See our REF 2021 results
Explore our research networks
Dr Morteza Ghorbani and Professor Iakovos Tzanakis
Dr Ross Wignall and Dr Brigitte Piquard
Dr Ethel Burns
Professor Eila Watson
Dr Tim Jones and Dr Ben Spencer
Professor James Broughton
Dr Richard Carver
Professor Simon Kӧvesi
Dr Fabrizio Bonatesta
Saving the Asian loris
Professor Rajat Gupta
Professor Ray Lee
Professor Alexandra Wilson
Professor Christiana Payne
Professor Paul Whitty and Dr Felicity Ford
Professor Catherine Hill
Dr Stephen Hurt
Professor Lucy Vickers
Chara Bakalis
Professor Helen Walkington
Professor Anna Barnett
Dr Rozana Himaz
Professor Peter Edge
Dr Eric White and Professor Alex Goody
Professor Deb McGregor and Principal Lecturer Helen Wilson
Professor Tina Miller
International Centre for Coaching and Mentoring Studies
Professor Linda King
Professor David Nash
Professor Simonetta Manfredi
Dr Niall Munro & Dr Jane Potter
Professor Daniela Treveri Gennari and Dr Silvia Dibeltulo
Professor Vince Connelly
Professor Marius Turda
Emeritus Professor Nigel Groome
19 November 2021: The challenges for military veteran writers in commemorating Afghanistan.
Image credits:
Banner - Photo by Héctor J.
Rivas on Unsplash Candle - Photo by Gadiel Lazcano on Unsplash

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/research/networks:
The research networks provide opportunities to develop collaboration that strengthens multi-disciplinary research undertaken by Brookes academic staff and research students.
We also work with a wide range of external stakeholders to build local, national and international partnerships.
The ultimate purpose of these networking activities is to address some of the major global challenges facing society.
Artificial intelligence and data analytics network
Discover more - Staff and Students only

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/research/research-centres:
Research institutes and centres are approved by the University Research and Knowledge Exchange Committee.
As at 07/01/2025

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/students/research-degrees-team:
Our team supports the work associated with the University's Graduate College, research degree programmes and provides a ‘one stop shop’ for all central administration for current and prospective research students and supervisors.
Contacts
Everything you need to know, from applying and enrolment to fees and funding opportunities.
Information for current students, including enrolment and fees, training, regulations, forms and committees.
Information for supervisors, including training, sub-committees and RDC forms.
Research degree forms
New student enrolment
Continuing student enrolment
Oxford Brookes has performed well in the Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES) national survey coordinated by Advance HE.
81% of Postgraduate students were satisfied with their experience on a research degree programme.
This was higher than the sector (79% sector average) and shows an increase to the findings from the 2021 survey (77%).
This result suggests that the overall experience of Research students at Brookes in the post-Covid-19 era has improved.
90% of students were satisfied with their supervision, measured with questions on the supervisor's skills and knowledge, regular contact, research guidance and support to identify suitable training.
This result was 5% higher than in 2021.
85% of students agreed that their confidence to be creative or innovative has developed during their programme, displaying an increase of 13% when compared to 2021.
81% of students agreed that they are coping well with their studies so far this semester, up 16% in 2021.
Student profiles
Events and networking
Newsletter
Training
Student representatives
Steering group
Follow @BrookesGC on X
rdt-researchdegrees@brookes.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/research/research-integrity-statement:
As an academic community, Oxford Brookes University has a responsibility to encourage and nurture the highest possible standards of intellectual honesty and integrity.
We believe that all our researchers have a duty to society, to their profession, to the University and to those funding their research to conduct their research in the most conscientious and responsible manner possible.
The Committee on Standards in Public Life (also known as the Nolan Committee) identifies principles which have relevance to best practice in the conduct of research: integrity, objectivity, accountability, openness, honesty and leadership.
Together, these principles provide a foundation for the personal integrity that should be reflected in the professional conduct of research.
Download the University's Code of Practice for Academic Integrity (PDF) .
The Pro Vice-Chancellor for Research and Global Partnerships will make a statement to the Board of Governors each year on actions and activities that have been undertaken to support and strengthen understanding and application of research integrity issues.
This statement will also report on what processes have been undertaken for assessing whether procedures for dealing with allegations of misconduct are transparent, robust and fair and will provide a high-level statement on any formal investigations of research misconduct that have been undertaken.
2024 - 2025 Research integrity statements
2023 - 2024 Research integrity statements
2022 - 2023 Research integrity statements
2021 - 2022 Research integrity statements
2020 - 2021 Research integrity statements
2019 - 2020 Research integrity statements
2018 - 2019 Research integrity statements
2017 - 2018 Research integrity statements
2016 - 2017 Research integrity statements
The University has approved a responsible metrics position statement.
Download the full responsible metrics position statement (PDF)
The University is a signatory of the Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA) and is fully supportive of, and complies with, the Wellcome Trust policy and principle of open, responsible and fair research assessment.
For more information please read the University's statement of compliance .
The University's point of contact for research integrity and misconduct is Christie Walker , Associate Director Research Support and Governance:
Research, Innovation & Enterprise Office Clerici Building Headington Campus Headington Oxford OX3 0BP
This point of contact is for anyone wanting more information on matters of research integrity and/or for anyone who wants to raise concerns about the integrity of research being conducted by the University.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/research/research-ethics-statement:
Oxford Brookes University is committed to rigorous ethics standards in all research undertaken by staff and students.
Oxford Brookes University requires research ethics review for all research and consultancy undertaken by staff and students wherever research and related activities involve human participants, material or personal data.
The University Research Ethics Committee (UREC) is the parent committee responsible for overseeing research ethics for the University.
Two Sub-Committees report to UREC - The Cross-Faculty Research Ethics Sub-Committee (CRES) and the Health & Social Care Research Ethics Sub-Committee (HSCRES) - both of which meet 12 times a year to specifically review research involving human participants and ensure that the dignity, rights, safety, inclusivity and well-being of all participants are given primary consideration.
Increased demands for greater public scrutiny and accountability mean that studies involving human participants, human material or personal data are formally reviewed by individuals who are independent of the research.
For detailed information please refer to the University Code of Practice for Research Ethics for Research Involving Human Participants .
For further information, if you are an external researcher looking to undertake collaborative research with the University, or if you wish to report any ethical concerns related to an Oxford Brookes University research study please contact ethics@brookes.ac.uk.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/sites/research-support:
The Research Support teams form part of the Directorate for Research, Innovation and Enterprise.
Their aim is to provide support for all researchers at Oxford Brookes.
Staff and students will find helpful information and a number of useful resources below.
Training events
Research Strategy
Research data management
Converis
External funding
Knowledge Exchange and Impact
Policies, procedures and codes of practice
Researcher development
Open research
Research passport
Research ethics and integrity
Public Engagement Network

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/library/resources-and-services/for-researchers:
The Library is here to support your research, the communication of your research findings, and the development of your research profile through a variety of specialist help, resources and services.
Please explore these webpages for more information or, for an audiovisual introduction, visit the 'Support for Research' section of the Moodle course Working with the Library and Learning Resources .
There are two main teams that support researchers - the Academic Liaison Librarians and the Scholarly Communications team.
About Academic Liaison Librarians
Literature reviews support service
Scholarly Communications Team
Other useful information
Keeping up to date
Discovering research
Open Access
ORCID
Publishing research data
Theses
We are based in the Library, part of the Learning Resources Directorate.
There is a dedicated Academic Liaison Librarian for each main discipline at Oxford Brookes.
You can find your Librarian from the Course resource help pages .
As well as Librarian contact details, these pages include information on subject specific resources, training, support for referencing and guides.
Your Academic Liaison Librarian can provide specialist help with finding information and resources for your research.
We can assist you in accessing quality resources, including books, journals, databases, conference proceedings, theses and grey literature.
We can also provide tips and techniques for developing search strategies, keeping up to date with your research area, managing and organising references using software services such as EndNote.
We offer training and support via 1:1 appointments and email, so do contact us.
Academic Liaison Librarians
Our main role is to support staff and student researchers at Oxford Brookes with sharing, disseminating, and publishing their research findings so that they are available to local or global academic and public communities.
W e are:
Each semester, we offer short training sessions that introduce researchers to the key ideas in the topics that we support.
We'll announce more training sessions at a future date.
openaccess@brookes.ac.uk
Brookes Open Access on X
Find out about 'read & publish'
Here are two resources created by external institutions to help you develop your research profile:

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/research/contact-us:
The Research Support Office assists staff with the preparation and submission of research grant applications to research councils, charities and the EU.
We offer advice and guidance on:
For information about research degrees, please contact the research degrees team at rd-enquiries@brookes.ac.uk .
Maps and directions
Research degrees team (for current and prospective research students)
General enquiries (not research related)

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/engage-and-innovate:
Engage with us to succeed
At Oxford Brookes University, we are dedicated to establishing strong partnerships with businesses and public sector organisations, with the aim of driving economic growth in Oxfordshire, the Thames Valley, and beyond, playing a pivotal role in positioning Oxfordshire as a centre of excellence for high-skill, high-tech research in the UK.
Develop measurable business benefits with consultancy-driven knowledge transfer - enhance product development, efficiency, and services
Collaborate for strategic innovation and growth with Knowledge Transfer Partnerships - linking industry, university experts, and graduate talent for lasting success
Explore exclusive licensing opportunities in cutting-edge technologies
Find out how we are driving public engagement with our research, innovation and knowledge exchange activities
We offer flexible CPD courses across various industries
Unlock innovation and drive growth with Oxford Brookes University's research collaborations
At Brookes, we believe in the transformative power of collaboration, and our "Work Together" initiative serves as a gateway for organisations to engage with us across various realms.
Whether you seek to pioneer groundbreaking research, catalyse innovation through Knowledge Transfer Partnerships, harness the expertise of our consultants, integrate cutting-edge technologies through licensing, participate in dynamic knowledge exchanges, or access state-of-the-art equipment through hire programmes—Oxford Brookes University is your partner on this exciting journey.
Our commitment to fostering meaningful collaborations is underpinned by a dedication to excellence and a shared vision of creating a positive impact.
Together, let's explore the boundless possibilities that arise when diverse perspectives, knowledge, and resources converge.
Connect with us, and let's embark on a collaborative journey that transcends boundaries and propels us towards a future defined by innovation and success.
Highlights of our research, innovation, and enterprise
rieenquiries@brookes.ac.uk
At Oxford Brookes University, sharing our knowledge with commercial and industrial partners drives economic and social growth.
Together with other UK higher education institutions we are leading on this in an ongoing effort to improve the UK’s approach to sharing expertise, ideas and insights.
Oxford Brookes' statement on knowledge exchange

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/engage-and-innovate/consultancy:
Partnering with Oxford Brookes on a consultancy basis is an excellent way to create relationships with leading researchers and innovative scientists, across a range of disciplines.
Consultancy helps nurture knowledge transfer, seeding measurable business benefits.
Ultimately this will boost your product development, efficiency and services.
The wide-ranging consultancy services on offer at Oxford Brookes University can support your business growth, whether you are an SME or an organisation of any size going through change, seeking innovation, or looking at future needs.
Oxford Brookes University offers expert advice and innovative solutions across a range of industry sectors and business functions from short term problem solving to longer term business efficiency studies.
Our dedicated team can facilitate introductions across the University, help you explore our expertise and discuss the best way for us to work together.
A survey by Oxford Brookes Business School has revealed that Blenheim Palace contributes nearly £90m to the economy annually.
Blenheim Palace Economic Impact Study
Oxford Brookes Centre for Nutrition and Health
Taming the Carbon Monster Programme

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/engage-and-innovate/knowledge-transfer-partnerships:
Contact us
A Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP) is a unique three-way collaboration that brings together world-class university experts, a qualified graduate and ambitious industry partners to accelerate strategic innovation and growth.
The Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP) programme is a government funded framework for driving innovation and growth by linking a UK business with a university and a recent graduate.
KTP has been operating for more than 45 years.
A KTP enables an organisation to bring in new skills and the latest academic thinking in order to help deliver a specific, strategic innovation project.
You access expertise that you don’t have in-house, and embed it in your business to become more competitive and productive.
Unlike traditional consultancy, through its emphasis on knowledge transfer, the KTP programme helps develop lasting relationships for ongoing strategic innovation and sustainable growth.
Oxford Brookes University utilises the KTP programme to help drive innovation and productivity in the UK, and to ensure businesses remain competitive in a changing market and continue to grow and develop.
Oxford Brookes University has partnered with a range of businesses on KTPs from technology companies to a legal practice.
“With success rates of 85%, and rising, your new project may be just months away.”
Anna Verghese, Knowledge Transfer Partnerships Manager
Knowledge Transfer Partnerships can help your business or organisation to create a step-change in a combination of some of these areas:
A KTP is for projects with ambitious levels of innovation, impact and challenge that result in significant wealth creation.
It might be a new development within your sector or a chance to enter a different market.
A project can last from 1 to 3 years in one month blocks.
KTP Case Studies
“I fully endorse Knowledge Transfer Partnerships.
It’s really been transformational for Blenheim.
I am sure it won’t be the last KTP that we’ll have here.
I think the ability to bring this academia and real-world business challenges together is incredibly powerful.
We can solve really complex puzzles together.”
David Green, Head of Innovation at Blenheim
To take part, companies need to:
Projects can be office-based, hybrid or fully remote.
Dates and deadlines for KTP applicants
Part of the cost of a Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP) is funded by a grant from the innovation agency Innovate UK, and other government co-funders.
You apply for this in a competitive call for submissions.
For Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises the grant rate is 67% of the project cost and for large companies 50%.
The remainder of the project cost is met by monthly cash payments from your company.
Project costs are variable.
For a small or medium size company, government bodies, such as Innovate UK, contribute two-thirds of the cost.
For a typical project, Oxford Brookes University offers a cost-effective opportunity to engage in Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs).
Your company can make a modest investment per year to embed a recent graduate (KTP Associate) in your organisation, supported by senior academics and the extensive resources of our university.
This collaboration brings new capabilities and the potential for wealth creation.
Businesses that participate in KTPs experience significant benefits, with the potential for notable increases in pre-tax profit.
KTPs provide a platform for driving innovation, enhancing productivity, and achieving substantial financial growth.
Contact us rieenquiries@brookes.ac.uk to discuss your idea.
We will scope out a project with you, and work together on a grant application.
Knowledge Transfer Partnership step-by-step application flowchart
A key person in the partnership is the KTP Associate.
This is an ambitious recent graduate who is jointly recruited by the partners to implement the project in your business.
Educated to a level appropriate for the project, the associate will be the conduit for change, transferring implementing and embedding the knowledge generated and providing feedback from you to the academic partner.
The Associate will join the University’s payroll, but their place of work is in your organisation and they work as a member of your team.
Academic staff from the University visit the company every week to guide and supervise the work.
The length of Knowledge Transfer Partnerships varies from 12 – 36 months, depending on the nature of the project and the requirements of your business.
If you are serious about getting ahead and you want to apply your degree knowledge, start a 'real' job straight away, and potentially gain a professional qualification, then a Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP) may be the perfect opportunity for you.
As an employee on a KTP programme, you’ll be pursuing challenging work and making a real impact within the company or organisation you join, helping it to innovate, grow and develop as you establish your own skills and achievements.
KTP is one of the UK's largest recruiters of recently qualified graduates.
Positions are available across the UK, with up to 500 jobs created each year.
Find out more about KTP as a career option or see the list of current national KTP vacancies and vacancies being advertised soon .
Take the first steps to explore a KTP opportunity with Oxford Brookes.
We’ll work with you to develop a successful KTP application, recruit your KTP graduate, and partner with you to boost your organisation.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/engage-and-innovate/license-our-technology:
As a university, part of our mission is to innovate and share our knowledge.
Oxford Brookes University takes pride in its reputation as a centre of academic excellence where innovation and world-class research go hand in hand with enterprise.
Establishing and developing strong commercial partners with industry is a core part of our vision.
Oxford Brookes has a unique portfolio of licensing opportunities in a range of technological areas which are licensed to commercial organisations on an exclusive or non-exclusive basis.
DECoRuM
Electronic Design Automation and Attack Tolerant Crypto-hardware
Near Optimal Automatic Chip Design
Efficient Segmentation of Video Images
Gait Monitor

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/engage-and-innovate/public-community-engagement:
Learn how we are driving public
engagement with our research, innovation and
knowledge exchange
A diverse array of events, activities, and festivals are provided by researchers, academics, professional support colleagues, and students.
Additionally, this program offers online resources, such as podcasts, teaching materials, and short films.
The ultimate goal of these endeavors is to engage with the public in a mutually beneficial two-way process, communicating the work of Oxford Brookes University to a wider audience.
By inspiring, informing, listening, and discussing together, we hope to shape the futures of our local and regional communities, as well as our University.
Professor Linda King, Pro-Vice Chancellor for Research and Global Partnerships, leads the Public Engagement Network (PEN), which coordinates public engagement efforts centrally.
PEN serves as a central hub for public engagement, working with the public to improve and guide our program, while also offering support and encouragement to staff to integrate public engagement efforts into all areas.
The Public Engagement Network (PEN) offers a range of support for staff interested in public engagement including small grants, central and external training, awards and guidance.
Open to all, our unique exhibition space encourages visitors to engage with art and research
Explore the human experience with Think Human at Oxford Brookes University - thought-provoking events open to all.
Expand your horizons with Oxford Brookes' Open Lecture Series - thought-provoking talks and events for curious minds.
Join the Oxford Brookes community - a diverse and inclusive hub for learning, culture, and social impact.
Our people share and discuss a wide range of fascinating topics
Read about our research, innovation, and knowledge exchange activities.
Brookes Bridges
Apprenticeships
Studentships
Social Responsibility
Discover the wonders of science at Oxford Brookes' Science Bazaar Beyond – a free family event
Bringing together support for prospective students, teachers, and parents
Engaging science workshops on butterflies, moths, and habitats for primary school children
Drive innovation and success with Oxford Brookes Business Engagement - your partner for industry collaborations and professional development.
Business Engagement
Our Public Engagement Network offers information, resources, small grants, central and external training, awards and support for staff members who would like to get involved in public engagement activities.
Public engagement pages for staff
We want to hear from and engage with you!
If you or your organisation is interested in finding out more about how you can engage with research at Oxford Brookes, please contact us.
If you are looking for a researcher working on a particular topic, you can also search our database of staff .

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/about-brookes:
Set in a historic student city, Oxford Brookes University is one of the UK’s leading modern universities and enjoys an international reputation for teaching excellence and innovation as well as strong links with business and industry.
Find out what makes Oxford Brookes unique
Outside of these hours entry is by card access only (Salto access is 24/7).
For information on Library opening hours, please refer to the Library webpages .
Faculties and schools
Contacts, maps and campuses
Our history at a glance
Structure and governance
Strategy
Social responsibility
Our community

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/about-brookes/at-a-glance:
Oxford Brookes University has over 150 years of history.
We started out as a small School of Art in borrowed teaching rooms and have grown into one of the UK's top modern universities with a local, national and international reputation for teaching and research excellence.
We have a lot to be proud of, but we are continuing to push ourselves.
See some of our recent results and achievements
Oxford Brookes is thinking globally, growing our international footprint and furthering our already world-leading research.
Significant investment in our estate has already resulted in multi award-winning facilities and this investment carries on with a £220 million investment between 2015 and 2025.
We are a proud member of the University Alliance (UA) , an association of universities with a mission to drive innovation across Britain.
Together we promote excellence in education, building the workforce for tomorrow.
We are also continuing to drive teaching excellence.
Our high student satisfaction with teaching quality is a result of exceptional academics who are talented, supported in their career development and creative in their delivery.
This provides our engaged students with a stimulating learning experience, including opportunities to develop skills both inside and outside their studies, with co-curricular projects to fuel their enthusiasm and hone their abilities.
The character of our University is evident in our graduates who use the connections and experiences they gain during their time with us to achieve career success, and also make a difference to the world.
Our many achievements are also down to our fantastic and dedicated staff, all 2,800 of them.
Together with our students, alumni, partners and local supporters we are a close community, and this is vital to our ongoing success.
We are proud of our home in Oxford, one of the UK’s most vibrant cities, and one to which we make a significant economic, social and cultural contribution.
Results and achievements
Our students
Inspirational teaching
Research excellence
Partnerships with Oxford Brookes

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/about-brookes/structure-and-governance/faculties-and-schools:
Oxford Brookes University has 11 schools contained within 2 faculties:
Our school structure puts academic values at the heart of decision-making, provides clarity at subject level and helps inter-disciplinary research, academic development and knowledge transfer.
School of Arts
Oxford Brookes Business School
School of Education, Humanities and Languages
School of Law and Social Sciences
School of Architecture
School of Biological and Medical Sciences
School of the Built Environment
School of Engineering, Computing and Mathematics
Oxford School of Nursing and Midwifery
School of Psychology, Social Work and Public Health
School of Sport, Nutrition and Allied Health Professions

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/about-brookes/structure-and-governance/professional-services:
Directorate of Academic and Student Administration
Directorate of Estates and Campus Services
Directorate of Finance and Legal Services
Directorate of Human Resources
Directorate of IT Services
Directorate of Learning Resources
Directorate of Marketing, Recruitment and Engagement

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/about-brookes/structure-and-governance:
Oxford Brookes University has 11 schools contained within 2 faculties.
Responsibility for the day-to-day running of Oxford Brookes University rests with the Vice-Chancellor, Professor Alistair Fitt, and the Vice-Chancellor's Group (VCG).
The Chancellor is the ceremonial figurehead of the University, and the current Chancellor is Paterson Joseph.
The Board of Governors leads the University strategically by determining the overall mission.
Vice-Chancellor's Group
Board of Governors
Chancellor
Professional services
Some items on this website are restricted and require an Oxford Brookes login.
Information requirements for Higher Education Institutions that are exempt charities.
1.
Legal name: Oxford Brookes University
2.
Correspondence address:
Oxford Brookes University Gipsy Lane Headington Oxford  OX3 0BP UK
3.
Constitutional documents:
4.
University Board of Governors
5.
Annual accounts
6.
Summary of the legal status of Oxford Brookes University (PDF)
Policies and financial statements
Freedom of information
University Regulations for Study
Brand guidelines
Statement on the University
Remuneration of senior staff (Vice-Chancellor and Registrar)

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/about-brookes/strategy:
Learn more about our updated strategy
John Henry Brookes, after whom our University is named, believed that everyone should have access to education.
That was at the heart of how he led our predecessor institutions.
And it’s why our University exists today.
We published our University Strategy 2035 in 2020, just as the Covid-19 pandemic was taking hold.
The world has changed since then and this update to the Strategy 2035 reflects the changes that we have been through as a University and our new vision for the future.
The bold and ambitious 2035 Vision Statement that we developed in 2020 is now supported by a detailed articulation of who we are, as well as our undergraduate and postgraduate propositions.
These outline what is important to us and the commitments we make to our students.
We have been working hard to embed our new Guiding Principle of Inclusivity, through our People and Culture work, and this now sits alongside our established principles of Confidence, Enterprising Creativity, Connectedness and Generosity of Spirit.
Learn more about our Guiding Principles .
This update to the strategy, including the statement of who we are, offers the opportunity to reassert our commitment to the welfare and education of our students, and to creating an environment in which we celebrate, value, and provide equality of opportunity to all.
Since 2020, we have gone further to understand the areas of innovation we need to push forward, such as our digital agenda.
To reflect the commitments we are making to our students, we have also undertaken work to redefine the educational experience we offer, as well as our research priorities.
Our updated strategy sets out our focus and priorities for the next decade.
We will continue to develop and evolve our delivery plans to ensure that we remain a modern, forward thinking institution which is committed to delivering access to education for all, to research that helps provide answers to the problems of today and tomorrow and to supporting our local communities.
“We shape tomorrow through the open and inclusive exchange of knowledge and ideas”
Read the updated Strategy 2035

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/about-brookes/news:
News from 2024
News from 2023
News from 2022
News from 2021
Older news articles
The Oxford Brookes Press Office is the first point of contact for journalists seeking information about the University, requests for academic or research expertise, filming opportunities and commentary on Higher Education issues.
+ 44 (0) 1865 647500
Find an expert
Research news
Community news

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/about-brookes/events:
Free lectures, exhibitions, debates and more at Oxford Brookes University.
Sign up to our mailing list to hear more about what's on at Oxford Brookes
Watch recordings of previous lectures
All upcoming events
Past events
Submit an event
Access information
Find out more about our events.
Interested in studying here?
Join us for an open day.
Open to all, our unique Glass tank exhibition space encourages visitors to engage with art and research.
Details of our upcoming graduation ceremonies
events@brookes.ac.uk
See our events privacy policy

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/about-brookes/history:
Oxford Brookes University began life as the Oxford School of Art in 1865.
It occupied one room on the ground floor of the Taylor Institution in the centre of the city.
Five years later the School of Science was incorporated.
Classes in a range of scientific and technical subjects were available.
As well as evening classes in the University Museum.
In 1891 the School was taken over by the Technical Instruction Committee (part of Oxford City Council), and renamed Oxford City Technical School.
John Henry Brookes became Vice-Principal of the Oxford City Technical School and Head of the School of Art in 1928.
Over the next 30 years he worked on the development of the institution.
His goal was to make education available to all.
In 1949, the School moves to a 25-acre site in Headington.
Brookes referred to the move as 'setting foot in the Promised Land'.
Lord Nuffield laid the foundation stone six years later.
Over the years there were more merges and name changes.
Finally in 1992 it was named Oxford Brookes University.
Today, Oxford Brookes University is a thriving community of staff and students.
Committed to helping our students achieve their potential.
And to become graduates prepared for fulfilling and valuable lives.
Important dates in our history
John Henry Brookes (JHB) was an artist and craftsman, teacher and outstanding educationalist.
He is often described as the spiritual founder of Oxford Brookes University.
JHB was born in Northampton in Victorian times.
His father was a highly skilled bootmaker and his mother a tailoress.
Craftsmanship and teaching were an integral part of his family history.
He became Vice-Principal of the Oxford City Technical School and Head of the School of Art in 1928.
Over the next 30 years he exerted a powerful influence on the development of the institution.
Throughout his life, he was committed to the goal of making education available to all.
In 1992 Oxford Polytechnic became a university and decided to honour its founding Principal, John Brookes, in its new title.
Oxford Brookes University.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/about-brookes/community:
These pages provide information and guidance to help students and residents live and work together in the local community.
You can also find details of services and facilities available to the local community such as print services, cookery courses, open lectures and art exhibitions.
An overview of the work of our Community engagement team.
An overview of our positive social or environmental impact at Oxford Brookes, in Oxford and beyond.
Find out more about our contributions to our community.
Short bite-sized courses in the community, to increase participation in further and higher education.
Read our latest news
Our events

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/students/safety-and-welfare:
Keeping our community safe
Oxford Brookes strives to provide a safe, inclusive, welcoming community in which all of our members feel a sense of belonging.
We have a series of processes and policies designed to create, maintain and develop our community, and key staff roles dedicated to enhancing our community experience.
This page brings together and details all of our various resources.
Emergency?
Need help now
Concerned about someone
Policies & guidance
Who to contact

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/social-responsibility:
Social Responsibility at Oxford Brookes brings our mission, vision and guiding principles to life by sharing the great initiatives which have a positive social or environmental impact.
News
Explore the four key areas of our Social Responsibility Framework below which provide an overview of our positive impact at Oxford Brookes University, in Oxford and beyond.
Socially responsible students
Engaged and supported staff
A valued partner in our communities
Sustainable operations

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/sustainability:
At Oxford Brookes we have a deep commitment to Environmental Sustainability.
Read our Annual Sustainability Report
We recognise the key role we play in delivering sustainable operations, development programs, and the global reach of our research and teaching programs.
Sustainability has been identified as a key enabler in the new 2035 University Strategy .
Our latest Annual Sustainability Report highlights the progress we have made in key areas of Environmental Sustainability.
Our Sustainability video outlines some recent achievements.
Oxford Brookes supports the Concordat for Environmental Sustainability in Research.
Download our Letter of Commitment to learn more.
By 2040, we intend to become a net-zero carbon organisation.
We include sustainable design principles in all our building projects.
We offer many ways to help students and staff reduce waste at Oxford Brookes.
Smart meters are helping us uncover hidden water leaks at Oxford Brookes.
Information on heating schedules and setpoints for occupants, with guidance on thermal comfort levels.
Oxford Brookes takes an active approach to supporting local biodiversity.
We offer a number of incentives to encourage sustainable travel at Oxford Brookes.
Oxford Brookes is committed to sourcing ethical and sustainable food.
Sustainability is embedded in our procurement process.
Get involved in sustainability at Oxford Brookes.
There are many opportunities to develop your knowledge and skills around Sustainability.
Sustainable and Resilient Futures Network.
Find out about our new ethical investment policy.
Download our strategies, action plans, sustainability reports and other documents.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/about-brookes/brand-guidelines:
The Oxford Brookes University brand guidelines provide guidance and resources to help create a consistent look and feel for all print and digital projects.
We produce a wide variety of printed and digital communications every year.
Our new guidelines will help to ensure that there is consistency and clarity for each of them.
Previous guidelines should be replaced by this updated version.
View visual Identity
These guides and resources will help create a consistent look and feel for all web and digital projects.
View design system
Our A-Z guide provides clear, easy-to-search guidance on style, spelling and grammar for all of our printed and digital communications.
View writing style guide
Please contact the Web Team at webdev@brookes.ac.uk or the Creative Team mac-design@brookes.ac.uk .
By making us aware, we can advise and support you through the whole process.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/working-for-brookes:
Oxford Brookes University is one of the UK’s leading modern universities.
We employ over 2,800 staff in a wide variety of roles, who work together to deliver high-quality, innovative approaches to learning, teaching, research and professional services.
We pride ourselves in the great experience we offer our staff.
Whatever job you are applying for, you'll be joining a friendly, professional environment where every member of staff is recognised as important to the success of the Oxford Brookes University.
We welcome applications from suitably qualified applicants whatever their background, especially candidates from BAME communities, whose representation in our workforce we would like to increase.
As a Disability Confident Employer we guarantee to interview any disabled applicant who meets the essential selection criteria.
Job vacancies open to all
Job vacancies open to staff
Making a good application
Using the application system
Our University Strategy 2035 builds on our existing strengths and is underpinned by our 5 guiding principles: Inclusivity, Confidence, Enterprising Creativity, Connectedness, and Generosity of Spirit.
At Oxford Brookes we have adopted equality, diversity and inclusion as core values and aim to be a genuinely inclusive organisation for staff, students and the wider community.
We engage with equality charters and frameworks to support our organisational approach to equity and diversity in relation to gender, race, disability and LGBTQ+ inclusion.
Oxford Brookes is active in Athena Swan and the Race Equality Charter, is a Disability Confident Employer and Stonewall Diversity Champion.
We are ambitious and strive for internationally excellent and world-leading research.
The University has been using the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment and/or the Leiden Manifesto for Research Metrics to inform their internal assessment processes for REF 2021.
For more information, visit our research integrity and responsible metrics webpage , which includes a full responsible metrics position statement approved by the University.
We also encourage you to read the applicant privacy notice so that you are fully informed about how we will use your data.
The policy explains what data we collect and why, who we share it with and what your rights are in respect of the data that we hold about you.
We are committed to ensuring the very best staff and student experience where all our community can flourish in a culture of respect and support, where we celebrate differences and thrive on each other's success.
We offer a wide range of benefits to enhance the staff experience.
Learn more about our benefits
pdteam-operations@brookes.ac.uk
Information for disabled applicants Handling of DBS certificate information Policy on the recruitment of ex-offenders How to find us Student Ambassadors

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/about-brookes/contacts-maps-and-campuses:
Switchboard
+44 (0) 1865 741111
Oxford Brookes University
Headington Campus Oxford, OX3 0BP
Queries
Ask us a question
More contact details
Information on facilities, directions and maps can be found on each of our campus site webpages
Harcourt Hill
Headington
Swindon
Open days

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/about-brookes/harassment:
I need support or I want to report.
I am a student
I am a member of staff
Oxford Brookes expects all members of the University community to treat everyone - staff, students and visitors alike - with dignity and respect.
If you have experienced or witnessed bullying, harassment, sexual misconduct, discrimination or victimisation, there is support available and you can report it to us with or without your contact details.
Further information can be found in our Anti-Harassment and Discrimination policy .
Anti-Harassment and Discrimination policy
Bullying and harassment
Sexual misconduct, violence and abuse
My behaviour has been reported
I'm concerned about a student
If you have experienced or witnessed bullying, harassment, sexual misconduct, discrimination or victimisation, you can report it to us with or without your contact details.
Confidentiality will only be broken if you give us your express permission to, or if you've given us relevant information and we're concerned about your or somebody else's safety.
Privacy notices
Report anonymously as a student Report with contact details as a student 24 hour emergency support for students Support for students
Report anonymously as a member of staff Report with contact details as a member of staff 24 hour emergency support for staff Support for staff
Our anonymous reporting tool welcomes submissions from anyone with a connection to Oxford Brookes.
This includes but is not limited to: visitors, parents, applicants and third party organisations.
Report anonymously
Relevant to staff and students
Information on training available to staff and students
Guidance on our investigation processes for staff and students
Explore data on the prevalence and outcomes of student conduct reports
Page updated: 1 August 2025.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/about-brookes/contacts-maps-and-campuses/contact-us:
If you have a question about studying here, please complete our ask a question form .
To order a prospectus, please complete our order a prospectus form .
If you would like to visit our campuses, please come to an open day or book a campus tour .
Please visit Certificates, award verification and transcripts to request a certificate, award verification or transcript.
Public Relations Office
+ 44 (0) 1865 647500 (Available during office hours and for urgent out of hours press enquiries)
Our Community Engagement Team is available from 9.30am-5.00pm.
+44 (0) 1865 535225
community@brookes.ac.uk
See the Contacts, maps and campuses section of our site for travel routes, public transport journey planners and to download campus maps.
If you are a current student experiencing problems with either your Student Information, Moodle, or Turnitin account, please report issues direct to the IT Service Desk .
If you are a current student experiencing problems with either your PIP, Moodle, or Turnitin account, please report issues direct to the IT Service Desk .
To report a technical error, or submit feedback, please use the Web Team enquiry form .
If you would like to know more about giving time or money to support Oxford Brookes, please visit our Make a gift webpages or contact the Development and Alumni Engagement Team
Find out about opportunities working for Oxford Brookes .
Security is an important aspect of University life; responsibility for security and personal safety rest with all who study, work or visit the University and staff and students should work collaboratively to create and maintain a safe and secure learning environment.
In an emergency :
For non urgent incidents and general security enquiries:
Oxford Brookes Venues has been providing its services for over 30 years, providing venue space for meetings, training courses and conferences to parties and celebrations.
For more information about our venue services and availability please fill out our contact us form , we will try and reply to all enquiries within two working days.
If you prefer to call us, please contact Oxford Brookes Venues on +44 (0) 1865 488400 or you can email us directly on venues@brookes.ac.uk
For any other queries, please email query@brookes.ac.uk or call 01865 741111

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/clearing:
Our Clearing hotline is open and our friendly Admissions team is standing by, ready to take your call!
Clearing is another opportunity to find the course that’s right for you.
We'll support you every step of the way, so there’s nothing to worry about.
Discover the course that’s right for you and start studying this September.
To view our Clearing course vacancies, check the course list below or visit the UCAS website .
For courses run by our Partner Colleges, please phone the college directly.
Contact numbers are listed with the course entry.
Wondering what life on campus looks like?
Take a virtual tour and explore our campuses, facilities and accommodation from the comfort of your home.
Go on a virtual tour
Who can apply through Clearing?
You can apply through Clearing if you already have your results and are not holding any university offers.
What should I have ready for Clearing?
If your exams have been awarded by AQA, OCR, Pearson, SQA, WJEC/CBAC, City & Guilds, CEA or NCFE then it is likely we will be able to view your results when you refer your application.
If needed, we’ll contact you to provide evidence of your qualifications and explain any next steps.
Can I still get student finance if I apply through Clearing?
Yes, you can still apply for student finance for tuition fees and living costs.
Once you have your Clearing offer, you can apply or update an existing application through the government website .
I have been made an offer in Clearing, when will I hear more?
If you’re calling us on our Clearing hotline, we will verbally confirm your offer during the call.
We will send you an email, usually within just a few hours, or by the morning following the offer, this will give instructions as to any actions you need to undertake.
How long will I have to accept my offer?
You’ll usually need to reply to the offer within 48 hours of it being issued.
This is stated within your offer letter when you receive it.
Will I be able to get accommodation?
If you’re joining us through Clearing, you’re guaranteed a place in accommodation.
Find out more on our accommodation pages .
Once you have a Clearing offer, you don’t need to do anything.
You’ll be sent accommodation login details within 48 hours of accepting your course offer, then you will need to apply and select 3 choices.
You need to apply for your accommodation by 20 August and will receive confirmation on 22 August.
Our Accommodation team works hard to respond to enquiries within 48 hours wherever possible.
In the meantime, if you’d like to speak to a member of our team, you can call us on +44(0)1865 521094 or use the accommodation live chat once you’re on the accommodation portal.
Can I apply through Clearing as an international student?
Yes!
There are three ways you can apply to us through Clearing: Apply directly to us through our application form or by referring yourself through UCAS.
Submit your details through our form and the team will get back to you soon.
On 14 August, 15 and 16 August, call our Clearing hotline on +44 (0)1865 535000 and choose option 2 to speak to our Global team.
Once you have received an offer from us, your next steps will be explained within your offer letter.
Here's what you need to know:
Need assistance?
Find out more about course fees and opportunities for financial support.
Some key information to help you support your child through applying for University.
Oxford Brookes has everything you need to make the most of student life.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/courses/postgraduate/masters:
Your future: remastered
Advance your career with postgraduate study
Courses starting in September 2025 All full-time courses All part-time courses All online / distance learning courses PhDs and Research degrees
Browse courses by subject
International students
Find out exactly how much university costs at Oxford Brookes.
Browse the variety of funding options available to help finance your studies.
Find out about entry requirements and how to prepare to start your application.
Explore your accommodation options and find out when and how to apply.
Course webinars and events
Our campuses
Learn how we embed real industry experience into your studies, placement opportunities, and how you can benefit from our industry links.
Discover our dynamic and practical approach to teaching and the wide range of support available to you.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/courses/undergraduate:
How do I apply to university?
This is your definitive guide to the process and stages of applying to university.
It is important to do plenty of research when looking at university.
Look into the courses that interest you the most and what those courses could lead onto.
You should also look into the costs associated with university and the funding sources available to you.
Not sure where to start?
Try taking a look through the Career Pilot website to help you plan your future.
You can also request a prospectus and browse courses online.
Our Open Days are a chance for students to find out more about university life first-hand.
They provide the ideal opportunity to explore our campuses and learn more about the subjects we offer.
Visitors can also learn more about Brookes Sport, our study abroad options and there are practical talks on admissions, accommodation and finance.
Visitors are advised to check our Open Day hub to see the latest event updates.
Applying for university can be done in a variety of ways.
UK students typically apply through UCAS, whereas international students can apply via UCAS or directly through our website.
A good personal statement is an important part of the application process.
We’re interested in you as an individual, so tell us about yourself and what interests you!
If your main language is not English, you will need to show us that your English is at the right level to enable you to study here successfully.
The majority of undergraduate courses require IELTS 6.0, with 6.0 in reading and writing, 5.5 in speaking and listening.
Once you have decided which course you want to study, have your personal statement and any other supporting documents, you are ready to submit your application.
This is normally done through UCAS or by applying direct.
Applicant and interview days are special days for applicants where you can find out more about your chosen course and explore the university and city where you could end up living!
Don’t let the cost of university put you off.
UK students are eligible for maintenance and tuition fee loans.
There is also financial support available for EU and international students.
International students will need to pay a deposit to confirm their place.
We recommend that you apply for student finance as soon as you’ve submitted your application.
Once you’ve been made an offer we’ll contact you about accommodation options.
You can choose to live in university halls, rent off a private landlord or live at home.
Once you have received your results you will receive an update from us letting you know if you have met the terms of the offer and what happens next.
If you are an international student, there are some additional steps you need to to take to confirm your place.
If you’re an international student you may need to apply for a visa to study over here.
We will send you guidance on this once your offer is confirmed.
The final step is enrolment and moving in.
There will be lots of activities running during Welcome Weekend and Induction Week to help you settle in and make new friends.
The Student Induction Team is available now to answer any questions you have about coming to Oxford Brookes.
They will be on campus ready to meet you during the induction period.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/contact-and-meet-us/order-a-prospectus:
Our undergraduate and postgraduate prospectuses, and our guide for international students, will give you a taste of what it’s like to study here at Oxford Brookes University.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/contact-and-meet-us/book-a-campus-tour:
Explore our award-winning spaces by signing up to our campus tours at any time of the year.
Our on-site campus tours are the best way to find out if Oxford Brookes University is the right place for you.
Explore our award-winning academic and social spaces, check out our lecture halls and workspaces and walk through our state-of-the-art library, sports facilities, cafes and more.
Our tours are led by our student ambassadors who are all current students.
Each tour lasts approximately 45 minutes and you will have the opportunity to ask the student ambassador any questions you may have about life as a student at Oxford Brookes.
All of the tours are open to prospective undergraduate and postgraduate students.
Booking is essential so please follow the link above to reserve your place.
Please do not hesitate to contact us if you require any further information
Headington Campus tour
Marston Road Site tour
Clearing campus tours - Headington Campus
Clearing campus tours - Marston  Road Site
Headington Campus
Harcourt Hill Campus
Marston Road Site
Swindon Campus
If you are interested in finding out more about a specific course, you can join us at one of our Open Days or Offer Holder Days.
These events are a fantastic opportunity to find out everything you need to know about the course(s) that you’re interested in and you’ll also have the opportunity to meet with academic staff and current students, join subject-specific and general talks, and tour our campuses.
View our Open Days
We've created a range of videos and virtual tours to allow you to explore our campuses and student accommodation at a time, place and pace that suits you.
The maximum capacity for each campus tour is 20, meaning that you will be with up to 19 other participants, and one student ambassador.
Yes, parents and carers are welcome on the tour.
Please select the number of tickets you require when booking the campus tour.
Parking is extremely limited at our Oxford campuses.
We strongly advise you not to travel by car unless absolutely necessary.
Our campuses are well serviced by a network of public bus services and park and ride facilities which you are advised to use wherever possible..
For full details and travel options, please visit our latest information on visitor parking and travel to campus .
Been on a campus tour and can’t wait to find out more?
Come to an Open Day to meet the people teaching and studying your subject and to see inside our halls of residence.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/about-brookes/news/news-from-2025/08/oxford-brookes-university-awarded-university-of-sa:
Thursday 21 August 2025

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/about-brookes/news/news-from-2025/08/oxford-brookes-university-ready-to-support-student:
Wednesday 6 August 2025

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/about-brookes/news/news-from-2025/07/oxford-brookes-racing-teams-celebrate-success-at-f:
Wednesday 23 July 2025

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/about-brookes/news/news-from-2025/07/oxford-brookes-led-consortium-wins-major-ukri-fund:
Thursday 3 July 2025
The Architectural Design and Humanities Promoting Transformation (AD[A]PT) Consortium, led by Oxford Brookes, has received the funding under the AHRC’s inaugural Doctoral Focal Award.
The award will support 20 fully funded postgraduate studentships at three partnering universities, Oxford Brookes, Cardiff University and Falmouth University, starting from October 2026.
The initiative aims to bridge the gap between research and practice in designing healthy places.
Doctoral students will work on projects shaped in collaboration with a 13-member Industry Steering Group representing key sectors:
Studentships will be shared across the three universities, hosted within their respective schools of architecture, design and the built environment.
Students will benefit from shared training and development opportunities across the consortium.
Around half of the studentships will be offered as Collaborative Doctoral Awards which embed candidates within a partner organisation for part of their degree.
This will ensure their research is both academically rigorous and grounded in real-world practice.
The students’ collective research will focus on the real-world decisions made by built environment professionals, examining how these can help—or hinder—efforts to address the climate and biodiversity emergencies, improve safety and accessibility, and create more inclusive communities.
With the built environment responsible for up to 40% of global carbon emissions, the research will aim to specifically look at how built environment professionals can:
Dr Emma Rowden, Lead of AD[A]PT and Postgraduate Research Tutor for Architecture at Oxford Brookes University, said: “Our built environment has a profound impact on human and planetary health.
This exciting collaboration, involving many of the sector’s most influential bodies, will empower arts and humanities-led researchers to tackle the systemic issues stopping us from routinely building healthier, more inclusive, and sustainable environments.
“We are thrilled to be working with our partners to train the next generation of industry-facing arts, humanities and design-based doctoral researchers.” Oliver Urquhart-Irvine, Executive Director, Architecture Programmes and Collections, RIBA, said of the success of the collaboration: “This award is really fantastic news in every respect: scale, ambition, partners and value.” Recruitment for the studentships is expected to begin in October 2025, with the first cohort interviews likely to take place in early summer 2026.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/rie/enterprise:
The Innovation & Enterprise Teams support external organisations, students, graduates, and researchers on their innovation and enterprise pathways and comprises:
We help students and alumni (up to seven years after graduation) develop entrepreneurial skills and mindsets through:
Located at the heart of the Headington Campus, the Centre supports start-ups and early-stage companies, including Oxford Brookes spin-outs, by offering:
We work with researchers, industry partners and investors to:
Oxford Brookes Enterprise Support team empowering entrepreneurs, founders, and self-starters
Oxford Brookes Enterprise Centre: Supportive spaces for start-ups
Bioinnovation Hub: Lab space and facilities access for early-stage companies
Helping researchers identify, protect, and commercialise Intellectual Property

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/brookes-print:
Professional Printing for the Wider Oxford Community and Beyond.
External customers - buy online
Students - buy online
Staff - buy online
Staff Print Request Form
We are open Monday to Friday, 8.30am - 4.30pm.
At Brookes Print, we're not just for Oxford Brookes University – we're here to serve everyone with their printing needs.
While we proudly handle all of Oxford Brookes University's digital printing, from business cards and stationery to posters, leaflets, and marketing materials, our services extend far beyond the university.
We offer a fast, competitive, and professional printing service to a wide range of external customers, including local businesses, community groups, and the broader Oxford student community.
Whether you need a small batch of flyers or a large-scale marketing campaign, our digital presses are equipped to deliver high-quality results.
Think of us as your central hub for all things print.
In addition to our in-house digital printing capabilities, we also manage the purchasing of external print jobs for Oxford Brookes University from approved suppliers.
This means we have extensive experience navigating the print industry and can offer valuable insights and connections to our external clients.
You can visit us in person at our counter service located at Headington Campus, just off Gipsy Lane.
For your convenience, we also accept files via email or through our easy-to-use online shop.
Get in touch today and let Brookes Print be your trusted printing partner!
“Brilliant, thank you.
I've been so impressed by Brookes Print, will definitely recommend to colleagues.”
Jozie Kettle, Pitt Rivers Museum
+ 44 (0) 1865 535255
printservices@brookes.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/venues:
Book a venue
Contact us by email or phone to book a venue.
Discover a huge variety of contemporary meeting rooms, lecture theatres, and unique creative spaces set within an award-winning modern campus just 1.5 miles from the centre of Oxford.
Events and functions
Conferences and exhibitions
The PG Lounge
Lecture theatres
Meetings and training
Language schools
Opening times exclude public holidays and University closure days.
+44 (0) 7500 866876
venues@brookes.ac.uk
Follow @OBVenues on X

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/accessibility/accessibility-statement:
This accessibility statement applies to the main website www.brookes.ac.uk which  is run by the Oxford Brookes University.
You will find more specific statements on other individual university websites.
We want as many people as possible to be able to use this website.
For example, that means you should be able to:
We’ve also made the website text as simple as possible to understand.
We use some technical or university terms where there is no easier wording we can use without changing what the text means.
AbilityNet has advice on making your device easier to use if you have a disability.
We are aware some parts of this website are not fully accessible:
We’re always looking to improve the accessibility of this website.
If you find any problems not listed on this page or think we’re not meeting accessibility requirements, contact: webdev@brookes.ac.uk .
If you need information on this website in a different format like accessible PDF, large print, audio recording or braille, please email webdev@brookes.ac.uk .
We will consider your request and get back to you within 5 working days.
The Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) is responsible for enforcing the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 (the ‘accessibility regulations’).
If you’re not happy with how we respond to your complaint, contact the Equality Advisory and Support Service (EASS) .
webdev@brookes.ac.uk
Guidance for staff
Guidance for students
Oxford Brookes University is committed to making its website accessible, in accordance with the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018.
The website has been tested against the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.2 AA standard.
This website is partially compliant with the WCAG 2.2 AA standard, due to the non-compliances and exemptions listed below.
We regularly audit our web content using tools that test for up to date accessibility standards, and work with our content editors and web developers to correct issues that this testing flags on an ongoing basis.
The content listed below is non-accessible for the following reasons.
The content that is not accessible is outlined below with details of:
The site contains PDF files published after September 2018 that do not meet accessibility standards and may contain content that should be available in an accessible format such as HTML.
This fails WCAG 2.2 success criterion 1.3.1 (Info and Relationships), 1.3.2 (Meaningful Sequence), 1.4.3 (Contrast (Minimum)), 2.4.2 (Page Titled) and 3.1.1 (Language of Page).
We have implemented a strategy to better manage the PDFs we produce and ensure that content editors are given guidance to produce PDFs that are accessible.
To address these issues, we are improving our web templates to make it easier for our content editors to create accessible content.
We also regularly audit our website and work with content editors to correct them when they are found.
Some pages have headings that don’t follow a logical order.
This fails WCAG 2.2 success criterion 2.4.10 (Section Heading).
Some pages have empty headings or elements styled as titles but not marked up as headings.
This fails WCAG 2.2 success criterion 2.4.6 (Headings and Labels) and 1.3.1 (Info and Relationships).
Some pages have tables which are marked up incorrectly and do not have row or column headers.
This fails WCAG 2.2 success criterion 1.3.1 (Info and Relationships).
Some links are empty, contain an image with no alternative text or do not adequately describe the image.
This fails WCAG 2.2 success criterion 2.4.4: (Link Purpose (In Context)) and 4.1.2 (Name, Role, Value).
Some pages use the same link text for different destinations This fails WCAG 2.2 success criterion 2.4.4 (Link Purpose).
Some lists are empty or are marked up incorrectly with role=”presentation”.
To address these issues, we regularly audit our website and work with content editors to correct them when they are found.
Images on some pages do not always have suitable image descriptions.
This fails WCAG 2.2 success criterion 1.1.1 (Non-text Content).
When we publish new content we make sure our use of images meets accessibility standards.
Some pages have alternative text for an image which is identical to the link text.
Some images may contain pictures of text.
This fails WCAG 2.2 success criterion 1.4.5 (Images of text).
Some videos do not have captions or use automatically generated captions, which may be inaccurate.
This fails WCAG 2.2 success criterion 1.2.2 Captions (Prerecorded)).
Some audio content does not have a transcript or other text equivalent This fails WCAG 2.2 success criterion 1.2.1 (Audio-only and Video-only (Prerecorded)).
We aim for all audio and video content to have captions or transcripts.
Please contact us if you require an accessible alternative to our audio or video content.
Not all content including the cookie bar is inside landmarks on the site.
This fails WCAG 2.2 success criterion 1.3.1 (Info and Relationships) and WAI-ARIA authoring practices.
We are working with third party providers to resolve this issue.
Our site contains third-party content.
We do not have control over and are not responsible for the accessibility of this content but we will work with the third-party to improve its accessibility.
Some frames are missing descriptive, meaningful and unique titles.
This fails WCAG 2.2 success criterion 2.4.1 (Bypass Blocks) and 4.1.2 (Name, Role, Value).
We regularly audit our website for instances of this issue and work with content editors to correct it when it occurs.
At present there are no accessibility problems that we consider to be a disproportionate burden.
The accessibility regulations do not require us to fix PDFs or other documents published before 23 September 2018 if they’re not essential to providing our services.
Any new PDFs or Word documents we publish will meet accessibility standards.
We have implemented a strategy to help our content editors to produce new PDFs or documents that are accessible.
We do not plan to add captions to live video streams because live video is exempt from meeting the accessibility regulations .
Online maps and mapping services are exempt from meeting the accessibility regulations .
Our course pages use the ‘Discover Uni’ widget to display key stats in a carousel.
It is a requirement that we display these widgets on our course pages, but we are unable to edit them to make them accessible.
This fails WCAG 2.2 success criterion 2.2.2 (Pause, Stop, Hide) and 1.4.3 (Contrast (Minimum)).
Embedded video players like Vimeo or YouTube, Flickr galleries and embedded Google Maps.
Where we have used paid for third party content and functionality, we are working with the third-party to improve its accessibility.
To improve accessibility, we:
The university website consists of many related sub-sites: such as our student record system and our helpdesk application.
Accessibility statements for such sub-sites can be found locally for each of these.
This statement was prepared on 19 August 2019.
It was last reviewed on 29 July 2025.
This website was last tested on 25 July 2025 against the WCAG 2.2 AA standard.
The test was carried out by the Oxford Brookes University web team using the website governance tool Siteimprove .
Further manual tests and quality assurance are carried out by the web team.
Using Siteimprove, we have tested all pages across the website.
We run weekly crawls of the website and will update this statement each month as any issues are resolved or identified.
Last updated 29 July 2025.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/about-brookes/structure-and-governance/policies-and-financial-statements/cookie-policy:
When we provide services to you we want them to be reliable and easy to use.
We also need to understand how you use our services so we can improve them.
To help us do this, when you access our websites we place a small amount of information on your computer or access device.
These small files, which typically comprise a series of letters or numbers, are called cookies.
We use these cookies to recognise your device and provide online services.
Some cookies are essential for the operation of our websites, others are not.
Opting out or blocking some cookies may affect the functionality of these sites.
We want to be open about the way we use cookies and to help you make informed choices about their use.
By means of this Cookie Policy, we are seeking to give you clear and comprehensive information about the cookies we use including how to reject or block them.
info.sec@brookes.ac.uk
A cookie is a small piece of data (text file) that a website – when visited by a user – asks your browser to store on your device in order to remember information about you, such as your language preference or login information.
Those cookies are set by us and called first-party cookies.
We also use third-party cookies – which are cookies from a domain different than the domain of the website you are visiting – for our advertising and marketing efforts.
More specifically, we use cookies and other tracking technologies for the following purposes:
These cookies allow us to count visits and traffic sources so we can measure and improve the performance of our site.
They help us to know which pages are the most and least popular and see how visitors move around the site.
All information these cookies collect is aggregated and therefore anonymous.
If you do not allow these cookies we will not know when you have visited our site, and will not be able to monitor its performance.
These cookies may be set through our site by our advertising partners.
They may be used by those companies to build a profile of your interests and show you relevant adverts on other sites.
They do not store directly personal information, but are based on uniquely identifying your browser and internet device.
If you do not allow these cookies, you will experience less targeted advertising.
These cookies are necessary for the website to function and cannot be switched off in our systems.
They are usually only set in response to actions made by you which amount to a request for services, such as setting your privacy preferences, logging in or filling in forms.
You can set your browser to block or alert you about these cookies, but some parts of the site will not then work.
These cookies do not store any personally identifiable information.
These cookies enable the website to provide enhanced functionality and personalisation.
They may be set by us or by third party providers whose services we have added to our pages.
If you do not allow these cookies then some or all of these services may not function properly.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/about-brookes/structure-and-governance/policies-and-financial-statements/modern-slavery-and-human-trafficking:
This statement is made pursuant to Section 54 part 6 of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and sets out the steps that Oxford Brookes University has taken to ensure that slavery and human trafficking are not taking place in our supply chains or in any part of our business.
Modern slavery and human trafficking policy
Modern slavery and human trafficking policy statement

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/about-brookes/structure-and-governance/policies-and-financial-statements:
You can download our financial statements in PDF format.
You will need Adobe Reader to view the PDFs.
If you don't have it, you can download it free from the Adobe website.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/about-brookes/structure-and-governance/policies-and-financial-statements/privacy-policy:
Oxford Brookes University is registered with The Information Commissioner's Office as a data controller (registration no.
Z6569324).
As a provider of education and related services and facilities the University may collect and store personal information which you submit via this website or via other means.
These privacy policies explain how we use the personal information we collect.
Information Security Management team info.sec@brookes.ac.uk
Cookie policy

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/about-brookes/structure-and-governance/policies-and-financial-statements/student-protection-plan:
Our plan has been approved by the University’s Academic Enhancement and Standards Committee (currently constituted as the Quality and Learning Infrastructure Committee) and will be reviewed on an annual basis.
Student views are represented by Oxford Brookes University Students' Union in the approval process..
A Student Protection Plan is a document that is approved by the Office for Students (OfS) that every University is required to have in place.
It explains what actions the University would take in the event that a risk to the continuation of your studies materialises.
The plan may need to be utilised in some of the following example situations:
The Plan is available to all current students and applicants holding an unconditional offer via the University website.
It covers undergraduate, postgraduate taught and postgraduate research activities where working towards a recognised qualification from the University.
The University’s Quality and Standards Handbook effectively describes all of the steps that need to be taken, and effectively operates as the instruction manual for how the University would protect students in the event of any material changes that needed to be made.
Rather than repeat sections of the handbook within this overarching Student Protection Plan, the relevant sections of the handbook are referenced where applicable.
We believe that risk can be categorised in two ways.
The first relates to overarching sustainability and the University’s ability to operate in its capacity as a Higher Education provider.
The second categorisation of risk relates to the University’s ability to deliver individual activities in an appropriate manner based on what could reasonably be expected by our students.
Our protection plan will deal with both types of risk in turn.
A more detailed risk register can be found in Appendix 1.
The risk that Oxford Brookes University is unable to operate as a whole entity is very low because our financial performance is sufficiently stable.
The University’s external auditors concluded that the Board of Governors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements was appropriate.
This review is conducted annually, the following is quoted from the Independent Auditors’ Report in the 2023/24 financial statements presented to the Board of Governors on 10th December 2024:
“Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to events or conditions that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the Group’s and University’s ability to continue as a going concern for a period of at least twelve months from when the financial statements are authorised for issue.”
Oxford Brookes University has property insurance and business interruption insurance (to a total of £45m) and a University wide major incident plan, a major incident team and a range of business continuity plans at faculty/directorate/function level, which are designed to mitigate risk of disruption to, or loss of, our ability to continue to operate (examples would include issues such as data breaches, industrial action and/or damage or disruption to services and facilities).
Our Business Continuity Plans are reviewed and scenario tested on a regular basis.
In this section, we focus mainly on the delivery of taught activities, as per the request to assess the “range of risks to the continuation of study for your students”.
For the avoidance of doubt, the principles outlined also apply to Research Students.
The University has robust processes and protocols designed to protect student interests through the design of our activities, and the University’s Quality and Standards Handbook details all of the measures required to ensure that our activities are reviewed appropriately and subject to appropriate scrutiny when new activity is proposed.
We believe that by having such robust planning processes, we minimise the risk of introducing activity into our portfolio that is not sustainable.
The risk that we are no longer able to deliver material components of our courses (those fundamental to the delivery of the learning outcomes of the programme) is low because we design our modules to be taught by integrated teams of academic staff.
Detailed strategic planning at programme approval stage (as evidenced in the quality and standards handbook and including scrutiny by the Learning Partnerships Advisory Group (LPAG) wherever collaborative partners are concerned), plus robust annual and periodic programme review, means that we have a very detailed view of the health of our portfolio and are not likely to be subject to unforeseen circumstances for which we cannot plan, and respond to, appropriately.
We do not build programmes that we do not believe (through strong empirical evidence bases) will succeed, and we modify programmes wherever necessary (e.g.
changes to content and / or assessment) to improve their performance (with due regard to student input into such decisions) - See specifically the section on Programme Changes and Revalidation of the Quality and Standards Handbook .
The University also has clear and detailed plans for responding to any circumstances, however rare, where there is a need to make a modification to our provision, including the closure of any activities.
All of the responses are detailed within the University’s Quality and Standards Handbook.
Examples of actions include, but are not limited to:
Putting in place arrangements to “teach out” the provision, which may include recruiting temporary staff or finding alternative providers to fulfil the commitment
The University takes an equally detailed approach to any provision that is delivered in partnership with any of our third party providers, referred to from this point on as “Collaborative Provision”.
The Collaborative Provision section of the Quality and Standards Handbook outlines all of the relevant protocol for establishing, monitoring, reviewing, and if appropriate – taking action, where activity is delivered through a collaborative or franchised arrangement.
There are specific sections that deal with taking action to improve, and closure of, collaborative arrangements (e.g.
Improvement action plans and closure of activity).
The improvement action planning process has been introduced in order to address instances, however rare, where the quality of collaborative provision falls significantly below the expectations set out in the Operations Manual, which is the primary reference point relating to the management and delivery of a collaborative programme.
This process provides an opportunity to resolve the problems in a collaborative way before a suspension notice is issued.
It is intended to enable a dialogue between the Brookes Faculty and the Partner, in order to agree on an appropriate and timely course of action and hence to protect the interests of students on the programmes involved.
The process was originally designed for use within the Associate College Partnership, but may be adapted and applied to any partnership, as appropriate.
If a faculty decides to terminate a partnership agreement, support for the decision must be sought from the Vice-Chancellor’s Group in good time to give formal notice; and a more detailed plan for the withdrawal must be drawn up before the period of notice expires.
If possible, the exit plan should be negotiated with the partner - in the case of international partners, all Brookes staff travelling out to meet with partner staff to agree the exit plan must be made aware of all factors affecting the termination of the arrangement.
NOTE: The standard survivorship provisions of the Brookes legal agreement normally suffice in the case of planned closures at the expiry of a current contract, and further detail is only required if the exit arrangements differ from the normal requirements set out in the existing contract.
The University retains overall responsibility for the remaining students on the programme(s), and for enabling them to complete their studies, regardless of the willingness of the partner to work with Brookes staff to protect the interests of students.
Where there is a significant teaching out period for a collaborative arrangement, a review of the provision to be closed should be undertaken by a University panel – following the University’s periodic review process as set out in the Quality & Standards Handbook chapters on collaborative provision and periodic review - in order for the University to ensure that appropriate quality management arrangements will remain in place to enable the remaining students to complete their programme of study and achieve the award for which they are registered (NOTE: a review is not necessary where no students remain on the programme/s).
These arrangements should be approved by the Quality Learning Infrastructure Committee (QLIC) , a sub-committee of the University’s Academic Board, upon receipt of the review report, and monitored by the appropriate Faculty QLIC or Faculty Executive group; and, where deemed necessary, the Vice-Chancellor’s Group.
We do not believe that there are any significant risks that are reasonably likely to crystallise, but we do accept that it is prudent to have in place systems and protocols to protect students and applicants, if we are required to make a material change to any of our provision.
We have detailed above the processes that must be fulfilled if any provision is materially changed or ceases to be delivered, and we believe that these processes, along with the University’s overall sufficient financial sustainability means that all of our students are adequately protected against risk to the continuation of study.
Some examples of mitigating actions that could be taken in the event of risks materialising are listed below.
The actions available will depend upon the specific nature of what has materialised, and the most appropriate actions would be determined on a cases by case basis through the mechanisms outlined in the Quality and Standards Handbook: The risk register in appendix 1 offers some further details of example mitigations
The University would always try to ‘teach out’ in the first instance.
This means that we would continue to teach your course until the currently registered students on that course have finished their studies.
During this period, courses remain subject to all normal quality assurance processes.
Where teaching is usually undertaken by a partner, the University will work with the partner to continue teaching, which may include Oxford Brookes staff taking a lead in the completion of teaching delivery and assessment.
Where a teach out arrangement may not be possible, then alternative arrangements may include:
The University may offer suitable alternative Oxford Brookes programmes of study which may be of interest to impacted students and/ or applicants.
The University would facilitate, where possible, a transfer to a similar course or courses at an alternative provider.
Facilitation would include discussions with academic colleagues at alternative providers, transfer of information and bespoke confirmation of credit details and learning and assessment mapping (if required) to ensure smooth and successful transfers.
Given the likely bespoke nature of transfers, these would need to be structured and implemented on a case by case basis and with full support of the University working closely with any impacted students.
The University commits to offering students advice and support in the event that any of the risks to the continuation of study crystallise and/ or if students have any concerns about the potential for any of the risks to materialise
All of the above measures are exemplars of actions that may be taken, but It is important to note that the University will take into account the diversity of our students and their individual needs, including, for example, considerations of mobility, educational need, parity of course content or financial consequences, as well as any obligations under relevant legislation, such as the Equality Act 2010 and all public law principles.
View the University’s Refund policy .
This information is also cross referenced in the University’s Terms and Conditions of Enrolment.
The University’s Refund policy makes provision for: a.
Refunds for students in receipt of a tuition fee loan from the Student Loans Company (see Section 7) .
b.
Refunds for students who pay their own tuition fees.(see Section 4) c.
Refunds for students whose tuition fees are paid by a sponsor (see section 5) .
The refund policy makes specific reference to financial compensation for students who believe that they have been negatively affected by the University's failing, in the student’s view, to provide an appropriate experience.
The University’s complaints process makes provision for students seeking financial compensation, and this is the direct route through which such compensation can be sought.
The refund policy does not reference specific circumstances in which the University may wish, voluntarily, to make payments by way of financial compensation should it not be able to preserve completion of study because this will likely need to be considered on an individual, case by case basis.
This will, however, always be considered as part of any closure process or material programme changes, and will be in line with consumer rights legislation and the processes outlined within the Quality and Standards Handbook.
As detailed above in the University’s assessment of risk, it is considered highly unlikely that the University would not be in a position to be able to provide such compensation should it prove necessary or desirable to make such payments.
Sections of the Quality and standards handbook dealing with the processes for modifying and closing programmes respectively make specific reference to the requirements for notifying students (and applicants) who may be affected as the result of any material changes – including programme closures, specifically detailed in Route B: Programmes with remaining students and/or current applicants .
These sections also detail the extent to which students and applicants must be involved in the decision to modify or close a programme, and the methods and timeframes for communicating decisions (and impact) for any affected parties.
The Quality and Standards Handbook is made publicly available and staff and students have access.
This Student Protection Plan, is available directly via the University website homepage , but also through a dedicated webpage .
The plan is also placed as a link on applicant terms and conditions of acceptance pages to alert prospective students to protections afforded by the University to its students.
The formatting will be modified from that outlined in this template to be more in line with other Oxford Brookes publications, and will be made available in alternative formats if required.
The Student Protection Plan is a document that is approved by the Office for Students (OfS) that every university is required to have.
It sets out what measures we have in place to protect you, as a student at Oxford Brookes University, should a risk to the continuation of your studies arise and details how we would communicate with you about this.
The plan can only be amended with approval by the OfS and the most recent version of our plan was approved by Office for Students in 2024, following revisions approved by the University’s Vice-Chancellor’s Group in November 2024.
From January 2025, the University’s Quality and Learning Infrastructure Committee (which includes Student representation) is the body through which the University reviews the need for any changes that may need to be made (for onward consideration by the OfS).
The Committee will ensure that the risk assessment remains current, and that the mitigating measures remain practicable, relevant and effective.
If you have any immediate views, concerns or feedback in relation to this plan, please contact the Academic Registrar ( jkirk@brookes.ac.uk ) or speak to Oxford Brookes University Students' Union.
Alternatively, if you have a complaint regarding this plan (or if you have not been able to resolve any concerns having contacted the Academic Registrar) you can raise the issue through the procedure detailed in the University's Student Complaints Procedure .
Students dissatisfied with a decision relating to a complaint they have raised may be able to complain to the Office of the Independent Adjudicator (OIA) .
The latest version of the Student Protection Plan has been scrutinised by student Officers at the Student Union, and is based on feedback from focus groups involving student course representatives and students with experience related to a range of change processes that have occurred across the University.
Students will be involved in the review of the Student Protection Plan through the student representative members of the University’s Quality and Learning Infrastructure Committee (QLIC)
All students have the opportunity to feedback on the effectiveness of the Student Protection Plan, which can help shape future risk assessments, mitigation plans and actions.
The Students Union Officers are, at the time of writing this plan, designing a framework for early student engagement in decision making - “The Student Consultation Framework” and this will be reviewed, and if appropriate, referenced alongside the Student Protection Plan.
N.B.
Mitigations are designed to minimise or remove the potential negative impact of any changes.
As noted in section 4.
Compensation: Refunds and complaints, in some instances, the mitigations may not prove entirely successful and in these instances, compensation may also be an option for the institution and impacted students to consider.
This will likely be on a case by case basis, and may be made proactively by the University or via the complaints process, depending upon the circumstances.
The University is committed to setting high academic standards, and to providing learning opportunities that will enable students to achieve academic success, and prepare them for graduate-level employment.
The University Regulations for Study (section 2.3) set out the institutional and national frameworks for quality assurance.
The Quality & Standards Handbook contains the associated procedural requirements for the quality assurance of taught programmes leading to Oxford Brookes awards (including those delivered through partnership arrangements).
These processes are managed by the Academic Policy & Quality Office (in partnership with Faculty quality teams) and are overseen by the Quality & Learning Infrastructure Committee.
The sections that relate to Programme Changes can be found on the Programme Changes and Revalidation page .
The sections relating to Programme Closures and suspensions can be found on the Programme Closure or Suspension page .
If you have any immediate views, concerns or feedback in relation to this plan, please contact the Academic Registrar or speak to Oxford Brookes University Students' Union.
Alternatively, if you have a complaint regarding this plan you can raise the issue through the procedure detailed in the University's Student Complaints Procedure .

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/library:
Harcourt Hill  :  Closed Headington  :  09:00-22:00 Swindon  :  07:00-19:00
View all opening hours Information for new starters
Advanced search
Search for journal articles, images, market research, legal resources, technical reports, maps - Great Britain, company information, publishing data, newspapers, TV programmes, and other material.
or choose a database beginning with:
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P R S T U V W Z
Course-specific databases, journals and referencing information plus academic liaison librarian support.
My Library account
Book a study room
Printing
Referencing
Get help
Get help and support
Site libraries
Information about library locations
Follow the library
Wordpress X Instagram Youtube Spotify

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/it:
Bringing people and technology closer together
IT Services aim to provide and support a range of information delivery, computing, and telecommunications-based services which will further the aims and objectives of the University and, in particular, enhance the educational environment for students and assist staff at all levels in fulfilling their roles and responsibilities.
Whether a student or a member of staff, you will be using the same essential IT services for teaching, learning or working.
IT Essentials covers all the basic things you need to know to get started.
Browse our IT Essentials*
* Requires an Oxford Brookes login.
The IT ServiceNow Portal is your one-stop shop for everything you need from IT Services on a day-to-day basis.
Sign into the Portal to request things, report issues (incidents) and access the full range of information in our Knowledge Base.
Contact the IT Service Desk*
Sign into the ServiceNow Portal*
IT Training
IT Acceptable Use Policy
Information Security Management
Brookes Digital Strategy (Google site)
ITS Intranet (for members only)

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/current-students:
Need somewhere to live next year?
Halls
Brookes Lettings houses
If your circumstances change while you are living in our accommodation we may be able to help you.
Find out more about swapping or leaving accommodation
Here are some places you can get advice if you're looking to live in private accommodation in Oxford.
More about finding other accommodation

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/students/support:
If you know the team you wish to contact, use the links below.
If you are unsure who to contact or wish to talk to someone about your support needs, user our student support contact form .
We aim to reply within three working days of receiving your form.
If you need help filling in the form, please contact studentsupportservices@brookes.ac.uk
Student Support Services : Disability services, mental health and wellbeing support.
Student Support Co-ordinators : Your first point of contact for any queries about your course.
Student Central Advice Team : For information and advice while you are studying at Brookes.
Brookes Union Advice Service : A free, confidential service which is independent from the University.
Emergency and 24-hour support
Concerned about someone?
Report sexual violence, hate crime & harassment
Student support contact form
See the A-Z list of student services
We've got a great range of events lined up for this semester.
Most of our events are free and open to all - come along, join in and learn some new skills.
Your academic studies
If you're not sure who to contact or you can't find what you need, please contact:
studentcentral@brookes.ac.uk
studentsupportservices@brookes.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/about-brookes/semester-dates:
Please note, our semester dates are provisional and subject to change.
The University does not adopt 'reading weeks' or similar so students should anticipate being present for all teaching days.
Concessionary dates
Examination Committee schedule
For most undergraduate students, the academic year is split into two semesters.
Each semester consists of a teaching period followed by examinations.
The enrolment and induction week in Semester 1 is for first year students only.
Undergraduate students must:
Students on other programmes (including taught postgraduate programmes, and undergraduate programmes in the School of Education which run to a termly calendar) may have similar commitments to those described in these calendars.
You should contact your Faculty for more information, including the confirmed schedule of examinations for your programme.
Courses that have a significant practice component may fall outside of normal semester dates.
For students on postgraduate taught programmes (PGT), the teaching element of the academic year is split into two semesters with the dissertation module undertaken during the summer semester.
Semesters 1 and 2 consist of a teaching period followed by examinations.
The enrolment and induction is carried out in the first week of Semester 1 for September starters and where appropriate the first week of Semester 2 for January starters.
Students must:
Students who are on courses that have a significant practice component which falls outside of normal semester dates, or who require more information, including the confirmed schedule of examinations for your programme, should contact your faculty for more information.
Semester 1
Semester 2
Summer session
International Foundation Programme
Also see:

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/students/ssc:
We want to help you get the most out of your experience here at Oxford Brookes University.
Our network of student support co-ordinators (known as SSCs) are here to support and guide you.
Everyone can feel a little overwhelmed at times and our SSCs can help with any academic or personal issues you may face during your time at university.
For contact details of your SSCs, find your school in the list below.
You can also check on Student Information under 'My Record and Results' Your academic adviser's name will be on this page and they may also be able to help you.
Alternatively, submit an enquiry via the Student Support Co-ordinator (SSC) Contact Form and an SSC in your faculty will get back to you as soon as possible.
For information on how your personal data is processed and stored by the SSC teams, please read the SSC SNoW Privacy Notice .
Student support co-ordinators offer a confidential and non-judgemental service with regular office hours.
We usually specialise in particular subjects, but you can see any of the other SSCs in your faculty.
We provide dedicated support in your school including:
And if we don't know the answer to your question, we will know someone who does.
How to use your Student Information
Your guide to the Exceptional Circumstances Policy
Student FAQs

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/security:
Working with you to make our community safer
Follow us on social media
If you need immediate assistance on/around campus, please contact Oxford Brookes Security Services via its new number of 01865 60 3060.
Report suspicious activity, anti-social behaviour, abandoned cycles or other vehicles.
Report with contact details or anonymously.
Requires an Oxford Brookes login .
Bike accessories are available from our online store to help keep you safe and your bike secure.
Crime prevention
Safety tips
Tuition fee scams
Staying safe in the UK
Personal safety
Accommodation security
Cycle security
Protect your belongings
Fraud
Action counters terrorism
News and events
Support and other agencies
Nightsafe Oxford is a new network that has formed in order to provide a unified approach to help prevent Violence against Women and Girls in Oxford at night.
The network brings together partners and organisations in the night-time economy, including the police, CCTV operators, Street Pastors, night bus drivers, taxi drivers, licensed premises, door supervisors and university security services.
All working together to make Oxford a safe and enjoyable destination for a great night out.
For more information visit the Nightsafe Oxford website .
Consent is everything
Security services
Hollie Guard
See it.
Say it.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/students/news:
The latest updates on essential information, news and events from across the University.
Read your latest edition of Student News
News articles
University events
Useful information
Email archives
Congratulations to Brookes students Erin Pemberton, Charlotte Ranger and Jake Gutteridge, who were among the winners at this year’s Oxfordshire Community and Voluntary Action (OCVA) awards.
Online education resources on sexual consent for all students.
Tell us what you think about your time at Oxford Brookes.
Here you can find copies of emails sent from the University to all students, such as those on exams, major incidents, announcements and more.
Archive of emails sent to all students
This is an automatic feed of recent Student News emails.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/catering:
We hope you enjoy our broad range of high quality, value-for-money food and hospitality facilities available to all.
Information on opening times are detailed on this webpage.
Catering at our Oxford-based campuses is provided by Gather & Gather.
Visit the Food at Brookes webpages for further information on the food and drink on offer.
You can also hear about upcoming offers and events via the Food At Brookes Instagram account .
Avo Cafe, Abercrombie Building:
Currently closed.
Reopening on Monday 15 September, then open from 11.00am to 2.30pm on weekdays.
Brookes Co-Op Store, Piazza:
From 11 August to 12 September: Open 7.00am to 8.00pm on weekdays and weekends
Bank Holiday Monday on 25 August: Open 7.00am to 6.00pm
From 13 September: Open 7.00am to 10.00pm on weekdays and weekends.
Cafe Central, John Henry Brookes Building:
Weekdays - 8.00am to 5.00pm
Weekends - 9.00am to 4.00pm
From Monday 15 September: Open 7.00am to 8.00pm on weekdays and 8.30am to 5.00pm on weekends.
Clerici Cafe, Clerici Building:
The Deli, John Henry Brookes Building:
Weekdays - 8.00am to 3.00pm
From Monday 15 September: Open 8.00am to 4.00pm on weekdays.
Weekdays - 9.00am to 3.00pm
From Monday 15 September: Open 8.00am to 5.00pm on weekdays.
Nisa convenience store, Fir building, Clive Booth Student Village
From 13 September: Open 7.00am - 10.00pm on weekdays and weekends.
The Yard, John Henry Brookes Building:
Currently closed
Reopening on Monday 15 September, then open 11.30am to 7.00pm on weekdays.
Marston Cafe:
Reopening from Monday 15 September, then open 10.00am to 4.00pm on weekdays.
Marston Restaurant:
Harcourt Cafe:
12 August to 29 August: Open 8.00am to 10.30am and 4.30pm to 7.00pm on weekdays.
From Monday 15 September, open 8.00am to 7.00pm from Monday to Thursday, and 8.00am to 7.00pm on Fridays.
Swindon Cafe:
Gather & Gather is keen to hear about any catering related experiences across the Oxford Brookes estate.
Whether you have positive feedback or would like to tell us how we can do better, please email foodatbrookes@gatherandgather.com
We provide a range of healthy options which are available at all campuses and identified on menus.
Fairtrade, organic and local sourcing will be used where applicable.
Meat will be sourced from farms with high levels of animal care and fish will be sourced from sustainable fisheries.
We are committed to ensuring that our services meet the needs of the diverse and multicultural community at Oxford Brookes.
We provide hospitality for internal events held by staff or students.
From 1 September 2022 the minimum value for hospitality orders is £35 .
For more details, booking information and menus, view the Hospitality Brochure .
Book internal hospitality by clicking the hospitality form box below.
New users can register for an account by clicking on the 'Sign in' button on the top right of the screen and then selecting 'Register'.
Please register your new account using your Oxford Brookes email address.
When you have selected the items you wish to order, you will need an Oxford Brookes cost and activity code to complete the booking.
More information on booking hospitality with us can be found on the first page of the hospitality brochure linked below.
If you are an external party and wish to hold a catered event here at Oxford Brookes, Please visit the Oxford Brookes Venues webpages .
Fill in the hospitality form
View the Hospitality Brochure
Visit Oxford Brookes Venues

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/students/surveys:
Taking part in student experience surveys is a great way to tell us what you think about your time at university and create real change at Oxford Brookes University.
Whether you’re an undergraduate or postgraduate, in your first year or final year, or a UK or international student, there’s a survey for you.
We listen to all of your feedback and suggestions, which help us deliver the best possible experience for our current and future students - from academic initiatives and campus improvements to mental health and wellbeing support.
And, by taking part, you will often have a chance of winning a prize.
On this page you can find out which surveys you are eligible for, and when and how you can take part.
A link to the survey will appear on this page when available.
You will also receive an email inviting you to complete the survey.
By completing the survey, you can be entered into a prize draw (details to be confirmed).
Thanks to your feedback in surveys, together we have made positive changes to the student experience at Oxford Brookes, including:

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/student-ambassadors:
Our Student Ambassadors are a group of outstanding students from a broad range of backgrounds.
They represent Oxford Brookes to prospective students and help raise aspirations to study at university.
You don't need any specific experience, just an awareness of what Oxford Brookes can offer and a willingness to share your experiences.
Our trained Student Ambassadors are available to be hired by faculties and directorates.
Access helpful resources.
ambassadorteam@brookes.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/alerts/coronavirus:
Information for students, staff and applicants
Notifiable disease reporting form for students and staff
The University’s Pandemic Planning group has considered the government’s Guidance for living safely with respiratory infections, including coronavirus (Covid-19) , alongside our own requirements to ensure the safe delivery of teaching as well as local Covid-19 case numbers.
Going forward, we ask everyone in the Oxford Brookes community to:
If you are a current student, or will be starting a course at Oxford Brookes, and you have any questions relating to your immigration status or visa more generally, please contact our International Student Advice Team .
Please see the Government website on travel for the latest information about travelling to England.
For official government and health advice, visit guidance and support .
For local information on Covid-19, visit Oxfordshire County Council webpages and Swindon Borough Council webpages .

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/students/your-studies:
Everyone needs a little help with their studies from time to time, whether you're taking your first steps into uni life or a seasoned student who knows your way around university.
We have a support network in place to help you throughout your time at Brookes.
Moodle login
Student Information login
Email login
Library
Student support and wellbeing
If you're not sure who to contact or you can't find what you need, please contact Student Central Advice Team.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/students/experience:
Immerse yourself in exciting opportunities and experiences at Oxford Brookes University and across the city.
Life at uni isn’t just about laptops and textbooks.
Ever dreamed of your own business?
Conquering a sport?
Visiting another country?
Maybe you want to speak up for others – or just go to great events.
It’s all at your fingertips...
Your university years can be some of the best years of your life.
That’s why we’ve come up with these suggestions to make sure your Oxford Brookes experience is fulfilling, rewarding and most of all, fun!
Oxford Brookes Quick Start Guide & University Handbook
Student news
Student events

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/students/careers:
Whether you don't know where to begin or know exactly what you want to do, these pages are designed to help you access the right support at the right time for you.
How we can help
About us
Careers Resources Portal
Careers Jobs and Events Portal
CV and applications guide
Interview Guide
Assessments Guide
Students and graduates
Researchers
Searching for jobs
Volunteering
Join us for workshops and events to kickstart your career planning and learn how to stand out in applications, interviews and assessments.
Whether you have started considering your options, are preparing for success or have no idea where to start, our workshops and employer sessions are sure to help you.
Browse our list of Careers events
Everything you need to know about promoting your organisation to Oxford Brookes students and graduates.
We work collaboratively with a range of academic and support staff to help enhance student employability and career transition.
Careers resources and tools
Please get in touch with us, or keep up to date on X, Facebook and Instagram.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/students/isat:
Preparing for Your Arrival Workshops
Student Visa Application Workshops
The International Student Advice Team (ISAT) is here to help with a range of services and friendly advice if you're an international student studying at Oxford Brookes University.
We are the only team trained and regulated to give immigration advice under the Office of the Immigration Services Commissioner guidelines.
We provide events and workshops to help you understand UK culture and make the most of your time in the UK.
However you are feeling and whatever advice you need, we are here to support you.
Essential information and advice for our international students.
Helpful tips and advice about life in Oxford to help you get settled.
Travelling to and from the UK - what you need to know and what you should bring with you.
Come along to one of our social events and meet new people!
Activities for new arrivals
Trips and social events
Global Buddies
Things to do in Oxford
Things to do in London
Induction Week Events guide for International students (PDF)
Contact the International Student Advice Team (ISAT)

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/students/inclusive-support-service:
Information for new students
Complete our self-referral form
News ​ The weekly ADHD support group will return in September.
Please email us if you'd like to be notified of the details.
We look forward to welcoming you again soon.
The Inclusive Support Service provides advice and support for disabled students.
This includes specific learning difficulties such as dyslexia, dyspraxia/DCD, attention deficit disorder and dyscalculia, autistic spectrum conditions and  long-term physical and mental health conditions.
Our Mission Statement
Disabled Students' Allowance
Exams and assessments
FAQs
To access support from the Inclusive Support Service, please complete our online self-referral form.
If you have any trouble accessing the form, please email us at inclusivesupport@brookes.ac.uk .
We are committed to developing an inclusive environment at Oxford Brookes University, providing equal access to education and empowering disabled students to fulfil their potential as independent learners.
Our aim is to support you to achieve your goals and to get the best out of university life.
We have a team of specialist advisers who can provide individualised information and advice on disability issues.
We will work with you to determine what support might be appropriate for you at Oxford Brookes University and ensure that reasonable adjustments are in place to facilitate access to study for all students.
Reasonable adjustments are made in accordance with our Reasonable Adjustments Framework .
+44 (0) 1865 535222
inclusivesupport@brookes.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/students/support/communities:
As a University, we are committed to supporting all of our students, and we recognise that the student experience will vary greatly for each of you.
We have a team of advisers who are available to discuss your individual circumstances, and work with you to ensure that you have all of the necessary and relevant support in place to ensure you can make the most of your studies and have a great experience too.
Care experienced students
Estranged students
Faith communities
LGBTQ+ and gender identity
Mature students
Research students
Student carers

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/students/timetabling:
The Timetabling team is responsible for scheduling your lectures, seminars and practical sessions in rooms, allocating you to sets/seminar groups and ensuring your timetable publishes correctly in Google Calendar.
Please note, some of these links require an Oxford Brookes login.
Timetable support
Timetable publication process
Room bookings
Module timetables
Timetabling policy
Room directory
timetabling@brookes.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/students/academic-development:
Explore academic skills workshops
Latest news
We know from experience that how to study effectively is not obvious and with that in mind we offer classes, one-to-one online tutorials and online resources to help you get to where you want to be.
Indeed, whether you are a foundation student who is new to university life or a PhD student wondering how to get through your viva, you will find something here that is useful.
+44 (0) 1865 534500 (option 1)
academicdev@brookes.ac.uk
Free and friendly tutorials in study skills, maths and statistics.
Courses and development opportunities for people studying in a UK university for the first time.
A programme of informal workshops to help you reach your full academic potential.
Online resources and information about development opportunities.
An A-Z of study skills advice to help you succeed.
Our approach to when and why you can use AI technologies.
Learn more about our different areas of work.
A gateway to writing communities at Oxford Brookes.
Did you know that the Centre for Academic Development has a wide range of self-help online resources?
Explore what is on offer below.
Online resources
The Centre for Academic Development has maths and stats tutors who offer friendly and useful individual support to students at every level.
Maths and Stats
On 19 April, join us for a webinar in which students at Oxford Brookes explore how generative AI is impacting them and the way they approach academic work.
Generative AI pages

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/mentoring:
Explore your mentoring opportunities
Whether you are looking to be a mentor or mentee, Oxford Brookes' mentoring schemes offer some amazing opportunities.
You could be gaining experience in a professional environment, helping others develop specific skills or participating in the community.
Use these pages to find out which mentoring scheme is best suited to you.
What your mentoring journey could look like »
What students say about mentoring »
Little Book of Mentoring@Brookes (pdf)
Training and resources for mentoring schemes
Studied at Brookes and want to be a mentor?
Your professional mentor offers an amazing opportunity to access networks, experiences, tips and get ahead information about the world of work.
Students mentor other students.
Peer means equals sharing what you know, your experience and support in developing specific skills or knowledge or just being someone to turn to.
Be a mentor outside the university, participating in the community, at local schools or to particular groups of young people.
Helping them make decisions about subjects at school and what to do with their future.
Many courses offer a placement out in industry.
When you do a placement you are supported by a mentor, usually in your workplace.
A student already at Brookes e-mentors an applicant who’s applying for a place at the university and gives advice based on their own experience, explaining how they settled in and began studying.
“Everyone should have a mentor no matter how far up the career ladder they are”
“To have access to experience, empathy and professional advice can be the most valuable asset we take on our career”
“Students do benefit greatly from a senior figure who can relate to his/her past and the mentee’s likely future experiences”
“Each session is different depending on what the student wants to discuss and it’s not all serious – we actually end up laughing a lot!”
“You need to take your learning beyond the classroom”

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/students/exams:
Everything you need to know to be successful in your exams
Exam timetable and key dates
Face-to-face exams
Online time controlled assessments
Exam FAQs
Navigating exams can be challenging but Oxford Brookes University is committed to supporting you as you engage with the process.
Exam regulations
Student conduct

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/students/graduation:
Class of 2025
Preparing for graduation day
Graduation for ACCA students
On the day
After graduation
Souvenirs and gifts
graduation@brookes.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/students/sirt:
The Student Investigation and Resolution Team is responsible for overseeing and advising students and staff on academic appeals, student conduct and complaints, and exceptional circumstances.
We are also responsible for the regulations relating to these areas and can offer support and guidance in interpreting and applying them.
Academic appeals
Academic misconduct
Student complaints
Collaborative provision
Exceptional circumstances
Examples of suitable submissions
Students are welcome to contact us to discuss any queries before engaging in any of the procedures.
Further advice can also be sought from Brookes Union Advice Service.
Contact the Student Investigation and Resolution Team
Brookes Union Advice Service

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/students/counselling:
About counselling
Self-help resources
Register for support
Togetherall 24/7 mental health helpline
Support for your academic studies
Exceptional circumstances letters
Confidentiality and privacy
“I was very apprehensive of sharing my problems with a stranger, but was put at ease quickly...
I have had a lot of relief...
and am much happier.”
Student

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/students/chaplaincy:
Spiritual and pastoral care for the University community
Join our mailing list
Meet the team
Announcement Friday Jummah Prayers continue through the summer in the prayer room, Buckley Building, from 1pm.
Prayer and quiet space
Follow us on Instagram
Read frequently asked questions
Wednesday 30 April, 3:00 pm in the Garden Room
Join us for a summer tea party to mark the end of the academic year.
Students and staff are welcome to drop in to relax and share refreshments.
Everyone is welcome; you do not have to have visited the Multifaith Chaplaincy before.
Supporting your spiritual or religious needs.
Whatever you are going through, you can talk to us.
Join us, meet like-minded people and make friends.
More about the Multifaith Chaplaincy and our team.
Frequently asked questions
Meet our team
Events calendar
+44 (0)1865 535222
chaplaincy@brookes.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/students/support/edi:
Information for students
At Oxford Brookes University, we are committed to ensuring the very best student experience where all our students can flourish in a culture of respect and support, where we celebrate difference and thrive on each other's success.
Find out about the support and bursaries available:
EDIstudents@brookes.ac.uk
You can find out about current news, initiatives and events focused on staff and students' equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) on our University EDI web pages .
Policies for staff and students can also be found here.
Oxford Brookes students have equality representation through various Brookes Union officers, including a Disabled Students’ Officer, an Ethnic Minority Officer, a LGBT Officer and a Women’s Officer.
You can find out more about the officers and their roles from the Brookes Union website .
Brookes Union has over 100 student societies including an LGBTQ+ Society, a BAME Society, Christian Union, Muslim Society, African Caribbean Society and a Feminist Society to name just a few.
You can set up your own society or group through Brookes Union.
Search the Clubs and societies page on the Brookes Union website to find out what’s available and how to contact them.
We want to show we support our students in their choice of gender identity.
We have supported a number of students who have transitioned and know how difficult it can be, especially with all the other demands of student life.
For advice and support, contact EDIstudents@brookes.ac.uk or see our information on gender identity at Brookes .
There are spaces set aside for prayer, contemplation and quiet on all Brookes campuses.
See Prayer and quiet space on the Multifaith Chaplaincy website for a complete list of locations.
If you want to talk about any EDI issues that are affecting you, you can email EDIstudents@brookes.ac.uk .
Your email will be confidential and someone will get back to you and arrange a time to talk, if that’s appropriate.
Any form of bullying or harassment will not be tolerated at Brookes.
If you or someone you know has experienced bullying or harassment, you can talk to staff in the Brookes Union Advice Centre or contact Student Welfare .
If you’re not sure what to do, email EDIstudents@brookes.ac.uk .
If you have experienced or witnessed sexual violence involving students, you can report it online with your contact details or anonymously.
If you are on or around campus and need immediate assistance, please contact Brookes Security Services on +44 (0) 1865 603060 .
If you or someone you know has experienced a hate crime or hate incident, support is available at the University and by external support services.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/nursery:
We offer high-quality childcare for children aged 4 months to 5 years.
Priority is given to children of University staff and students but external children are also welcomed in our 2-5's room.
Book a visit
Working with parents
Ofsted reports
Our rooms
Our curriculum
Our staff
Fees and finance
Policies and procedures
“Children benefit from a broad and interesting curriculum...
Children show high levels of wellbeing and are confident, happy and relaxed at nursery.
By the time children leave nursery to start school, they are well prepared for the move and have developed a positive disposition towards learning.”
Ofsted, October 2019
“In short, I cannot recommend this nursery enough.
There are many reasons for this, but the primary one is simply the incredible team dynamic and professionalism of the teachers.
If you get a place here it represents, in my opinion, the benchmark standard for early years care all establishments should aspire to.”
Tristan Crumpton, Parent, June 2024

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/students/academic-development/academic-english:
Develop your research, writing and language skills to reach your full potential.
If you are new to studying in a UK university and particularly if English is an additional language, it is worth exploring the range of opportunities to develop your Academic English communication skills that we offer, which can really help you reach your full potential.
Whether you are an undergraduate starting your degree, a Masters student facing the challenge of a dissertation, or a PhD student trying to convey complex ideas, you will find something useful in the Centre for Academic Development.
We offer credit-bearing modules, short courses, tutorials, workshops, and online self-study resources with an Academic English focus.
By participating in what we offer, you will have opportunities to:
Academic English modules and other development opportunities.
Develop your research, writing and language skills to help you excel.
Contact us with your questions or for more information
The International Student Advice Team offers advice about studying in the UK and a range of social activities that will help develop language skills.
International Student Advice Team
Practice your spoken English and meet new friends at the International English Club.
International English Club

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/students/room-bookings:
Students are permitted to book University rooms for society events or for work related to their courses.
Room Bookings Request Form
Society event bookings
Library Study Space
Student societies must send their room booking request to Brookes Union .
In the event that a visiting speaker is attending the University, please refer to the Code of Practice on Freedom of Speech including Guidance on Visiting Speakers and complete the External Speaker Request Form (in ServiceNow).
Students can book rooms for purposes related to their courses via the Room Bookings Request Form .
When submitting a request, students should provide the date, start and end times, required room capacity and room type as well as clearly stating the purpose of the booking.
Students should also provide the contact details of a member of staff such as a module leader or academic advisor in the 'additional information' section of the form as this may be required to sign off the request.
Bookings made through the University Timetabling and Room Bookings Team require a minimum of 5 working days' notice.
Bookings for Library spaces can be made through the Library Group Space Bookings page.
Please note that the Library spaces are not managed by the Timetabling and Room Bookings Team.
If you need to cancel or amend a booking, please select from the links above to contact the team who made your booking.
Timetabling

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/students/your-studies/student-request-forms:
If you want to request a change to your registration with the University, for example if you would like to take approved temporary withdrawal or change your award aim, then you will need to complete the appropriate form.
The form you need to complete will depend on whether you are on the Undergraduate Modular Programme (UMP) or another course.
Click one of the options below to be taken to the page containing the forms that apply to your course.|
Undergraduate programmes (UMP/ AFR)
All other taught courses
Research degrees

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/students/your-studies/manage-your-programme:
Student advice and support on a wide range of academic issues.
If you can't find the information you need, contact the Student Records and Curriculum Management team for help.
Enrolment Enrolment information for new and continuing students.
Managing your academic record How to find and view information about your programme of study.
Module choices Register for the modules that you intend to study in a particular academic year.
Academic and programme support Where to find academic support and guidance while at Brookes.
Programme structure Details of the programmes available at the University.
Modes of study Information about the modes of study available.
Students admitted with credit Credit for previous study, work experience and training.
Subject changes How to change your subject of study.
Time out from your course Making a request for Approved Temporary Withdrawal.
Leaving the University The process of withdrawing from the University

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/students/your-studies/student-information:
To login to your Student Information, you will need:
Login to Student Information
Bookmark the login page or add it as a shortcut link on your mobile phone/tablet home screen so you don't have to find the link again.
Alert To avoid technical issues, you are advised to use Student Information in a Google Chrome browser on a laptop or desktop computer.
Download the Reference Guide for Students (PDF)
You will use Student Information to do a number of essential tasks related to your studies throughout your time at Brookes including:
For other activities that cannot be done in Student Information include:

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/students/your-studies/manage-your-programme/module-choices:
Module registration is part of the process of managing your own programme of study, selecting the modules that you intend to study in a particular academic year/s.
There are designated registration windows to add and delete your modules for the next academic year according to your study level and the time of the year when you started/will start your course of study.
The links below will provide you with further information and guidance regarding this process.
Please remember that it is your responsibility to register your modules during the appropriate times.
Please note, special circumstances refers to exchange or Erasmus students, students returning from temporary withdrawal, students with unconfirmed placements or funding, or students moving from Foundation years to Stage I.
Continuing students
Special circumstances
Amendments to choices
Changes to your modules are not permitted outside of the registration windows or appropriate amendment periods so it’s very important to make your selection carefully.
Please consult your Student Support Co-ordinator/Academic Adviser if you have any queries or need advice regarding your available options.
Here are some useful tips to help you make the best choice.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/students/your-studies/turnitin:
Turnitin is a web-based tool that is used when students submit work electronically.
Its primary use is to support students' academic development and enhance good academic practice, for example through planned discussion with Univeristy staff about accurate and thorough citation of other people's work, but it is also used to detect plagiarism and can safeguard students' academic integrity.
Turnitin assignments (both for draft and final submissions) are signposted with the Turnitin logo .
In cases where you need to submit a draft of your work, look for the Turnitin logo and the words “draft” or “draft check” or “draft submissions” etc in the title.
Click on the Turnitin link to see the submission inbox and click Submit Paper (righthand side) to see the submission area:
Note: You should also have received an email with information about your submission.
You must keep this email for your records.
The originality report will show you a breakdown of all the matches that have been found on your submission, ordered by highest similarity match to lowest:
Remember that Turnitin is only a text matching tool; staff marking assignments are the detectors of plagiarism.
The overall similarity percentage is not in itself an indicator of plagiarism - it depends what the match consists of.
Turnitin has both:
High scores do not necessarily indicate plagiarism; reasons could include lists of appendices or given tables, and extensive use of quotations.
Low scores do not necessarily indicate absence of plagiarism, as Turnitin does not find all plagiarism, and essay writing companies are known to produce texts with 0% match.
Low scores may also indicate poor or little research or use of sources, so do not set out with the aim of keeping Turnitin scores low - set out with the aim to write effectively with sources.
More important than the overall similarity are the highest ranked sources in the breakdown of matches.
If there are high individual matches, this may indicate plagiarism, or if correctly cited and formatted, may indicate over-reliance on sources, although there may still be understandable reasons for high matches.
Oxford Brookes University adheres to these principles as outlined in the policy.
Turnitin Policy
How to reference and avoid plagiarism
Library resources and services
Centre for Academic Development
Interpreting Turnitin: a guide for students
Submitting work with a blue marking card
Check guidance from your module or programme.
Also check:

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/students/your-studies/exceptional-circumstances:
The final deadlines for submitting exceptional circumstances applications has changed for this academic year.
See timescales and deadlines
We hope that your time here at Oxford Brookes University will be happy and productive.
However, we recognise that unfortunately sometimes our students can experience serious personal difficulties which can affect their ability to study or undertake assessment.
The University has a procedure in place for students who are experiencing exceptional circumstances that are affecting their ability to study or undertake assessment.
Exceptional Circumstances Procedure
Submitting an application
Support and further information
The University considers an exceptional circumstance to be:
Additionally, the timing of the circumstances must be relevant to the affected assessments and/or period of study.
All elements must be met in order to substantiate an application for exceptional circumstances.
Assessments at the University take many forms but in terms of exceptional circumstances, they fall broadly into 3 categories:
You can apply for extensions or resits on deadline assessments, or an opportunity to take an event assessment again at a later date.
To do this you will either need to make a Type A, Type B, Type C or Type D application.
For more information, please see the Exceptional Circumstances Procedure .
Not all events which disrupt your ability to progress with your studies will be considered as exceptional circumstances.
Everyday life is full of unforeseeable events and incidents which we expect students to manage on their own, in preparation for professional working life.
Unexpected illnesses or events do not automatically lead to academic underperformance.
Therefore, it is important that you consider whether your circumstance meets all of the criteria to satisfy the University's exceptional circumstances definition before making an application.
See What are exceptional circumstances for more information about specific circumstances such as:

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/students/your-studies/resits-and-retakes:
The University is committed to providing appropriate opportunities for students who fail an assessment or module to retrieve their position, and the Regulations for Study (6.9) set out the rules governing your entitlements to resit assessments and retake modules.
This page is to provide further guidance to help you interpret the regulations.
University Regulations - Failure and reassessment (6.9)
A module is disregarded because a student has successfully demonstrated that they have experienced Exceptional Circumstances while studying and their performance cannot be recovered through a resit opportunity.
If assessments have been taken, these are not recorded against the disregarded module, including any failed assessments.
You may still need to complete the module in order to achieve the number of credits you need to pass to meet your stage or your programme requirements.
Until now, the University has not charged students to retake a module that has been disregarded.
However, in an increasingly challenging financial environment and in line with sector norms, the University believes it is appropriate that students, who are retaking a module, where there is no fee exemption, should support the cost of these activities.
In the Regulations of Study we explain that you cannot go above a maximum number of credit failures or lack of submission:
6.13.2 Programmes leading to qualifications up to level 6
“Students on undergraduate programmes who have not passed modules worth at least 45 credits in any two successive semesters of study will be withdrawn from their course by the relevant Examination Committee, unless exceptional circumstances apply.
6.13.3 Programmes leading to qualifications at level 7
Students on postgraduate taught programmes who fail to submit any work for assessment within a single semester without formal approval or valid exceptional circumstances will be withdrawn from their course.”
If a module is disregarded, it will not count towards these thresholds and does not count towards the number of times a module can be taken; for example, if a module is disregarded after your first attempt, the module can be taken again as if it was the first time it was taken.
Yes.
Your resits offer you an opportunity to pass your assessments.
There are no guaranteed outcomes when applying for Exceptional Circumstances, so in case your application is not successful, you should prepare for and attend any planned resits, where possible.
Please see our webpages for more information about Exceptional Circumstances and Disregarded modules .
If you were awarded a disregard before September 2023 you will not be charged for the repeat module.
If you were awarded a disregard after September 2023, you will be charged the module fee when you repeat the module.
This means you will be charged from September 2024 or when you return from Approved Temporary Withdrawal.
We will only charge you in the year that you start studying your disregarded module(s) again.
However, there are fee exemptions so please make sure you check if you will need to pay the fee.
For undergraduate students only:
Fees will be charged at the standard Home or International rate.
If your retake is registered as an additional module this will cost you less.
For postgraduate students only:
Postgraduate students are charged varying fees for retakes, according to your programme and the credit value of the module.
Please contact Student Finance finance-fees@brookes.ac.uk for the cost of a retake module that is applicable for you.
The tuition fee costs of the Degree Apprenticeships are not charged directly to those studying a degree apprenticeship.
The University will liaise with relevant employers to confirm charges for disregarded modules in accordance with their contract with the University.
If you are in receipt of a Brookes Bursary and have a Household Income of less than £25k, you will not be charged for the disregarded module(s).
If you are not in receipt of a bursary this year (for example because you are studying part-time or you are on placement) and your household income is still less than £25k, you will be entitled to a fee waiver
If you have funding queries, for example regarding an additional year of Student government funding or repeating additional modules, it is really important to speak to our specially trained Money Advice Team to answer your individual funding queries.
Please complete our contact form with your query
For undergraduate and postgraduate students:
From September 2024, if you find yourself in hardship because you need to pay for disregarded modules then you have the opportunity to apply for Financial Aid and the disregarded module fee cost would then be taken into consideration during any assessment.
If before September 2023 the University has confirmed a module as disregarded, then you will be exempt from the module fee.
For example, you will be exempt if you have a disregarded module that was confirmed in summer 2023, but you have been on Approved Temporary Withdrawal for the 2023/24 academic year and will not be able to take the disregarded module again until you resume after September 2024 or later.
If the University made a material error which led to the module being disregarded, the University may not charge in this situation.
This is likely to be confirmed via a complaint or academic appeal outcome.
If you have funding queries, for example about an additional year of government funding (undergraduate students only) or repeating additional modules, it is really important to speak to our specially trained Money Advice Team to answer your individual funding queries, please contact them on studentmoneyadvice@brookes.ac.uk .
If you are a care leaver or an estranged student, you will be receiving either the Estranged Student Bursary or the Transition From Care Bursary, so you will not need to pay disregarded module fees.
If you were awarded a disregard whilst on Approved Temporary Withdrawal e.g.
for a resit which fell whilst you were on Approved Temporary Withdrawal, and this was before September 2023, then you will not be charged when you return to studies and retake the module.
If you were awarded a disregard whilst on Approved Temporary Withdrawal and this was from or after September 2023, then you will be charged when you return to studies and retake the module.
For those receiving funding, you will be able to use your gift year of funding to start your year again, as long as you have not already repeated a year of study within your current course and you don't have any years of "previous study".
For further information about funding please contact studentmoneyadvice@brookes.ac.uk .
You can speak to your Student Support Coordinators in your faculty or contact Brookes Union Advice Service who can advise you on dealing with Exceptional Circumstances, Appeals, Complaints and Financial Aid applications.
You can contact the Money Advice Team on studentmoneyadvice@brookes.ac.uk for funding queries.
If you believe there has been an error in determining your eligibility for a fee waiver for a disregarded module please check with the Student Finance team finance-fees@brookes.ac.uk ..
If you believe there has been an error in the procedure, or you have evidence that you have been misadvised, please visit our Student Complaints page for more information.
If you need support around making an appeal or complaint you can contact Brookes Union Advice Service .
If your Financial Aid application is unsuccessful you can appeal the decision.
Details on how to appeal can be found within the Financial Aid Application Guidance .
In most cases, a Student visa can be extended to complete a disregarded module.
Please contact the International Student Advice Team who will advise you about whether your visa can be extended, what you will need to do and when you need to do this.
If you are a Home student and not using your Tuition Fee Loan to pay for your Disregarded modules you can pay by Debit or Credit Card via My Accounts on your Student Information Portal
If you are an International Student you can also pay for your Disregarded modules via My Accounts on your Student Information Portal
This is not an exhaustive list and the FAQs will be updated as further questions are added.
In the meantime if you have a question which is not covered above please contact the Student Central Advice Team on studentcentral@brookes.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/students/your-studies/grade-point-average:
Introducing the Grade Point Average
GPA/degree classification
How GPA is calculated
When you complete your degree at Oxford Brookes, as well as your degree classification (1st, 2:1 etc) you’ll also get a Grade Point Average (GPA) score on your degree transcript.
Oxford Brookes was the first UK higher education institution to launch a true, internationally equivalent GPA.
A GPA:
You can track your GPA throughout your course through Student Information on your Record & Results page.
Student Records and Curriculum Management
“The more information you have about the attainment of a student the better they can understand their potential.”
Frank Nigriello, Oxfordshire Business First
A Grade Point Average or GPA is a way of showing your overall level of achievement on your degree course - it is your average attainment over all the modules you take, including any first year modules you take where the credits contribute to your final award.
GPA has many benefits when used alongside the traditional Honours award bands.
For example, since GPA is calculated across all your modules, good performance in your first year of study is directly rewarded in your GPA, whereas first year marks are not included in your Honours classification.
Another feature of GPA is that you can keep making substantial improvements to your GPA throughout your study.
The greater precision offered by a GPA also helps differentiate between students who are awarded the same honours classification (for example, upper second), but have very different average marks for classification (for example 61% versus.
68%).
This could offer employers a greater level of detail about performance, beyond the four broad classifications of the Honours Classification System.
Grade Point Average Regulations
GPA is calculated in three steps.
First, the final grade that you achieved for each module is converted to one of nine possible numerical scores with a grade of A+ receiving the highest possible numerical score of 4.5 (see GPA Grade Table below).
Next, this numerical score is multiplied by the number of credits for that module (for example, 15 or 30 credits) to create a grade point score for each module.
This process is repeated for all modules that receive a final mark and contribute to the student’s degree award.
Finally, the grade point average is calculated by summing up all the module grade points and dividing by the total number of credits attempted.
Notes:
The GPA calculation includes modules which have been failed
The GPA calculation excludes modules which do not have a mark such as modules assessed on a pass/fail basis only or modules which have been included in credit transfer (for example, modules taken while on exchange or awarded using APL/APEL).
The GPA calculation includes all modules taken at Oxford Brookes, even if they are not part of the requirements for the final award.
For example, if a student started at Oxford Brookes on a BSc Nutrition degree and attempted 60 credits before switching to a BSc Business degree, the GPA calculation would include all the modules they had taken.
You may have noticed that the maximum Grade Point is 4.5, but the GPA is capped at 4.00.
This is a compromise between expected international standards for the GPA and marking practices within the UK.
The most common maximum GPA internationally is 4.00, but marking practices in the UK tend to have a greater scale at the very top end than is common elsewhere.
Hence, to ensure that your GPA is broadly comparable with other international GPAs, the maximum grade point you can achieve is 4.5 even though the final GPA is capped at 4.00.
Year 2 (Level 5)
Final (cumulative) GPA is: 3.63 / 4.00

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/regulations:
The rules and regulations that all Oxford Brookes students need to know.
Intellectual and academic freedom is fundamental to the University's purpose, values, mission, teaching and research;  the University's Code of Practice on Freedom of Speech therefore takes precedence over any of the following policies in the case of any conflict.
The University’s Regulations for Study, together with its associated rules and procedures, form a comprehensive framework for learning, teaching and assessment, and other aspects of the student experience, which all staff and students must abide by.
As a student of Oxford Brookes University, you are expected to familiarise yourself with the rules and regulations which apply to you during your time here.
This is essential information, so please take the time to make yourself aware of the regulations that apply to your programme of study, and to read any programme or module handbooks issued to you.
We have tried to write these regulations as clearly as possible and to reflect the ‘student journey’ through your programme of study, but we know that regulations can appear a little overwhelming at first sight.
There is a range of support available to help you interpret the Regulations and navigate the University procedures - the University Handbook provides an overview of the most important regulations and policies, and a quick guide to the key support services and their contact details.
Please do ask an appropriate member of staff if there is something you don’t understand - for example, you can speak to your Module Leader, Academic Adviser or Programme Administrator within your Department, or go to the student homepage for links to other professional services teams who can provide advice.
If you are studying on a programme leading to an Oxford Brookes award at one of our partner organisations , some of the regulations and procedures described here may be applied differently to meet local requirements - please refer to your programme handbook for details and ask for advice from your local tutors or Registry staff if you need clarification.
Regulations for study 2024-25
Visit the student homepage
University Handbook 2024-25
This section sets out the scope of the Regulations for Study at Oxford Brookes University.
This section provides information about the different types of awards available at the University, and describes their key attributes.
It also contains information about the governance of awards within the University, and the national frameworks which regulate the University as a UK degree-awarding body.
This section sets out the principles of assessment and the basis on which credit is awarded as a student works through their programme - further detail about assessment grades and progression requirements can be found in section 6.
The University is committed to providing a positive and encouraging environment, in which all students have the opportunity to study safely and perform to the best of their ability.
This section provides information about the regulations and procedures in place to deal with instances where behaviours, services and/or facilities fall below the expected standards (student complaints and conduct), and where issues arise in respect of a student’s fitness to practise or study.
This section sets out the principles on which the University admits students to its programmes of study - entry requirements for specific programmes can be found on the relevant course pages.
This section provides information about the principles underpinning assessment requirements, grades, progression and reassessment rules, credit and time limits, allowances for exceptional circumstances, and academic appeals.
Students should also refer to programme and module handbooks for details of the rules that apply to their programme of study.
Awards will be conferred by an examination committee as soon as a student meets the requirements for the award for which they are registered.
This section provides information about how final awards are classified, including the Grade Point Average system.
The UMP Regulations apply to students who started the level 4 (Year 1) of their degree in 2019/20 or before, and for students entering with credit at level 5 or 6 of an UMP programme in 2020/21 or at level 6 in 2021/22.
See the UMP Regulations
Academic policies A-Z
Recent updates
Archive

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/students/your-studies/certificates-award-verification-and-transcripts:
Award certificates are normally sent to the correspondence address on Student Information within twelve weeks of the date that the academic award is conferred.
Certificates are sent via tracked delivery.
Oxford Brookes University is a higher education institution that is authorised by statute to award its own degrees, certificates and diplomas at undergraduate and postgraduate level.
Oxford Brookes achieved its status of “University” from the Further and Higher Education Act 1992.
Student Records and Curriculum Management is responsible for the production and dispatch of award certificates for enrolled and registered students.
Certificates are posted to the students' correspondence address on Student Information.
If there is no correspondence address registered on Student Information, the home address will be used.
Certificates will be dispatched via Royal Mail tracked service, within twelve weeks of the date that the award was conferred (ie the examination committee date).
It is the student's responsibility to ensure that the correspondence/home address is correct on Student Information prior to leaving the University.
There are a few exceptions to the general dispatching of certificates.
In the case where a course leading to an Oxford Brookes University award is being managed by a host institution, there may be an agreement that the award certificates are sent to the host institution and they arrange for the award certificates to be dispatched to the graduates.
Certificates are normally posted out via recorded delivery or international signed for delivery within three months of the award date.
If your certificate has not arrived within four months of your award date, please contact us.
We are unable to track postage after six months.
If you contact us after six months of your award date, and your certificate has not been returned to Student Central, an application for a re-issued certificate will need to be made.
This will incur a charge.
The University can reissue certificates to students who studied at Oxford Brookes University from 1992 onwards and who have lost their original certificate.
To request and pay for a replacement certificate, please go to the Student Central online shop .
If you are an ACCA graduate, please go to the ACCA online shop .
For information regarding Oxford Polytechnic awards prior to 1992 or for Westminster College, please see below and look at Regulations for Study .
Student Central can certify photocopies of your original award certificate.
You will receive three certified hard copies.
Please place your order by going to the Student Central online shop .
Once you have paid you will need to email us a good quality scan of your award certificate- we do not accept photos, along with your order number.
The scan needs to be emailed to our online shop email address ( amo-onlineshop@brookes.ac.uk ) with your order number in the subject line.
Student Central does not hold copies of your certificate - if you have lost your original you will need to request a re-issue certificate from our online shop.
All requests for verification of awards and dates of attendance are now processed by Higher Education Degree Datacheck (HEDD).
HEDD is UK Higher Education’s official service for candidate verification and university authentication.
HEDD is for employers, agencies, universities, embassies and councils who wish to verify whether a candidate is a current or past student of a university or college, the award and grade they received, and their dates of attendance.
To create an account and submit a request for verification, please visit the HEDD website .
Please note that any qualification achieved prior to 1992 must be verified by going to 'Validation' on the The Open University website rather than using HEDD.
Student Records and Curriculum Management keep returned award certificates for one year before they are destroyed.
We will not automatically resend certificates.
Students who have not received an award certificate within the timescale detailed previously should contact studentrecords@brookes.ac.uk .
If the certificate has been returned, arrangements can be made to re-send the award certificate.
This may incur a charge.
The name must be your official name, including your middle name(s), and must match formal documentation such as your birth certificate or your passport.
Oxford Brookes University issues one certificate for each award conferred on an individual student.
The name used on the certificate will be the name recorded on the University's student records system at the time of conferment.
A student's name cannot be amended on either the University's student records system or on the award certificate once the award has been conferred at the examination committee unless there are exceptional circumstances.
You must email Student Records and Curriculum Management from your Oxford Brookes email account and explain your exceptional circumstances so that we can consider your request:
If the request is accepted within six months of the award date, you will be issued a new certificate free of charge.
If your name has been incorrectly recorded on your student record, such as a typographical error, you should provide evidence of your exact name details by way of your birth certificate or passport.
If you have British nationality or a settled status confirmed by the UKVI, the University requires a copy of your passport as evidence of your name change.
For students who require a visa to study in the UK, it is particularly important that the University’s record of your name matches the name on your passport.
If you wish to change the formal, legal name held by Oxford Brookes University, please email the Registry from your Oxford Brookes email account providing the name currently on your record, your student number and the legal name you now wish to use.
You will also need to provide a copy of evidence that confirms your new legal name.
If you have British nationality or a settled status confirmed by the UKVI, appropriate documentary evidence to support a request to change your name on your student record could include:
For students who require a visa to study in the UK, it is particularly important that the University’s record of your name matches the name in your passport therefore you will need to submit your passport as your supporting evidence.
An award certificate is an official document, for the use of a third-party, to verify that an award has been conferred on an individual.
Award certificates include a number of security measures in order to protect the value of the certificate.
Award certificates do not include detailed information relating to individual subjects and marks or an overall mark.
An award transcript provides this detailed information, which can be obtained from Student Central.
Oxford Polytechnic awards were validated by the Council for National Academic Awards (CNAA).
The CNAA no longer exist but their records are held by the Open University Validation Services.
Students should go to their CNAA Pro-Forma Verification page for information on how to proceed, and to download the appropriate forms.
Exceptions to the above are the Polytechnic Diplomas which were awarded by Oxford Polytechnic itself.
Replica certificates are not available however the University can provide a verification of your award, subject to the availability of records, on a new certificate.
Contact Student Central ( studentcentral@brookes.ac.uk ).
Applications for BTEC certificates awarded in 1992 and before must be made to Pearson Qualifications .
Students should go to Pearson Qualifications and use the online form.
Please see the Regulations for Study for further details.
Westminster College, Oxford, merged with Oxford Brookes University in 2000 to create the Westminster Institute of Education.
Awards made in 1978 and before were validated by the Oxford Delegacy who no longer exist.
Replacement certificates are not available, however the University can provide a verification of your award subject to the availability of records.
Awards made between 1979 and 1992 were validated by the Council for National Academic Awards (CNAA).
Please visit this page to apply for a certificate .
Awards made in 1992 onwards were validated by the University of Oxford.
Students should go to the Oxford University website and follow the directions on how to proceed.
The BA Contemporary Studies degree which ran between 1995-2000 was validated by the Open University Validation Services.
Students should go to the Validation Services website for information on how to proceed, and to download appropriate forms.
Within six weeks of the date that your award is conferred (ie the examination committee date) we will email you a link to your official transcript, so keep an eye on your Oxford Brookes and personal email account for this link.
If you wish to purchase a hard copy transcript you can do so via the Student Central online shop .
If your transcript link has not arrived within six weeks of your award date, please contact us and we will arrange for the link to be resent to you.
If your award date is in 2020 or before, please note that we cannot resend you a link to the free transcript.
Instead, you will need to purchase a copy of the transcript from the Oxford Brookes Online Shop.
You can request an electronic or a physical, printed transcript at any time during or after your studies, which will incur a fee.
Please visit the Student Central online shop and follow the instructions.
Order your transcript online

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/students/your-studies/student-transfer-arrangements:
Advice for students wishing to transfer into, within or out of Oxford Brookes University.
If you are a student wishing to transfer into Oxford Brookes University from another higher education course, you should read the Accreditation of Prior Learning Regulations before submitting your application.
If you would like to transfer out of Oxford Brookes to another higher education course, please read the advice for students on Leaving the University.
You can request a printed transcript at any time during or after your studies, which will incur a fee of £10.
Please visit Certificates award verification and transcripts and follow the instructions under Transcripts.
For information about your GPA, please refer to the Grade Point Average page.
If you wish to change your subject of study within Brookes, please read the advice available on our Subject changes page .

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/study-abroad-and-exchanges/going-from-brookes:
Priceless memories, lifelong friendships, a whole new perspective - students who opt to study abroad during their time at Oxford Brookes have all this and more.
It’s a wonderful opportunity to explore a new country and develop yourself as a person - discovering new cultures and also revealing new heights in your potential.
You’ll really stand out from the crowd!
Experience the beaches of Australia, the mountains in Canada, Japan’s cherry blossoms or the city skyline of Hong Kong, all while completing your Oxford Brookes degree.
We also offer other international opportunities, such as summer schools.
As an applicant, you will have three options:
Please contact the Global Mobility & Engagement Team (GME) to learn more about when, where and how you can study abroad.
Not all programmes offer the Sandwich Year programme .
Please speak to your Programme leader to find out if your course offers the Sandwich programme.
Undergraduate and Postgraduate Students can apply to the summer school programmes for Summer 2025.
Find out more about the options .
If you want to apply please contact studyabroad@brookes.ac.uk outlining the summer school you are interested in.
Postgraduate students are not eligible to study abroad in the below programmes.
Full year International study abroad (after 2nd year)
International exchange  (during the 2nd year)
Contact the Global Mobility and Engagement Team
The application round for 2025-2026 is now closed.
The 2026-2027 application cycle will open in November 2025, with a deadline in mid-February 2026.
Below are the steps you’ll need to follow during the application process:
Please check your inbox for emails from Mobility Online after submitting the registration form.
If you cannot see anything please check your junk/spam folder.
“I went to America, North Carolina and I went to a university called High Point University.
We left [the UK] in early January and the course ended in May but we stayed in the States and we managed to travel around a bit while we were there which was so much fun.
The university was great, very easy, it was immediately obvious that it was all worth it”
Alice, BSc (Hons) Psychology student who completed an exchange at High Point University, USA

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/students/research-degrees-team/current-students:
Everything you need to know from funding your research degree to graduation.
News Fully funded placement opportunities for our research degrees students now available
Find out more about the funded placements
Enrolment and fees
Visa responsibilities
Regulations
RDC forms
Research Degree Committees
Graduation
Library support for research students
RADAR
IT Services
UREC Guidelines & Useful resources
Resources
Academic posters
Academic Board and Sub-Committees (requires active login to Oxford Brookes account)
Research student representatives
Steering Group

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/courses/additional-language-modules:
Our university-wide language modules provide a range of foreign language classes for university students.
This helps them meet the challenge of globalisation by improving language skills.
Announcement The registration, level change and deletion window for all opens at 9am on Monday 15 September.
Registrations will close at 4pm on Friday 26 September.
Level changes and deletions can be made until 4pm on Friday 3 October 2025.
Learning a language is:
We provide a number of language modules in:
Before you enrol, please check that the language module you wish to take does not clash with any lectures or seminars on your taught timetable.
Language modules - Semester 1 timetable
Language modules - Semester 2 timetable
Common European Framework Levels
languages@brookes.ac.uk
Which language level am I?
Am I entitled to a fee waver?
Am I eligible
How do I enrol?
We use the Common European Framework system to assess language competency in all language modules that we offer.
If you are not sure which language level to choose, we advise you to take the online placement test available.
Upon completion, the form will indicate which level would be best for you.
The placement test for Japanese is in construction and will be available soon.
French
Spanish
Mandarin Chinese
Full-time undergraduate or postgraduate students can take one free language module per year.
Part-time undergraduate or postgraduate students can take one free language module every two years.
For instance, if your academic year starts in September, then you can take one free language module either commencing in September or starting in January.
If you wish to study a language in both semesters, then you will have to pay for the second one.
Similarly, if your academic year starts in January, you can take one free language module either starting in January or September.
Adding a language module to both semesters will incur a fee.
For further information on fees, please contact Student Finance: financefees@brookes.ac.uk .
Please note, Academic English modules offered by the Centre for Academic Development also count towards your additional language modules.
Our additional language modules are only available to students enrolled concurrently on a foundation, undergraduate, postgraduate or research programme of study at Oxford Brookes University (excluding partner colleges).
All our modules are taught mainly face-to-face on Headington Campus - therefore you cannot enrol if you are a distance learner.
Enrolment is subject to availability of places on the language modules and individual programme requirements.
Please note many classes are very popular and class numbers are limited so places are allocated on a first come, first serve basis.
*Please note some exclusions apply, for example courses with a compulsory placement component, distance learning courses, or courses studied at one of our partner institutions.
If you are unsure please speak to your Student Support Coordinator or contact languages@brookes.ac.uk .
Foundation / undergraduate students
Postgraduate / research students
Members of the public / associate students
Students enrolled at foundation or Level 4 of an undergraduate programme can take a language module as part of their programme as an optional module (if their programme permits), or in addition to their programme as a 9th module.
Level 5 and 6 undergraduate students can take a language module as an additional 9th module.
All additional language module registrations are subject to availability.
To register your interest in an additional language module, please complete this foundation/undergraduate additional languages registration request form , which will be made available between 9am Monday 15 September 2025 - Friday 26 September 16:00 GMT.
You need to log in using your Oxford Brookes Gmail account to submit your registration request.
If you do not complete the above Google Form by this deadline, you will not be allowed to take the additional language module.
Once your enrolment has been processed, you will be able to view the module on your 'My Records and Results' page on Student Information.
Important : As additional language modules are fully assessed level 4 undergraduate modules, their result will be visible on your transcript as well as contribute to your Grade Point Average (GPA) .
There is more information on the GPA scheme .
If you are unsure please contact languages@brookes.ac.uk ..
For deletion or language level change requests, please complete the foundation/undergraduate deletions and level change request form .
Foundation / undergraduate student registration form
Undergraduate deletion and level change form
Students enrolled on a postgraduate / research programme can take language modules as associate students.
To register your interest in the module, you need to fill in this postgraduate additional languages registration request form , which will be made available between 9am Monday 15 September - Friday 26 September 2025, 16:00 GMT.
When your enrolment has been processed, you will be able to view this on your 'My Records and Results' page on Student Information.
Important : As a postgraduate student, the additional language module's result will not appear on your taught modules' transcript and it will not count towards your classification.
Teaching for Semester 1 language modules will commence in Week 1; week commencing Monday 22 September 2025.
For deletion or language level change requests, please complete the postgraduate deletions and level change request form .
Postgraduate / research students registration
Postgraduate/ research students level change and deletion form
Members of the public need to enrol as an associate student to take up a language module.
For detailed information on how to enrol for courses starting in September 2015 and for application deadlines, please contact the Admissions Team .
For information about fees, please contact Student Finance .

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/students/safeguarding-hub/sexual-consent-education:
Start the sexual consent course
Need help now?
At Oxford Brookes University, we believe that everyone deserves to be treated respectfully, to be heard and valued, and to have access to resources and information so that thoughtful choices can be made.
This is why the University has introduced a mandatory sexual consent course that supports our students to engage with the complexities of consent.
Together we are striving for a safe and respectful campus for all.
Research conducted by UniSAFE across 46 European universities found that 62% of students and staff members have experienced gender-based violence and almost 1 in 3 have experienced sexual harassment.
Among those who had experienced gender-based violence, only 13% reported it, and almost half (47%) said they felt uncertain whether the behaviour was serious enough to be reported.
Everyone should feel empowered when it comes to consent, and we all have a part to play in creating safer, more inclusive spaces for our community.
That’s why all students at Oxford Brookes are expected to engage with the sexual consent course, regardless of our individual cultures, backgrounds or personal lifestyle choices.
Watch the video to find out why consent matters to students at Oxford Brookes.
Our students have been involved in the sexual consent project since the very beginning, from helping to shape the course content, to calling for the course to be made mandatory as part of the Brookes Together campaign in 2022.
We recently conducted a survey with all students that have completed the consent course and have implemented your feedback to improve the course for the 2024/25 academic year.
Student participation is essential and we are working hard to develop a trauma-informed dialogue between students and staff.
To achieve this, the Consent team works closely with students, Brookes Union and external consultants.
If you’d like to get involved with the development of sexual consent education at Oxford Brookes, please contact the Consent team at consent@brookes.ac.uk so that we can work together to inform change and represent your developing needs.
Start the sexual consent course in Moodle
The University has collaborated with the sexual health charity, Brook, to provide our students with a mandatory sexual consent course.
This consists of five modules that you can work through in your own time.
The course is designed to provide all of our students with a shared, comprehensive understanding of consent, so that everyone can feel more confident talking about these issues and have safer, more ethical and enjoyable sexual experiences.
This course supports you to:
To access the course:
If you have any issues accessing or completing the course, please contact the Consent team at consent@brookes.ac.uk .
Brook Young People
Our webinar series is designed to open up conversations with staff, students and our wider communities about the complexities of sexual consent education.
A panel of experts involved in sexual consent work, as well as student and staff representatives are guided by pre-submitted and live questions from the audience during the event.
Watch our latest webinars below, or view the full series on Panopto .
Report and Support
Wellbeing Services
Personal Safety
Student Support Coordinators
Independent Sexual Violence Adviser (ISVA), Tasha, is employed by Oxfordshire Survivor Space and funded by the University to exclusively support Oxford Brookes students.
Tasha is here to provide emotional and practical support and advice to any students who have experienced sexual violence at any time.
She works alongside, but independently of, the University's Welfare team within Student Support Services .
You can refer yourself to Oxfordshire Survivor Space service:
You can also contact Tasha via email at BrookesUniISVA@survivorspace.org.uk .
Thames Valley SARC Bicester SOLACE Centre Police House Queens Avenue Bicester OX26 2NT Tel: 0800 970 9952
Swindon Sanctuary SARC The Gables Shrivenham Road South Marston Swindon SN3 4RB Tel: 01793 781917
If you participate in the sexual consent education project, you may be eligible for BrookesEDGE .
This is open to all students but you must register interest in participating first by contacting consent@brookes.ac.uk.
BrookesEDGE is a co-curricular scheme run by the University and Brookes Union to help students make the most of their time at University and to become ready for the job market.
If you have ideas for educational events and activities, or you would like to get involved in the project, please contact us at consent@brookes.ac.uk .
“Informative, important and eye-opening”
Will
“Interactive, informative and knowledgeable”
Anusha

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/students/support/togetherall:
Online support is available to all students, no matter where you are, through Togetherall.
The Togetherall 24/7 online mental health website hosts a supportive community of other people in similar situations whose identities are not disclosed.
After you register with Togetherall, you will have free access to spaces where you can chat about how you're feeling or express this in other ways through the creative tools available.
You can also share tips on how to cope with a variety of issues.
There are also clinically trained staff available to make sure the space is safe and supportive.
You can follow self-paced courses about managing your mood and you can track your own progress through self-assessments.
Register with your Brookes email address - you will then create a profile that protects your identity so you can use the website anonymously.
Register for Togetherall (using your Brookes email address)

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/launchpad:
Share and publish your research
Here you can find out about opportunities to share and publish research you've done during your degree, as part of coursework, projects, dissertations and more.
Sharing and publishing your research helps you to develop invaluable graduate skills such as critical thinking, research literacy and visual and verbal communication skills, and graduate attributes such as confidence, creativity and professional autonomy.
Being able to communicate complex ideas to a wide audience in simple and interesting ways is a crucial stand-out skill in the digital age.
The Student Research Launch Pad will help you develop these skills and attributes so you can aim for new horizons.
Browse our website and find out about all the exciting ways to go further with your research.
Get Published!
Student Research Conference
National student conferences
Other opportunities
Be heard.
Be seen.
Be read.
Your research could be featured in this large collection of publications by Oxford Brookes students.
Browse our student research collection
Student Research Launch Pad awards prizes each year to encourage, celebrate and reward excellent student work.
Learn about our prizes
Humanities and Social Sciences
Faculty of Health and Life Sciences
Technology, Design and Environment
Associated partner colleges
The Student Research Launch Pad is an Oxford Brookes University Student Experience project run by a cross-faculty steering group of staff and students and is led by Dr Louise Taylor and Prof Roger Dalrymple .
studentresearchlaunchpad@brookes.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/brookesedge:
Stand out from the crowd
Through BrookesEDGE, you can take part in a wide range of activities outside your studies, to make the most of your time at university and stand out in the job market.
BrookesEDGE is a co-curricular scheme run by Oxford Brookes University and Brookes Union.
Through taking part in a BrookesEDGE activity, you will develop one or more BrookesEDGE competencies.
These follow the UNESCO Key Competencies for Sustainability, as critical competencies for living, working and contributing to society in the current age.
These are:
Find out more about the competencies
Activities open to all students
Activities for particular degree programmes
BrookesEDGE student guide
If you're an Oxford Brookes staff member and you'd like to learn more about BrookesEDGE or add an activity, please read the guide for staff or get in touch by email at brookesedge@brookes.ac.uk .
Add an activity
Guide for staff
If you have a question or want to know more about BrookesEDGE, please get in touch.
brookesedge@brookes.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/learning-resources/departments/digital-education-and-design-services/digital-education-for-staff:
Your digital services
Log in to Moodle
Digital Education Support
Inclusive and innovative design
Virtual Learning Environment
Key digital tools
LR Innovation
Learning resources for staff
Resources for students
Assessment and feedback
Further resources
Panopto (Your Video Library)
Zoom (Online Meetings)
Google Calendar
Google Mail
Google Drive
Student Record System
Accessibility training course
Google Meet
Download Panopto Desktop Recorder
My Library Account
Download LibKey Nomad
Technology Engagement Group
Community of Practice
LR STAR Programme
Digital Education for Students
Digital Capabilities for Students
Academic Integrity
Moodle & TEL for OBBS Staff
DMeLD Digest (Business School)

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/staff/room-bookings:
Students
External clients
The University Timetabling and Room Bookings team is responsible for one-off bookings of University space on behalf of staff and students.
Oxford Brookes Venues handles bookings for external clients for conferences, summer schools or other external purposes.
For bookings relating to the timetabling of teaching activity, please see our Timetabling webpages.
In the event that a visiting speaker is attending the University, please refer to the Code of Practice on Freedom of Speech including Guidance on Visiting Speakers .
You are required to complete the External Speaker Request Form in advance of the event taking place.
The University permits staff to book rooms for one-off University events (for example meetings, workshops or staff training sessions).
Staff are not charged for these bookings.
Bookings made through the Timetabling and Room Bookings team require a minimum of 5 working days' notice.
Where a booking is made, either by an internal or external party, and a charge is applied, or the booking is for personal purposes, then a hire fee for the room will be charged to the event organiser and the booking should be processed through Oxford Brookes Venues .
An example situation may be a workshop organised by a Brookes academic department or member of staff where there is a charge for attending the workshop.
For meeting rooms, please use CMISGo (online room booking system) .
If you see an error message when attempting to access CMISGo, please get in touch with the Room Bookings team via email so that they can set up your booking permissions.
You do not need to request access to CMISGo via ServiceNow.
For all other rooms (for example, classrooms, lecture theatres, computer rooms, etc), please submit a room bookings request form .
If you need to cancel or amend a booking under your name, please use CMISGo (Bookings > My bookings).
If you are unable to cancel or amend a booking that you've made via CMISGo, please contact the Room Bookings team via email.
Alternatively, if you wish to cancel a booking that's been made using the Room Bookings Request Form, you can request a cancellation or amendment by simply replying to the most recent email attached to the ticket.
Pooled Room Directory
Login to CMISGo
How to use CMISGo
Staff timetabling

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/about-brookes/university-calendar:
The Oxford Brookes University calendar shows the structure of the academic year and includes 3 separate calendars for semester dates, exams and University holidays.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/staff/faculties-and-directorates:
Links to our academic faculty and professional services (directorate) webpages and intranet sites.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/staff/working-at-brookes:
Information for current staff
CoreHR Portal
Forms
Staff Learning Portal
Help and support
Working for Brookes
People Directorate contacts
Recruitment, selection and induction
Employment policies & guidance
Pay, benefits & recognition
Learning & career development
Equality, diversity & inclusion
Employee health, safety & wellbeing
International staff
Resources for managers
Leaving Brookes
People Directorate
People IT systems
People & Culture Strategy
Organisational development
Our commitments
Staff parking
Governance Hub
People Directorate team contacts
Get advice

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/staff/human-resources/equality-diversity-and-inclusion:
At Oxford Brookes University, we are committed to ensuring the very best staff and student experience where all our community can flourish in a culture of respect and support, where we celebrate difference and thrive on each other's success.
Further information about our activities to advance equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) can be found on this site.
Anti-Harassment Hub
Race equality
Athena Swan
EDI learning and development
EDI strategy and reports
Equality Impact Assessment (EIA)
Key contacts
Equality groups
IDEAS: The Brookes Inclusive Curriculum Model
Diversity networks
EDI Advice (Staff)
EDI Advice (Students)
Centre for Diversity Policy Research and Practice
Equality diversity and inclusion policy
Menstrual equity and menopause support
Research
Student Equality Diversity & Inclusion
Widening participation
@BrookesEDI

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/staff/regulations-policies-and-strategies:
Where to find details of University regulations, policies and strategies.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/fls:
Information on our team can be found below, while our intranet pages can be accessed on the FLS Intranet .
The Directorate includes the following teams:
Financial Regulations, Policies and Procedures

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/travel:
Getting to Oxford Brookes University
Announcement There will be changes to bus services and subsidised travel at Oxford Brookes for the 2025/26 academic year.
Read more on our dedicated travel webpage
At Brookes we encourage our staff, students and visitors to make environmentally conscious decisions about how they travel.
Oxford is a great city for cycling and benefits from an extensive public transport network.
To find out how to get to Brookes, visit our directions and maps pages.
Oxfordshire County Council's up-to-date traffic information has details on road works or disruptions that may impact your journey.
Check before you travel.
Please be aware that parking is very restricted in the city and on our campuses, and we strongly advise you not to travel by car unless absolutely necessary.
Oxford Brookes University operates a virtual permit system, linked to vehicle registration.
Permits are required for vehicles parking during peak hours (07:00-17:00, Monday to Friday), alongside permit holder daily parking tariff charges.
During peak hours, visitors enquiring about parking on campus will need a parking space pre-booked by a member of the department they are meeting.
Information about parking on campus

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/staff/communications:
The Communications team manages the University’s communications with internal audiences including students, staff and alumni, and external audiences including journalists and civic leaders.
Internal Communications
External Communications
Contact our Student and Staff Communications team at brookescommunications@brookes.ac.uk or see the Student Communications webpage for support with sharing information with our student community.
Contact our Student and Staff Communications team at brookescommunications@brookes.ac.uk or see the Staff Communications webpage for support with sharing information with Oxford Brookes staff.
Contact our Alumni and Development team at alumni@brookes.ac.uk or see the Alumni Communications webpage for support with contacting and sharing information with our Alumni community.
Contact our Student and Staff Communications team at brookescommunications@brookes.ac.uk for support with sharing information with our applicants and offer-holders.
Contact the News and Media team for support and guidance with promoting newsworthy stories, media training, filming and handling media requests and appearances.
Contact Matthew Butler, Head of Public Affairs at m.butler@brookes.ac.uk , for support and guidance with influencing policy and engaging key stakeholders at a local or national level.
Contact Beth Hill, Events Manager at bhill@brookes.ac.uk or Becci Cooper, Events Officer at rcooper@brookes.ac.uk for support with organising an event, accessibility information, external speaker forms and the event listing submission form.
The Community Engagement team moved to Estates and Campus Services in August 2025 and can support with communications and engagement with the local community.
If you are an academic member of staff and you need support with communications, please reach out to the appropriate Faculty Head of Marketing & Communications.
Faculty of Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences
Eloise Wylie ( ewylie@brookes.ac.uk ) - School of Social Sciences, School of Law and School of Education, Humanities and Languages.
Position vacant - Oxford Brookes Business School and School of Arts.
Faculty of Health, Science and Technology
Kate Davis ( kate.davis@brookes.ac.uk ) - School of Biological and Medical Sciences, Oxford School of Nursing and Midwifery, School of Psychology, Social Work and Public Health and School of Sport, Nutrition and Allied Health Professions.
Pete Wale ( p.wale@brookes.ac.uk ) - School of Architecture, School of the Built Environment and School of Engineering, Computing and Mathematics
Oxford Brookes writing style guide
Oxford Brookes brand guidelines
Plain English guide (PDF)
GOV.UK guidance and tools for digital accessibility

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/estates-development:
Oxford Brookes is committed to building an environment which supports our students, staff and partners to excel.
Importantly, our campus spaces need to respond to the evolving needs of the University’s community and the rapidly changing world of education.
The University is committed to moving all of its Oxford-based activity onto the Headington Campus over the coming years.
We believe our future Oxford environment will inspire a vibrant, connected and diverse student community to achieve their potential.
Closure of Wheatley Campus and new Headington Hill site buildings
We previously announced our commitment to moving all remaining activity from the Wheatley Campus to the Headington Campus.
This has now taken place and the Wheatley site was formally handed over to the housebuilder Crest Nicholson at the end of October 2024.
Faculty activity previously based at Wheatley is moving to two new buildings on the Headington Hill site.
The Teaching building opened for the start of Semester Two of the 2024-25 academic year and the Workshop building will fully open for the 2025-26 academic year.
Further information on this development available on the project's dedicated webpages .
Movement of activity from the Harcourt Hill Campus
We will be moving all teaching and library services from Harcourt Hill to our Headington Campus for the start of the 2025/26 academic year.
Information on accommodation options, including rooms at Harcourt Hill in 2025/26 for returning students, is available on the Accommodation webpages.
Catering services and current sport provision at Harcourt Hill, 
including the gym and pitches on the site, will continue to be provided 
during the 2025/26 academic year.
A set of Frequently Asked Questions for current and prospective students in relation to move is available via an online Google Doc .
Changes to bus services
There will be changes to University bus services and subsidised travel at Oxford Brookes for the 2025/26 academic year with further information available on our Travel webpage .
Keep up to date with ongoing activity on the University's campuses and halls of residences via our works updates page.
See all works updates
The new Teaching building on the Headington Hill site opened its doors for the start of Semester Two in the 2024-25 academic year.
The new Workshop building was formally handed over to the University in February 2025 and will open fully in the 2025/26 academic year.
Find out more about Headington Hill site
Initial construction work as part of the first phase redevelopment of Clive Booth Student Village saw the opening of the Elm, Damson and Fir buildings in 2024.
Further redevelopment will take place from autumn 2025 with the internal fit-out of Cherry building, to allow students to move into the new building for the 2026/27 academic year.
Further work is also planned to improve landscaping on the site and to implement a geo-exchange heating system to reduce carbon emissions.
The Clive Booth Student Village redevelopment is providing an increased number of high-quality rooms for students within the University’s estate, close to the Headington Campus.
This is also helping to reduce the number of students living in private rented accommodation and support efforts to manage local housing demand.
Find out more about Clive Booth Student Village

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/staff/working-at-brookes/learning-and-career-development/academic-enhancement-and-development:
The Digitally Enabled Teaching Toolkit
The Oxford Centre for Academic Enhancement and Development (OCAED) offers consultancy, courses and other support for staff and educational development nationally and internationally, within higher education and the public sector, and internally at Oxford Brookes University.
Our vision is to inspire the HE learning community to be ambitious, agile and authentic leaders of transformational academic practice.
Our mission is to offer inclusive, collaborative and compassionate academic enhancement and development.
For further information for Oxford Brookes colleagues about our work, please see our Staff Newsletter .
Upcoming events
EXPLORE
Academic Advising
Teaching and learning
External clients can contact us at ocaed@brookes.ac.uk .
About Oxford CAED
Consultancy
Publications
Conferences
GenAI University wide policy and practice
Evaluating and Evidencing Impact: Academic Enhancement Toolkit
Talking Teaching across the Globe webinars
Brookes Briefings: Teaching, learning and assessment guidance
Inclusive Digital Teacher
About OCAED
Read our newsletter
Open educational resources
+44 (0)1865 535100
ocaed@brookes.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/staff/associate-college-partnership-staff:
Advice and guidance for staff working in our partner colleges.
These pages offer various sources of advice and guidance for our Associate College Partnership (ACP) staff who are involved in the delivery of Oxford Brookes University courses.
ACP affiliate staff accounts
A-Z of useful links
Staff development
ACP governance
ACP conferences
To contact the UK Partnerships team, please email:

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/staff/working-at-brookes/health-safety-and-wellbeing/health-and-safety:
Our overall aim is to provide excellence in health and safety and to promote a positive safety culture in our University.
We are committed to the health, safety, and wellbeing of our staff, students and visitors entering any of our University campuses and buildings; and committed to meeting the University's legal and moral obligations.
This also extends to the challenges offered during world pandemics.
The team works with Faculties and Directorates to deliver teaching, research and a wide spectrum of work activities safely.
Privacy statement (PDF)
Who we are
Health and safety policy and procedures
Report of an incident, accident, dangerous occurrence or near miss and safety concern
Fire assembly maps
Health and safety courses
Health and safety forms
Health and safety committee minutes
Code of practice for permits to work
First Aid
For guidance and further information on reporting accidents, the University's, 'Accident, incident, dangerous occurrence and diseases reporting procedures and investigations policy' , and the 'Frequently Asked Questions' should be read.
You must report:
All accidents/Incidents including those to students, contractors' staff, or visitors must be reported using the documents linked below.
Safety concerns or issues should be reported to prevent repeating failures or minor incidents that did not result in loss or harm from developing into more serious incidents.
Safety concerns should be reported on the incident, accident, dangerous occurrence or near miss and safety concern form.
Occupational health
Estates and campus services
+44 (0) 1865 603060
healthandsafety@brookes.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/staff/organising-an-event:
From conferences to balls, meetings to exhibitions, Oxford Brookes University is a key venue for both internally and externally organised events.
Event planning can be both time-consuming and complicated, as there are a number of policies, processes, and legal requirements which need to be followed.
For this reason the Oxford Brookes Venues and University Events Teams are working to bring together all the neccessary information for student and staff events planners into one location.
We welcome your feedback on this ongoing work, please do contact venues@brookes.ac.uk if you feel there is any information or resources we could produce to assist.
Event Training Workshops will soon be available to book onto for students and staff interested in organising events at Oxford Brookes or other locations.
These workshops will cover topics in the following areas

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/staff/student-support:
These pages have been written specifically for University staff in teaching and student support roles.
They provide an overview of some of the essential services and support available to students, and offer useful guidance and advice on a range of topics.
Guidance, essential procedures and training for Academic Advisers
Developing inclusive and supportive learning environments
Supporting teams with inclusive practice development from PDT stage through to annual review, quinquennial review and beyond
Academic enhancement and development
Teaching and learning resources (OCAED)
Academic Development Framework
Courses
International Journal of Evidence Based Coaching and Mentoring
Quality and Standards Handbook
External examining
APQO staff development workshops

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/sites/research-support/converis:
This page is for Oxford Brookes University staff.
Its purpose is to explain internal processes to staff members.
It was moved into its current location on the website in Autumn 2022.
Page content is being revised to reflect the move to the new Research, Innovation and Enterprise Directorate.
The University has a Current Research Information System (CRIS) called Converis to store and manage details of research undertaken at Oxford Brookes.
Converis has been upgraded from version 6.14 to 6.17.
The changes in the latest version are outlined in the documentation below.
There are no known problems with Converis.
If you notice anything unexpected when using either system, please raise a ticket in Service Now .

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/staff/apqo:
The establishment and enhancement of high academic standards are at the heart of the University’s vision.
The systems and procedures for quality assurance are developed and implemented by the University’s Academic Policy & Quality Office (APQO).
By facilitating a positive, self-critical organisational culture and a supportive environment, the APQO team engages all members of the institution to contribute to the continuing development and maintenance of our high standards.
This website provides information on the development and monitoring of our programmes of study, as well as details of the processes which support these activities and the University’s key assessment-related policies.
External Examining
Programme Specifications
PSRB Register
Collaborative Provision
Academic Board and Sub-Committees
Regulations for Study
Useful links
Please contact your link Quality Assurance Officer or Faculty Quality Team if you have any questions or need advice.
APQO and the Faculty Quality Teams

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/staff/a-z:
Find information on systems, processes, services and facilities to support your work at Oxford Brookes.
Let us know if you think something is missing from this list
Suggest a link

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/alumni-and-supporters/events:
From careers workshops and networking opportunities, to expert speakers and  discussions on important topical issues - we offer a range of events for Brookes alumni.
From careers workshops and networking opportunities, to expert speakers and discussions on important topical issues - we offer a range of events for Brookes alumni.
Oxford Brookes Careers run a range of Careers Fairs which allows employers to meet students and recent graduates.
Most of our alumni events are recorded and are available to watch on our alumni YouTube channel.
List of Past Events
Watch on YouTube

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/alumni-and-supporters/events/events:
This year’s MFA Fine Art End of Year Student Show is entitled: SYZYGY.
It brings together the work of artists about to graduate from the MFA Fine Art Programme at Oxford Brookes.
How a long and rewarding global career on the ground and in the air has sharpened Michael's focus on what makes us more "employable".
The Art & Design Foundation show celebrates the achievements of students exhibiting across the disciplines of Graphic Design, Fine Art, Photography, Fashion, Textiles, Costume and Architecture.
We are delighted to open our doors for the Urban Design End of Year Show.
Entitled Healthy Living, our Urban Design, Planning, and Property Development students present their exciting range of work.
Oxford School of Architecture’s End of Year Show is a wonderful opportunity for our amazing students to display their work publicly to showcase their learning, creativity and technical skills.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/alumni-and-supporters/news:
Oxford Brookes University has proudly bestowed an Honorary Doctorate upon Máire Brankin, a distinguished executive coach and an exemplary alumna, at the May 2025 graduation ceremonies.
Dr Abed Kasaji's academic career began with a foundational interest in Electronics and Communications Engineering at Oxford Brookes.
Oxford Brookes University is leading a major new research project to evaluate how artificial intelligence (AI) tools can support literacy in Northern Ireland’s schools.
Oxford Brookes University has officially opened two state-of-the-art buildings that are set to transform teaching, learning, research, and industry collaboration.
Alumna Jamila Okoro shares how her MSc in Digital Marketing prepared her for a global role at Stryker, a global American company.
Sir Christopher is gearing up for a special 10k run/walk on 17 May to support ten charities, and one of them is the Oxford Brookes Vision for GoOD research fund.
Oxford Brookes University’s Swindon Campus is celebrating 25 years of healthcare education training future nurses and healthcare professionals.
On 19 March 2025, Oxford Brookes University held a screening of the film "Lyd," a thought-provoking exploration of Palestinian history and identity, as part of the 2025 Oxford Human Rights Festival.
Oxford Brookes University will host the Think Human Festival 2025 from Wednesday 7 to Saturday 10 May, offering a four-day programme of free public events exploring contemporary social issues, creativity, and what it means to be human.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/alumni-and-supporters/benefits:
Check out the range of benefits we offer to our alumni.
We offer a 10% discount on tuition fees to all graduates (those who have completed their undergraduate degree at Oxford Brookes) wanting to stay on or return to study for an additional degree.
The offer is open to alumni from the UK as well as those categorised as overseas for fee purposes.
It is designed to enable students to continue their studies on taught master's, MPhil or PhD programmes.
The Business School is able to offer an alumni discount on any postgraduate course module on a non-assessed basis.
This enables former students to improve their skills in specific areas without having to participate in the whole course.
For further details of modules and prices please contact the Business School on + 44 (0) 1865 534800 or email jhughes@brookes.ac.uk .
As part of our commitment to the life-long learning of our graduates we are offering you a 10% discount on the fees for the distance learning MBA.
For further details call +44 (0) 1865 485966 or email mbaoxford@brookes.ac.uk .
Find out more about the postgraduate study discount
From as little as £12.99 per month (off peak membership), alumni can access the gyms and sports hall.
Other memberships are available that allow access to:
A small seminar room is available free of charge, complete with video playback facilities for coaching meetings and reunions.
A full range of University sports clothing and equipment is available in the Centre for Sport shop.
Contact the Centre for Sport Reception on +44 (0) 1865 534100 , or the Centre for Sport Shop on +44 (0) 1865 284371 .
For café, bar and meeting room enquiries call +44 (0) 1865 484372 .
For more information, visit the Brookes Sport website .
Alumni can continue to use the library free of charge.
However, if you would like to borrow up to 5 books you can register for a discounted annual alumni subscription fee.
Please note this doesn't include access to electronic resources (e-books, e-journals, databases), use of University pcs or group study rooms / pods.
To get your library card, follow the instructions for the External Borrowers Scheme on the Library website .
For more information, visit the Library website .
This benefit gives you the same access to campus that you had when you were here.
You can purchase tickets for Brookes Union events and can use the facilities and bars at all opening times, with no restrictions.
Much of RADAR - our research and learning repository - is available to alumni, including past-exam papers and historical photographs.
For more information, visit RADAR .
The Directory of Open Access Journals (DOAJ)  is a community-curated online directory that indexes and provides access to high quality, open access, peer-reviewed journals.
All DOAJ services are free of charge including being indexed.
All data is freely available.
For more information, visit the DOAJ website .
After you graduate we offer you three years of career support.
Oxford Brookes University's Careers and Employment Centre can help you whether you are looking for your first graduate job, a work placement, part-time/casual work or going on to further study.
They can help you with interview techniques, mock interviews and career pathways.
There is also an online database or 'talent bank' that you can access for current graduate jobs.
Please note that the interview support may be virtual, for example through skype or on the telephone.
For more details about recent graduate benefits, please visit our support for recent graduates page .
The Start Up Visa scheme is for International graduates.
It gives you the chance to be endorsed by Oxford Brookes University to start a business and live in the UK.
Find out more about the Start Up Visa scheme

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/alumni-and-supporters/make-a-gift:
Make a gift to Oxford Brookes University to support students and our research work.
Donate now
We believe in giving our students the best possible experience, with equal opportunities for all, regardless of background or financial circumstances.
We are also determined to provide our researchers with the facilities they need to continue making significant discoveries in a range of globally important areas.
Your support will make a real difference to our students and researchers.
If you are interested in making a gift to Oxford Brookes University, please have a look at our scholarships and research projects below, or email us at alumni@brookes.ac.uk .
Continuing John Henry Brookes’ vision that education should be accessible to all.
Offering scholarships and travel bursaries to empower the next generation of humanitarian leaders.
Created to help young Gazans make their mark on the world, this scholarship funds students to study for a one-year Master’s degree at Oxford Brookes University.
Created to encourage Arab-Israeli dialogue on campus and in the city, the scholarship enables a postgraduate student from Ben-Gurion University in Israel to study for a one-year Master’s degree.
This funds supports the research and conservation work done on illegal wildlife trade, nocturnal primates and sustainable agroforestry.
Our researchers are harnessing time-lapse cameras to monitor remote colonies and count their populations to enhance conservation.
This research is helping to advance genetic diagnosis and care for individuals born with eye anomalies and their families.
Donations help us bridge the gap between legal learning and practical experience.
Support the future of motorsport innovation, help us build a faster, smarter, and greener racing future.
Donations ensure this important educational event continues to be free and to inspire and educate future innovators.
Planning a gift to Oxford Brookes in your will will transform lives and inspire students.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/alumni-and-supporters/make-a-gift/gaza-scholarship:
Helping young Gazans make
their mark on the world while offering hope
Oxford Brookes' Gaza Scholarship was started in 2009 by Sir Iain Chalmers and Dr Paul Brankin OBE to indicate to Palestinians in Gaza that they hadn’t been forgotten.
For many ambitious young Gazans, there are no local opportunities to progress.
Higher education beyond Bachelor’s level is not available so scholarships such as this one, offering a chance to study for a Master’s, are a practical way of supporting talented Gazans to make their mark on the world.
Read Sir Ian Charmers' interview on how to start a scholarship
“The humanitarian situation in Gaza is very severe and I want to contribute positively to improving things.
The reputation of the master’s at Oxford Brookes is well known and directly relevant so I searched and found this scholarship.
This was my chance to come here.”
Haya Abdalhadi, MA Development and Emergency Practice graduate and Gaza Scholarship recipient
Since the Oxford Brookes Gaza Scholarship was established in 2010, our scholars have gone on to make significant impacts in a wide range of fields, including environmental sustainability, journalism, refugee support, cancer treatment and digital technology.
And all of them have helped to promote Palestinian culture and carry the message of how much the people of Gaza have to offer the world.
We are tremendously proud of all our scholars and what they have achieved.
As students they enriched our University community and as graduates they have made lasting impacts – in Gaza, the UK and globally.
And we are determined to help many more Gazan students do the same in the future.
After graduating, Ramy set up volunteer-based Zero Waste MENA , which promotes sustainable practices, with the ultimate goal of closing all the landfills in the Middle East and North Africa region.
Much of its work is in sharing knowledge across social media, blogs and conferences, but they did also manage to get funding to run a six-month project in Gaza.
In 2013, Ramy started a PhD on food waste at Cambridge University.
And after completing that, moved to Stirling to work for Zero Waste Scotland, as an Environmental Analyst.
He currently works as a Senior Analyst (Environmental Research & ESG Modeling) at S&P Global, a company that provides governments, businesses, and individuals with market data, expertise, and technology solutions for decision-making.
Ramy is keen to promote Palestinian culture and is part of the Palestinian History Tapestry team, led by friend of the Gaza Scholarship Jan Chalmers.
Ramy is hopeful he can, in the longer-term, return to use his professional and academic expertise to improve waste management and wider environmental issues in his homeland.
Jamila studied Computer Engineering at bachelor’s level, and then worked for a UN agency and development agencies in Gaza, but felt she lacked the relevant qualifications to take her career forward at that point, this is why she applied for the scholarship.
Jamila now works for a global humanitarian agency which supports refugees.
She and her team work with fundraising teams around the world to bring funds that help refugees and displaced people.
She is based in Dubai and covers the Middle-East and North Africa region.
Like most Gazans, Jamila is a refugee and so working for an organisation that helps refugees is particularly meaningful for her.
Hassan works as a Senior Implementation Consultant for Visa in Reading.
Jehan is now a multimedia journalist at Middle East Monitor , specialising in Palestinian political news and social issues.
Based in London, she covers many stories that don’t get picked up by mainstream media, providing a much-needed platform for Palestinian voices to be heard on a global stage.
She also covers events happening in the UK which are of interest to people in Palestine.
Middle East Monitor has English, Spanish and Portuguese language websites – reaching a wide global audience, and Jehan feels that slowly but surely the discourse around Palestine is changing.
Shayma Alwaheidi graduated in 2015 with an MSc in Public Health.
After that, she completed a PhD at King’s College London on the survival among women with breast cancer in Gaza.
Shayma is a project officer at the International Agency for Research on Cancer (Lyon, France), and a visiting research associate in cancer epidemiology at the Centre for Cancer, Society & Public Health at King's College London.
She is a national consultant in her homeland, where she helps in cancer research studies and interventions, and has recently helped developing the first Palestinian National Cancer Control Plan with the World Health Organisation.
She is also a research affiliate at R4HC (Research for Health in Conflict) in the MENA region.
Omar Jouda graduated in 2017 with an MSc in e-Business and is now a Machine Learning Product Manager at London North Eastern Railway.
Amal Jaber graduated in 2018 with an MA in Development & Emergency Practice.
She is now an Emergency preparedness and Response Coordinator for the United Nations in the Gaza Strip.
Hadil Louz graduated in 2019 with an LLM in Human Rights Law and is now working towards a PhD at the University of St Andrews.
Read her interview on how the scholarship changed her life >>
Haya Abdalhadi graduated in 2020 with an MA in Development & Emergency Practice and she is now a Monitoring and Reporting Associate with the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs.
Mosab Alkhatib graduated in 2021 with an MSc in Mechanical Engineering and is now a Mechanical Engineer at Minibems Dynamic Heat Networks in Bournemouth.
Soha Altayeb was working as a medical officer in Gaza when she got the news that she had been chosen to receive the Oxford Brookes Gaza Scholarship.
She arrived in Oxford in September 2023 with a dream: to deepen her knowledge of nutrition and its impact on health.
She is pursing an MSc in Applied Sport & Exercise Nutrition.
Read her full interview .
The scholarship is co-funded by the British Council’s Higher Education Scholarships for Palestinians (HESPAL) scheme.
Oxford Brookes University raises the remaining funds from individual donors (£14,000 a year) to welcome a new Gaza scholar on campus.
Every donation makes a difference and is gratefully received.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/alumni-and-supporters/make-a-gift/israel-scholarship:
For postgraduate students from Ben-Gurion University of the Negev in Israel
The scholarship was established in 2011 and each year since has enabled a postgraduate student from Ben-Gurion University of the Negev in Israel to study for a Master’s degree at Oxford Brookes University.
Students are selected on the basis of merit, academic ability and financial need.
Here at Oxford Brookes, we believe in encouraging, challenging and supporting our students to be the very best they can and achieve their goals.
On this page, you can find out about a the achievements of our previous Israeli scholars.
As students they brought cultural richness and fresh perspectives to our University community and as graduates they are making their mark on the world.
“It was a great experience and I'm very happy that I had the chance to take part in it.
Thank you, everyone, for being part of the journey I have taken this year.
To the University, which really has pushed me and wanted for my success, and to the Jewish community and all our friends here.
Thank you for the financial help and for the emotional help.”
Adi Jackson, 2023-24 Sam Zuckerberg Scholar
Back in 2009, members of the Oxford Jewish Congregation suggested setting up a scholarship to bring an Israeli student to Oxford Brookes.
The aim was to foster dialogue on campus and in the city, promoting understanding of Israeli-Palestinian relations, Middle Eastern politics, and intercultural issues through respectful, informed discussions.
An initiative was launched to set up the “Oxford Brookes University Israel Scholarship” and fundraising duly started amongst the OJC members, family and friends.
Contact was established with Ben-Gurion University (BGU) and the search also began for the first recipient.
As the work moved forward, news of the scholarship spread and there was even a mention during a debate in the House of Lords.
Thanks to the generosity of donors, enough funds were raised to select the first recipient of the scholarship, who joined Oxford Brookes in September 2012.
In 2013, past chairman of the BGU Board of Governors Roy J.
Zuckerberg, upon hearing about the impact the scholarship was having and the need to secure its future, gave a donation in memory of his late father Sam Zuckerberg.
The scholarship officially became known as the “Sam Zuckerberg Scholarship”.
The generosity of the donation has eased the burden of fundraising for the scholarship greatly although there is still a funding gap that needs to be filled.
Elad Almog graduated in 2013 with an MSc in International Hotel & Tourism Management.
He is now a University Lecturer in Be’er Sheva and also works as a consultant in the field of hospitality.
Yasmin Haj-Amer graduated in 2014 with an MA in Teaching English as a Second or Foreign Language.
She is now an English teacher and mentor in Be’er Sheva.
"English is the language of the world.....
it has to be the language of the Bedouin student as well.
Coming to the UK and studying at Oxford Brookes (gave me) the chance to meet great and intelligent people.
The Scholarship changed me.
...
allowed me to see another community which allows everybody to talk freely and allows a woman to talk freely about her ideas and opinions.
When I returned home I convinced other Bedouin girls to fight for their right too ...
to study at university."
Orli Kagan graduated in 2016 with an MSc in Business Management.
She is now a Global Data Analyst for a cosmetics company in Tel Aviv.
Yael Vitelson graduated in 2017 with an MSc in Human Resources Management.
Yael was awarded the Oxford Brookes CIPD Student Prize for 2016/17.
This prize is in recognition of her overall performance on and contribution to the HRM programmes at the Business School.
It recognises the significant roles she played in shaping and supporting the experience of her fellow students last year, her role as class representative and also her overall high standard of academic performance.
She is now a Talent Acquisition Manager for a software company in Tel Aviv.
"What makes this scholarship exceptional is the support from the Oxford Jewish Congregation who make me feel I have a home from home.
The Scholarship has changed my life.
[...] The options that are now open to me are numerous.
I would like to thank the Sam Zuckerberg donors for investing in me and helping me recognise my potential.
I hope that one day I'll be in your seat and help students achieve their aspirations."
Elel Eitan graduated in 2018 with an MSc in Business Management & Marketing.
She is now an Associate Director of a pharmaceutical company in Tel Aviv.
Auren Renford graduated in 2020 with an MSc in International Hotel & Tourism Management.
Auren says that studying for his Masters at Brookes "was an amazing opportunity for a once in a lifetime experience" and that "Oxford Brookes is one of the best universities for learning about hospitality." Auren with his wife Ortal, were like everyone else affected by the COVID-19 pandemic.
Thankfully it didn't prevent Auren from completing his course, though it did bring his otherwise happy time in Oxford to an early end.
Auren returned to work at his previous company in Be'ersheva where as well as managing Airbnbs he is also managing a new hotel.
He says, "I could not have afforded to live and study in the UK.
It was a dream and without the scholarship would have stayed a dream.
The scholarship changed my life."
He is now Vice-President of a hospitality company in Be’er Sheva.
Paz Shpirer graduated in 2021 with an MSc in Marketing & Brand Management.
She is now a Marketing Manager for a digital security company in Giv’atayim.
Maayan Kalakuda graduated in 2022 with an MSc in International Business Management & Entrepreneurship.
She is now Project Management Officer and Business Development Manager for an engineering company in central Israel.
Tom Elner graduated in 2023 with an MSc in Management & Business Analytics.
She is now a Strategic Implementation Consultant for a software company in Tel Aviv.
Read Tom's full interview about her year at Oxford Brookes >>
Adi Jackson graduated in 2024 with an MSc in Historic Conservation.
"My desire to join the historical conservation course at Oxford Brookes comes from my dream to be a bridge between ancient and modern.
I want to use my professional abilities as a modern structural engineer to join the diverse building conservation field in Israel.
The conservation field in Israel is a growing field with many opportunities in different areas, from conserving sites a thousand years old to buildings built only a hundred years ago".
Read Adi's full interview about her year at Oxford Brookes >>
The Oxford Brookes Sam Zuckerberg Israel Scholarship is funded through the generosity of individual donors.
You can also donate by cheque or bank transfer.
Alternative payment methods

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/alumni-and-supporters/make-a-gift/vision-for-good:
Genetics of Ocular Development
Helping to advance genetic diagnosis and care for individuals born with eye anomalies and their families
Our genes play a crucial role in developing our body, including the human eye.
Damaging alterations to the genetic code can lead to a change in the size or shape of the eye, or in the most severe cases, the eye may be missing altogether.
The genes that switch on human eye development at the start of life are also vital for preserving the vision in later years.
This means that a better understanding of their function will help with treatments that preserve sight, or even treat visual loss.
Many of the eye genes are also critical for developing other body parts and in preventing cancer.
Therefore, research in this area can help diagnose and treat other conditions too.
Early genetic diagnosis of eye anomalies is so important to allow the best start in life.
Knowing about the condition allows early intervention and best management.
Families can be provided with timely counselling regarding recurrence risk and options available to them, and the support needed for individuals, parents and family members to navigate the challenges they face.
Globally, Professor Ragge’s work links with a network of researchers and clinicians working collaboratively to achieve a faster genetic diagnosis.
A genetic diagnosis means doctors can provide optimum treatment to more families.
By donating to the Vision for GoOD Fund, you are supporting the power of genetic research to help families affected by these disorders and to save sight.
Your generosity will help our mission to advance our understanding of the genetic basis of these conditions, offer rapid diagnoses and provide counselling and psychological support to the families involved.
“The birth of a child with developmental eye anomalies can be devastating  for families, bringing with it uncertainties about vision, other medical complications, and possible recurrence in future offspring.
Funding our eye genetics research programme is so important to help children and families affected with these conditions, not just in our programme but also worldwide.
By improving early diagnosis, treatment and support, we can transform people’s lives.
Our improved understanding of these genes and pathways is already leading to better understanding of genetic mechanisms, and will lead to advances in ways to prevent blindness and sight-saving therapies.”
Professor Nicola Ragge,  Baillie Gifford Professor of Developmental Eye Genetics, Oxford Brookes University  Consultant Geneticist, Birmingham Women’s and Children’s NHS Foundation Trust
"I was excited to be on board with Professor Ragge's research as I had already hit a lot of dead ends with diagnosis.
As a parent of a child with a rare disease, the unknown is a huge, overwhelming part of our lives and I have spent a lot of Ruby's life looking for answers as to why she has the condition and why it happened, so I was excited to try something new and I was hopeful."
"I have known Nicky Ragge for 30 years.
She has been an inspiration to us in finding out about the genetics that may have caused our son’s condition...
And through her research we did!
For us that was a very interesting factor because it not only impacted us, it impacted our family and our surrounding family."
"Ede being given a genetic diagnosis has been invaluable for making many important medical decisions that could have otherwise unknowingly had detrimental outcomes on all aspects of her life.
..
The work [Prof Ragge and her team does] is so important and life changing."
"Honestly, I don't believe in miracles, but the answers we received from this study has truly changed lives and given so many of us peace of mind.
Thank you for everything Professor Ragge, and your incredible team!"
View alternative payment details

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/alumni-and-supporters/make-a-gift/legacy-giving:
Sharing the gift of education
Help us invest in transformative support for students, ambitious facilities and impactful research, ensuring our
commitment to excellence continues for
years to come.
Complete a legacy pledge form
"As a parent of a Oxford Brookes graduate, I feel both privileged and proud to be the Chair of the University's Board of Governors.
As an institution, we have been transforming lives for over 150 years and we are dedicated to continue doing so in the future.
Our ethos has always been to focus our efforts and expertise in practical ways.
From our early days as Oxford School of Art, as Oxford College of Technology and then Oxford Polytechnic, and including Lady Spencer-Churchill College and Westminster College - our students and staff have made a real, tangible difference to the world.
Looking to the future, I am committed to ensuring that Brookes can continue making a positive difference.
We are investing in high-quality facilities, conducting and implementing high-quality research and striving to give the best possible experience, opportunities and support to all of our students.
Oxford Brookes is an inspiring community to be part of but we need your support to help us achieve all that we want to do and to keep on adapting, responding to and supporting the needs of a changing world.
It is for this reason that I have made the important decision to leave a gift in my Will to Brookes.
I invite you to do the same and join me in ensuring the legacy of John Henry Brookes for years to come."
- John Zealley, Chair of the Board of Governors, Oxford Brookes University
Having an up-to-date Will ensures your wishes are carried out after you die.
It ensures your values and principles live on and compels your loved ones to think about what matters to you.
A Will is often one of the greatest contributions you can make to the lives of the people you care about and the causes that are closest to your heart.
Of course, many people will want to ensure their friends and family are provided for first.
However, after that, leaving even a small percentage of your estate can make a profound difference to future generations of students.
These gifts create life-changing opportunities, opening doors to education, innovation, and discovery.
A legacy left to Oxford Brookes enables us to continue to invest in transformative support for students, ambitious facilities and impactful research, ensuring our commitment to excellence continues for years to come.
By pledging a gift to Oxford Brookes University, you can also be remembered as someone who believed in the power of education to change lives.
“My legacy to Oxford Brookes is a thank you for the profound impact the University has had on my life.
It is also a gift to support the education of future students so that, like me, they too will be inspired.”
John Green, Alumnus
Our founder, John Henry Brookes, believed that everyone should have access to an education.
Our founder, John Henry Brookes, believed that everyone should have access to education.
That’s why he created the college that we were founded upon.
Your gift can help us to provide targeted access, financial and wellbeing support to ensure more students are fully prepared for the future and can take their place as a global citizen.
Your gift can help propel our Research for Society and provide the tools and talent that will find the answers to the most pressing problems of today and tomorrow.
Your gift can help us to provide world-leading spaces and facilities that are a joy to spend time in, that inspire learning, and let students live their best university life.
Tessa Jane Evans was a staff nurse at the John Radcliffe Hospital and a student at Oxford Brookes.
She tragically died in 1998, aged 24.
Tessa, known to her family and friends as ‘Tess’, was the only child of Mrs Margaret Evans.
Margaret passed away in 2015 and very generously left a gift in her Will to set up a bursary in the name of her daughter.
Each year this gift enables three new students, who otherwise may not be able to afford it, to study Adult Nursing.
Tess was described as “a wonderful nurse”.
Her mother’s generosity is helping a new generation of nurses to fund their studies, enter the profession as graduates and make a lasting difference through careers of care and compassion.
"This legacy will help nursing students in need to meet living costs.
This will make an enormous difference to them and will also ultimately benefit patients in the future." - Dr Liz Westcott, Head of Oxford School of Nursing and Midwifery
If you have already chosen to support Oxford Brookes through a legacy gift, we are extremely grateful.
Do let us know via our dedicated form , so that we can ensure that all aspects of your plans are fully understood and we can thank you appropriately.
Please be assured that the details will be treated in the strictest confidence and will not be seen as binding.
If you are considering Oxford Brookes University as part of your legacy, we can help with:
If you feel inspired to consider making a legacy gift but would like more information, please complete our dedicated form:
Legacy information form
We would be extremely grateful for a legacy gift of any size.
Undesignated legacies allow us the flexibility to use gifts wherever the need is greatest, making them amongst the most valuable gifts that we receive.
If you would like your legacy gift to be allocated in a particular way, however, we are happy to take that into consideration.
Please contact Anne, Development and Alumni Relations Manager, at alumni@brookes.ac.uk if you need any help or support.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/alumni-and-supporters/stay-connected:
Stay connected with Brookes and your fellow alumni.
Please contact us to ask about our alumni programme, share your latest achievements or if you are looking to reconnect with fellow alumni or staff.
A way to bring alumni together.
There are alumni networks in a number of countries around the world, as well as subject-based groups.
Would you like to catch up with former classmates?
Or have a look round our new facilities while reminiscing on old times?
Your alumni team can offer guidance in organising a reunion.
A number of Oxford Brookes alumni are published authors, including many graduates of our MA in Creative Writing.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/alumni-and-supporters/stay-connected/groups:
Connect with fellow alumni and build your professional network.
Follow the Alumni Team on LinkedIn
Alumni groups are a way to bring alumni together.
Different groups do different things but they usually involve events, professional networking and socialising.
Join the Oxford Brookes Alumni Network on LinkedIn
A number of our academic departments have their own alumni groups.
These enable you to reconnect with old classmates and lecturers, and make new connections with alumni working in the same or related professional sector.
With over 275,000 alumni in more more than 170 countries, we are a proudly international university.
Connect with alumni by joining one of our international alumni groups and continue to build your networks.
Oxford Polytechnic Group
Westminster Society
Brookes Society for Retired Staff

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/alumni-and-supporters/stay-connected/alumni-bookshelf:
Browse books written by our alumni.
A number of Oxford Brookes alumni are published authors - including many graduates of our MA Creative Writing programme.
We use the online platform Goodreads to keep track of books published by our alumni.
Please let us know via our contact form if you have written a book and would like us to add it to our list.
Browse our Goodreads lists

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/alumni-and-supporters/stay-connected/reunions:
Support for alumni organising a reunion.
If you are arranging a reunion, to catch up with former classmates and take a look around your old campus, then we may be able to give you a helping hand by:
All of the above are subject to staff availability and resources.
Please give us as much notice as possible.
“Many thanks for organising our tour of the campus.
Our tour ambassador Hilary was a delight.
We all agreed how proud we are of being alumni of such a wonderful university!”
Nick Conway ’90 (Civil Engineering)

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/alumni-and-supporters/stay-connected/in-memoriam:
Remembering Oxford Brookes alumni and honorary graduates who have passed away
John Henry Brookes spoke of his desire to educate students for "lives of consequence." We are proud of the contributions made by Oxford Brookes alumni, whose presence made the world a better place.
We celebrate their lives below.
To keep this page up to date, we rely on the information given to us by alumni, family and friends.
If there is someone that you would like to see commemorated here, please contact us.
Donations in memory are a wonderful way to celebrate someone’s life.
Have their legacy live on by supporting ground-breaking research or students in need.
We are sad to announce that Paul Proudman died peacefully on Thursday 12 December 2024.
He had Alzheimer's disease for the past few years.
Paul was both a former student and later on a Senior Lecturer.
He helped run the first year of the Architecture degree programme for a number of years and contributed to the life and development of the School to one of the best and largest in the country.
Paul had a very strong interest in music and art and exhibited his paintings widely including at the Royal Academy Annual Art Exhibition.
He was very much involved in most of the School's activities and the School exhibitions.
We cannot forget his famous art creation of a Dalek in the Students Annual Review in the 1970s.
Professor Mike Jenks, former Head of School, said: "Paul was a real presence in the School for such a long time." Thank you to Paul for all you have done for this School that you loved dearly for all these years.
Matt Gaskin, Deputy Pro Vice-Chancellor, Faculty of Health, Science and Technology Professor Byron Mikellides, Emeritus Professor, Oxford Brookes
Andrew (Andy) McNab studied Town and Country Planning at Oxford Polytechnic.
In a career that took him to different parts of the world, he specialised in environmental resource projects and strategic planning.
He passed away from cancer in March 2020, and is survived by his wife Carolyn and their sons Andrew and Douglas.
Andy read Town and Country Planning at the then Poly and went to Westmorland.
He was there for the transition from Local Government to National Park and Cumbria, an exciting time and a chance to write a new rule book.
He enjoyed orienteering, fell running and amateur dramatics.
He and his wife Carolyn exchanged the fells for the wilds of Tasmania where an orienteer might happen across a huge monitor lizard.
State planning there encouraged Andy to move into consultancy and he returned to the UK to join a firm in Oxford.
From there and London he worked across the world, specialising in environmental resource projects and strategic planning, such as airport extensions, new ports, fish farms, new towns, heritage work and national parks.
He and his wife lived for short periods in Malaysia and China, the latter a constant source of fascination and frustration.
He retired to SW Scotland to create a large garden full of Australian and Chinese himalayan plants, besides serving with the Southern Upland Partnership and Crichton Carbon Centre.
He is survived by his wife Carolyn and their sons Andrew and Douglas, the latter also a town planner.
Doris Simms, Brookes' oldest living alumna, passed away in June 2018 at the age of 99.
She studied economics and shorthand typing at what was then the Oxford School of Technology, Art and Commerce in 1935.
Doris married fellow alumnus, Jack Simms, in 1942.
Doris played an important part in Oxford Brookes’ 150th anniversary celebrations in 2015.
Doris studied economics and shorthand typing at what was then the Oxford School of Technology, Art and Commerce in 1935 when she was 16 years old.
Doris played an important part in Oxford Brookes’ 150 th anniversary celebrations in 2015.
She attended a special performance of Educating Oxford, a play telling the story of Oxford Brookes, its origins, the development of the institution and the people who were the driving force behind it.
The performance by Flintlock Theatre was held at the Taylor Institution, where the Oxford School of Art was first based.
At the event Doris was also reunited with a fellow alumna, Phyliss Timbs, who passed away earlier this year.
Speaking at the time, Doris said: “I was a pupil for a year at the college just after I left grammar school and before I got my first job.
“Technology, art and commerce were the three things that were necessary for people who had left school.
Not many of us could go to college at that time and I loved it there.
I grew up there.”
Doris also spoke about her fond memories of studying at the School in a video, filmed for the 150 th anniversary .
Doris’ husband was Jack Simms, also an alumnus of the University.
After meeting at a dance at the Oxford Town Hall, they married on Boxing Day 1942.
Jack passed away in January 2017 aged 93.
Professor Alistair Fitt, Vice-Chancellor of Oxford Brookes University, commented: “It was tremendously sad to hear the news that Doris Simms has passed away.
I had the privilege of meeting Doris during our 150 th anniversary celebrations and she was a remarkable individual who was intrinsically linked to the rich history of the University.
Our thoughts are with Doris’ family and friends at this time.”
(known as Jimmie)
10th May 1924 - 9th June 2016
It is with great sadness to announce the death of Jimmie Cox, former student  and member of staff of the Oxford School of Architecture on Thursday 9th of June 2016 in his home in Savannah Georgia at the age of 92.
He became a distinguished Professor in Architectural History at both the University of Virginia and SCAD , the Savannah School of ART and Design.
Jimmy Cox last visit to Oxford from Savannah, Georgia was on Sunday 6th of April 2014 to celebrate his 90th Birthday.
He was met by Nigel Hiscock and Geoffrey Randell both of whom shared the distinction of being both students and tutors at the Oxford School of Architecture.
Jimmy was teaching here in the 1950’s and 60’s and was the first Oxford tutor to teach in the USA at the University of Virginia where he became a distinguished professor in History and Theory.
He eventually retired to Savannah Georgia where he now lives.
He was a long running Secretary of the Doric Club and organised the Doric Club meeting at the Town Hall, Oxford in May 1955 chaired by our then Honorary President John Henry Brookes whose name now marks the new University in Oxford.
At the Ashmolean, he was presented with a triptych memo entitled 'The 3 musketeers of the Doric Club' covering 70 years history of the Doric Club and the Oxford School of Architecture.
See both the framed presentation attached photos of the occasion at the Ashmolean on the 6th of April.
On his way back he stopped at the new John Henry Brookes building and the Glass Tank housing the new Oxford School of Architecture.
The Oxford School of Architecture will greatly miss Jimmie Cox, one of its founding fathers who together with Reginald Cave and John Henry Brookes helped  to build the reputation of one of the best Schools of Architecture in this country.
He became the first member of staff from the Oxford School to be appointed Professor in America and he had the Oxford School always at heart.
He was delighted to be back and see the new School at the John Henry Brookes University and witness its  phenomenal progress over the years.
Byron Mikellides,
Doric Club Secretary
Andrzej Galan passed away on 1st January 2015, aged 49.
Andrzej was both an alumnus and former member of staff of Oxford Brookes, having studied Visual Studies and Publishing whilst the University was still a Polytechnic (1986 - 1989) and later working as a Design Officer in the Communications Department.
On July 6th 2014 Andrzej was hit by a car while trying to cross a busy highway (the SE-30 in Sevilla, where he had been living for the past 10 years), and had been in hospital ever since.
In the last month he was regaining consciousness of things around him, starting to speak again, answer questions.
Complications in his respiratory system overtaxed his heart.
He was resuscitated, but it stopped again on January 1st definitively.
Andrzej replied to the callout for stories about time spent at Oxford Brookes for our 2015 celebrations with this anecdote:
My time at the Poly, Brookes, would be for my graphic design prof, Don Antonio Evora.
He taught everything I know regards design and art and life and music.
He is always in my heart.
I could tell more than 150 stories about him… So now I will smoke a Cuban cigar and have a glass of Mojito.
Andrzej is survived by his wife, Anne, and sons Adrian and Tomas.
She described him as 'painter, guitarist and wonderful person.'
Viv Satur, a much loved member of the shops team and Oxford Brookes alumna, passed away suddenly in August 2014.
The following is a tribute from colleagues of Viv:
"We recently received the very sad news that Vivienne Satur, a Supervisor in the Grab & Go Shop and alumna of Oxford Brookes, passed away suddenly on Wednesday 28 August.
The shop staff have received messages of sympathy from many University colleagues who knew Vivienne and have decided to open a book of condolence at the Helena Kennedy Shop.
This will be passed on to her family as an expression of how highly Vivienne was thought of and how much she will be missed by her friends and colleagues at Brookes.
Any colleagues who would like to contribute to the book can either call in to the shop and write their message in person or email.
The shops are also collecting donations that will be used by Vivienne’s family and friends to create a lasting memorial.
Her colleagues would like to express how Vivienne was a much loved member of the Oxford Brookes community, both as a graduate and staff member.
She was always looking to help other people and to make people smile with her friendliness and good humour.
She will be greatly missed here at Oxford Brookes, but her memory will live long with the many people who had the privilege to know her."
Jack passed away after a short illness in 17 January 2014 at the age of 97.
Jack was born in Oxford on 9th April 1917.
Although christened John, he was known as Jack throughout his life.
His birth certificate shows him simply as John Simms, but at some point, and at quite a young age, he decided to give himself a middle name, and chose Anthony.
His family tell me that they are not sure why he did this, or why he chose that particular name – they think he must have decided that his original name was simply too short, and that John Anthony Simms had more of a ring to it.
Jack was brought up in Leckford Road, in North Oxford, and went to school firstly at St Faith’s, then at St Philip & St James, and finally at the Central School in Gloucester Green.
He sang in the choir at Phil & Jim’s, and was a member of the Church Lads Brigade.
He greatly enjoyed the Brigade, where his favourite marching tune was Onward Christian Soldiers.
He was very keen to attend Brigade camp and first did so at the age of nine – arriving home afterwards with only half of his kit, having managed somehow to lose the rest.
After leaving school in 1932, Jack joined what was then the Pressed Steel Company in Cowley.
After three years’ workshop training, he embarked on a five-year engineering apprenticeship.
This was the start of a long and illustrious career as a Chartered Mechanical Engineer.
Jack was a gifted engineer and loved his profession.
During his working life, he was involved in many projects: as well as designing cars, he worked during wartime on planes, armoured vehicles, and even the British version of the jerry can which involved x-raying a German can captured in the western desert.
He was seconded to the Ministry of Works as a consulting engineer, and in 1944 he was Engineer in Charge of the experimental department, working on the Gloster Meteor aircraft and on one-man submarines.
Although in a reserved occupation, Jack was a member of the Upper Thames Patrol, part of the Home Guard.
The Patrol was known by its initials of UTP, which were considered by many to stand for “up the pub”.
The boat in which they patrolled was owned by one of the squad, who was very protective of his varnished decks and insisted that the men wear carpet slippers whilst on duty – a memory which never ceased to amuse Jack.
Towards the end of the war and immediately afterwards, Jack continued to work for the Ministry of Works, being involved in the design and production of prefabricated steel housing.
Jack met Doris in 1940 at a dance in Oxford Town Hall.
It was apparently not love at first sight, although the relationship blossomed and they married on Boxing Day, 1942.
As it was wartime, there are no photos of the day and the wedding cake was made of cardboard.
It was, nevertheless, a very happy occasion.
After a short honeymoon at the Cumberland Hotel in London, Doris and Jack took up residence in a flat in George Street, Oxford, above where Jamie’s Italian is now situated, with very few mod cons, even less furniture and no carpets.
Jack was seconded to a post in the USA in 1946, to work on a new design of stainless steel railway carriage.
He and Doris lived for a year in Philadelphia, having flown out from the original London Airport with its passenger terminals consisting of ex-military marquees.
On their return to Oxford, Jack and Doris settled in Harbord Road, in North Oxford, adopting their daughter Tracy in 1957.
In 1958, Jack became Chief Engineer at the Pressed Steel plant in Linwood, and he, Doris and Tracy moved to Scotland, eventually settling in Newton Mearns, just outside Glasgow.
In 1966, he was appointed as Group Standards Engineer at Cowley and the family moved to Woodstock.
Jack retired in 1980, his distinguished career earning him a feature in the Oxford Times.
He was by this time a Fellow of the Institute of Mechanical Engineers, and continued to do consultancy work for the British Standards Institute for some years after he retired.
Jack and Doris had many very happy years of retirement.
Jack had always loved driving and both he and Doris enjoyed going out and about – often visiting places of interest around the UK.
A particular pleasure was going for pub lunches in the Cotswolds!
They also ventured further afield, visiting India and China, as well as European destinations, being particularly fond of France and Italy.
In recent years, Jack and Doris were embraced by Oxford Brookes University as their oldest alumni.
Although they didn’t know each other at the time, both had studied part-time in their youth at the Oxford Schools of Technology, Art and Commerce, which came to be known as the Oxford Polytechnic, later Oxford Brookes, and had met John Brookes himself.
They were able to contribute their memories to the College’s archives and were delighted and proud to be invited to visit Oxford Brookes and to have their photographs published in the local press.
Jack was in good health until his 96th year but became housebound in November 2012 following a short illness.
Doris took wonderful care of him at home until his condition deteriorated earlier this month and he was admitted to hospital, where he passed away three days later.
Jack and Doris were a devoted couple.
On the morning of the day he died, before he slipped into unconsciousness, Jack had spoken to the doctor at the JR about their 71 years of marriage.
Their long relationship was a central part of their lives and crucially important to them both.
Tribute by his daughter Tracy:
My Dad was a quiet, private and kind man, who rarely spoke without first considering what he had to say and who rarely wasted words.
He had a dry sense of humour and could convey his amusement (or sometimes, bemusement!) with a shake of the head and a roll of the eyes.
He had a real passion for engineering.
He told Mum recently that he felt he had been destined to become an engineer, his interest in building things and making them work having been sparked by a Meccano set which he owned as a boy and which he had used to build large and elaborate models, which filled his bedroom.
He knew his stuff: shortly after Dad’s retirement, I met someone who had worked with him at the Engineering Department in Cowley.
We got chatting and, when he discovered that I was Jack Simms’ daughter, he told me that Jack was the only senior person in the department to whom he would ever go for advice, because he knew that the information which Jack gave him would always be accurate.
I told Dad this at the time – typically of him, he didn’t say much but he did smile broadly and look justifiably pleased.
Even into old age, Dad never lost his interest in gadgets and he embraced computers in his early eighties.
This was at the time when companies and institutions started inviting people to “visit our website for more information”.
Dad realised that here was a new innovation, which he hadn’t mastered, and decided that he needed to rectify the situation.
He enrolled in a beginners computing course at the local school; we gave him our old computer and he was away – browsing the web, sending emails and writing letters – later graduating to internet banking.
I was very proud of him and told everyone I knew that my dad had become a “silver surfer”.
He was very well organised – if there was ever a screw or nail of a particular length needed, Dad would disappear into the garage and produce one from his meticulously labelled stores.
He always kept things which he felt would be useful at some point in the future.
I don’t know whether he ever actually found a use for that glass washing machine door but, knowing Dad, he probably did.
Dad loved our children, Sophie and Hannah, and he and Mum used to care for them once a week when they were small, while I was at work.
The girls and I have recently been thinking and talking about him and both remember enjoying Grandad pushing them around Mum and Dad’s back garden in his wheelbarrow (at some speed)!
Sophie remembers them being taught by Granddad to bang their knives and forks on the table at lunchtime, and to shout in unison “where’s my dinner?!” if Nana was a little slow in serving lunch.
This is probably the sort of thing, which only grandfathers can get away with!
It was sad to see Dad not able to be active during the last year or so of his life, although even during this time, I think he was able to quietly enjoy life a lot of the time, despite often not feeling well.
He read the paper and watched TV, and didn’t lose his sense of humour.
He had a carer, Emma, whose daily visits really cheered him up and Mum and I are both very grateful to her for that.
These are just a few of my memories of my Dad.
He was a lovely Dad and there is so much more that I could say, if only there were time.
He and my Mum were incredibly happy together for 73 years and I don’t know how one could even begin to fit so many years’ worth of memories into such a small space.
We will miss him so much – but we will never forget him.
Guy was a highly respected architect, founder of Guy Taylor Associates and an alumnus of the Oxford Polytechnic School of Architecture.
Zoia studied and then taught at the Oxford School of Architecture in the late 1960's
In the early hours of December 5th 2013, Zoia Beresford passed away in Narberth Pembrokeshire at the age of 82.
Zoia, was brought up in Hampshire, and was sent off to the infamous St Trinian’s school.
Zoia became a student and later a member of staff at the Oxford School of Architecture from the late sixties till the late seventies, teaching architectural design and specialising in conservation in the Diploma course.
She also taught in the School of Surveying.
She will be remembered for her enthusiastic involvement with the Doric club, when for a number of years in the 1970s she organised the end of 6th year celebration parties in her house in Old Headington, when both staff and students would splash about in the swimming pool - after the announcement of the final results at the ‘Vicky Arms’ in Old Marston.
In the eulogy read by her son Max, who also studied at the Oxford School, he recalled:
“I remember playing in the diploma studio at Oxford Polytechnic and coming home on a bright summer’s afternoon to find the garden littered with students and staff who appeared to have been drinking all day.
Mum and one other member of staff were the only ones standing… but only just”.
On hearing of Zoia’s death, alumni from the Norwegian Doric Club, Bent Stensaker and Gunnar Aaserud remembered fondly the “great garden parties celebrating the final results”.
Other members of the Doric Club, including John Assael, Gus Grundt, Andreas Grieg, Mette L’Orange and Tobben Eggen and Erik Romke, sent their condolences to the Doric Club and to the Oxford School of Architecture.
The Head of School of Architecture, Matt Gaskin sent flowers on behalf of the School.
Zoia moved to Wales in 1992 where she lived ever since, closer to her family.
She had a lifelong passion for horses and dogs and there were many pony trekking adventures in the welsh hills with her son and grandchildren.
The funeral took place at the Narberth Crematorium, Pembrokeshire, on Friday 20th December.
Written by Byron Mikellides and Manfred Thoms.
Andrew Hutton studied a post graduate diploma in Urban Planning for 2 years at the Oxford Polytechnic, graduating in 1971.
Obituary written by Jennifer Hadland (for Root & Branch, the Yorks RTPI newsletter):
"It is sad to note that Andrew Martin Hutton, 63, died suddenly and unexpectedly on 4 September 2012.
"A kind and caring man, who spent the majority of his life working as a Chartered Town Planner, Andrew was a member of the RTPI (Yorkshire) and during his professional life, worked for both the local government (Hull City Council and Ryedale District Council) and the private sector (Smiths Gore).
"Born in Huddersfield in 1948 the family soon moved to Walsall, where he spent his school days, before moving to Matlock in Derbyshire to complete his sixth form education.
He kept up those friendships from Matlock Sixth Form, meeting regularly through the years.
"Andrew was the very first Planner at Smiths Gore.
At the start, as the sole specialist within the firm, by working with non specialist colleagues and directly for major clients, he covered the whole of England.
His application and ability allowed him to forge strong relationships with clients and fellow colleagues.
From these beginnings, the Planning department has grown.
There are now five offices offering planning advice to clients across the UK.
"Andrew was a kind, caring and patient man, very articulate and logical; a born planner.
His eyesight began to deteriorate in 2006 and he was eventually registered as partially sighted due to Macular Degeneration, a setback which he bore with his usual quiet dignity.
His ability to embrace technology and use innovative approaches to his work allowed him to continue working until he retired in November 2011.
In addition to his love of planning, Andrew was a keen sportsman.
As a young man he enjoyed athletics, football and cricket, continuing to enjoy sport all his life; however, in particular, Andrew will be remembered for his love of music.
Not only did Andrew enjoy listening to music, especially Soul and Blues, he was a wonderfully skilled musician and played the accordion and piano.
"Andrew met his wife Bev in 2005 through that mutual love of music, especially Nina Simone.
They quickly found that they shared many other interests including Art and Travel and they went on to marry in 2009.
Despite his health problems, a time of real joy for Andrew filled with highlights such as; Blues festivals; several trips to the eastern Mediterranean; a memorable visit to The States.
"Sadly all too short.
He will be dearly missed and our thoughts go out to his family and friends".
Pat Sudor wrote: “I first met Andy on the planning course at Oxford Poly (now Oxford Brookes), and got to know him better when we were both area DC officers at Ryedale.
He was later promoted to Deputy there before going to Smiths Gore.
I also ran into him at blues events, including a memorable Jools Holland concert.
He was a nice guy who went far too early”.
Greta had lived in Divinity Road since 1977.
She trained at Oxford Brookes to be a community nurse in 1987 and since then she visited, treated and supported hundreds of patients in and around Oxford.
She died on 3rd November 2012.
Her husband Richard Josephy wrote:
"Greta, who died on November 3 rd 2012, had lived in Divinity Road since 1977.
She qualified at the Middlesex Hospital in 1964 and worked as a nurse, with breaks to look after three young children,until she retired in 2004.
In 1987 she trained at Oxford Brookes to be a community nurse and since then she visited, treated and supported hundreds of patients in and around Oxford.
She loved her work and always spoke about her patients with warmth and understanding, even the difficult ones.
Her only hard words were about unnecessary bureaucracy or anything she perceived to be unkind.
Greta’s interests were wide: music, art, travel, the countryside and in particular her beloved Cornwall, gardening, but above all in people.
She was a founder member of the Divinity Singers and sang with the Oxford Harmonic Society, for whom she rarely missed a concert.
After retiring, she struck a perfect balance between developing her own interests and continuing to sustain others.
She helped children learning to read at East Oxford Primary School where she was much loved by those she worked with.
Many friends and neighbours are eternally grateful for Greta’s help and support, particularly when people were ill or dying or bereaved or just going through a difficult time.
She always hit the right note: effective but unobtrusive, a calm and reassuring presence when things were hard.
For her extended family Greta was a cornerstone around whom members gathered to celebrate in good times and to be supported in difficult ones.
Greta’s diagnosis of a rare lymphoma in 1999 was met with typical optimism and determination to make the most of whatever time was left.
As it turned out, her treatment was very effective and for most of the time since then she was fit and active.
Not only did she seem to have almost limitless energy and enthusiasm in everyday life; she went, with Richard, on four extended camping trips to Italy.
These often included long walks in the hills and Greta also climbed many of the Lake District hills during family holidays there.
Only in the last few months was she really poorly, and even then her positive approach to life and her concern for others shone through.
Throughout her illness Greta was under the care of the Haematology Department at the Churchill Hospital.
The treatment, care, consideration and kindness she received there were outstanding and she felt privileged to live almost next door to such a centre of excellence.
Greta is missed dreadfully by her family and her many friends, but they are sustained by memories of her warmth, kindness and love of life."
Bob Hoyle, alumnus, lecturer and Oxford City Councillor, died on 13 March 2011.
Bob was born in Leeds in 1956 and grew up in Crosby Liverpool, where he was a pupil at Merchant Taylors' School.
He studied for his bachelor’s degree at the University of Cambridge.
This was followed by a master’s at the University of Bristol and a doctorate at the University of Oxford.
Bob also took the graduate diploma in law at Oxford Brookes University.
In the early 1990s Bob was a lecturer and research fellow at Oxford Polytechnic and later a welfare rights adviser at Oxford Brookes Students' Union.
He later became a tutor in mathematics at Cherwell College.
Bob was an active member of Oxford East Constituency Labour Party, where he met his future wife, Sarah Margetts, and an active member of the Co-operative Party.
He served on Oxford City Council as a member for Temple Cowley Ward and was chair of governors at Oxford School and St Francis School.
Bob stood as Labour parliamentary candidate for Hampshire East and later as Liberal Democrat parliamentary candidate for Luton North and Liberal Democrat parliamentary candidate for Bristol North West.
He was a lifelong supporter of Everton.
A qualified nurse from Ghana, Theodora studied Children's Nursing in 2007 and then went on to complete her MSc in Public Health in 2011.
Described as 'an inspiration to others for many years to come'.
Senior lecturer Dr Sandy Oldfield wrote:
"I first met Theodora in 2006, when she was working as a nurse in the Special Care Baby Unit in Oxford.
She had previously qualified and worked as a nurse and midwife in Ghana.
Being new to higher education, Theo decided to first attempt some modules as an associate student.
Encouraged by her success, Theo subsequently began the post-experience Children’s Nursing BSc (Hons) programme in 2007, from which she graduated in 2009.
During that time, I was Theo’s personal tutor, lecturer on a number of her modules and dissertation supervisor.
Theo was an exceptional student, and a delight to teach.
I cannot recall anyone in my many years of teaching who was a more enthusiastic proponent of higher education and how it could change people’s lives.
Theo radiated enthusiasm in all she did – whether in theory or practice.
She had steely determination and stood out as student who went the extra mile in her studies, which was very evident in her engagement in class discussions and other learning opportunities available.
Furthermore, she would often offer unique insights gained from her experience of working in different cultural contexts; this definitely helped to encourage her classmates to think and practise cross-culturally.
By many of her younger classmates she was viewed like a ‘mother’, because she was so empathetic and supportive of them, and ready to offer help.
Theo was a great believer in the importance of applying evidence in practice for the welfare of children and families.
I recall her telling me how she challenged some of the doctors in the unit where she worked to consistently adhere to evidence-based practice in infection control; she said they listened to her, which I suspect was largely due to her good natured and humorous way of doing this.
Having undertaken her dissertation on neonatal developmental interventions, she enthusiastically shared her learning from this with others in her workplace, encouraging them to think about how to incorporate research findings in practice.
An extract from Theo’s final reference from us speaks for itself in this regard: “Theodora feels she has particularly developed her understanding of evidence-based practice and the physiology underpinning this, as well as management skills; she now feels confident in evaluating and where necessary, challenging practice.” She had very high expectations of herself and other people.
Theo had a lovely open, generous and caring personality, which meant she readily established close relationships with others.
Every member of the Children’s Nursing teaching team remembers her with great fondness.
We will always remember Theo as a wonderful person, who contributed so much to others’ lives – not only in an educational context but also in health care practice.
Although her life was unexpectedly cut short, the way she lived her life will be an inspiration to others for many years to come.
Theodora returned to Ghana in September 2011, but was tragically killed in a car accident in Ghana on December 18th.
Her memorial service will be held on Saturday January 28th 2-8pm at Sol House in Manchester."
Peter died in a tragic accident in London on Wednesday 10th August 2011 at the age of 28.
Peter was sitting enjoying drinks with his friends outside Le Bouchon Bordelais in Battersea when he was struck on the head by falling masonry.
Peter was an alumnus of the School of the Built Environment, having joined Oxford Brookes University to undertake a MSc Real Estate Management.
He graduated with merit in 2007.
He then qualified as a Chartered Surveyor with Gerald Eve, where he continued to work until his death.
Nick French, Professor in Real Estate in the Department of Real Estate and Construction Management was his Programme Director and Personal Tutor.
“I remember Peter well and I kept in touch with him and many of his peers from the 2006/07 cohort.
His year was also my first year at Brookes as Programme Director and I remember that many of his peers found the workload of an intense one year MSc difficult, yet Peter never complained.
He worked hard and diligently and was rewarded with a high merit qualification.
As a fellow Arsenal fan, I also remember his passion and love of football.
He was a quiet unassuming man who enjoyed life.
His death is tragic and sad and makes no sense.
My thoughts are with his family and all his friends”.
Peter’s funeral was held on Friday 19th August 2011 at St Mary's Church in Bromley.
The church was full with standing room only in the aisles.
The ceremony was a celebration and, although there were lots of tears, Peter was remembered with love and humour.
Susan was an alumna of the Business School graduating in 2005 with a degree in Business and Marketing.
Susan tragically passed away on 29 May 2010, unexpectedly but peacefully in her sleep at home.
She is deeply missed by all who knew her.
Susan was a wonderful person: warm hearted and caring, perceptive and clear sighted, quick witted and funny.
She was a big personality but never crowded others out; she could say what she thought without being unkind or insensitive; and she had a knack of making people laugh.
She was born on 15 November 1982 in Brisbane, Australia.
She was the youngest of five children and her birth was greeted with enormous excitement.
From the very beginning she was a smiley, playful and outgoing personality who was always willing to give things a try.
Susan’s early childhood was peripatetic: her family left Australia when she was a few weeks old and moved between the Arabian Gulf and the UK five times before settling in Bury St Edmunds, Suffolk when Susan was ten.
The friends she made at school in Suffolk formed a supportive group, who remain close today.
They remember her playfulness, as well as her caring side:
“One of our earliest memories is of Susan hooking our bag straps round the banisters at school, leaving us to fight our way back through the crowds of people who had piled up behind us, to unhook ourselves.
She loved fancy dress and was the only person we knew who would go to a party dressed up as a beer bottle, even though the fancy dress theme had been cancelled.
“Susan would drop everything for you, no matter how busy she was.
She would always take you out and cheer you up if you’d had a bad day, and wouldn’t take no for an answer.
She was the glue that held our group together.”
After school, Susan took a gap year and saved up to go travelling to Chile, New Zealand, Australia and Hong Kong for six months, where she had a blast.
She came back in the summer of 2002 to start her degree course in Business and Marketing at Oxford Brookes in the autumn.
She made some close friends during her time there, who remember that,
“Susie embraced university life to the max.
In our first year in halls, everyone knew who she was, as she was always wreaking havoc, whether it was playing practical jokes on her roommates or running around campus at ungodly hours singing at the top of her voice in an attempt to get people to join in with the party.
“She was also extremely diligent, but always played down her intelligence and abilities.
In the second and third years, we took our studies more seriously and Wednesday nights at Brookes’ Student Union became our standard night out of the week.
The next day would always involve a fry up at Posh Fish in Headington or a MacDonald’s which we would have to personally deliver to Susie if her head was a little too sore!”
Following university, Susan returned to Bury St Edmunds and within a few months found a job as Mail Order Marketing Assistant at the seed company Thompson & Morgan, based in Ipswich.
She settled into her new role quickly, making friends with the Finance Director in the lift on her first day and becoming a popular member of the team.
Recognising the increasing opportunity for online marketing, Susan gave this area particular focus, which led to a promotion to Group E-Commerce Marketing Assistant and subsequently the opportunity to secure a position as Account Executive for Warner Bros.
with Play.com, the online media company.
She had been at Play.com just over a year when she was promoted to the position of Product Marketing Manager for Books and Music.
Susan was ambitious in career terms as well as in her desire “to be the funniest person in the office”.
She revelled in her new company and took full advantage of the opportunities it offered to attend premieres, concerts and parties associated with new releases.
Two days before she died, she attended the premiere of Sex and the City II, where she had her photo taken (see above) on the red carpet like any star.
The last five years of Susan’s life were also the happiest on a personal level, as she established a loving and supportive relationship with her partner, Richard.
Losing her has left an enormous gap in his life, as well as those of her family and friends.
We will always miss her, and life is very different without her, but we know that we are fortunate to have spent so many fantastic times with her and our lives will always be richer for having known her.
Doctor of the University (HonDUniv)
Year conferred: 2000
Claire Rayner was best known as Britain's leading agony aunt.
She enjoyed a long and successful career as a journalist, broadcaster and writer, but began her professional life training as a nurse at the Royal Northern Hospital in London.
In the latter part of her life she was a vociferous campaigner on the subject of hospital hygiene and the need to stop the spread of MRSA and all other Hospital Acquired Infections.
In 2009 she was a member of the Prime Minister's Commission on the Future of Nursing and Midwifery.
She was a Vice-President of the British Humanist Association, a Distinguished Supporter of the Humanist Society of Scotland and an Honorary Associate of the National Secular Society.
She was also a prominent supporter of the British republican movement.
She was an Honorary Associate of the UK's National Secular Society.
Rayner became a breast cancer activist at the age of 71 in order to promote the work of the charity Cancer Research UK.
Claire sadly died in October 2010.
Oxford Brookes University offers its condolences to the family and friends of Lieutenant Mark Lawrence Evison ’06, of the 1st Battalion, The Welsh Guards, who was shot while on patrol in Afghanistan and later died of his wounds.
Lieutenant Evison was an alumnus of the School of the Built Environment, having graduated in Real Estate Management in 2006.
He then trained at the Royal Military Academy Sandhurst and was commissioned into the Welsh Guards on 14 December 2007.
David Shiers, senior lecturer in the Real Estate and Construction Management department and Lieutenant Evison’s personal tutor, paid tribute to the former Oxford Brookes student.
“Reading the many heartfelt and moving tributes paid by his family, friends and fellow soldiers, those of us who taught Mark immediately recognised the student we knew.
“Mark was one of life’s great enthusiasts; energetic and always looking for new challenges which he would take pride and pleasure in meeting.
His drive and resourcefulness were obvious characteristics but there was also a warm and generous personality and the sensitivity evident in his achievements in music was also apparent in his dealings with others.
“Projects and assignments which involved team working always brought out the best in him and he consistently attained good marks for this work – achieving one of the highest marks in the whole year for one particular integrated team module.
It was no surprise to us that he had forged his talents and abilities into a mature sense of duty and responsibility for others.
“We were all deeply saddened by the loss of someone who we know would have gone on to achieve many more excellent things in his life and who would have continued to bring so much into the lives of others.”
Please visit the Ministry of Defence website or BBC.co.uk for further tributes to Lieutenant Mark Evison.
John Stevens studied at the Oxford School of Architecture and subsequently returned there to teach, being promoted to senior lecturer in 1970.
He died peacefully on 22 September 2009.
An account of his life provides further details, including a stint carrying cement for the new Abercrombie Building.
John was born in London in 1938, and in 1939 went with his parents and sister, Colette, to Northern Rhodesia (now Zambia), where his father was a District Officer, and his early years were spent there.
In 1946, the family, now six in number, returned to Jersey, and in 1947, John went to prep school in England while the rest of the family returned to Africa.
In 1949, his father retired and the family was reunited in Jersey.
His mother, who came from an old Jersey family, later became well known as author of a 2 volume work about old Jersey houses.
In 1951 John went to Winchester College, which he hated, but where he won prizes for art and carpentry and became an accomplished bookbinder.
In 1956, he became a student at the Oxford School of Architecture, then part of the College of Technology, (now Oxford Brookes University), becoming an ARIBA in 1962.
During one summer vacation he actually worked on the building site of what is now the Abercrombie Building, and carried many hundredweight sacks of cement.
He later returned to the School to teach, being promoted to senior lecturer in 1970.
He was a natural teacher, with great enthusiasm for his subject, who considered that students, rather than pure 'admin', were the raison d'etre of higher education, and they in turn greatly appreciated his care and energy.
He was a conscientious member of staff and was always involved in course development in the School of Architecture.
He was greatly missed by staff and students when he left in 1984 to return to Jersey to help his mother and sister convert a farmhouse.
Retirement allowed him to pursue his passion for vernacular architecture, and he lived variously in Frome, Oxford, Norfolk and Ludlow.
His particular research interests were the Medieval Hall House and Medieval Hunting Lodges, and he corresponded with fellow enthusiasts in long letters and telephone calls.
He was a person of considerable charm, looks, social graces, taste and intelligence, who had a strong 'feminine side' and got on well with young people.
He was married three times.
He died peacefully in Ludlow on 22 September 2009 at the age of 71.
Olive Gibbs, twice Lord Mayor of Oxford and a governor and long-standing supporter of our institution, was in 1986 the recipient of the first honorary degree awarded by Oxford Polytechnic.
Although Mrs Gibbs died in 1995 her name lives on in OBU's Gibbs Building, and on 11 April 2015, a blue plaque was unveiled at her childhood home, Christ Church Old Buildings.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/alumni-and-supporters/stay-connected/register-your-details:
What industry are you employed in?
Our aim is to enable alumni, supporters and friends of Oxford Brookes to stay engaged with the University and with each other.
However we understand that you may not always want to hear from us.
We'll keep your personal details safe within the University and won't share them with any other organisations for their marketing purposes.
From time to time we may share your details with third parties representing us or working on our behalf to clean and enrich data.
This data sharing will be carried out securely, in line with contractual requirements.
For full details on how we collect, use and store your personal data, please see our Data Protection Statement for Alumni and privacy statement .
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/alumni-and-supporters/stay-connected/contact-us:
If you are an ACCA graduate, please email acca@brookes.ac.uk, otherwise use the contact form below.
Information submitted via this form will be held securely on our database for the purpose of getting in touch with you to follow up on your communication with us.
To find out more about how we use the personal information we collect, please see our privacy policies .
We would like to contact you from time to time to tell you about our upcoming alumni events and latest university news.
Please opt in to receiving these via the options below.
You can withdraw your consent at any time.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/alumni-and-supporters/give-back:
Give back to Brookes by sharing your time and experience.
Many alumni choose to give back to Brookes as a thank you to the institution that helped set them on a successful career path.
While others recognise the challenges of an ever-changing and highly competitive job market - and see an opportunity to make a real difference to the prospects of current students and recent graduates.
Whatever your reason for wanting to give back, there is a range of different ways you can help.
Ways to give back to Brookes.
Share your story about the career path you followed, and perhaps inspire students to follow a similar path.
Help at important events, such as open days, by sharing your experience and tips with prospective students.
Advertise an opportunity at your business to students and graduates seeking internships and professional-level work experience.
Join our mentoring scheme - Brookes Connections - to provide career mentoring to students and fellow alumni.
Make a gift to Oxford Brookes University and give students life-changing opportunities.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/alumni-and-supporters/give-back/share-your-story:
Share your story to inform students about the career path you followed, and perhaps inspire them to follow a similar path.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/alumni-and-supporters/support-for-recent-graduates:
We offer a range of services to recent graduates.
We value our alumni and want to continue to support your development after you have graduated.
There is a range of networking opportunities for you to tap into the skills and experience of your fellow alumni, as well as further courses, events and benefits that may interest you now and in the future.
As a recent Brookes graduate, you have access to a range of career support, resources and employment opportunities through the Brookes Careers service.
Enterprise Support offers exceptional opportunities for recent graduates.
Build your skills, develop your confidence and kickstart your business with our fantastic programme of events, mentorship and co-working spaces.
Volunteering enhances your employability!
It is a fantastic way to develop skills and gain hands-on experience, whilst giving you great insight into the world of work.
Moreover, volunteering is valuable work experience.
It makes your CV sparkle and helps you stand out from the crowd in a competitive job market.
The Brookes Careers Volunteer Centre is open to students and alumni and can support you in finding volunteering opportunities that can boost your CV.
Volunteering as a school governor is a great opportunity to experience leadership at board level and develop transferable skills.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/about-brookes/news/news-from-2025/06/oxford-brookes-ranks-in-top-25-of-global-universit:
Thursday 19 June 2025
The rankings , published today (19 June), place Oxford Brookes 374th out of 1,501 universities worldwide, a rise of 42 places on last year’s result.
Nationally, the University is ranked 38th overall out of 90 institutions, four positions higher than last year.
Vice-Chancellor Professor Alistair Fitt said: “To be placed in the top quarter of evaluated universities worldwide is a real achievement.
This reflects the global outlook of our community and our determination to deliver an education that’s inclusive, outward-looking and responsive to the future.” Oxford Brookes performed particularly strongly in areas related to international engagement.
It was ranked 143rd globally for International Student Diversity, a new indicator introduced this year, and 168th for International Students, underlining the breadth and diversity of the University’s student body.
The QS World University Rankings assess institutions across nine indicators, including academic and employer reputation, internationalisation, research strength and graduate employability.
The 2025 QS World University Rankings by Subject, published in March, named Oxford Brookes among the world’s best in 23 subject areas – up from 21 in 2024.
Oxford Brookes is also ranked 38th in the UK in the Guardian University Guide 2024 , which places the University in the UK top 10 for ten subjects, including Children’s Nursing (1st), Midwifery (2nd), Journalism (2nd) and Graphic Design (3rd).

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/alumni-and-supporters/news/2025/oxford-brookes-university-confers-honorary-doctora:
Tuesday 10 June 2025
Máire Brankin's passionate advocacy for the Oxford Brookes Gaza Scholarship stems from a deeply personal place.
Having grown up in Northern Ireland during the Troubles, this lived experience has instilled in her a strong belief that offering educational opportunities is a fundamental path towards conflict resolution and building a more peaceful future.
Máire Brankin is recognised as a pioneering figure in executive coaching.
She founded Oxford Executive Coaching in 1991, establishing it as one of the longest-standing and most highly respected coaching companies in the UK, and one of the first coaching firms in Europe.
With over 30 years of experience, she is lauded for her transformative and bespoke approach to leadership development, having coached chairs, chief executives, and boards of major organisations, including NHS Trusts and global banks.
Trained as a teacher, social anthropologist, and psychotherapist, Brankin uniquely draws on her interdisciplinary background to support individuals and teams navigating complex change.
A fervent advocate for fairness, she has consistently focused her practice on increasing diversity in leadership, particularly for women and under-represented professionals in medicine and law.
Her coaching empowers clients to challenge limiting beliefs, understand institutional culture, and unlock their full potential.
Máire Brankin's significant societal contributions include specialising in coaching medical professionals within the NHS and contributing to organisational cultural change and equal opportunities.
Over the years, she has supported the City Women Network and the Women's Irish Network, and has been instrumental in developing coaching for the NHS Women's Unit.
Her extensive volunteer work spans chairing ICAP, pro bono mentoring for charities, and her involvement with Activate Learning Education Trust.
alumni@brookes.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/alumni-and-supporters/news/2025/alumni-spotlight-dr-abed-kasaji-at-the-forefront-o:
Tuesday 3 June 2025
His time at University was a period of significant achievement, including being honoured with a prize from the UK and Ireland Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers in 2007 for his pioneering dissertation on molecular electronics and nanotechnology research.
Following his time at Brookes, Dr Kasaji continued to expand his expertise, demonstrating a remarkable commitment to lifelong learning.
He earned a Master of Business Administration from Heriot-Watt University in 2016 and further postgraduate degrees, including a Doctorate of Business Administration from Henley Business School in 2024.
His pursuit of knowledge continues as he is currently completing a Master of Business Analytics and Business Consultancy at Heriot-Watt University and has enrolled for a Master in Epistemology, Ethics and Mind at the University of Edinburgh.
Currently, Dr Kasaji serves as the Middle East and North Africa Business Design, Transformation, and Consulting Senior Manager at Ernst & Young, a position he has held since December 2021.
In this pivotal role, he is at the forefront of solving enterprise-wide issues by architecting solutions for complex problems.
His responsibilities encompass growth strategy, strategic planning, cost reduction strategies, and operating model designs.
Dr Kasaji profoundly credits his United Kingdom education as a cornerstone of his success, emphasising its unique blend of academic rigour, cultural diversity, and a rich tradition of innovation.
He highlights how the United Kingdom's educational system fosters critical thinking, independent research, and intellectual challenge, pushing him to expand his understanding.
"The approach to learning in the UK is deeply analytical, with a focus on developing not just subject-specific knowledge but also the ability to apply this knowledge in practical, real-world situations," Dr Kasaji states.
He adds, "This practical aspect of the UK education system was invaluable, as it provided me with a toolkit of skills that are directly transferable to the workplace".
Furthermore, learning from leading minds involved in cutting-edge research and the cultural diversity within UK universities significantly influenced his global outlook and preparedness for international teamwork.
"Studying alongside students from all over the world exposed me to a wide range of perspectives and ideas, fostering a global outlook and an appreciation for the interconnectedness of today's world," he explains.
Dr Kasaji actively shares his experience, embracing the responsibility of inspiring others: he regularly participates in mentorship programmes and sessions organised by educational institutions and professional organisations.
"By sharing stories of my own challenges and triumphs, I aim to illustrate the real-world impact of these experiences," says Dr Kasaji.
He emphasises the importance of critical thinking, exposure to cutting-edge research, and the invaluable global network that United Kingdom education offers.
Dr Kasaji's remarkable achievements have recently been recognised through his shortlisting for the British Council Study UK Alumni Awards 2025 in Jordan, specifically within the Business and Innovation Award category.
This accolade acknowledges the exceptional accomplishments of alumni from UK universities globally.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/about-brookes/news/news-from-2025/06/oxford-brookes-to-lead-major-research-study-on-ai:
Monday 2 June 2025
The study is part of the Northern Ireland Department of Education’s RAISE Programme , which aims to raise achievement and aspirations among school pupils.
More than 15,000 pupils will take part in the year-long study, using an AI-powered reading tutor to provide clear evidence to help shape national literacy policy and support informed, effective teaching in the classroom.
The research will assess the impact of evidence-based AI literacy tools on reading outcomes by comparing two groups of pupils with similar characteristics—such as reading ability and socio-economic background.
One group will use the AI tool, while the other will follow standard classroom approaches.
The study also aims to support teacher development by helping educators implement targeted interventions in the classroom.
Pupils will begin with a 15-minute baseline assessment to evaluate their literacy levels and identify potential challenges such as dyslexia.
They will then take part in weekly 20 to 40-minute sessions using Amira Learning, an AI-assisted reading tutor.
Teachers in participating schools will receive both in-person and online training from Oxford Brookes University, to help them interpret pupil data via detailed reports and apply personalised, evidence-based teaching strategies.
The project supports Northern Ireland's shift toward practical, evidence-based tools in education, combining classroom impact with strategic policy insight.
Professor Tim Vorley, Pro Vice-Chancellor at Oxford Brookes University, said: “This pilot gives us the opportunity to rigorously test how tools like Amira can support what we already know works in primary reading.
It's about applying the evidence—not replacing it—with technology that complements and enhances the professionalism of teachers rather than competing with it.
“At the heart of this research is a belief that every child—regardless of background or ability—deserves the best possible support to develop vital reading skills.
By working closely with teachers to deliver tailored, evidence-based interventions, we hope to contribute to a more inclusive and effective education system that gives all learners the chance to thrive.” Oxford Brookes is a national leader in teacher education, with over 25 years’ experience in training teachers, supporting schools and shaping education policy.
Its research in primary literacy, inclusive pedagogy and professional development has informed teaching practice across the UK and internationally.
Through its publishing and education development arm, Hamilton Brookes, the University works directly with schools and education systems to co-create practical resources that help teachers apply research in real-world settings.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/about-brookes/news/news-from-2025/05/oxford-brookes-celebrates-campus-transformation-wi:
Thursday 1 May 2025
A special ceremony today (1 May) marked the official opening of the new Headington Hill buildings, marking an exciting new chapter for students, researchers, and the wider community.
Professor Alistair Fitt, Vice-Chancellor, and Paterson Joseph, Chancellor, cut the ceremonial ribbon, with guests later touring the impressive new spaces.
Professor Alistair Fitt, Vice-Chancellor of Oxford Brookes University, said: “Oxford Brookes is committed to building an environment which supports our students, staff and partners to excel.
Formally opened today, the Teaching and Workshop buildings feature cutting-edge technology and will enhance education, research and employability opportunities.
“Our campus spaces continue to respond to the evolving needs of the University’s community and the rapidly changing world of education.
Our vision is for our Oxford environment to inspire a vibrant, connected and diverse student and staff community to achieve their potential and the opening of these pioneering new buildings plays an important part in achieving this.”
Opened earlier this year, the new Teaching Building is a vibrant hub of creativity and collaboration.
Open to students and staff 24 hours a day and spread over three floors, it features robotics labs, 3D printing technology, graphic design studios, exhibition spaces, a digital theatre, and an immersive Virtual Reality Cave.
With a central atrium and café set within the Headington Hill Conservation Area, the building offers a welcoming space for students, staff, and the wider community.
Social spaces, group work zones, and quiet study areas are thoughtfully integrated throughout.
Set to open fully in the 2025/26 academic year, the Workshop Building will provide students with industry-standard technical facilities, including advanced engineering equipment and hands-on teaching spaces that mirror real-world environments.
A unique highlight will be the display of Formula 1 racing cars, supporting in-depth learning in suspension, chassis design, and aerodynamics.
It will also serve as the new base for Oxford Brookes Racing, the University’s renowned student racing team, providing an exciting opportunity to apply engineering knowledge in a high-performance motorsport setting.
These exciting new spaces are available for the whole Oxford Brookes community and reflect the University's commitment to innovation, hands-on learning, world-leading research and community engagement.
The University partnered with Willmott Dixon Construction and ADP Architecture for the project.
Richard Poulter, Managing Director of Willmott Dixon Construction South said: “It has been a privilege to work alongside Oxford Brookes University to bring their ambitious vision to life.
These exceptional new buildings are not only architecturally striking but are also packed with advanced technologies and innovative learning spaces that will serve students, staff, and industry partners for years to come.
We’re proud to have delivered facilities that will help shape the future of education and research, and which reflect the University’s clear commitment to excellence, sustainability, and community impact.”
Glen Moses, Project Director at ADP, said: “The new Headington Hill buildings are a significant development for Oxford Brookes and an opportunity for the entire university community to inhabit buildings that embody sustainability principles, serving as a living laboratory for learning, research, and teaching.
The ambition was to create a vibrant new heart for the Headington Hill site through the addition of two thoughtfully designed buildings: a purpose-built workshop and a long-life, flexible teaching facility."
"The University’s vision was clear: the project presented a unique opportunity to reimagine the organisation of academic activities by bringing together a wide range of 'making' practices into an iconic new building and a complementary workshop space—designed with trans-disciplinary collaboration as a defining principle.
The conservation area, parkland context and the close collaboration with the University and its stakeholders has led to a truly unique solution which we believe will benefit the staff, students, and the local community at Headington.”
The University is thankful to CMB Engineering, Drees and Sommer and Showcase PSR for their support for the official opening event.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/subject-areas/accounting-finance-and-economics:
Register for an Open Day
You’ll be able to critically evaluate evidence and make well- informed decisions.
These courses will provide the foundations for you to become a successful leader in your career.
Many of the Oxford Brookes Business School undergraduate and postgraduate programmes meet the quality standards to be accredited by renowned professional bodies.
Read about our accreditations, exemptions and associations .
Schools and departments
Courses in marketing taught in:
1
Our outstanding links with leading employers open up exciting opportunities to develop valuable experience with an optional year-long, paid work placement.
2
Our course content stays up-to-date through our close relationships with professional bodies .
These partnerships include the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA).
3
The economics that you learn will enable you to apply concepts to a wide range of practical business problems .
Oxford Brookes Business School students who wish to pursue a work placement are supported by the Work and Voluntary Experience Services (WAVES) team.
Find out more about the opportunities available to enhance your career prospects.
Learn about our work placements
At Oxford Brookes Business School, we connect with businesses in a number of ways to enhance both the student experience and collaborate on research projects.
Marcelo Honorio Campos
"The course has helped me to set goals for my future career by providing a solid foundation in economics and exposing me to various career paths within the field"
Afia Bhatti
"Studying at Oxford Brookes has definitely surpassed my expectations in every regards"
Shini Rajannan
"The lecturers apply real life scenarios to theory.
You develop a good balance between theoretical knowledge and practical transferable skills"
Yanling Liu
"I really like the teachers and I really like their teaching styles.
Having had a foundation I really understand what I’m being taught.
I’ve found it quite relaxing, quite laid back.
However if I do need any help the teachers are always there, they’ve got the office hours"

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/subject-areas/architecture-and-the-built-environment:
Book an Open Day
We combine outstanding teaching and world-class research with theory, live projects and field trips to equip you with strong employability skills.
Build professional networks, gain hands-on experience and benefit from excellent career prospects through our global network and strong industry links.
When you study Architecture at Oxford Brookes you will find yourself part of a vibrant community of staff and students located in the historical and culturally diverse city of Oxford.
Oxford Brookes’ Built Environment graduates earn an average of £26k (Unistats, 2017).
With our extensive industry links, recent graduates have gone on to work for industry leading brands including Kier Group, Savills and Deloitte.
Open Days
Courses in a architecture and the built environment are taught in:
School of Architecture , School of the Built Environment
Our staff are actively involved in professional consultancy and leading research, so you’ll benefit from teaching that is based on the latest thinking.
You’ll be working in studios which mimic professional environments and are designed to facilitate collaboration and design work.
All labs are equipped with state-of-the-art software for the development of your work.
The School of the Built Environment hosts its own careers fair dedicated to employers who operate in the built environment sector.
Jessica Cansian
"At the same time that I am improving my English skills, the pre-sessional English course is also improving my academic skills for my master’s studies"
Nurul Mohd Razali
"When I first arrived here, I was alone, just me!
So what I wondered at first was - “how can I make friends?” So I decided to do one thing, join an Oxford Brookes society which really helped"
Taewoo Kim
"The pre-master's teachers encouraged students who had difficulty expressing themselves to voice their opinions.
At the end, all the students had plenty of self-confidence"
Joseph Iwuafor
"It feels like the air in Oxford is very different, it is like I am almost home all the time...
it is great to be part of such a large community of students who have lived here for hundreds and hundreds of years, it is fantastic"

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/subject-areas/arts-design-and-media:
Engage your creative skills with our range of degrees.
Your creativity will thrive when you join our inspiring and dynamic community of:
Our accomplished team of tutors will inspire you as you combine academic rigour with creative practice.
Throughout your time at Oxford Brookes you'll cultivate and expand your interests while preparing for a career in the creative industries.
The School of Arts brings together filmmakers, fine artists, graphic designers, photographers, journalists, publishers and beyond to form an inspiring, dynamic community of creatives.
We design our degrees to meet the challenges of the modern media, computer games and film industry.
You'll learn from inspirational academics and award winning industry professionals.
Ranked top 150 in the QS World University Rankings, Arts and Humanities 2025.
Courses in arts, design, music and film are taught in:
We have dedicated studio spaces, support and resources for woodworking, welding, vacuum forming, glass forming, casting and ceramics.
Our specialist IT studios are equipped for video and sound editing, electronic imaging, page layout and web authoring resources.
The Motion Capture Suite, Photographic Studio and Darkrooms have high end equipment and are supported by technical specialists.
Our Dolby Atmos 4K cinema room system is perfect for showcasing the research activity and creative work of our students.
The Glass Tank Gallery provides students with the opportunity to curate, perform and sell their work.
Collaborating with students from different subjects is a good way to make friends, while learning about disciplines other than your own.
You could work with other students to create music for a film or digital media project, or film a piece of performance art.
There are so many projects you could work on, whether it's part of an assessed module or just for fun.
You'll also have other opportunities to explore your interests.
The School of Arts is proud to run university wide initiatives and societies including:
We screen documentaries made by independent filmmakers addressing a wide range of cultural, political and social issues.
Instagram Takeover, Film and Media
Instagram Takeover, Fine Art
Instagram Takeover, Music
Lina Alqasaab
"All the priceless learning experience I accumulated during my time at Brookes is now an asset for me to advocate for the rights of children and women in Syria"
Hiu Man Chan
"I have published several book chapters on various topics on cinema, as well as a book co-written with Dr Deborah Alison and Dr Daniela Treveri Gennari on the history of the Picturehouse Cinema"
Tom Turner
"The key is having a passion for what you do and surrounding yourself with those who share that passion.
Learning then becomes exploration"
Rheanne Sanders
"The professional practice unit and the 'student associate scheme' allowed me to gain work experience in secondary school music departments"
Katherine Cox
"I would definitely recommend the course particularly for students who are creative and individual thinkers, but need guidance to steer them in the right direction to get the most out of their musical abilities"
Duncan Lee
"While studying music at Brookes I started my music education business as a sole trader one-man band under the name of Dunx Drum School"
Bob Beeton
"My advice to students coming to Brookes - learn as much as you can, ask as many questions as you can, get involved with as many things as you can and take advantage of the facilities available to you"
Anna Neale
"I started working professionally in the music industry during my first year at Brookes, but it wasn't until my third year that I really found my feet and discovered that songwriting was something I'd like to pursue"
Keren Hannah Golea
"During our first year, we had a field trip to Venice, so we went there to experience the arts 
and we really enjoyed looking at art in a much wider perspective on a global scale"

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/subject-areas/biosciences:
We do this through lab-based experiments, practical experience in areas such as bioimaging, case studies, research projects and fieldwork.
Our links with industry and the NHS provide high quality work placement opportunities.
Whether you are interested in animals and zoology, human and genetic sciences, or other disciplines of biological sciences we have the course for you.
Understand the differences between our biomedical and medical sciences courses, and which one is right for you.
Find out more about studying Equine Science at Oxford Brookes.
Dame Katherine Grainger on Professor Nigel Groome's research.
Biomedical Science student, Andrada Tomoni, talks about her experiences on placement at the prestigious UK Biocentre in Milton Keynes.
The annual Science Bazaar provides the opportunity for Brookes scientists to share their knowledge and passion with local people.
Hands on, family-friendly activities  bring research to life as part of the Oxford Science Festival.
Biosciences research centres and themes
The Centre for Bioimaging is a core facility based in the Faculty of Health and Life Sciences at Oxford Brookes University and with expertise in high-resolution live cell imaging and 3D electron microscopy.
The Centre for Functional Genomics at Oxford Brookes University aims to support scientists from evolutionary biology to biomedicine in their genomic research.
Biomedicine
Cell and Developmental Biology
Ecology and Evolution
Genetics and Genomics
Andrada Tomoni
"Studying at Brookes has proven to be the best time of my life so far"
Ferdos Abid Ali
"The prospect of working towards something that could prevent disease was exhilarating"
Emily Slatter
"I chose Brookes because their Biomedical Science course is one of the few that is Institute of Biomedical Science (IBMS) accredited"
Charlie Dee
"The course offers exciting opportunities, such as international placements"
Ben Hewlett
"It was amazing; without a doubt one of the best experiences I have ever had"
Sian Penwarden
"It was everything I wanted from a university"
Dipesh Patel
"My degree has opened so many doors for me"
Emily Thompson
"You will gain some excellent experiences"
Jessica Wragg
"The course has a varied selection of modules, allowing you to choose the avenue you personally wish to go down; whether that is geography, chemistry or biology based"
Sam Kimsey
"I have been offered GIS work in Mexico with a research organisation from the UK"
Nursu Ceren Kuyucu
"I used Wellbeing in my second year when I went through a rough patch and they really helped me.
I probably wouldn’t have finished my degree without the Wellbeing staff"
Oshin Whyte
"I think coming to Brookes has been one of the best things I have ever done"

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/subject-areas/business-and-management:
This will give you the knowledge and confidence to succeed in the real world.
Ranked 82 in the QS World University Rankings, Business and Management Studies 2025.
Courses in business and management are taught in:
Oxford Brookes Business School , School of Education, Humanities and Languages
You will benefit from our strong links with a range of exciting and innovative companies , both locally and nationally, from Purple Frog and Pamoja Education to IBM and BMW.
You’ll have the opportunity to spend a year in a paid work placement developing valuable skills .
Recent students have spent a year with Airbus, Dior, Great Ormond Street Hospital, John Lewis, Microsoft, Nestlé and PricewaterhouseCoopers.
Our academics have worked as consultants for the UN, Red Bull Racing and KPMG to name but a few.
Find out more about work placements
Find out more about undergraduate careers
Find out more about postgraduate careers
Find out more about exchanges at Oxford Brooks
Chahd Sahli
"One of the other main things that led me to choose Brookes was the CIPD accreditation, which is one of the most important things for any HR professional to have after graduation"
Gavin Wells
"Having coached at work, I started coaching formally outside work with those from my network who knew me, and wanted to add the theory and best practice to that to become a better coach and mentor"
Viv Chitty
"I had a very good relationship with my Dissertation Supervisor, so I felt well prepared for doing the research and writing the dissertation.
His feedback was challenging, and he pushed me hard.
But he believed I could get a good grade and I did"
Mohamed Mujahid Rahman
"Oxford Brookes University served as a platform to not only pursue my studies but to also learn about international culture"
Sabina-Elena Filipescu
"A Business and Management degree has [...] made me stand out in several job interviews and offered me the knowledge to specialise in core domains such as marketing management, logistics, finance, and strategic management"
Tyler Glassey
"The course at Oxford Brookes University provided the breadth of modules early on to build foundations and the ability to later tailor my degree towards my chosen career path"
Aigeri mSeitova
"Oh it’s totally different, because here you can talk with your teacher like a friend.
It’s really nice because they are very helpful.
They explain everything, whatever you didn’t understand"
Sammy Nguyen
"I love living in Oxford.
Having lived in London for a year because of my placement made me realise how much I love living in Oxford"
Bianca Cappelletti
"A great way to develop skills is by joining extra-curricular activities, such as the Oxford Brookes Business Society.
Here students have the opportunity to expand their learning and have a first-hand experience of the business world"
Katie Williams
"I had the best time and I've learned so much, and I feel like I found my passion!"
Yiyang Wu
"I had no experience about using English as academic writing, I applied for the academic writing courses (Pre-Sessional English Course), and the teachers taught me how to use the English writing styles for papers.
They helped me a lot!"
Michela Dema-Osiene
"Having lecturers who actually inspire students to talk is essential and helpful, which I had with the lecturers here"
Muhamed Selmani
"I truly believe that a foundation programme is the right path for anyone who has doubts about their subject and wants to experience topics first, learning about them in undergraduate level classes.
This gives you an amazing advantage, allowing you to figure out if this the right thing for you"
Hauwa Ahmed
"Oxford Brookes is like a community of both staff and students"
Mark Dale
"When we travelled to Oxford here in August, it was the first time seeing the city and I just knew by then that this was the perfect place for me.
You can't really compare it to anything in Denmark for sure, it’s fantastic here!"
Tina Poletto
"I just love Oxford.
It’s such a nice place with an international environment.
I liked the support that I got even before coming here"
Utsav Kharel
"I really enjoyed working with people from different cultures which I think it is most important transferable skills we learn from universities in the highly globalised world"
Vu Tran
"When I came here everything was just like I imagined before, a very beautiful city but very different from London.
Oxford is very peaceful and it is small but lovely, and a place for students, a real place for students"
William Cessford
"The international foundation is a really good course because of the mix of a lot of nationalities, making it easier to make friends and get settled in"

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/subject-areas/communication-media-journalism-and-publishing:
Our undergraduate and postgraduate degrees provide you with the latest knowledge and skills for a successful career in the media, journalism, and book publishing.
You’ll be learning from our expert staff who have worked in the media industries and continue their connections through research and consultancy.
Publishing
Journalism
Communication and Media
Courses in a arts, design, music and film are taught in:
Communication, Media, Journalism and Publishing research
The Oxford International Centre for Publishing (OICP) is one of the leading institutes for media education in the world, with a reputation for innovation and excellence in teaching and research.
Our research strengths lie in the materiality of texts - specifically in the history of the book, publishing history, textual scholarship, the sociology of texts, the digital text and also in creative writing.
Communication, Media and Culture takes a uniquely interdisciplinary approach to explore the changing resources that we use to construct and reconstruct the social world.
Brianna Walker
"Brianna (Corbett) Walker, Head of Content Management at Taylor and Francis received WIPO's Accessible Books Consortium International Excellence Award for Accessible Publishing on behalf of Taylor & Francis"
Mar Atsongchanger
"Revd Dr Mar Atsongchanger, who was on the MA in Publishing course in 2000, has recently been appointed Vice Master of Serampore College in West Bengal, India"
Zara Markland
"Zara now works for Finance Unlocked as a Product Manager.
Finance Unlocked is the world’s first comprehensive, on-demand video-delivered learning platform built specifically for finance professionals"
Daniela Ferrante
"About half way through the course at Oxford Brookes I got a part-time internship at Fairlight Books, an independent publishing house in Oxford and shortly after was offered a full-time position as Editorial and Marketing Assistant"
Aiysha Whitfield
"Even though a foundation is an extra year of study, British degrees last just three years anyway so my total studying time was the same as it would have been in the U.S."
Cornelia Ebbesen
"The course has provided me with an excellent understanding of the three themes of communication, media and culture, and how they relate to each other.
It’s given me the opportunity to explore a range of theories and ideas from the three themes, while at the same time I’ve been able to specialise in the field which best suits my interests and career ambitions"
Lucy Chileshe Filamba
"Our tutors have been really helpful and friendly; they are all easily approachable and no matter the request they offer a response fairly quickly."
Natalia Miteva
"Since starting on my placement I have been involved in many different projects and events and the increase in my responsibilities over time has proven very rewarding"
Harry Palmer
"Communication, Media and Culture really interested me as I could learn about areas like public relations and the media"
Annika Toma
"The course is so interesting – you get to question society, communications and how the media has influenced them over time"
Simon Harris
"The Brookes course offers the chance to study both medical and regular history modules.
As part of my course, I choose to take a self-directed Independent Study Module – an exciting opportunity to craft my own module and specialise in something I was particularly interested in"
Poppy
"Oxford Brookes is a wonderfully supportive university.
It encourages you to thrive despite difficult circumstances that may arise, something I experienced myself during my postgraduate study"
Jane Thick
"Coming back to further study meant that I got the chance to study areas of History that were not part of the university curriculum at that time."
London Donson
"The ISAT team were really helpful, especially before I got here with figuring out what I couldn’t do because of my visa.
Or if I had any questions about how to log into the accommodation portal or anything like that.
Everyone has just been super helpful"
Kira Harkonen
"Going on exchange in a country you’ve never been to with people you’ve never met is absolutely terrifying.
But I have learned more about myself this past year than I ever thought possible, and I think, as a result, I have become more like the person I want to be.
I’m not there yet, but this whole experience has been amazing and has helped me grow in so many ways, and to achieve the things I wanted to achieve for myself"

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/subject-areas/computing-and-digital-technologies:
You will be taught by academics who are experts in their fields and passionate about future technology and the solutions it can provide.
And you'll finish your studies with the skills needed for a successful career in computing.
Courses in a computing, mathematical sciences and digital technologies are taught in:
We have dedicated security laboratories which provide students with ample opportunities to put theory into practice.
These labs have the capabilities to:
The Robotics lab is home to wide range of robots including:
Consisting of sensors, motors and software, these robots get their wizardry from their programming and animation.
With the illustrious history of taking the Top UK Formula Student racing team Award 7 times, Oxford Brookes Racing has stepped into the next generation of mobility with its all-new team Oxford Brookes Racing Autonomous.
OBR Autonomous was formed in 2018 with the aim to develop highly precise self-driving systems for our Formula Student race cars.
At OBR Autonomous we believe in chasing excellence.
Our team members possess that spark of determination, motivation and enthusiasm which makes us one of the UK’s best, student, autonomous motorsport teams.
Find out more about OBR Autonomous
Our staff are are at the forefront of their fields and active in research and consultancy for industry.
They are ready to share their expertise and build on the excellent links the university has established in industry.
Many of our courses include the option of participating in industrial placements.
Companies offering placements in the past include:
“The modules at Brookes were very relevant for employment.
As a result, I managed to get a job as an IT consultant specialising in software for nature conservation; pretty much my dream job!”
Jo Clarke
We encourage you to take a supervised work placement in the computer industry in your third year of study.
Placements are an excellent opportunity to:
While the sponsoring organisations do not guarantee a job, they will provide practice interviews, assessment centre experience and invaluable advice.
And, they are always on the lookout for the best students.
Those who undertake a company-based work placement find that it enhances their CV and career prospects.
On returning to university for your final year, the experience you have gained from your placement invariably improves your academic performance.
In addition, we have an excellent record of students gaining full-time employment on graduation, often with their industrial placement year company or organisation.
It is possible to change your programme of study, up to the end of your second year, to opt in or out of the work placement option.
We have a wide range of company contacts and can help you find an appropriate placement.
While your studies are a top priority, you will still want to make the most of everything else student life offers.
Within the school there are always projects you can work on outside of your chosen field of study, including getting involved with societies that are run out of Brookes Union .
Instagram Takeover, Computing
Our mission is to promote, support and build a community for women in tech at Oxford Brookes.
The society aims to provide its members networking opportunities, workshops and opportunities to meet and interact with female role models and alumnae.
AI, Data Analysis and Systems Institute
Centre for AI, Culture and Society
Centre for Defence and Security at Oxford Brookes
Advanced Reliable Computer Systems
Applied Software Engineering and Data Analytics
Cloud Computing and Cybersecurity
Machine Learning and Robotics
Visual Artificial Intelligence Laboratory
Ben Guy
"My advice, make sure you choose an MSc course that you find interesting, it will help both your academic achievement and job finding in the future"
Hayley Ashby
"I was able to secure a Graduate Software Engineer position towards the end of the course and have now started working for my new employer"
Jemima Green
"My advice for others would be to work hard (but not too hard) and make the most of the time - full time jobs are hard!"
Ollie Hirschfield
"Go to the Brookes Entrepreneur networking events while you are studying, and start building a team around your idea"
Oussama Kaoui
"After graduating, I’ve secured a one-year internship with TATA consultancy services in India.
I will work as a Java Developer"
Yanis Vaks
"My advice for others would be definitely go for a placement year and be active in university life.
The more extra curricula activities you have done, the better chance you have at securing the best job"

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/subject-areas/education-early-years-and-teacher-training:
You will join an inclusive, knowledgeable and supportive community of academic staff where you can develop your knowledge, understanding, skills and interests in a wide variety of educational settings.
Our courses are designed to equip you with the professional skills to make a difference in the field of education.
Education and Early Years
Teacher Training
Our Safeguarding policy
Courses in a education, early years and teacher training are taught in:
Benefit from on-placement experiences in a wide variety of education and care settings to meet the needs of your course.
Join a vibrant and supportive academic community with sector-experienced lecturers.
Gain valuable opportunities to practice what you learn through a range of on-placement experiences.
Sabiha Dewji
"The teaching staff on the course have been excellent throughout and have guided me time and time again.
They are always ready to meet up for one to one meetings and have helped me to achieve my full potential"
Becky Turner
"I was attracted to the programme by the balance of theory and practical experience involved.
I wasn’t sure when I started at Oxford Brookes what I wanted to do after graduating and I felt that the number of placements offered allowed me to gain valuable practical experience to help make a decision about what to pursue for a career"
Daisy Brown
"I will take lots of valuable life skills away from my time at Brookes.
I have learnt how to conduct academic research, write in an appropriately academic style, and function well in groups"
Katherine Skrzypiec
"I like the teachers and the support system in place on the course.
There is information available about a wide range of issues on every campus, which helps to motivate you and help you feel confident in your own thinking and work"
Jodie Evans
"The best thing about the course is the range of modules offered: from the unique Outdoor Learning module to the Special Needs modules.
This was an area I’d never really looked into before, and really enjoyed"
Adam Beg
"The passion shown by the lecturers at the open day I attended, impressed me.
My interest sparked, as I discovered that there were lots of pathways and opportunities open to me after graduation"
Alice Laidler
"Brookes is truly a university where students feel valued and looked after"
Dawn Yardley
"The department is very personable which makes you feel welcome.
Additionally my classes were usually quite small which made the lecturers very accessible.
I also found the facilities to be very good including a 24-hour computer room and a well-stocked library, with many of the books also available electronically"
Josh Harsant
" Throughout my degree, I’ve become actively involved – voluntary and employed – in local charities and national youth organisations, including local authorities, Student Hubs, ArtsWork and Adviza.
I was also a participant in Camp America, which was invaluable experience to support my degree and my career aspirations"
Joanna Bird
"I really like that the course has specific classrooms for different subjects, as I feel it really enhances our learning.
There is also a bank of resources that are available for us to use to further our knowledge of resources that can be used in schools"
Joshua Denton
"The course at Oxford Brookes in particular attracted me as after attending many open days and interview days, Brookes just felt right!"
Louise Bradley
" I was attracted to the Brookes course because I knew several people who had been on the course and they recommended it to me and because it was close to home.
Oxford is a beautiful city with so much going on, it’s charming, quirky and definitely the friendliest city I have been to"
Nana Acquah
"I have always wanted to work with children and the course provided the necessary skill-set and learning experiences to achieve my goals.
I was attracted to the course because of the wide range of modules that were offered, such as the option of placements"
Richard Alan Greenwood
"The best thing about the course is the lecturers.
It is the lecturers and seminar leaders that make this course.
Most of our teachers have had primary experience at some point, most with recent experience"
Michael Issitt
"I decided to study this course because I wanted to do something intellectually stimulating that would support my interests in the arts
Adam Donalson
"Brookes was one of the few universities to offer the MA in Education that specialised in leadership and management"
Christine Kelly
"I have always enjoyed teaching children and working with others and have been extremely fortunate as my experience, so far, has allowed me to participate in many different things, including aspects of leadership and management"
Grant Chapman-Clarke
"The teaching on the course is really engaging, the majority of the teaching is completed online and I meet with my lecturers to go over tutorials"
Jihye Lee
" I think Oxford is the ideal size for a city and it encouraged me to read and concentrate on my studies.
I thoroughly enjoyed the cultural events and festivals that take place in Oxford and the abundant art exhibitions"
Lucy Victoria Richardson
"My interest in the teaching profession grew when I was working as a teaching assistant.
This led me to return to my studies as a postgraduate student to gain a PGCE.
I chose to study my PGCE at Oxford Brookes because I had such an enjoyable experience during my undergraduate studies, and its location is ideal, as my home is in Oxford"
Matt Paine
"My academic passion developed later on in life and it was this that led me to research postgraduate courses"
Stuart Cateridge
"I decided to study the MA Education at Oxford Brookes as I had already completed my National Professional Qualification for Headship (NPQH) as well as a couple of modules about leadership in education at a different university.
I wanted to convert these into an MA and Brookes was the closest well-regarded MA Education course to my home"
Katherine Morton
"Teaching has always been something I’ve wanted to do and I knew the School of Education department at Oxford Brooke’s offered an excellent service"
Sarah-Jane Grace
"I had already heard that the Oxford Brookes PGCE was a really good course and I liked the idea of joining a university that had a lot of courses surrounding education, as I knew that there would be plenty of resources and many people to give a professional opinio"
Laura Crofts
"The most enjoyable aspect of my year spent with the Education Studies cohort was the freedom that we were given to explore educational issues that we were really passionate about"
Bethany North
"I initially investigated studying at Brookes after the course was recommended to me by several Head teachers I spoke to during my work experiences.
It was clear from the start that Oxford Brookes had established a high standard for themselves which was also reflected through their Ofsted report"
Marlene Vasquez
"As an international student my advice is to join societies, you’ll find people with similar interests and make new friends.
The time will fly; take advantage of everything Brookes has to offer"
Michelle Pugh
"I really like the passion that the lecturers bring; it makes me want to know more!"
Ian Mazonowicz
"I was attracted to the PGCE at Oxford Brookes because of its locality and because it offered the balance between placement and campus time that I wanted in order to be the best teacher I could possibly be"
Jennie Clark
"With the knowledge of the University that I had from studying here, I knew already just how highly rated the PGCE course at Oxford Brookes was, and the 10% Alumni discount was also something that swayed my decision!"
Scott Parker
"The reputation of the PGCE Primary course at Brookes is well known, and even before I became interested in becoming a Primary School teacher I was aware that Brookes was well-respected in this area"

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/subject-areas/english-theatre-and-creative-writing:
Our courses allow you to gain specialist language and communication skills that are highly valued by UK and international employers.
You’ll experience dynamic exchanges of ideas around literature, language and contemporary culture.
You’ll also gain real-life experiences through the excellent partnerships we have with the city’s main arts and cultural providers and leading companies that make our city an incredible communications hub.
English Literature
Creative Writing
Drama, Theatre and Acting
Courses in a English, theatre and creative writing are taught in:
Benefit from outstanding teaching by world class academics who are active researchers and leaders in their field.
Gain real life experience and explore our partnerships by taking opportunities in and around Oxford.
Develop excellent employment skills , from analytical and problem-solving skills to great team working and communication skills, on our courses.sds
Man Booker Prize Archive
Royal Literary Fund Fellows
Oxford Brookes Poetry Centre
Oxford Brookes was placed sixth nationally in the REF 2021 (Research Excellence Framework 2021) rankings.
The result confirmed that 66% of research at Oxford Brookes was judged to be 4* (world-leading in terms of originality, significance and rigour).
This establishes Oxford Brookes as a leading university for the study of English Language and Literature in the UK.
Explore some of our recent case studies:
Poetry, music and creativity: John Clare
Transforming the ways we commemorate war
Driving digital inclusion
Read more about our research
Keira Moulding
"The best thing about the course is the tutors.
They have made me even more passionate about learning French because they care about the students"
Sina Hajianpashakolaei
"It’s about being able to find yourself and your own voice"
Christina Stores
"I decided on this course in particular because I never wanted to read any other subject other than English Literature.
As I live locally, Oxford Brookes University was always going to be the obvious choice"
Sarah Stretton
"I was attracted to the course by the literary fellows and the focus on workshopping and developing as a writer"
Jim Campbell
"The input of the visiting fellows, all of them published writers, is hugely valuable.
We had to read their books and they gave us assignments to do in class.
I had to write suddenly in class for 15 minutes and then read it out – I wasn’t sure how I’d cope with that, and I actually liked it and I miss it when semesters are over!"
Devon Robertson
"I had no doubts that I would choose to study a MA English Literature because of my undergraduate experience and passion for the subject"
Amber Scarborough
"This has been such a phenomenal experience.
The lecturers and everyone else have been so nice and helpful.
I feel so lucky that I was able to do this!"
Zita Zelei
"The opportunity to study at Brookes was too good to miss.
I wanted the intellectual challenge, and I was looking forward to stimulating classes, lectures, and like-minded course mates.
I was attracted to Brookes because of its reputation for being an inclusive university"
Loraine Fergusson
"I chose to come to Brookes because the luminous list of Creative Writing Fellows and speakers included two of my favourite writers – Philip Pullman and Howard Jacobson"
Lisa McDonald
"I would encourage anyone who is considering the course to grab the opportunity with both hands.
It massively improves your writing, enthuses you, and makes success and publication seem a possibility rather than just a hopeless dream"
Matthew Perryman
"In a single year, the course completely transformed my entire perception of writing fiction and has accelerated the development of my own writing style.
I am young for the writing game and came onto the course with many misconceptions"
Imogen Dunn
"The aspects of specialisation offered through the modular nature of the course at Brookes have honed my adaptability and breadth of knowledge through researching language from different angles"
Dylan Williams
"I have had a great experience at Brookes, both as a student and as a member of staff.
It has prepared me excellently for my future, and it will always be a place I hold close to my heart"
Paige Clarkson
"I like how the course is a small group and you really get to know everyone, including the lecturers, on a personal level.
I think this is truly special because it means people are there to help you and they genuinely care about your education and wellbeing"
Sophie Jamieson
Meredith Sneddon
"One of the best parts of the course was definitely the teaching.
The lecturers were fantastic; their passion for their subject comes across so clearly in all they do, and the personal support offered to me by my academic advisor made all the difference"
Hikari Hamada
"I think compared to any other university I can learn and feel a lot about different cultures here.
So if someone wants to learn about other cultures, then Oxford Brookes University is the best place"

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/subject-areas/health-and-social-care:
Allied Health Professions
Nursing and Midwifery
Public Health
Social Work
Career Development
Courses in health and social care are taught in:
Oxford School of Nursing and Midwifery , School of Psychology, Social Work and Public Health , School of Sport, Nutrition and Allied Health Professions
Courses are underpinned by internationally leading research from the Oxford Institute of Applied Health Research, which is based at Oxford Brookes.
Nursing and Midwifery students are members of the Oxford School of Nursing and Midwifery, a unique partnership with Oxford University Hospitals and Oxford Health NHS Foundation Trusts.
The Occupational Therapy and Physiotherapy programmes work closely with the highly regarded researchers from the Centre for Movement, Occupational and Rehabilitation Sciences.
The Oxford Institute of Applied Health Research (OxInAHR) is a vibrant, multi-disciplinary Research Institute which comprises a community of scholars who share a passion to identify, examine and implement best quality health care within our areas of expertise.
Centre for Nursing, Midwifery, Health and Social Care
Children and Families
Maternity and Childbirth
Prevention Science
Ruqaya Mohammed
"Meeting lots of students from different countries helped me to make new friendships and learn how to talk and interact with people from other cultures"
Samirah Altukhaim
"I love the way of living here.
Everything has that independent feel.
I love that I have my own responsibilities"
Yan Wai Kwong
"I have had three placements so far!
I got an observational placement in a neurology rehabilitation in Oxford Centre for Enablement, I arranged one in Hong Kong where I've worked with a musculoskeletal clinic and at the John Radcliffe Hospital under the vascular team"
Helen Thompson
"Enrolling in Children’s Nursing at Brookes is certainly one of the best decisions I have ever made!"
Guy Curry
"You’ll work hard and it can be testing, but it’s also rewarding beyond measure"
Rachael Hinton
"Brookes was the place for me; I can’t imagine myself anywhere else"
Nishanthan Thisaveerasingam
"I have worked at the John Radcliffe (JR) Hospital Neuroscience Department as Therapy Assistant for two years prior to my course at Oxford Brookes"
Jamie Abbott
"I’ve been able to apply what I’ve learned to aspects of my own lifestyle"
Lauren Bolger
"I got the job a month after graduating"
Lauren Mangan
"I was able to see elite coaching in action and had the chance to carry out my own research"
Stephanie Hutchison
"I chose Oxford Brookes due to its fantastic teaching facilities and close links to local hospitals such as the John Radcliffe"
Kevin Barclay Meek
"I have found a career I love"
Rachel Moore
"The staff are incredibly supportive and are heavily invested in every student"
Charlotte Jones
"Oxford is a great student city, with the John Radcliffe hospital nearby, great placement opportunities and a good nightlife"

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/subject-areas/history-philosophy-and-liberal-arts:
You’ll be taught by leading researchers in their fields and develop valuable skills in communication, critical awareness and reasoning through our flexible learning approaches.
You’ll be encouraged to experience our exciting work placements which will help prepare you for employment once you finish.
At Oxford Brookes we teach history that uncovers the origins of the modern world and explains how it works.
At the core of our programme are issues that have defined the human experience across time and place up to the present day.
When you study History of Art in Oxford you can gain work experience in museums, galleries, and auction houses.
The University’s own exhibition space, the  Glass Tank, offers two placements to History of Art students each year.
Our Philosophy course offers you the chance to get involved in a work and community related learning project.
You can pick your own work placement and write a reflective journal of 3000 words based on the experience.
An exciting, novel type of degree in the UK, combining the Humanities and Social Sciences.
It has been popular in the USA, Canada and Australia for decades – and its popularity in the UK is growing.
Courses in history, philosophy, and liberal arts are taught in:
Centre for Medical Humanities
Medicine, Health and Society
History of Art and Visual Culture
History of Family and Emotions
Imy K.
Awan
"Oxford Brookes is very accommodating to its students, and enables you to tailor your degree to your own needs"
Hannah Cooper
"The lecturers are experts in their fields and are a research-led department, but I also fell in love with Oxford and the university as a whole when visiting on Open Day"
Michael Cini
"I think the crime history modules at Oxford Brookes are fantastic, because they humanise the victims.
They aren’t just stories to be told on Netflix - they’re very real"
Ciaran Jones
"All the staff here at Brookes are very passionate about teaching students.
Our lecturers are very approachable, and the flexibility they offer in terms of appointments and tutorials is testament to the fact that they really care about students"
Emma Corr
"Final year joint honours History and History of Art student, Emma Corr, has just finished a placement with regional newspaper the Leicester Mercury.
Here she reflects on her time in the press world"
Hannah Richards
"I love how History at Oxford Brookes takes you out of the lecture theatre.
I’ve touched artefacts from 1642.
It’s amazing!"
Isobel Wilkinson Rippin
"At Oxford Brookes, you’ll always be taught by an expert.
The history department is full of lecturers willing to help"
Phil Duhamel
"Since I’ve arrived I have enjoyed the variety of modules of offer.
I have never felt like I’ve chosen a module to fill a gap in my timetable, quite the contrary there have been modules I wish I could have taken but have simply had to opt for others over them"
Rachel Davies
"History is a degree that gives you an excellent and diverse range of skills which means my career options are in no way limited"
Alex Lindsay
"The tutors of the History of Art course are absolutely central to its success.
All of the tutors are incredibly supportive and encouraging – that’s what makes the course so enjoyable"
Alice Dudbridge
"I have found that having an academic advisor is truly beneficial to my whole experience at university.
It is comforting to know that a support system is there.
The staff at Brookes genuinely care about your well-being and your progress through the course.
They take the time to get to know you on a personal level so they can aid you wherever they can"
Amy Walker
"Being in Oxford means that you have the Ashmolean on your doorstep and London only an hour away.
It is completely invaluable for an Art History student to be able to visit important galleries and see works of art in the flesh"
James Hawley
"My lecturers at Oxford Brookes put in loads of hours to help me.
They’ve been enthusiastic, forthcoming and eager to help."
Melissa Karlin
"The History of Art department gave me the freedom to choose a topic that intrigued me and appealed to my creative and analytical interests; to choose a subject that I was passionate about.
The tutors were beyond helpful: extremely nice but, at the same time, they challenged me"
Pheobe Exon
"I got a great feeling as soon as I came to Oxford Brookes.
I visited a lot of universities, but Oxford Brookes was my favourite"
Perdy Foster
"I loved my degree so much that I’m doing a master’s.
I can honestly say that the entire academic team at Oxford Brookes are absolutely fantastic"
Teodora Budimir
"The dissertation, which initially sounded so daunting, is one of the things that I’m actually finding most enjoyable about the course.
You are given so much freedom to research your chosen subject and you are assigned a tutor whose expertise is best suited to your chosen topic"
Vy Tran
"The opportunity to take part in a field trip to Paris was something that really attracted me to the course at Brookes – and now that I am here I really enjoy the insightful and frequent visits to museums and galleries that are organised as part of the course"
Nanaka Kishi
"I like the atmosphere of international, cultural, and educational at Brookes.
Also good support including nice accessibilities as well as facilities are another point I like about this university"
Oliver Fairey
"My favourite topics in philosophy are Buddhist philosophy, issues around personal identity, and ethics.
Ethics is a way of practically applying philosophy to the world around you – you’re dealing with the fundamentals of what’s right and wrong"
Daisy Sander
"All of the lecturers are dedicated to the study and teaching of Philosophy and they regularly suggest talks, books or other activities that would benefit our research.
One of my favourite things about Philosophy at Brookes is the range of philosophical talks provided for students"

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/subject-areas/hospitality-tourism-and-events-management:
Our academics are experts in their fields and have invaluable industry knowledge, this directly informs what you learn about on the course.
Ranked 21 in the QS World University Rankings, Hospitality & Leisure Management 2025.
Courses in hospitality, tourism and events management taught in:
We have great links with industry, providing invaluable insights to enhance your learning experience.
You’ll have the chance to spend a year in a paid work placement .
Past students have worked at some of the world’s most prestigious hospitality and events organisations, such as Marriott, Four Seasons, The Savoy, ITE Group and Oxford Global.
Oxford is the perfect place to study hospitality, tourism and events management.
Oxford is a major global tourism destination and you will have opportunities to learn about the visitor experience and connect with hospitality, tourism and events organisations across the region.
A key feature of all our undergraduate hospitality and events management courses is the opportunity to spend a year in industry through our supervised work experience or placement scheme.
A year in industry is optional, though strongly encouraged, and takes place in the third year of a four-year course.
We are recognised as a centre of excellence for research in international hospitality and tourism.
Our aim is to conduct rigorous research that:
We encourage applications for research degrees that fit within topics related to these areas .
Martha Sandford
“The Events Management course covered content related to the events spaces being adaptable to the changing and post-pandemic world, in particular how the events industry transitioned into the virtual space.
It also provided the freedom to explore all aspects of the events industry”
Max Mason
"The Events Management course has set me up perfectly for my future career aspirations.
The skills I have learned have prepared me for the world of work and I have developed my management and teamwork skills significantly"
Julia Samuelsson
"Oxford is full of students and there are always things to do - you never get bored!"
Marine Raymond
"Get ready for a nice time where you meet international people and make friends, because you will definitely do that"
Zhihao Chen
"The UK is a world-leading country for education.
As an International student, studying in the UK is a sensible choice, as we have fully developed research in social science and natural science… And you can have a diversity of choice in your field… I think the degrees issued by the UK universities are widely recognized by the world"
Martyna Bylinska
"The most exciting thing that we have done so far in our course was meeting with the marketing team from Porsche so we could get to know their people as well as their markets, this way we could have very authentic information about the brand.
It was so impressive!"
Tingyu Gao
"The library and Brookes’s database have many essential and important materials like academic journals.
The librarians are very supportive and they can always help me to find the materials I am looking for.
Also, the module leaders here are also very supportive, they helped me to get used to the unfamiliar educational [system teaching styles]"
Joshua Bae
"I have been learning a lot on my University English course.
I think it is very helpful for me for improving my English and for adapting to the British education system"
Wantanee Chansawad
"Pre-sessional English helped me with my listening and speech skills.
The teachers especially helped with that - they were patient and helped me prepare for my next step"
Zirui Lin
"I think the tutors are so talented and brilliant, they’re pretty familiar with their jobs and know how to teach the students to think and fulfil their dreams"

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/subject-areas/languages:
They encourage you to develop a globally-oriented perspective and provide you with opportunities to gain exceptional language and communication skills.
In addition to this, our programme enables you to engage with a wide range of subjects relevant to intercultural exchanges, including cultural history, cinema and visual culture, and translation.
Modern Languages with Translation is for independent-minded students who want a combination of language learning (including from beginners) and an inter-cultural dimension from the first year until the final year of the programme.
On our Japanese Studies course you can learn the language as a beginner or post-beginner.
Explore all aspects of Japanese culture: from its traditional religious values to its modern business practices, and from haiku poetry to manga cartoons.
How to Apply
Languages courses are taught in:
Niall Plumb
"I visited other universities, but they weren’t as coordinated as Oxford Brookes.
I’ve been able to tailor my course to exactly what I want to do in the future"
Omar Chowdhury
"Ever since I was 15 I’ve wanted to go to Japan – and Tokyo especially.
When the meeting about the year abroad came around during my second year at Brookes, we had a list of several locations in Japan to choose from"
Grace Cooper
"My course was exactly what I was looking for.
It gave me everything I needed for my year abroad, and for the future"
Adelaide Amissah
"I came across Oxford Brookes which had an incredibly flexible system for studying computing.
I was attracted by the freedom to tailor your degree as you liked"
Miriam Manco
"My course was really enhanced by the support of tutors and lecturers.
I love the environment of Oxford Brookes, and everything it has to offer"
Giuseppe Motta
"The course is great, it is well designed and it offers a thorough overview of what you have to do in order to achieve your objectives.
Brookes is more than my university.
It is a community and it is family"
Rory Springbett
"My course let me pick two extra languages, which is why I chose Oxford Brookes.
The staff are really excellent"
Steff Bates
"I went abroad in my 3rd year and spent a year at Yamanashi University in Japan.
It was great – all the staff and students were very helpful and I have made many friends and long-lasting contacts"
Sophie Bennett
"I choose Oxford Brookes because it ranked highly for Japanese Studies and I had heard that its year abroad was one of the best in the country"
William Watts
"What I like the most about the course is being able to make friends with people with similar interests.
The course allows you to practice your language skills in many forms, such as writing, listening, speaking and reading"
Language Instructor in Chinese
Senior Lecturer in Spanish and Latin America Studies
Language Instructor in French
Programme Lead for Modern Languages and Translation
Senior Lecturer in Modern Languages and Translation
Language Instructor in Spanish

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/subject-areas/law-and-criminology:
As a law student, you’ll develop an in depth knowledge of the law and the role of law in society.
As a criminologist, you can investigate the causes of criminal behaviour and its impact on society.
You’ll learn from leading researchers and have opportunities to build knowledge and skills that are attractive to employers.
Courses in a law and criminology are taught in:
Pro bono
Mooting
Client Interviewing
Employability
Mentoring
You'll be taught by world class researchers - so your learning will always be underpinned by the latest developments in your field.
As a law student, there are opportunities to attend career enhancing employability events , such as: guest lectures, law fairs, mentorship programmes, pro bono work schemes and mock trials with real judges and legal practitioners.
You can gain practical experience through our Criminology Work Placement module .
And you'll gain an excellent foundation from which to pursue a career as a criminology practitioner or in any other field.
Instagram Takeover, Law
Instagram Takeover, Criminology
Alenna Bradshaw
"Oxford Brookes really reaches out to its students.
And Oxford is such a great town — people are so friendly"
Katherine Rodrigues
"What’s made me happiest is the impact I can have.
Especially at the end of an event I’ve organised, when a student tells me that they’ve got an internship out of it "
Adam Zulqarnain Mohd Said
"The lecturers on my law course were really helpful.
They went beyond what was expected, and they made my time here even more interesting"
Tya Raikundalia
"My professors and tutors have been absolutely fantastic.
They will support me in any way possible"
Ashley Larkin
"The best thing about my course is definitely the support provided.
If you have any questions at all, a lecturer is always there to help with a smile – they are always happy to help no matter the question you have, whether it be course related or not"
Christopher Mpanga
"I really appreciate the cultural diversity on the international foundation course.
You get to associate with people from around the globe.
One day I’m sitting next to somebody from South Africa and the next day it’s somebody from Australia"
Aston Pollington
"The facilities are new, the campus is beautiful, the location is ideal and I think that anyone that wants to have a UK experience without stepping too far away from being international, it’s a great school to come to"
Arsalan Khattak
"I chose the Oxford Brookes LLB because of its great reputation"
Zoë Cheng
"My advice to other students would be to take the opportunities that come your way – don’t be afraid to push on doors "
Kimberly Clarke
"One of my favourite activities of the week was taking part in a mock trial.
We were each given roles to play, such as the barrister or a witness.
We were given information to memorise about a character, so that we could recount it when questioned in court "
Jack Davies
"In the future I hope to complete the professional requirements needed to become a solicitor or a barrister and practise law "
Lawrence DeSouza
"Having spent a week working with their trainees across various departments, I knew that, a few years down the line, I wanted to be in a similar position to them"
Dennis R.S.
Gabo
"The most beneficial part of the course is its structure; there is a real progression that eases students into independent study and research, gradually becoming more confident"
Joel Hare
"I successfully attained a Foundation degree in law at Ruskin College Oxford and went on to win the prestigious Helena Kennedy award.
Whilst there, the modular programme continually commended itself on its distinct affinity with Oxford Brookes – a university that, I knew then, I would be delighted to attend "
Emily Hurter
"The level of contact hours is just right – we have enough time in lectures and seminars without it feeling like it takes up every single day.
Everyone in the department is welcoming and helpful and it’s very easy to get hold of lecturers if you’re in need of extra help; they will always arrange a time to meet and go over things with you "
Toks Hussain
"My degree makes me highly attractive to employers.
It gave me crucial the legal research; the advocacy and client interviewing skills developed through being active in the Law Society (from mooting for example) and from Pro Bono activities"
Sarah Macpherson
"Taking a law degree at Brookes has given me a solid start to pursuing a career in the legal profession "
Daisy Routley
"The course helped me because the assessments were very practical in the sense that they were focused on advising clients – which is great practice for being in the role of a lawyer"
Evan Schryver
"Oxford Brookes was the best fit for me because of the friendly staff, and the resources available to law students.
The beautiful Headington Hill site is an added bonus "
Naoise Tan
"I feel the Oxford Brookes course will definitely help me in my future career; they are part of the Alliance University Group, which has meant that they have connections and links with law firms, and have set up mentoring schemes to benefit their students "
Alexandra Lukawiecka
"This was exactly what I needed because I wasn’t strong enough in terms of language.
You can see doing a year here in university makes you feel so much more comfortable with any conversations here with people in England"
Chiu Yee Lim
"Back home, there is a tendency for lecturers to just stand at the front and talk; but in the UK there is more of an air of debate "
Baviniaraj Rajendran
"The Oxford Brookes’ Law course has given me freedom to choose which modules I would like to study in both semesters, and I am hoping that by choosing environmental law it will be a platform to assist me in my future career ventures"
Nadia Aljafri
"The best thing about being at Brookes was the close network between the students and the staff at the University.
The lecturers and the staff in the Law Department, as well as my personal tutor were always supportive and willing to help me when I had any queries "
Tasha Chandra
"The course structure is flexible and allows me to work on other things while in the UK.
I managed to find a suitable job as a teaching assistant and I have enjoyed this job very much "
Alfred Artley
"I’m so glad I chose Oxford Brookes for my GDL.
The cohort is small in relation to other providers, which means you study in a much more friendly and collaborative atmosphere"
Andrew Blyth
"For a career in law, you need to get first-hand experience while you're at university.
Oxford Brookes is really good at giving you those opportunities "
Rachael Butcher
"I was attracted to Brookes for its reputation for giving a thorough background in various legal subjects "
Nicole Kapu
"The best bit about studying the GDL at Oxford Brookes is the supportiveness of the faculty.
The faculty is not only dedicated to the success of students when it comes to academics, but the many former practitioner members of the Oxford Brookes faculty encouraged and trained us in gaining the practical skills that would make us employable "
Mohmd Alassmari
"I decided to take the Oxford Brookes Pre-Master’s course in order to improve my academic English before beginning my postgraduate studies "
Olga Chetverikova
"I was impressed by the content of the programme at Oxford Brookes.
The syllabus allows students enough time to get used to the expected way of reasoning on a range of broad legal concepts "
Stefano Consiglio
"The best bit about the course was the possibility to analyse in depth areas of International Human Rights Law, Criminal Law, Refugees Law, Environmental Law etc.
and then build on this extensive research "
Wanjiku Githuka
"I decided to take the LLM in order to retool my law career outside my field of experience and to explore the idea of pursuing an academic career.
I was impressed by the array of modules and by the way that Oxford Brookes specifically reached out to international students"
Jason Howard
"The course was presented in a straight-forward way and for a mature student, busy with life and a career, this made the process so much easier.
The expectations were clear, the content looked interesting; interesting enough to want to commit to hours of reading towards, and I still want to read about it now "
Thomas Jacob
"Having completed my studies in Brest and Toulouse, I decided to do the LLM in International Trade and Commercial Law at Oxford Brookes to improve my English skills, as well increase my knowledge of international law "
Zheng Lin
"Oxford Brookes is an inspiring place to learn.
I’ve always wanted to study in a city such as Oxford, and the great selection of LLM options available at Oxford Brookes gave me the freedom and inspiration to achieve my dream "
Hussain Makhlooq
"I was attracted to the Brookes LLM because of the wide range of modules on offer and its capacity for improving academic writing, research and legal argument skills"
Felipe Romero Moreno
"Oxford Brookes gave me the opportunity to focus upon a very concrete and specific field of law, namely the conflict between online copyright infringement and the rights to privacy of internet subscribers "
Graziely Souza
"Brookes is a great university.
From the structure of the course to the support given by the lectures, learning here is a pleasant process "
Yulia Boskholova
"My teachers are really lovely.
Actually I would say they are our friends first of all, then they are our mentors.
You can feel that they enjoy sharing their knowledge, their experience"

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/subject-areas/marketing:
Through our team of expert academics and our invaluable industry links, our courses integrate the latest academic thinking and practitioner trends that will give your career an excellent head start.
Courses in marketing are taught in:
Recent placement locations include Disney, L’Oreal, Sony and Warner Brothers.
We help you to develop the knowledge, confidence and problem-solving skills to support your career aspirations.
Learn about work placements
Libby Deakin
"I had now discovered the subject of marketing, where I can conceptualise and create events (as well as products and services) that make people happy, which was much more ...
me"
Evelien Pigeaud
"I’ve always been interested in medieval history and really really old things, so walking around in Oxford is really nice.
I just fell in love with the city.
So I had to … I had to study here"
Delania Marvella Marundrury
"I think that this course has really helped me, giving me a introduction to what is expected of me from my future course.
I feel really prepared for what’s going to come up next, and it helped me explore more of my academic side"
Natchananth Wiranyaphaet
"Every day I meet new people from all over the globe which is a great experience and I'm quite impressed"
Eesha Bakht
"The UK and especially Brookes University is very diverse, and so I wanted to study in a place where I can open my mind to so many different views and perspectives by people from different cultures and ethnicities"
Jonas Palovis
"Studying at Brookes can broaden your knowledge and help you to gain valuable experience, but most importantly it gives you a chance to become a better person.
Getting to know different cultures, languages and find friends for life is only the tip of the iceberg.
There is a lot more to be experienced – memories that will be cherished for life"
Alini Shires
"The teachers: they have many years' experience working with business, in marketing and management, so they don't just teach us the theory from the books; they teach us the experience that they have from their working life"

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/subject-areas/mechanical-engineering-and-motorsport:
Our links with industry-leading firms and Formula 1 give you access to outstanding work placements.
Gain hands-on experience on the UK’s no.1 Formula Student team, Oxford Brookes Racing (OBR) and help design and build the team’s car for racing competitions.
Our motorsport, automotive and mechanical engineering courses are fully accredited by the Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET) and the Institution of Mechanical Engineers (IMechE) on behalf of the Engineering Council.
This includes an accredited placement year by the IMechE.
You’ll be using industry-standard facilities , including engine test cells and a four-post shaker rig for analysing rigid body and vehicle dynamics.
Students benefit from our strong links with F1 teams , including work placements and recruitment opportunities.
Courses in a mechanical engineering and motorsport are taught in:
As an award-winning Formula Student team it is our mission to build a multi-year legacy as a competitive, high quality team.
Formula Student is run by the Institute for Mechanical Engineers, and is an annual student engineering competition held in the UK.
Student teams from around the world design, build, test and race their small-scale, formula style racing car.
Oxford Brookes Racing (OBR) was founded in 1999 to compete in Formula Student.
We have developed and grown into one of Europe’s elite Formula Student teams.
We've collected seven UK Top Team awards along the way; more than any other university.
It's our mission to build a multi-year legacy as a competitive, high quality team.
As well as develop versatile graduates able to excel in a high performance team.
We nurture and help develop high quality talent, regardless of what you’re studying or which year you’re in.
After a long and successful history of combustion entries in the Formula Student competition, we made the shift to electric for the 2021 season.
Find out more about Oxford Brookes Racing
OBR car launch at Porsche 2017 on Flickr
The Auto lab is home to Jenson Button’s 2003 BAR Formula 1 car, J.J.
Lehto's winning Formula 3 car, Kimi Raikkonen’s Formula Renault, an Indy car, an electric BMW Mini and a BMW 1 series.
Our industrial placement programme has been commended by professional bodies as a model of excellence.
We have excellent industrial links and placement opportunities with local automotive and product manufacturing companies.
Find out more about industrial placements
Future of Transport
Joining Technology Lab
Gabriel Elias
"My best moments were winning the 2014 World Championship and then starting the 2015 season in dominating fashion with a car that I designed parts for and worked on"
Karan Bopaiah
"The MSc Racing Engine Systems course is the only programme of its kind in the world and is developed with the needs and requirements of race engine manufacturers in mind"
Nabeela Rehman
"I was involved in a project called Formula Student, where we design and build a racing car"
Rohan Shankar
"I have been working in the motorsport management field since the 2011 Formula 1 Indian Grand Prix.
My skills in this field have developed over the various events I have been a part of"
Shirish Potu
"I’m involved with, Oxford Brookes Racing, the Formula Student Team.
I work for them, Lap Time Simulation, in that we have our own software which a former student developed.
He’s working in Formula 1 right now, he deserves that place.
What I do is work on what he’s created and change it, modify it to the current year’s requirements, to the current car’s requirements, get results out of it.
It’s a good feeling because it’s highly helpful in the design phase, in that if someone is designing a new part and they’re not sure if that really helps the car go faster"
Syed Rafan
"I chose Oxford Brookes because of its renowned reputation and affiliations with the industry.
I also researched about the facilities and found that the taught modules are very advanced and specific which made it the obvious choice.
Finally, and most importantly, Oxford Brookes University has the best Formula Student team in the United Kingdom"
Sarang Sreemandiram
"As an international student and studying at a university like this where there are different students from different countries like Mexico, Spain, US, India or UK, it's a great thing!
You get to know different cultures, the way they are living, their living environment, which country they are from, get to know new mindsets, it is a great experience!"
Bradley Mallinson
"Here, you actually get into aerodynamics, engine design, vehicle dynamics and tyres, a lot of the really niche motorsport stuff.
So I think that’s what makes it special"
Ismail El Yacoubi
"I had a really good help, especially from the International Student Advice Team when I had some problems with my visa.
It was delayed and I was about to miss the enrolment deadline, but the International Student Advice Team helped me a lot by contacting the Home Office until I got my visa and I arrived here"

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/subject-areas/nutrition-sport-and-physical-activity:
You’ll learn from academics who combine passion for their subject with international recognition.
Our strong employability strand helps you to build experience and create opportunities in a range of settings.
Nutrition focused on helping people improve their overall health and performance through nutritional practices.
Sport and physical activity is a diverse field where you can work with school children through to elite athletes, with people who want to improve their health through to people who want to improve their performance.
We carry out work on behalf of a diverse range of clients from the health and food industry.
We partner with manufacturers, retailers and suppliers ranging from small and medium-size enterprises (SMEs) to multinational global organisations.
Find out more about our Nutrition and Health Commercial Research and Consultancy
Centre for Movement, Occupational and Rehabilitation Sciences
Sport, Exercise and Physical Activity Research Group
Imogen Mackie
"The atmosphere around Oxford is lovely, there is a real student ‘feel’"
Nicole Clewer
"One of my placements led me onto my current role in sports development!"
Becky Lear
"There are so many opportunities with nutrition, so I will see where it takes me!"
Emma Young
"I gained real insight into how studies are carried out and analysed"
Rebecca Clawson
"Having such good facilities inspires me to work harder for my degree"
Laurenemma Whale
"I’ve enjoyed getting stuck in and developing as a clinician, as well as a person."
"I have worked at the John Radcliffe (JR) Hospital Neuroscience Department as Therapy Assistant for two years prior to my course at Oxford Brookes."
Rachel Hinton
Kirsty Archer
"I love the idea of facilitating a rehabilitation programme for people, to improve their quality of life."
Marlon Shepard
"I chose Oxford Brookes because I craved something different."
Caroline Powell
"Already I am sure that I have made the right choice of career"
Ryan Phillips
"This is by far the best decision I have made in my life"
Ella Boorman
"It’s a great course that can lead to careers in various healthcare areas"
Rob Kuschel
"We were given a realistic idea of what to expect in practice"

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/subject-areas/social-sciences-geography-anthropology-psychology:
You could even work with a local MP as a politics student.
Our programmes will help you make sense of the key issues affecting societies around the globe.
We have courses in International Relations, Politics, and Sociology.
Explore contemporary issues that affect our everyday lives and look for alternative ways of solving them.
From sustainability, environmental management, conservation, and geoarchaeology to globalisation, contemporary cities, and culture and landscape.
Psychology is the study of the human mind; how and why we behave the way we do.
We provide a wide range of courses and research degrees to develop your learning and give you a solid grounding in empirical methods, theories and discoveries.
You’ll be taught by world class researchers –  your learning will always be underpinned by the latest developments in your field.
You may have the opportunity to work alongside our research staff and undertake your own research projects.
You’ll have access to great resources – like our bone and archaeological analysis lab, or eye-tracking equipment and facilities to measure brain activity.
You’ll graduate prepared for your future career – with optional work placements, chartered membership opportunities and work experience modules on many of our courses.
Schools and Departments
Courses in Social Studies, Earth Sciences, and Psychology are taught in:
School of Psychology, Social Work and Public Health , School of Law and Social Sciences
Georgie Eyre
"The Geography lecturers want the best for you.
It’s been lovely to have their encouragement and their ideas"
Malika Talgat
"I wanted to come to Brookes to be part of a fast-developing university that seems to be constantly moving up the league tables!
The course particularly attracted me as it is completely unique in allowing the combination of politics and sociology"
Adela Cragg
"I love Oxford as a city!
There’s so much to do, from bars, restaurants, cafes, museums, sports clubs ...
there’s still so much I haven’t done and I’ve been here 3 years"
Bethany Duckworth
"I can definitely count the sophisticated writing, critical thinking, presentation and group work skills that I’ve gained from my time at Brookes as being things that I utilise now in my postgraduate studies – and these skills will definitely make me attractive to employers"
Jessica Stride
"I’m so glad I did Anthropology at Oxford Brookes.
The course here is really, really interesting"
Laurie Harris
"I chose Brookes because the university had a good reputation, and is located in Oxford, but is less austere and class oriented than the Oxford City colleges.
Before that I had taken an access course in media studies, and courses in Japanese language, art and illustration"
Lily Isabelle Graham-Stewart
"Brookes is incredibly lucky to have an amazing Social Sciences department, with staff who are all devoted to their subjects and the classes they teach.
This has been shown throughout my classes especially in my final year"
Abbie Clarke
"There’s a great atmosphere at Oxford Brookes.
Everyone is incredibly friendly, and the campus is exactly the type of place I want to study in"
Anna Mcgovern
"One of the most valuable parts of my experience at Brookes has been the range of opportunities and ideas that I have been exposed to as a result of my involvement in the charity Asylum-Welcome"
Briony Farmer
"My course gave me tonnes of skills.
I now know what I want to do in the future, and how to apply it to a career"
Helen Callister Radcliffe
"I could just see myself at Oxford Brookes, and I really liked the feel of it.
I love that on the Geography course, I can tailor my assignments to my needs"
Michael Johnson
"I chose the course at Oxford Brookes for its diverse inclusion of social sciences; the fact you could do anthropology, archaeology, human geography, or more scientific studies and tailor your degree as you gain new interests"
Nicola Rymell
"Oxford is a vibrant city with so much to do.
This actually helped in my degree as well – I gathered data from the local food bank in Oxford to use in my dissertation"
Rachel Kamall
"The mix of modules and subjects available at Brookes made my step back into higher education an easy decision"
Vajira Bandara
"Brookes was also one of the few universities which offered the course and modular choice I was interested in.
During my degree I have been introduced to working in the field, gathering and analysing data – skills which will definitely help me with my future career"
Georgia Walker
"The staff on my course were so helpful, and I ended up loving topics I thought I wouldn’t like.
I’m now using my dissertation research to solve environmental issues"
Brigitta Falcini
"I would recommend going to the postgraduate open evenings to talk to course lecturers and current students as they’ll help you get a feel and understanding of the course"
Janie Armitage
"It is fascinating to study how the political and economic world interacts, and all the factors that influence it.
I also think that the lecturers are fantastic.
They are all engaged with their subjects and the teaching is first class"
Laura Natara Malave
"I love Oxford because despite being a small city it makes such a big impact in the world.
As a student here you will have access to opportunities that students from other parts of England can only dream of having"
Matthew Pullen
"The Communication, Media and Culture degree has inspired me to pursue journalism and particular modules have enabled me to consider citizen journalism"
Simon Wigfield
"When I was picking my Universities I wanted to be close to London, in a campus that was not separate from the city and at a place that had excellent sporting and academic opportunities.
Oxford Brookes fitted all the criteria"
Onat Isik
"Oxford Brookes was probably one of the best decisions I’ve ever made because Oxford Brookes has a different ideological understanding, that is different to what we’re experiencing today.
It’s very multicultural, it’s not one sided – which is really important"
Marcin Iwankiewicz
"Oxford is the perfect place to engage in extracurricular activities: Blackwell's Bookshop organises some great public lectures on challenging topics, especially in Philosophy"
Philly Alway
"It was important to me that I could tailor my degree to my interests, in order to get the most out of my time studying.
The opportunity to study Politics combined with Communication, Media and Culture was not offered at many other universities"
Holly Joscelyne
"I love living in Oxford because it’s so diverse.
There are fascinating museums and theatres as well as cinemas and shopping centres.
There is always something to do and loads of lovely places to eat and drink from tiny cafes to Michelin star restaurants.
Of course it’s a beautiful place to live and study as well, with the Oxford colleges and parks dotted around the city"
Gary Neal
"Coming to an open day sealed Brookes as my first choice.
The enthusiasm from the academic staff was particularly uplifting and encouraging"
Jayne Allsop
"I chose Brookes not only for its location but for the fact that I could do both of the fields that I wanted to study.
I also liked the enthusiasm of the staff members"
Leila Siddiqi
"The Oxford Brookes modular programme allowed me to combine Sociology with Communication, Media and Culture which met my interest in learning about race, gender and ethnicity and how it links to popular culture and the media"
Marc Batt
"I enjoyed studying sociology at A-Level and wanted to pursue my interest in the subject.
The offer I received from Brookes was good and I was very much encouraged by the tutors I spoke to before I arrived."
Sophie Kirkman
"The lecturers on my course at Oxford Brookes have helped show me where my strengths lie, as well as suggesting career paths"
Amy Blong
"Amy Blong has just returned from Armenia where she was working as a Red Cross volunteer.
She is currently applying for jobs within the charity and international development sectors and hopes to be able to continue working overseas."
Dimce Bukreski
"I was impressed by the outstanding quality of the teaching staff who applied modern teaching method"
Emily Board
"I have really enjoyed challenging ideas and finding that there are so many people who agree with me"
Mariya Baier
"I fell in love with this beautiful city with its great atmosphere of student life.
Oxford is an excellent place to study and to live!
This is a small and cosy city with very friendly people and wonderful architecture.
I have no words to express atmosphere of this city.
It is full of students from all over the world who are highly committed to studying and development"
Martin Wikören Mogstad
"I can say that the best things about the course are the lecturers, the seminars and of course the students you study with"
Nikki Green
"The course gave me so many transferable skills – not just in how to conduct both quantitative and qualitative research efficiently, but also how to quickly analyse, synthesise and précis a topic, write concise reports and do presentations"
Yasmin Marshall
"I found the teaching and support at Brookes outstanding.
The class sizes were small so I was able to contribute as much as I liked and ask questions.
The lecturers were always great at acknowledging my point of view and adding to it so that I had an even more thorough understanding of the topics.
They were also very supportive and responsive with questions via email and during office hours.
Therefore, if you put the effort in, you see the rewards"
Helen Whyman
"I hope to work in International Development, particularly focused on promoting gender equality, in particular I hope to be involved in research and policy work"
Amana Karim
"You learn a lot about yourself and others, and the degree looks really good for all sorts of employers"
Cathinka Rokeberg
Clair Kilham
"I love studying Psychology here and everyone I’ve talked to says the same"
Hannah Buttimore
"The Psychology department has many facilities which are useful and interesting, such as eye-tracking and EEG equipment"
Jess Chadwick
"There are lots of societies that you can join at Brookes, which is great for meeting people outside of your course, especially in your first few weeks at university"
Katy Coleman
"The other universities I looked at didn’t come across as having anywhere near the level of passion for research that is evident at Brookes"
Kim Bowyer
"Since starting my course at Brookes I’ve become a lot more independent and responsible"
Margret Stray-Pedersen
"The MSc in Psychology offers exciting lectures, valuable knowledge and hopefully a bright future"
Nivedita Brahma
"Living in Oxford?
I feel it’s one of the most amazing experiences because I met a lot of international students and also got a few chances to meet the local community, like when I go to the market.
I’m really an extrovert when I talk to people and definitely have found that the local people here in Oxford are really welcoming and friendly"
Maryam Mehmood
"I have found academic advisors to be incredibly supportive and helpful particularly when one is in a predicament and in need of advice.."
Ieva Vitolina
"From my course, I’ve gained a wealth of experience as a result.
The course has provided me with the needed academic qualifications to pursue a career, I otherwise would not be able to"
Mollie Clay
"My advice for current undergraduates considering postgraduate study is definitely speak to a member of staff in the faculty or course where you show interest for postgraduate study"

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/courses/postgraduate:
Postgraduate study is an exciting opportunity to advance your education beyond an undergraduate degree.
It allows you to explore new fields or deepen your expertise in your current area.
Whether you're seeking to enhance your knowledge, advance your career, or explore a new field, postgraduate study offers a wealth of benefits.
Postgraduate taught courses (MA, MSc and MEng) offer a structured approach to learning, with a focus on building expertise in a particular field through coursework and exams.
Postgraduate research degrees (PhDs) are focused on independent research under the guidance of a supervisor, offering unique insights into a topic of your choice.
A Pre-Master’s course will prepare you for success in your master’s degree.
Upon completion, you can enter your chosen postgraduate degree.
Learn more about your course of interest by signing up to a webinar or event.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/courses/foundation:
Why study a foundation course?
We offer a range of foundation courses, including one-year standalone and four- or five-year integrated foundation courses, as well as options designed specifically for international students.
Our foundation courses will prepare you for university study in your chosen subject area.
Learn more about the courses you can study.
Progress automatically to your degree once you pass the foundation year.
Find out more about our International Foundation courses , designed specifically for international students.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/courses/professional-and-short-courses:
We provide a wide range of Continuing Professional Development (CPD) courses in many industry sectors, from short courses to part-time master level qualifications.
Many of these offer flexibility, allowing study to be integrated with work requirements so that both student and employer begin to benefit while study is ongoing.
Under our specialist portfolio, we offer a number of Healthcare CPD opportunities.
From one-day masterclasses, workshops and short courses, to clinical and non-clinical academic pathways including undergraduate, post-graduate and doctoral level study.
We also offer Specialist Healthcare Consultancy designed to meet the sustainability and transformational needs of the health and social care workforce.
About Healthcare CPD Healthcare CPD portfolio Healthcare short courses and study days OSCE Train the Trainer Institute of Public Care
The Business School offers a wide variety of qualifications and accreditations through programmes on leadership, coaching and mentoring, and management development.
Our accredited Global MBA develops your personal and professional expertise.
You'll apply what you learn throughout your MBA as you focus on your current role and performance and how to further develop your future career.
The International Centre for Coaching and Mentoring Studies is an internationally recognised as a leader among academic centres for coaching and mentoring.
The centre provides high quality coaching education from postgraduate certificates to doctoral level.
CPD in the Oxford Brookes Business School Professional Education Global MBA Coaching and mentoring for businesses International Centre for Coaching and Mentoring Studies ILM level 7 ILM Level 5 Help to Grow Leader as Coach
We offer a range of professional development opportunities for teachers to enable you to help children and young people learn more effectively and achieve their potential.
The Postgraduate Certificate in Education (PGCE) is a professional course designed to allow students with a first degree to meet the standards for teacher training and gain Qualified Teacher Status (QTS).
The Centre for Educational Consultancy and Development (CECD) offers a wide range of CPD courses and consultancy services to schools and Early Years settings.
The Oxford Centre for Academic Enhancement and Development offers courses and other support for staff and educational development nationally and internationally, within higher education and the public sector, and internally at Oxford Brookes University.
Postgraduate certificates PGCE MA in Education
We offer a diverse range of innovative short courses and professional development opportunities across planning, architecture, urban design, the humanitarian sector, and more.
Designed for both professionals and enthusiasts, our programmes deliver practical insights, hands-on experience, and meaningful opportunities for collaboration and networking.
Led by expert practitioners, our courses cover everything from sustainable design principles to emerging technologies, equipping participants with the skills and knowledge needed to succeed in today’s dynamic built environment.
We also offer bespoke training tailored to the specific needs of organisations and teams.
Join us to tackle real-world challenges, advance your career, and expand your expertise.
CPD and Short Courses
RIBA Studio Courses in Architecture
Resilience, Wellbeing and Mental Health Support In Crisis Settings
Meeting the challenge of globalisation by improving language skills.
We provide a wide range of foreign language classes for University students.
Find out more about our additional language modules
If you are an employer wishing to create a bespoke training programme, please contact us to discuss your requirements.
+ 44 (0) 1865 534200

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/courses/apprenticeships:
A degree apprenticeship offers you the opportunity to study whilst working to combine the skills acquired by both.
As an apprentice you will complete a degree and relevant professional qualification whilst working for an employer who sponsors you to study.
Apprentices study subjects that are directly relevant to their jobs and will often be visited in the workplace so that professional competency can be assessed ‘on the job’.
As part of the apprenticeship there will also be time allotted to attend university, college or a training provider.
Apprentices do not pay for the cost of tuition as this is met by the employer.
Employers pay apprentices, which means you will not have to take out a student loan to complete a degree apprenticeship.
The following Oxford Brookes college partners offer apprenticeships that include Oxford Brookes degrees and foundation degrees:
For more information about our partners, see our Studying at our partner colleges webpage.
To begin a degree apprenticeship you will need to find an employer who is looking to recruit apprentices.
There are plenty of companies who are very committed to training apprentices on the job such as BMW, the NHS and the BBC.
The process is very competitive so you will need to demonstrate that you are ready for study but also ready for work.
You can check if you are eligible to become an apprentice and find apprenticeship vacancies at Oxford Brookes by visiting our Apprenticeships on offer webpage .
Before applying, make sure you understand the kind of course you are going for.
For some skilled jobs for example, an employer may need you to study an intermediate or advanced apprenticeship to make sure you are professionally competent before you go for a degree apprenticeship.
This is sometimes necessary even if you already have qualifications like A-levels.
If you choose to apply for an apprenticeship delivered by Oxford Brookes University, we will be the Data Controller of any personal data that you supply.
This means that we will make the decisions on how your data is used and for what reasons.
Download the Apprenticeships Privacy Notice
Employers can find out which universities, colleges and training providers are offering degree apprenticeships by visiting the government apprenticeship web pages .
For more information about apprenticeships at Oxford Brookes please contact the UK Partnerships and Apprenticeships Team: apprentices@brookes.ac.uk or call + 44 (0) 1865 534900 option 4 .

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/courses/partner-colleges:
Degree courses closer to home
Where can I study?
What courses can I study?
We work with regional colleges to deliver university degrees closer to you.
So, whether you are working and want to develop your skills, returning to education after a break, or wishing to delve deeper into a subject that you love, studying for an Oxford Brookes degree at one of our partner colleges might be right for you.
Students studying at our partner colleges come from a wide range of backgrounds.
Many have worked for a number of years, while some have progressed straight from school or college.
We look at all of your previous professional and academic experience when considering applications.
Partnership staff
Click on the map pins to see more details about each college.
Why study at a partner college?
Why choose an Oxford Brookes course?
Open days, tours and more
For general enquiries relating to our college partnerships, please contact:
acpstudent@brookes.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/courses/international-pathway-courses:
Are you planning to join Oxford Brookes University from overseas?
Do you need to improve your English language skills before starting your degree?
Are your academic qualifications not at the level required for entry to Oxford Brookes?
Oxford Brookes International courses will help you to prepare for undergraduate or postgraduate study, and give you a really good introduction to university life.
You will be taught by highly qualified and experienced academic staff.
They are specialists in English for Academic Purposes who have trained, taught and researched overseas and in the UK.
Read more about our foundation courses or go straight to the course page below:
Read more about our range of pre-master's courses or go straight to the course pages below:
English language, foundation, and pre-master's courses
Ask a Question

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/courses/january-entry:
Start a new course in the New Year
Undergraduate, postgraduate taught, distance learning, and postgraduate research courses starting in January
At Oxford Brookes University, we understand that starting a degree in September isn’t practical for everyone.
We therefore offer a range of undergraduate and postgraduate programmes that start in January to provide you with the flexibility to begin your studies at a time that works for you.
We offer a range of undergraduate and postgraduate courses with a January start, in areas such as Business, Marketing, Finance, Built Environment, Hospitality and Public Health.
Search undergraduate courses
Search postgraduate courses
Search pathways courses
“20% of our students are international, from more than 150 countries.”
HESA 2022/23
“Ranked 6th in the UK for teaching”
Times Higher Education (THE) Young University Rankings 2024
“Among the world’s top universities in 23 subject areas”
You can apply via UCAS as a full-time undergraduate home student to join one of our January-start courses.
If you are using prior credit (or transferring from another university) to start in January, please contact us at admissions@brookes.ac.uk so we can support you with your application.
Postgraduate applications should be submitted directly to the University .
To start your course in January, please apply directly to the University .
January could be the perfect time to transfer to Oxford Brookes and complete your degree with us.
All you need to do is contact our team to discuss your application and we will guide you through the process.
Find out more about Credit Transfer
Once your application is received, it will be reviewed by our Admissions Team who will contact you either for further information or with a decision on your application.
Once you have accepted an offer from us, we will email you details of how to apply for accommodation in one of our halls of residence (from mid December).
In the meantime, the Accommodation Bureau can provide you with further details on your available options.
From applicant to student, there will be a wide range of support in place to help you prepare for university life at Oxford Brookes.
This includes a dedicated team who can offer advice and guidance on student visa applications for international students, and pre-arrival webinars to help you prepare for university life.
We will provide you with online and in person support before you start and once you get here to help you settle in and make the most of your time at Oxford Brookes.
Have a question?
We're here to help
Scholarships & financial support
Accommodation

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/international-students/applying-to-arriving:
Entry requirements and help with your application
What to do when you have an offer
Who to contact for help and advice

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/international-students/courses:
We have a wide range of courses available, some of which you may not have even considered yet.
Our courses will help you take the first steps towards your future career, because we design them to be relevant to the workplace.
We can offer you a range of levels of study, from bachelor’s and foundation degrees through to advanced study at master’s and PhD level.
Distance learning
Find out more about our high-quality English and Pathways courses, which will help prepare you for successful university study.
Oxford Brookes English and Pathways courses will help you to prepare for undergraduate or postgraduate study, and give you a great introduction to university life.
Foundation courses
Pre-Master's courses
Pre-sessional English courses
Discover where you can go and what you can do.
Whether you come to Brookes for 1-2 semesters or choose to study abroad with Oxford Brookes, there are plenty of opportunities to make unforgettable memories.
Find contacts in your country
Entry requirements

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/international-students/fees-and-funding:
During your studies at Oxford Brookes you will need to pay for your course and cover the costs of your accommodation, travel and living expenses.
Tuition fees
Living costs
Scholarships and financial support

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/international-students/why-oxford-brookes:
A vibrant, modern university in the heart of a famous city
Over 3,800 international students from more than 150 countries choose to make Oxford Brookes their home.
Our students flourish in the stimulating, supportive community we provide.
They benefit from our excellent teaching and we value the academic and cultural contributions they make to the university.
Find a course
Why Choose Oxford Brookes?
Listen to Sufyan talk about his experience here and why he would recommend it to other international students..
Don’t just take our word for it!
We asked international students from different countries studying a range of subjects what they like about Oxford Brookes.
Chat with them about workload, making friends, living in Oxford and anything else you want to know more about.
Discover why Oxford is such a great place to study.
From campus facilities to how to enjoy the very best that this beautiful city has to offer.
Did you know that everyone coming to study full-time at Oxford Brookes can apply for our halls?
We guarantee accommodation for students who make us their firm choice and apply by the deadline.
Oxford Brookes is among the world's top universities in 16 subject areas (QS World Rankings by Subject 2022) and 94% of our research is internationally recognised.
We support you throughout your student journey – from when you apply to after you’ve finished your degree.
Immigration advice in the UK is regulated and ISAT's International Student Advisers are the University's designated immigration advisers.
At Oxford Brookes you'll enjoy outstanding teaching and fresh new approaches to learning.
We create and deliver our own courses that help you develop your study skills, subject knowledge and academic English to prepare for your chosen degree.
We will help you develop the key skills you need to succeed in today’s highly competitive international job market.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/international-students/your-country:
Information for international students thinking about studying at Oxford Brookes University.
Download a prospectus
We provide regional information, including entry requirements, for countries / regions that send many students to Oxford Brookes University each year.
To see information for your country / region, please choose from the list.
Advice for international students in the UK
You can contact our Global Recruitment team to find out more about studying at Oxford Brookes University.
The Europe Team
Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, Vietnam and Hong Kong and Macau, SAR
Malaysia, Thailand, Myanmar, Indonesia, Philippines and Singapore
India
Nepal, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/international-students/events:
We would love to meet you!
Attend one of our international events and learn more about studying at Oxford Brookes University as an international student.
Our Global Recruitment team attend many events around the world, meaning you can meet them in-person.
This is a great opportunity to speak to a representative about courses, scholarships and funding opportunities, as well as the application process and life in the UK.
We also host a series of online events and webinars throughout the year, with various topics to support you in your application journey.
We have listed our upcoming events below.
If you're unable to attend an event either in-person or online, you can contact your country advisor for information.
We have specialist staff based in the UK and around the world who are ready to advise you on your study plans, and answer any questions you may have about studying at Oxford Brookes.
To make an appointment, please email your advisor directly.
See our list of country advisors
Our Global Recruitment team host Zoom drop-in sessions between 11.00am and 12.00pm (UK time) on the last Thursday of every month.
The team will be happy to answer any questions you may have as a prospective Oxford Brookes student.
Access the Zoom drop-in
Are you in an international student and already studying in the UK?
Meet your Oxford Brookes advisor and find information on entry requirements for international students who are already studying at colleges and schools in the UK.
Brookes Union & Societies
Financial support
Student support
Faith & religion

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/fees/living-costs:
At Oxford Brookes we’re always trying to find ways to help you with costs.
You’ve probably seen stories in the media about the increased cost of living and may have some concerns.
But don’t worry, the information on this page will help you to plan and budget for a full student life.
Your living expenses will depend on a variety of things, including your accommodation choices and lifestyle.
These figures take into account the amount of money that most students spend on:
Based on the range cost for a self-catered room in University halls of residence.
Includes the cost of heat and water.
You also have the option to pay your hall fees in instalments.
For specific prices and more information, see our Accommodation pages .
Accommodation in a shared house in Oxford costs on average £168 per week plus utility bills, such as water, gas and electricity.
Most students opt to stay in halls for their first year and then choose to move to a shared house for the remaining years of their course.
Costs are dependent on your contract.
To save costs you could consider choosing a SIM-only plan - or switch when your contract ends.
Refurbished mobile phones are a budget-friendly alternative if you need to replace your phone.
To save money, consider doing your weekly shop with your flatmates as bulk items are often cheaper.
Supermarket loyalty cards are a good way to access discounts and offers.
Such as toiletries, cleaning products, laundry.
Don’t forget to budget for course books and printing, stationery and other equipment.
You can cut costs by buying second-hand books.
And remember to ask if there are student discounts when buying IT equipment.
Depending on your lifestyle and living arrangements, you may need to add to your budget for items such as:
Managing your money can seem like a challenging task.
However, there is lots of free information available to support you in creating your weekly budget.
Broadcaster Martin Lewis at Money Saving Expert has a helpful student budgeting planner that includes a free downloadable template to manage your weekly finances.
One of the perks to being a student is the range of discounts with top brands and local services to support your weekly purchases.
You can also visit the Student Friendly Oxford pages for details of local discounts.
The University’s Student Money Advice team ( studentmoneyadvice@brookes.ac.uk ) can support you in managing your money to make it go further, and with advice about funding your studies.
The University has a financial aid fund to relieve financial difficulties which might impact on a student’s participation in Higher Education at Oxford Brookes University, and it is set up to help students remain at the University.
For more information please visit the Financial Aid pages.
Whether you’re in halls of residence or private accommodation, there are ways to manage your money.
When you move into private, rented student accommodation you will need to pay energy bills.
These will include electricity, gas and water and are usually paid on either a monthly, 3-monthly or 6-monthly basis, depending on the arrangements you have made with your utilities providers.
Energy bills have increased significantly for everyone recently, so it’s important that you are aware of the various cost-saving information that is available.
Save the Student has put together a useful article called ‘ Student bills - set-up, compare  and split ’.
If you stay in halls of residence , rent packages include your utility bills and contents insurance.
You may notice that food prices have risen since the global pandemic but don’t worry - there are ways to save money.
Here are our top tips to help you make your money go further:
In our catering outlets on our Oxford campuses we are offering 50% off selected food 1 hour before closing, 7 days a week.
Oxford is a city that’s easy to get around.
You can enjoy what Oxford has to offer by foot, bike or public transport.
For more resources and useful information about travel in and around Oxford, visit the Student Travel Offers page .
For a large number of students, having a part-time job is the way they supplement their student loan and parents’ contribution while at university.
Getting a part-time job while studying is a great opportunity to earn extra money, as well as learn new skills and make new friends.
Catrin, one of our students, discusses part-time work opportunities in Oxford.
Watch until the end to hear her top tips for finding and securing part-time work.
The Oxford Brookes part-time jobs portal has lots of information and resources to help you find a part-time job that fits in with your studies.
We also have a variety of paid roles for students on campus.
One of the most popular is the Student Ambassador role, where you can join a large team of fellow students who support us at Open Days and large external education fairs.
There are also other paid roles for Oxford Brookes students throughout the year.
Our students tell us they rely on seasonal work, such as at Christmas, Easter and summer work, which helps with their budget throughout the year.
Working over the summer when you may have nearly 3 months away from university is a great opportunity to build up funds.
Students with less time away from study in the summer can consider other opportunities, such as bank work for nursing students.
University life involves lots of work but plenty of play too!
During your time at Oxford Brookes you will meet new people and make lifelong friendships.
Fun activities with friends can cost money but there are plenty of free or low-cost things you can do, from live music and exhibitions to walks around some of the university parks and picnics by the river.
Daily Info is a local website that lists all of the exciting events and activities happening across Oxford.
The good news is that many of these activities are free to attend.
Get out and about, and explore what the city has to offer.
We recently launched support measures to help students with cost of living pressures .
This includes an increased budget for our Financial Aid packages, and plans to protect students in halls of residence from the rising costs of utilities.
That’s not all, to help with costs, when you’re on campus you’ll find:
Managing your money
Oxford Brookes Bursary for Home Students
Avoiding accommodation scams
Staying safe from fraudsters

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/fees/additional-module-fee:
Tuition fees for students studying a full-time undergraduate degree at Oxford Brookes cover eight single module units per year.
Students can register and pay for additional modules at an additional cost.
The additional module fee is outlined below:
Please note that the Student Finance England maximum loan for full-time students is £9,250.
There is no additional funding available for additional modules taken during an Academic Year.
As a full-time student you may add one language module credit for no extra fee.
For a list of modules you may study for no extra cost.
Learn more about additional language modules
The following Academic English modules may also be studied for no extra fee (one module credit per year only):
Please note, only one module credit per academic year may be studied for free.
If you would like to speak to us face-to-face, our Zoom room is open on Wednesdays from 1.00pm to 2.00pm.
When you enter, you will then be assigned to one of our advisers when they become available.
Enter Zoom room
finaid@brookes.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/fees/english-international-foundation-and-pre-master-s:
The duration of each course may vary, and full details can be found on individual course webpages.
Pre-sessional English
£4,500 (12 week course)
£4,750 (12 weeks)
£2,400 (6 week course)
£2,500 (6 weeks)
International foundation courses
International Foundation Diploma
£15,250 for international students £9,250 for UK students
£16,000 for international students £5,760 for UK students
International Foundation Business and Technology *
International Foundation Arts, Humanities & Law *
Art and Design Foundation Diploma
£16,600 for international students £6,100 for UK students
£16,750 for international students £6,100 for UK students
*Fee is for the foundation year only.
Refer to the undergraduate course fees page for subsequent years' tuition fees.
For other foundation courses please see the undergraduate course fees .
Pre-Master's Certificate: English Language and Study Skills
£7,050
£7,450
Pre-Master's Certificate: Study Skills
Pre-Master's Diploma
£13,950
£14,650
Two-Year Master's *
*Fee is for the Pre-Master's year only.
Refer to the postgraduate course fees page for the subsequent year's tuition fees.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/fees/make-a-payment:
Pay your tuition, or accommodation fees
If you're paying your student tuition or accommodation fees in full or part payments, or have sponsorship support, read the information here to make sure your online payments are made correctly.
You can also find details about paying your commercial invoice, international admission fees, and how to stay on track with your payments and who to ask when you need help.
Oxford Brookes University welcomes all major cards for safe and convenient payment online, as well as international bank transfer, and commercial invoices.
You can view your account and pay your tuition fees,  or for graduation tickets by logging in to your accounts page on Student Information.
For accommodation fees, you can pay online via your Accommodation Portal .
If you are paying on a student's behalf, you can us our online payment system to pay for tuition, accommodation, deposits or graduation tickets.
Any amount from £10 to the full balance can be paid.
You will need the student ID and date of birth when making the payment.
If a deposit payment for tuition is needed to secure a place on a course, the Admissions Team will inform you of this.
Further information and how to pay
Short courses, events and other products and services can be paid via the university's online shop .
Payment for commercial invoices can be made via this online payment page .
Customers will need to quote the following information from the invoice supplied:
Payment by bank transfer can be made through our online payment system .
For tuition, accommodation, deposits and graduation tickets.
You can pay your tuition fees in full at the start of the academic year or in two equal instalments at the start of each semester in September and January.
There is a 3-payment option for courses which have a 3-term structure.
If you are receiving a UK Government Postgraduate Loan, you can pay your fees in three equal instalments, aligned to the dates you will receive your loan.
You will be able to select this payment option when you complete your online enrolment.
The payment dates would be:
When you accept your contract, you can select your preferred instalment plan.
Whichever you choose, the total price is always the same.
You can also change your instalment plan later if you wish.
For information about refunds and fee liability please refer to our refund policy .
We do not accept payments from the following countries: Cuba , Iran , North Korea , Sudan , South Sudan , Syria , or Crimea .
Students are asked to be aware of tuition fee fraud scams - see fraud awareness information here (English version) , and fraud awareness information here (Mandarin version) .
Please see this page for further advice on scams and fraud .
For information on types of fraud and advice on avoiding becoming a victim of fraud please visit the Don't be fooled website .
The website is a partnership between UK Finance and Cifas.
It aims to inform students and young people about the risks of giving out their bank details, and deter them from becoming money mules.
The University's Student Debt Policy can be found in the University Regulations.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/fees/refund-policy:
If you have made an overpayment, your tuition fees have been reduced due to a late sponsor notification, or you have taken temporary withdrawal or permanently withdrawn from your program, you may request a refund from the University's Student Finance Team ( financefees@brookes.ac.uk ).
Where it is established that a refund is payable under this policy, the repayment must be refunded to the original payer using the same method of payment as the original remittance.
This is to ensure compliance with the UK Anti Money Laundering Legislation requirements.
Please note:
If you withdraw from your program, or take temporary withdrawal from your program, your tuition fee costs may be adjusted based on your last date of attendance.
See further below.
Please note that no application for a refund of fees will be considered unless a withdrawal from studies (temporary or permanent) has been fully approved by the University.
Any overpayment of tuition fees arising from a temporary withdrawal from studies will be automatically carried forward as credit into the next Academic Session.
The credit will be used to offset any fee liability upon resumption of studies.
Students can however make a formal application for a refund at the point of temporary withdrawal.
This policy applies to all students except undergraduate students who have taken a Student Loans Company (SLC) tuition fee loan (see section 'Undergraduates with an SLC tuition fee loan' below).
Where a tuition fee has been paid by a sponsor, any refund due will be paid directly back to that sponsor.
A refund is payable if a student withdraws, or take a temporary withdrawal from the program, before the end of week 4 of a session (either a semester or a term, depending on the study pattern).
In such circumstances, tuition fees for that session and all payments for future sessions will be refunded.
If an Undergraduate student is in receipt of a Tuition Fee Loan from Student Finance England, they will not be entitled to a refund on any overpayment of tuition fees.
Any overpayment of tuition fees caused by a withdrawal from studies will be repaid by the University to Student Finance England, who will credit the student’s loan account.
The table below outlines the percentage of tuition fee liability for students who withdraw from studies in 2024-25.
*The date of withdrawal is that entered on the student’s account by the University
** Please note : Some Healthcare and Education courses start earlier in January; in these case the second liability date is earlier.
Please contact slcfunding@brookes.ac.uk if you have any questions.
Self-financing students will also be subject to the same liability dates below.
If an Undergraduate UK GBS student is in receipt of a Tuition Fee Loan from Student Finance England, they will not be entitled to a refund on any overpayment of tuition fees.
The tables below outline the percentage of tuition fee liability for students who withdraw from their studies.
Starting October 2025
Starting February 2026
Starting July 2026
A Postgraduate student in receipt of a Postgraduate Master's Loan from Student Finance England, may apply for a tuition fee refund for any overpayments.
This is because the loan is paid directly to the student by Student Finance England.
Where a postgraduate student is in receipt of a postgraduate loan from the Student Loans Company (SLC), tuition fees can be paid in line with the instalment dates and percentage of loan specified in their loan agreement letter.
Please be aware that if a student with a postgraduate loan withdraws from their studies early their liability to pay tuition fees remains as set out in paragraph 2.3 of the Student Debt Policy .
Refund policy for deposit payments
Under these circumstances, you may be unable to enrol because we have withdrawn your offer of a place or because your application for a visa has been rejected due to fraud.
Applicants seeking a tuition fee deposit refund should write to admissions@brookes.ac.uk in the first instance.
Please refer to the Accommodation licence terms and conditions .
Requesting a refund If you have made an overpayment, you may request a refund from the University's Student Finance team (finance-halls@brookes.ac.uk).
Refund of Accommodation Fees You will be due a refund if you have made an over payment or you are no longer liable to complete your contract license agreement.
You will be charged according to the contract dates maintained by the Accommodation Bureau, if this results in an overpayment you will be refunded.
Payment of the refund Where it is established that a refund is payable under this policy, the repayment must be refunded to the original payer using the same method of payment as the original remittance.
The focus of the University will always be on ensuring that students receive the education that they are entitled to expect based on their contract.
However, in some circumstances it may be necessary to consider whether compensation, refunds or other forms of non-financial redress are appropriate.
Where a student can demonstrate that the University has not met the standards that are reasonably expected based on their contract, students are able to make a complaint using the University's complaints procedure ( Section C2 ).
If, as an outcome of the complaints process, the University agrees that some form of compensation is appropriate, the details of the compensation will be considered using the principles outlined by the Office of the Independent Adjudicator for Higher Education (OIA) and in line with the relevant consumer protection legislation.
Students are asked to be aware of tuition fee fraud scams - see fraud awareness information (English version) , and fraud awareness information (Mandarin version) .
Information on types of fraud and advice on avoiding becoming a victim of fraud can be found in the Tips & Advice section on this external site .

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/fees/how-are-tuition-fees-spent:
Tuition fees from undergraduate home (UK) students are invested in the wide range of services available to you during your time at Oxford Brookes.
Further information can be found in the University’s financial statements
Teaching staff and supplies 46%, Teaching buildings and their infrastructure 16%, Support, advisory and academic services for students and nursery 10%, University administration support 8%, IT services and libraries 8%, Widening participation, community outreach and communications activity 6%, Bursaries 5% and Brookes Union 1%.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/fees/postgraduate-research-fees:
These are the postgraduate research fees for the 2025/2026 academic year.
Fees can be paid in 3 instalments in September, January and June, as set out in the ‘My Account’ section in your Student Self-Service Portal.
Fees quoted are for the first year only.
If you are studying a course that lasts longer than one year, your fees will increase each year.
For International fees the following factors will be taken into account by the University when it is setting the annual fees: inflationary measures such as the retail price indices, projected increases in University costs, changes in the level of funding received from Government sources, admissions statistics and access considerations including the availability of student support.
Home fees are set by UK Research and Innovation (UKRI) and are released approximately five months before the start of each academic year.
Find out the cost of your chosen research degree by selecting the course here, and selecting go, or consult the tables below.
The fee information below applies to students who are eligible to pay the 'Home' fee rate, and are studying on any research degree apart from Professional Doctorates which are listed on separate pages (DCM, EdD, DNurs, DMid).
Bench Fees Bench fees will be calculated on an individual basis and the amount will depend on the subject and project.
In some cases no bench fee will be charged.
The fee information below applies to students who are eligible to pay the 'International' fee rate, and are studying on any research degree apart from Professional Doctorates which are listed on separate pages (DCM, EdD, DNurs, DMid).
Please note all students must pay these fees as follows:

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/fees/tuition-fee-increases:
After careful consideration by the University’s senior management team, Oxford Brookes will be increasing its undergraduate degree tuition fees for UK students from £9,250 to £9,535 after 1 August 2025, in line with the Government’s announcement and as indicated on the course pages of our website.
Details of fee increases for part-time students after 1 August 2025 can be found on the Fees webpage .
Oxford Brookes is increasing its undergraduate tuition fees for UK students from £9,250 to £9,535 after 1 August 2025, in line with the Government’s announcement of 4 November 2024 .
UK undergraduate tuition fees have remained capped at £9,250 for the last seven years - meaning fees have not kept pace with inflation.
The increase will help to put universities on a firmer financial footing so they can deliver more opportunity for students.
These changes will take effect at the start of the 2025 to 2026 academic year , with maximum fees rising by 3.1% to £9,535.
After leaving study, student loan borrowers will not see their monthly student loan repayments increase as a result of these changes
The statutory maximum level for tuition fees for UK students enrolling in 2026/27 and subsequent years has not been set yet by the UK Government.
Tuition fees may increase in subsequent years both for new and continuing students in line with an inflationary amount determined by the Government.
Once this information is known, the University will consider the options available and provide further information.
The new £9,535 tuition fee level from 2025/26 for UK undergraduates will continue to be covered by a loan from the Student Loans Company, in line with its published eligibility criteria and repayment terms and conditions.
Like many UK universities, Oxford Brookes is experiencing increasing financial challenges due to a range of external factors, such as inflation, increases in staff pay, National Insurance and employer pension contributions and flat student fees for UK undergraduates (which have remained capped at £9,250 for the last seven years).
The increased tuition fee level will mean we can continue to deliver an excellent experience for everyone who chooses to study at Oxford Brookes.
No.
First time undergraduate’s fees can be paid by a Student Loans Company loan, which means you do not pay up-front.
Full and part-time students only begin paying back their student loan once they earn over £25,000 a year.
Repayments will be 9% of your income over the £25,000 threshold.
After 40 years any loan you still owe is written off.
Yes, the tuition fee increase to £9,535 from 2025/26 will apply to all UK undergraduate students.
Existing UK undergraduate tuition fee levels have remained the same for seven years- meaning fees have not kept pace with inflation.
The decision to apply a tuition fees increase across all years of UK undergraduate entry will mean we can continue to deliver an excellent experience for everyone who chooses to study at Oxford Brookes.
The tuition fees for these students in 2025/26 will be £1,700.
The fee for Turing and Study Abroad students in 2025/26 is £1,385.
Your tuition fee will depend on the programme you are studying.
Students studying for a foundation degree or a top-up bachelor’s degree with one of our partner colleges will be charged £7,700 per year for full-time study in 2025/26.
Students doing an on-campus or online top-up directly through Oxford Brookes will be charged £9,535 per year for full-time study or £1,190 per single module for part-time study.
Please note that BSc Equine Science course fees for new and continuing students will also move to £9,535 in 2025/26.
The increased fee will mean we can continue to deliver an excellent experience for everyone who chooses to study an Oxford Brookes degree.
Tuition fees for students studying for an Oxford Brookes award with GBS are listed on the specific course pages of our website under the ‘tuition fees’ tab or by searching for the course in our fee finder .
In 2025/26 you will be charged between £5,760 and £9,535.
Please see our specific course pages for the fee.
Students studying for an Oxford Brookes award with GBS should refer to the previous question: ‘What is the tuition fee for those studying for an Oxford Brookes award with GBS?’ for further information.
Yes, all UK undergraduate students will pay £9,535 tuition fees for 2025/26.
This includes students who have chosen to defer entry.
The Government hasn’t yet confirmed tuition fee levels for 2026/27.
Tuition fees may increase in subsequent years for both new and continuing students in line with an inflationary amount determined by the Government.
Once this information is known, we will publish the fees for 2026/27 on our website.
We expect this to be by the end of June 2025.
At Oxford Brookes we offer a range of scholarships and bursaries, to provide extra financial support.
Eligible Oxford Brookes students will still be able to apply for these.
For information about the support that’s available with tuition fees and living costs, please visit our Funding and financial support page on our website .
The Government has also confirmed that maintenance loans for students will increase next year, giving you more money to support your studies.
Students coming to Brookes to top up to a full bachelor’s degree will be charged £9,535 per year for full-time study or £1,190 per single module for part-time study.
UK undergraduate students studying for a PGCE at Oxford Brookes will be charged £9,535 in 2025/26.
Students studying undergraduate Nursing, Midwifery, Occupational Therapy or Physiotherapy courses will be charged the standard £9,535 tuition fee for 2025/26.
As well as student loans, there is extra support available in the form of grants from the NHS.
Please see the NHS Learning Support Fund webpage for more information.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/fees/get-help:
Our phone number is +44 (0) 1865 534400 and it is open between 10am and 3pm, Monday to Friday.
Outside these hours please email the relevant Student Finance team as shown below.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/funding/funding-your-studies:
Undergraduate tuition fee loans for UK students
Advanced Learner Loans
Alumni Discount Scheme
Cowrie scholarship
Family discount for Concurrent Study
Postgraduate doctoral loans for home students
Postgraduate Masters Loan - England
US Federal Aid or Sallie Mae Loans for US students
Visa Renewal Discount
Estranged students bursary
NHS Learning Support Fund and Training Grant
Oxford Brookes Bursary for New Students
Oxford Brookes Bursary for Continuing Students
Sanctuary Scholarship
Transition from Care Bursary
Undergraduate maintenance loans for full-time UK students
Undergraduate maintenance loans for part-time UK students
Unite Foundation Accommodation Scholarship
Young Carer Bursary
Dean's Postgraduate Scholarship
Foreign Language Teaching and Research Press (FLTRP) Bursary
Full-Time UK Faculty Scholarship
£5,000 Global Development and Humanitarian Practice Scholarship
£7,500 Global Development and Humanitarian Practice Scholarship
Humanitarian Action and Peacebuilding Scholarship
International Relations
International Relations and Politics research scholarship
IOP Publishing Scholarship
Job interview attendance funds from the Journalists' Charity
London Book Fair Scholarship
MSc Primate Conservation Scholarship
Part-Time UK Faculty Scholarship
Princeton University Press Scholarship
Tessa Jane Evans Bursary for Nursing
International Student Scholarship September entry

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/funding/important-facts-about-student-finance:
Don't let myths about fees put you off applying for higher education.
Here are some facts to help you make an informed decision about going to university.
First time undergraduates' fees are automatically paid by a Student Loans Company loan.
You may also be eligible for a maintenance loan of up to £10,277 to live off.
You repay 9% of everything earned above £25,000 starting the April after graduation.
Those who never earn over it, never repay.
As monthly repayments depend only on earnings, the course fee size doesn't affect it.
Whatever you still owe, repayments stop after 40 years.
Repayments are taken via the payroll, just like tax.
So you never actually handle the cash, meaning there will be no debt collectors chasing you!
When you borrow from a bank for a credit card, loan or mortgage, to evaluate whether they'll make money from you lenders look at three pieces of information – your application form, any previous dealings they've had with you and crucially, the information on your credit reference files.
Most normal financial transactions and credit relationships you have are listed on these files – yet student loans are not included (with the exception of students who started university before 1998 under the original loans system and defaulted).
So the only way loan, credit card or mortgage providers know if you've got a student loan is if they choose to ask on application forms.
They can do this and it happens, but in general it's only for bigger value transactions such as mortgages.
The bad news is that compared to today's graduates, you will repay less each year, have much bigger loans and pay higher interest (and inflation), so it'll take much longer to repay than now and depending on earnings, may cost a lot more.
Fears about fees mean some parents aim to pay them upfront.
If you (or your parents) are planning to use savings, bear in mind that since you may end up not repaying all of what you borrow before the 40 year wipe, you could be throwing big money away.
Using that money for a deposit on a house, for instance, could be a better use of it.
Don’t make knee jerk decisions to pay upfront without doing research.
For support with Student Finance, welfare benefits and budgeting, please contact Student Money Advice .
studentmoneyadvice@brookes.ac.uk
Information supplied by the Independent Taskforce on Student Finance Information.
Need more mythbusting advice?
Check out the truth about uni fees, loans and grants by MoneySavingExpert.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/funding/parents-and-carers-guide:
Going to university is a big financial commitment and we understand that the costs involved are one of the most common concerns that parents and carers have.
Tuition fees and help with living costs are covered by student loans.
Other sources of financial support may also be available.
The government provides student loans to cover tuition fees and some living expenses.
Your student will apply for these through the Student Loans Company (SLC).
The student loan is made up of:
No fees are payable up front by any student.
All first-time undergraduate students are eligible for a tuition fee loan of up to £9,535 per year.
This is paid directly by the Student Loans Company to the University.
This loan is available to full-time students to help cover costs with living expenses.
All students are eligible for a loan - the amount varies depending on household income.
Learn about important facts about student finance
See the most up-to-date information about student loans and other financial support .
If your student is applying for a tuition fee loan and a maintenance loan that depends on your household income, they’ll be asked to enter your email address in their application.
The Student Loans Company will then send you detailed instructions on what you need to do.
If they are applying for the tuition fee loan and the basic maintenance loan you won’t have to do anything as they will complete the application with their own details.
Students won’t have to repay their student loan until they’ve left university and their income is over £25,000 a year.
They’ll then repay 9% of any income over this amount, deducted automatically from their salary through the tax system.
If their income drops below £25,000, repayments will stop.
Any debt remaining after 40 years is written off.
Unlike credit card or loan debt, student loans do not go onto credit files.
The Student Finance calculator helps provide an estimate of the financial support that students may be eligible for: www.gov.uk/student-finance-calculator
Your student may also be eligible for extra financial help through a bursary or scholarship.
These do not have to be paid back.
At Oxford Brookes, these include the Oxford Brookes Bursary Scheme, a bursary for young people leaving care, and sports and community scholarships.
Some financial support is also available to enrolled students if they are unexpectedly facing severe financial difficulties.
Find out more about our bursaries, scholarships and financial support
Bursaries and scholarships and financial support do not have to be paid back.
Degree students (excluding social work students) are eligible to apply for the NHS Learning Support Fund, which provides extra funding for healthcare students with travel and dual accommodation expenses, a parental allowance and an exceptional support fund.
All nursing students will receive a payment of at least £5,000 a year which they will not need to pay back.
This grant is part of the NHS Learning Support Fund for healthcare students.
Find out more about the NHS Learning Support Fund
For more information on the cost of living while studying, please see our living costs page .
Find out more about funding and the financial support available by coming to one of our Open Days or Applicant Days where you can attend dedicated talks and meet staff from our Student Finance Team.
Ten important facts about student finance

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/funding/open-day-travel-bursary:
Did you know that you might be eligible for an Offer Holder Day or an Undergraduate Open Day travel bursary?
Our travel bursary covers the cost of a round trip journey from your home postcode to our Headington Campus at a rate of £0.40 per mile, up to a limit of £80 claim.
You can apply for the bursary if you are a UK student and meet at least one of the following criteria:
If you believe you are eligible, you should register for the event you are attending on Eventbrite and contact uniopenday@brookes.ac.uk .
We will send you further information about the travel bursary via email.
If you have any questions relating to the travel bursary, please contact us .

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/funding/getting-your-loans-on-time:
If you haven’t received your Student Maintenance Loan yet, please read through the topics below:
Perhaps your loan application hasn't been completely processed yet - it can take up to 12 weeks to process applications for student loans, so it could be that you missed the Student Loans Company (Student Finance) application deadline?
Remember that the SLC won't release loans to enrolled students until the first day of the semester.
This will be stated on your loan award letter.
You can check this either:
If you have applied on time for the SLC (Student Finance) application deadline, you should get your first student maintenance loan instalment within 5 working days of completing your enrolment at Oxford Brookes – see (3) below.
If you want to make sure your SLC (Student Finance) application is correct, do contact the Student Money Advice team .
If you need help, contact your Student Support Coordinator or visit Student Central .
If you’ve applied for a Tuition Fee loan then the SLC (Student Finance) will pay your tuition fees direct to the University after the loan is approved and you've started studying.
If there's a delay in your loan application being approved, you should contact Oxford Brookes Student Finance:
Email : credit-control@brookes.ac.uk
Tel : +44 (0) 1865 534400 option 2
The SLC (Student Finance) will pay your maintenance loan direct to you.
This is for living costs including rent.
If you’re living in university-managed halls and the delay in your funding means that you can’t pay the first instalment of your accommodation, you need to contact Oxford Brookes Student Finance at finance-halls@brookes.ac.uk or on +44 (0) 1865 534400 option 4.
If you’re living in accommodation managed by an external provider – a partnership hall or private landlord/letting agent – you should speak to the provider to explain the funding delay and reach an arrangement about delaying payment until you've received your loan.
Remember that the maintenance loan, which pays for day-to-day living expenses like rent, bills, food and books, is based on your household income.
It’s likely that you, your parents, family or partner have to submit evidence to verify this.
If the evidence isn’t submitted, you’ll only get the minimum maintenance loan.
If you’re late submitting evidence, it will cause delays.
Check your application status via your SLC (Student Finance) portal or call the SLC (Student Finance) to see if there’s a problem.
Phone numbers are below (section 7).
You’ll need your Customer Reference number and password to hand.
If you do need to call the SLC (Student Finance) to sort your situation out, these are the numbers.
It can be difficult to get through due to the high volume of calls in September/October.
Try early morning or later in the day to increase your chances of getting through.
When dealing with your loan application, please remember:
At busy times, it can take up to 6 weeks for the SLC (Student Finance) to reassess your application.
If, after taking the above steps, you’ve still not been able to resolve your problem, you can contact the Student Money Advice team .
With your permission, they can talk to the Student Loans Company (Student Finance) on your behalf.
Remember to ask for help if you need it!
There are lots of people at Oxford Brookes who can advise you:
If you are a current student please complete our form
If you are thinking about studying at Oxford Brookes, please email us.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/funding/student-loans-and-sharia-law:
Some Muslims and members of other faiths may be deterred from taking out the UK government's student loans, due to the interest payment system.
We have prepared this page of information for undergraduate and postgraduate students who need to finance their education, and who also have questions or concerns about Sharia compliance.
Most UK banks offer home undergraduates a student bank account with an overdraft facility which is interest-free up to a specified limit.
The same bank may at the same time charge non-students interest on an overdraft.
The UK government offers eligible undergraduate students a Tuition Fee Loan and Maintenance Loan as part of the Student Finance funding system in the UK.
These student loans incur interest on the repayments.
Before 2012 this interest was set at the rate of inflation, not at a commercial rate.
Therefore, the value of the amount repaid was the same as the value of the amount borrowed.
However, since 2012, interest is charged at the rate of inflation plus 3 percent during the period of study.
The interest rate then varies after studies, between the rate of inflation only and inflation plus 3 percent, according to earnings.
UK / home postgraduate students can apply for a Masters' loan via Student Finance England.
Students aged under 60 on the first day of their programme can borrow a maximum of £12,471 (2024-25: £12,471) to help pay tuition fees and/or living costs for both taught and research based Masters' programmes.
Interest is charged at current RPI (Retail Prices Index) plus 3% with repayments normally due from the April following course completion.
In addition to the Postgraduate Loans Scheme, there is a PhD loans scheme for students.
This is aimed at students without Research Council funding, as a means of expanding access to PhD study for postgraduates.
Find out more about postgraduate doctoral loans for home students
It is important to understand that if you decide for faith reasons not to take a loan for your studies, this may have an effect on your eligibility for other sources of funding.
You would need to find alternative funding such as family, friends, savings, etc, to cover the cost of your education.
Some factors you may wish to consider are:
However, it is worth noting that some elements of government Student Finance are not repayable.
These include supplementary grants for dependants or disability related course costs.
If you started your course before 2016, you might qualify for a Maintenance Grant, depending on your household income.
The UK government has been exploring the possibility of an Alternative Finance system available alongside traditional student loans that will avoid the payment of interest but results in identical repayments to the conventional system.
This funding would be Sharia (Shariah, Shari’ ah) compliant and overseen by a Sharia advisory committee.
The UK government undertook a public consultation ending in September 2014 which has resulted in an agreement to offer an Alternative Finance product.
This 'Takaful' product has received preliminary approval from Al Rayan Bank's Sharia supervisory committee and chapter 4, paragraphs 27-36 of the November 2015 government green paper ' Fulfilling our potential Teaching Excellence, Social Mobility and Student Choice [PDF 2,197KB] sets out the details of this (paras 27-36).
The latest available information is set out on pages 59 and 60 of the government's White Paper ' Success as a knowledge economy' [PDF 13,948KB] published in May 2016, which explains that the government is committed to introducing the new product, however there are currently no timescales for this.
Some financial institutions have Sharia-compliant financial services.
They guarantee that money held in these accounts is not invested in industries such as gambling, alcohol or weapons manufacturing.
If you are a Muslim student and have secured your main source of funding for your studies, you may be eligible for some additional financial help from the National Zakat Foundation.
Detailed advice about eligibility and the different areas they may be able to offer help with are set out on their website.
Rayan Bank (formerly Islamic Bank of Britain) currently provides bank accounts that comply with Sharia Law.
For more information on the services offered and how to apply, please visit the Rayan Bank website .
The bank provides additional financial services such as home financing, savings and investment services.
+ 44 (0) 1865 534005
suadvice@brookes.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/funding/funding-opportunities-for-ukrainian-students:
Details have been released by the Government about funding possibilities for Ukrainian students, and the UK Council for International Student Affairs (UKCISA) have published the criteria (below) to allow Ukrainian students qualify for home fees status.
If you do qualify for Home fee status you will be able to apply for both tuition fee and maintenance loan funding from Student Finance England (SFE).
You will also be eligible for the Brookes Bursary scheme .
To see what you might be entitled to from SFE please visit this site .
The UKCISA guidance is set out below:
On the first day of the academic year you are paying fees for, you must be a person with any one of these five types of leave:
The Ukraine Permission Extension (UPE) scheme opened for applications on 4 February 2025.
Students with existing leave under a Ukraine scheme may be eligible to apply for further leave under the UPE scheme.
Applications to the UPE scheme should be made when the current leave has 28 or fewer days remaining until expiry.
Leave granted under the UPE scheme is for a further 18 months.
If the existing Ukraine scheme leave expires and is not replaced by UPE scheme leave, it may affect students' future support from Student Finance England / Student Finance Wales.
It is therefore strongly advised that students apply in time to the UPE scheme to avoid this happening.
As a contingency, the Home Office has introduced a 90-day ‘grace’ period for applications to the UPE scheme after the expiry of a person’s most recent leave.
The Home Office will accept applications to the UPE scheme that are submitted within 90 days of the expiry date of the person’s most recent leave, providing the application for UPE leave is submitted between 4 February 2025 (the UPE scheme launch date) and 4 August 2025.
More information can be found on the UK Government website .
If you have any questions about this scheme or your funding please contact the Student Money Advice Team
UK Government guidance
Student Money Advice Team

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/funding/get-help:
Redirects to Get help .

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/funding/job-interview-attendance-funds-from-the-journalist:
September 2023 / September 2024 / September 2025 / September 2026
Home / International
Undergraduate; Postgraduate
Needs based
Any applicant who can demonstrate they need support will be issued the requested funds
The Journalists’ Charity and Oxford Brookes University will work together to support students from financially challenged backgrounds to attend job interviews.
The overall aim of the initiative is to help more future journalists from a range of backgrounds to establish a career in the industry rather than potentially being deterred by financial barriers to entry.
The Journalists’ Charity will provide financial assistance to enable undergraduates, recent graduates or postgraduate students to attend job interviews in circumstances where financial challenges might otherwise prevent them from doing so.
Support will include reimbursement towards the following fair, appropriate and justifiable expenses of attending job interviews:
This funding is available to students studying on the following courses:
Oxford Brookes University will approve support for individuals which will then be paid directly by the Journalists’ Charity to the applicant based on the following criteria:

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/why-oxford-brookes/outstanding-teaching:
High-quality teaching lies at the heart of Oxford Brookes.
We are proud to have received a host of achievements and accolades, including 10 National Teaching Fellowships for our staff.
We are home to 9 National Teaching Fellows - the most prestigious award for excellence in higher education teaching.
Our National Teaching Fellows work across a range of subjects from geography and architecture to business and education.
Our academics also take part in innovative schemes which add value to their teaching.
Professor of Sociology
Tina is one of the BBC Academy’s Expert Women - an ongoing campaign attempting to increase the number of expert female contributors on TV and radio.
She has appeared on BBC Radio 4's Woman's Hour and BBC Radio Oxford talking about her influential research into contemporary family lives, which she brings to life through her teaching.
Programme Lead for Undergraduate Architecture
Jane won a National Teaching Award Fellowship in 2014 for her innovative use of live projects in architectural education.
Students design and build real projects, such as a pop up cinema, commissioned by local communities, charities and organisations.
They have enabled students to collaborate with clients, local government and industry experts, engaging in social and cultural issues and contributing to the local area.
Principal Lecturer (Education and Student Experience)
Jonathan is a recipient of Senior Fellowship from the Higher Education Academy (HEA) in recognition of his commitment to high quality student learning and teaching.
He is also the Faculty Champion for the Oxford Brookes Social Entrepreneur Programme (OBSEA), providing vital encouragement, support and expertise to help students undertaking funded projects that are designed to address some of the world’s pressing social issues.
Principal Lecturer in Law
Marc became a National Teaching Fellow in 2015.
His teaching philosophy is to bring the study of law to life.
A former practising solicitor, he focuses on helping his students develop highly sought after professional skills.
Under his guidance, Oxford Brookes law students have won national and international competitions in client interviewing and mooting.
He’s national adjudicator for the prestigious national ESU Mooting Competition.
Every year, our students get the opportunity to recognise members of staff who have made a real difference to their learning experience.
Oxford Brookes is ranked 6th in the UK for teaching (Times Higher Education Young University Rankings 2024).
Dr Mark Cain, Reader and Programme Lead for Philosophy and Religion, won the Most Inspirational Lecturer award.
Students nominating Mark highlighted his passion for his subject and the outstanding support he provides for his students.
“Mark consistently  expresses an enthusiasm, passion and enjoyment for teaching and for his subject.
He is also always willing to sit down and talk through things, whether it be academically related or to do with personal matters.”
“All my lecturers are really professional, knowledgeable and engaging as well, which makes learning much easier and more interesting, just fun.”
Bernard Chu, studying Nutrition
“Being able to have a close relationship with tutors and my academic adviser has been vital for my studies.
I don't think my course would have been half as enjoyable as it is without the remarkable staff.”
Kristi Ronning Langli, studying Drama and English
“The best thing about the course is the people who teach it.”
Haakon Sorlie, studying History
“Your teachers become your mentors and guides for life.”
Dana Kanibolotska, studying International Hospitality Management
“My parents have been impressed with the academic standards of my course.”
Aiysha Whitfield studying Film Studies and Communication, Media and Culture

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/why-oxford-brookes/expand-your-skills:
You come to university to study.
But what else can you do to set yourself apart from the rest when it comes to applying for jobs later?
Oxford Brookes offers a range of opportunities beyond your studies to gain experience and develop new skills.
The kind of skills potential employers are looking for.
And it’s not just about boosting your employability.
You’ll learn a lot about yourself and where your talents lie, as well as enriching your experience at university.
Take a look at what you can do to add value to your degree and, hopefully, enjoy yourself at the same time.
Got a great idea but want some help?
Gain practical career skills by making your own commercial or community project happen - there’s plenty of support on hand at Oxford Brookes.
Find out how to get your innovative business venture off the ground with the Oxford Brookes Entrepreneurship Programme.
It’s how this successful company kicked off:
“Even after I left university, I kept in touch and got advice and support from the Brookes business development team.”
Josh Shires came up with his idea for the Musicase – a sleek iPhone case that will stop you from losing or tangling your headphones ever again – together with fellow entrepreneur James Griffiths whilst studying at Brookes.
Together they formed Mous to bring this product to the world.
"At the start of my journey many people said to me ‘no one will buy that’, ‘no one will invest in that’ and many more negative comments.
If I'd listened to them, I would have never achieved what I have.
Instead I followed my gut feeling.
But, it can be a hard balance to get right.
No one will see the vision you have and you have to stay resilient and strong.
Sometimes though, people are right, and you need to know when to pivot and change direction.
The Brookes voluntary entrepreneurial class helped me to find that balance.
I received help with my business plan and, even after I left the university, I kept in touch and got advice and support.”
Josh Shires studied Mechanical Engineering BSc
For more on how you can make a difference while at Oxford Brookes, and other sources of funding if you’ve got an idea for a project, visit our Social Responsibility web pages.
Volunteering is a great way to make a difference while exploring new directions.
For some people volunteering can be a direct route into their ideal career – for others it helps develop new or existing skills.
Either way, it will add valuable experience to your CV.
Oxford Brookes Careers helps students at Oxford Brookes find opportunities with a variety of local and international organisations.
And Brookes Hub is a student-led group offering practical volunteering, skilled placements, project incubation and events to help you shape a better world and community in Oxford.
Launched in September 2017, Brookes ID spurs you on to try new activities and build skills far broader than your studies.
Your extra and co-curricular activities are rewarded with ‘achievements’ which add up to either a gold, silver or bronze award.
There are plenty of activities on offer, including:
Once you graduate, you’ll receive a certificate which can be used as evidence of your achievements for future employers.
Student ambassadors represent Oxford Brookes, both on and off campus.
It’s a great job with flexible hours and competitive rates of pay as well as a lovely green Brookes polo shirt.
But it’s also a way of meeting people, developing team-working skills, building your confidence and adding to your CV.
I worked with the International Marketing Team creating, translating and posting content for Oxford Brookes’ Weibo site.
Weibo is a Chinese version of Twitter mixed with Facebook.
This project was an amazing opportunity for me to bring my passion for the university and the course to the Chinese market.
Working with the International Team enabled me to gain experience in a UK business environment, developing people and marketing skills in English.
I broadened my skill set whilst increasing my knowledge and understanding of the workplace from a different perspective.
I acted as a translator for high profile events.
I accompanied a Chinese delegation on a tour of the Mini factory at Oxford.
I love the exposure it gave me to international business and industry connections.
My time at Oxford Brookes was about so much more than just my course.
We know how important employability is when it comes to choosing your university.
Find out more about:
Employment page

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/why-oxford-brookes/learning-through-doing:
Oxford Brookes courses are designed so you can apply the skills and knowledge you gain in the real world.
Hands-on experiences and teaching are central to the majority of our courses, and there are opportunities that bring together subjects from across the University.
Expand your horizons beyond the classroom with Get Published!
This program invites students from all departments to explore their interests through research.
Join the University Student Research Conference at Oxford Brookes to showcase your work via posters, engage with visitors, and gain valuable insights.
Participating in this unique undergraduate opportunity cultivates crucial skills like effective communication, confidence, and professional networking.
Additionally, you'll receive support to present your research at the British Conference of Undergraduate Research.
Each year, two outstanding students are selected to present their findings to a prestigious audience at the Palace of Westminster in London, including MPs, staff, and students from 20+ universities.
Get published
“Posters in Parliament was one of the greatest opportunities I have had in my student experience.
Being chosen to represent your university is such an amazing experience for any undergraduate researcher.
I feel like it gave me so much motivation and made me believe in my abilities, especially considering that this is a nationwide competition.”
“For me it’s been a good way to gain confidence and immerse myself in my work.”
“I’m proud of my work because it’s been published!”
“I was so thrilled that all the hard work and time I had put into writing my research journal had all been worth it!
This event will allow me to stand out on my CV and has made me more confident when applying for future university events.”
You can access excellent opportunities for high-quality work placements through our partnerships with industry and businesses – great for building your confidence and experience.
We also work with smaller local employers creating paid internship opportunities.
Departments across the University have live projects and field trips designed to give you the opportunity to take your learning beyond the classroom, put your subject into context in the real world, and build the skills and experience that employers are looking for.
Here’s a snapshot of what’s going on - there are lots of opportunities in every subject, so make sure you make the most of them!

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/why-oxford-brookes/study-abroad:
Studying abroad for a few months expands your horizons.
You get the opportunity to explore another culture, make new friends and develop your independence.
You’ll also gain new skills and insights into the subject you’re studying.
Federica Burani, International Hospitality and Tourism Management graduate, spent a semester at Hong Kong Polytechnic University.
We have 150 university partnerships including:
What was a typical day like?
I’d wake up, get an Uber into uni on a motorbike, meet up with exchange people, then you’d have classes for half a day.
Then we’d all sit in the library to get our work done.
From Thursday morning whoever was free or didn’t have any uni work would just go to Cambodia, or the Philippines...it was amazing.
How easy was it to settle into life as an exchange student?
I would say it was very easy.
The uni was really good in terms of helping international students feel welcome and part of the community.
Our halls had a rooftop terrace where we socialised every night with an amazing view of Sydney.
Each floor had a residence networker who created activities for everyone, they planned trips, and there were a lot of things happening.
What’s the biggest difference in terms of studying, compared with Oxford Brookes?
The biggest difference is the environment that you’re studying in, whether that’s the buildings, the architecture, outside.
The weather is mostly 30 degree heat all of the time so the option to study outdoors is there and there are lots of outdoor study spaces.
Sometimes I studied on a rooftop overlooking Brisbane which was just breathtaking.
What were your top 3 things about your time in Hong Kong?
Firstly you get the amazing experience of living and studying abroad - and all that contact with different cultures.
Secondly you get confidence - because you know you can tackle the world by yourself.
And finally, on exchange you make friends that last a lifetime - they become your family.
We hold many events throughout the year where you can meet the study abroad and exchanges team and learn more about opportunities to study or work overseas.
Explore international opportunities
Contact us for more information on an exchange or study abroad programme

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/why-oxford-brookes/supporting-how-you-learn:
We do everything we can to help you succeed in your studies to the best of of your abilities, with friendly specialists dedicated to giving you expert advice and guidance.
They can offer help with everything from work planning to statistical analysis - browse this page to find out how we can best support your needs.
Learning resources
The Centre for Academic Development is a friendly, confidential study advice service offering one-to-one tutorials, group workshops and online resources to help students reach their full potential.
Visit the Centre for Academic Development
“The session was extremely helpful and it gave me the skills to reflect on the structure of my essay and think more critically.
Now, I feel more confident with writing and paragraphing - they offer such great support.”
“I received high quality support and my tutor gave me tips on how to reflect on my work which I have used since.
She was very kind and put me at ease.
I felt nervous as I haven't written an essay for 20 years so it was very helpful.”
“My tutor was very patient, took time to understand how I learn best and gave me tips and rules to apply in my work.”
“It is incredibly reassuring to recognise your skills with a study specialist and realise how you can bring individual strengths to a set task.
As a disabled student with a mental ill health history, I very much appreciated all the reassurance, patience and enthusiasm.”
We’re dedicated to helping you achieve your best in the way that will benefit you the most.
Our learning support services include:
“Brookes helped me break down the barriers that dyslexia was putting in the way of my learning.
They taught me coping strategies as well as how to use assisted technology.
From my experience, the one-to-one support offered by Brookes is second to none.”
“I succeeded because of all the effort I put in and the support of my teachers.
At first I struggled a lot with maths but when I went to Dr Claudia Carillo for help she spent hours going through it with me.
I attended all the surgeries and ended up passing maths with 91 per cent - one of my highest scores”
“My first lecture was the hardest thing I’ve ever done.
I went to talk to my academic adviser and he sat down with me and just explained the whole lecture.”
“They treat you like you are part of their family - they care.”

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/why-oxford-brookes/employment:
Employers want graduates with proven skills they can take into the workplace.
So Oxford Brookes University courses don’t just give you a degree - they give you:
“Oxford Brookes has provided us with great interns and we are looking to strengthen this relationship with Brookes in the years to come”
Bob Shankly, Human Resources Director, BMW (UK) Manufacturing
“87% of full-time undergraduate students are in work or further study 15 months after graduation.”
(HESA Graduate Outcomes Survey 2021/22 – published June 2024)
We work closely with professionals to design courses focused on a career in a specific sector from architecture and engineering to nursing and education.
Thirty-one of our degrees are accredited by the relevant professional body.
In many cases our partners in industry contribute to your learning through work placements, mentoring schemes, guest lectures, and input into course design.
Some of our courses also run specialist ‘meet the employer’ events.
“I consider my three years at Brookes to be one of the most enjoyable and rewarding experiences to date.”
Leila Singh ’94, studied BA Accounting & Finance and Retail Management
“Upon graduating, my first ambition was to get a job by the end of August which I did”
Rachel Bamber ’94, studied BA Educational Studies with Sociology
“I only wanted to come to Oxford Brookes.
I wanted a degree where I could study international business and got to study abroad too.
This was the perfect course for me.”
Sarah Willingham ’96,studied BA European Business
“Brookes will be there for you!”
Tayo Popoola ’06, studied BA Accounting and Finance, and ’09 MSc Finance
“I am genuinely very proud to be an alumnus and to have been awarded an honorary doctorate in 2017.
I hope to be able to help Oxford Brookes students in the future.”
Daniel Battsek ’80, studied BA Social Science
Read our placement stories to see how important work placements have been in these students’ Oxford Brookes experience.
“Taking a placement year was the best choice I ever made”
Carine Gashugi, Pamoja Education
Explore work placements
Oxford Brookes has teamed up with industry professionals across a number of sectors to provide one-to-one mentoring for our students.
You will build a strong working relationship with your mentor who can give you practical support and advice on developing your career in your chosen direction.
Our mentors come from different professional backgrounds such as accounting, hospitality management, sports science and law.
Our careers service advisers are on hand to help you with one-to-one guidance, career planning advice, online resources, and plenty of other services - throughout your time at Oxford Brookes and beyond.
Careers service website

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/study-abroad-and-exchanges/coming-to-brookes:
Contact our Study Abroad and Exchanges team
Did you know that if you are an overseas student, you can come to study at Oxford Brookes University as part of your degree on the Exchange and Study Abroad Programme?
Experience the magic of Oxford for one or two semesters while completing your degree from your home university.
Open to students whose home university has an exchange agreement with Oxford Brookes.
Both European and international students may come to Oxford Brookes as exchange students.
Student Exchange programmes are not subject to tuition fees.
Find out more about the application process
Open to students whose home university does not have an exchange agreement with Oxford Brookes.
These students can still come to Oxford Brookes on our study abroad programme.
How to apply for our study Abroad or Exchange programme
Application process
If you are not a native English speaker, you will have to meet our English language requirements
English language requirements
We offer a range of subjects and you can transfer credits to your degree in your own study
Studying here
How much money you will need to study and live here
Where you will live, how to apply for accommodation and about life at Oxford Brookes
The next steps after you apply and preparation before you come to Oxford Brookes
Preparing for Oxford Brookes

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/study-abroad-and-exchanges/exchange-partners:
Oxford Brookes University has exchange agreements with many institutions around the globe.
Explore our exchange partners list to discover where your degree at Oxford Brookes may take you!
Exchange partners list

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/study-abroad-and-exchanges/information-for-staff:
Whether you are looking for information about staff mobility, setting up a new exchange link, or information about Exchanges to advise students, please read through the Exchanges Staff Guide .
For further information about advising students interested in going on exchange, please see the relevant section of the Exchanges Staff Guide .
Useful Lists
Transfer of Credit
For further information about advising and supporting incoming exchange students please, see the relevant section of the Exchanges Staff Guide .

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/study-abroad-and-exchanges/privacy-notice:
This Privacy Notice is relevant to following students:
Any students enrolled at Oxford Brookes University (OBU) are subject to the Brookes Student Privacy Notice also.
Oxford Brookes University (OBU) will be the Data Controller of any personal data that you supply.
This means that OBU will make the decisions about how your data is used and for what reasons.
The majority of the personal data OBU holds about you is directly related to the administration of your programme with OBU.
OBU will also use your personal data (including special category) for programme management purposes and complying with our legal obligations, for instance to meet the requirements of our Grant Funding Agreement with the Fepartment for Education (DfE).
OBU may contact you to ask for feedback about your experiences.
If OBU asks you for special category data such as: racial or ethnic origin, political opinions, religious or philosophical beliefs, trade-union membership, data concerning health or sexual life, genetic/biometric data or criminal records OBU will use these data because:
Data may be stored overseas when you make your application.
If you are applying for a period of exchange at an institution outside the EEA, information relevant to your application will be shared with the International Office of your host university.
Yes, in many cases we will not be able to meet our commitments to you (under contract or otherwise) if we do not collect and store your personal data.
In a situation where your explicit consent is required we will make clear the specific consequence of not providing your data.
No, OBU does not currently undertake any automated decision making or profiling using your personal data that falls within the scope of UK law.
The Department for Education (DfE) as the Turing Scheme Administrator undertakes automated decision making for the calculation of Turing grants that individual grant recipients are entitled to.
The grant rates the calculator uses to work out the total grant amount are outlined on the Turing Scheme website and are based on the duration of the mobility, destination of mobility as well as individual circumstances of the student (for example whether they have Special Educational Needs (SEND) or come from a Widening Participation background).
A period of five years from the date of closure of the applicable Erasmus+ Grant Agreement for students accessing funding through the Erasmus+ programme.
For Turing Scheme grant recipients, we are contractually obligated to retain documents and related personal data for seven years from the date on which the Funding Period ends.
For non-Erasmus+ exchange programmes Oxford Brookes will only retain personal data for as long as necessary to:
Your personal data will be securely deleted once either of these conditions no longer apply.
For more information on retention periods (the exact length of time Brookes retains each category of personal information) please refer to the University record retention schedule or contact the Information Security Management team.
You can contact the Information Security Management team.
Postal Address: GDPR Queries, Information Security Management Team, IT Services, Room 2.12, Gibbs Building, Headington Campus, Gipsy Lane, Oxford, OX3 0BP
Email: info.sec@brookes.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/contact-and-meet-us/virtual-tour:
There is so much for you to discover at Oxford Brookes University.
Our 4 campuses each have their own unique feel and community.
All full-time students at Oxford Brookes can apply for our halls.
We guarantee accommodation for firm choice applicants starting in September who meet the application deadlines.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/contact-and-meet-us/come-to-an-open-day:
IT'S TIME TO EXPLORE
Join one of our upcoming open days or campus tours to discover what it's like to be a student at Oxford Brookes University.
Discover for yourself what it’s like to be an Undergraduate student at Oxford Brookes University.
Find out about BSc (Hons) Adult Nursing and the Nursing Associate Foundation Degree based at our Swindon Campus.
Explore our award-winning spaces at Headington campus.
Can't make it in person?
Our live webinars are a great way to find out more from the comfort of your own home.
Webinars about undergraduate study
Webinars about postgraduate study
Support students in thinking through their future options.
Webinars and presentations for employers and employees.
Come and see us at an event near you, or attend an international webinar.
Explore our campuses, accommodation and more.
Ask our students about their studies, making friends, living in Oxford and anything else you want to know.
Whether you need more clarity about our courses, or some assistance with your application, we're here to help.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/contact-and-meet-us/ucas-exhibitions:
The Oxford Brookes schools outreach team will be attending the following UCAS fairs in 2022.
Visit our stand to find out more about the range of courses on offer and to chat with our graduates about student life.
Our experienced team of advisers are available for in-school and virtual visits.
You can book a specific talk or workshop or request a custom session more suited to your students’ needs.
To find out more please email schools.liaison@brookes.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/contact-and-meet-us/ask-a-question:
If you have a question, we are here to help
Simply fill out our form and a member of staff will get back to you.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/contact-and-meet-us/chat-to-a-student-ambassador:
What’s it like studying on campus?
How many hours of work do students do in a week?
Where do we do our food shopping?
You’re not going to find these answers anywhere else.
If you have a question about applications or entry requirements, select the Staff tab below to get in touch with our friendly Admissions team.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/how-to-apply/applying-through-ucas:
Applications for the following courses need to be made through the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS):
Apply through UCAS even if you are:
To apply through UCAS you will need to enter the institution code for Oxford Brookes which is OXFD O66 .
We have no separate campus code.
You will also need to state the individual course code.
Course codes can be found on the individual course entries .
Alternatively you can check codes on the UCAS website.
For a step-by-step guide to the application process, see our application timeline .
Clearing
Get the facts on submitting late applications or reapplying.
Application timeline
See our step by step guide to applying to university.
Changing your application
You may change your mind about your course or need to change your details.
Check what you need to do if this is the case.
After you apply
Find out how we process your application and the types of offer you could receive.
Deferred applications
How to apply for deferred entry for a course at Oxford Brookes.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/how-to-apply/timeline-for-undergraduate-applications:
You will submit your application to your chosen courses via UCAS between September and January of year 13, but your application journey will start about one year before this.
Here’s our step-by-step guide of what to do during the application process.
1 September: UCAS applications open.
26 January: deadline for UK/EU applications.
30 June: deadline for international applications.
Didn't meet your first choice offer conditions or changed your mind?
Decide whether to go through Clearing .
Remember that for some courses you will have to apply directly to the University.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/how-to-apply/applying-directly:
Create an account and apply for a course.
Apply to study with us as an international student.
Log in to track or edit your application, or apply for another course.
Log in
You can change your contact details on the My Account tab of your portal, scroll down to your profile and click “My Profile”.
If you want to change the details of the course you have applied for please contact the Admissions Team on admissions@brookes.ac.uk for more information.
You can reset your password on the log in page, click the 'Forgotten Password' link and you will be guided through the reset.
If you are applying for the May intake, please select the ‘Summer 2025 (June-August Entry)' option.
Still need help?
Get in touch with us on admissions@brookes.ac.uk .
For most undergraduate courses, you will need to apply through UCAS.
However, you will need to make a direct application to the University if you are applying for:
For September entry, applications can either be made directly to the University or through UCAS.
For January entry, you will need to make a direct application to the University.
For international foundation courses please apply directly to the University.
For most postgraduate courses you will need to make a direct application to the University.
Find out about postgraduate applications .
Most postgraduate courses recruit year-round, but some have application deadlines.
Please check the details of the course you are interested in to find which deadline applies to you.
We recommend you submit your application as early as possible.
Even if you haven't yet been awarded your first degree or other entry qualification.
Change your application

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/how-to-apply/international-applications:
From submitting your application, through to when you arrive at Oxford Brookes University, we’re here to help you every step of the way.
There are various ways to apply to study with us as an international student.
The application process will vary depending on the type of course you are applying for.
Apply directly to the University or through UCAS (using the institution code OXFD O66).
Apply directly to the University .
Certain courses (such as the Graduate Diploma in Law and some education courses) have different application routes.
Please check the individual course pages for information about your chosen course.
For pre-sessional English, International Foundation Diplomas and Pre-Master’s courses, you should apply directly to the University .
The application to enrolment process for research degree programmes differs to the process for our taught undergraduate, postgraduate and pathways programmes.
International agents are an important part of the international education ecosystem.
They can, and do, provide you with advice on making the right choice about their study destination, and support you on how to get to that destination.
Oxford Brookes works with international education agents around the world who can advise you about study options at the University and can help you fill in an application form free of charge.
We strongly recommend that you apply through one of our approved representatives in your country , for full application support and advice, including guidance throughout the CAS and visa process.
More than 7 in 10 Oxford Brookes international students choose to use an agent, and the overwhelming majority do not come into substantial problems.
However, before you make the choice to use an agent, it’s really important that you consider and know a few things.
As part of the UK’s Agent Quality Framework, the British Council hosts some advice on choosing an agent - please make sure you look at it carefully!
At Oxford Brookes, we have an agent complaints procedure.
If you are unhappy with the service your agent has provided, you can raise a complaint .
UK universities, like Oxford Brookes, pay a commission to agents for the support they provide.
This means that you should ensure that you are not solely relying on their advice, but doing your own research too.
If you are being pressured to choose a particular institution, and not presented with options, you should ask your agent why this is.
We assess an agent’s performance based on a few factors.
This can include the quantity of students that they recommend to Oxford Brookes, and factors such as their compliance records, and the likelihood of an application from that agency arriving at Oxford Brookes.
You can find contact details for international agents based locally to you on our Your Country / Region webpages.
When submitting your application please check whether your course has a "sandwich" option (an industry placement or a year abroad).
Please select the correct sandwich option on your application to ensure a smooth application process and avoid any delays during the CAS process.
The below timeline information is a guide.
Please be aware that the dates outlined may be amended in line with visa application processing timelines and course closures.
We recommend that you aim to complete your application, CAS and visa processes as early as possible, to avoid delays and ensure you arrive on time for the commencement of your studies with us.
If you are applying for an undergraduate course, you can join us through Clearing.
There are three ways you can apply to us through Clearing:
We will continue to process postgraduate applications until 22 August, only where we can make unconditional offers.
Please note: some courses may fill up quickly, therefore applications may close early.
We would advise that you submit your applications as early as possible, to allow time to meet relevant conditions of offer, and complete CAS and visa processes.
Foundation and undergraduate students
Postgraduate students
Please visit our scholarship webpage to read more about eligibility criteria and terms & conditions.
Find out more about the CAS process
It’s important that students attend Induction Week, and you are expected to arrive in plenty of time for this introduction to life at Oxford Brookes.
There are many activities hosted for international students, including welcome quizzes and workshops, walking tours of Oxford and visits to cities such as London.
It’s a great opportunity for you to meet others and spend time settling into your new life in the UK.
You will also have a Course Induction to attend, which covers important aspects of your course before teaching starts.
Read more about Induction Week on our new student webpages .
If you think you may arrive late for Induction Week, please contact our Induction Team .
Due to high demand, please note that the following courses are now closed to new applications for September 2025:
We usually require full official academic transcripts and certificates, with officially translated copies if the originals are not in English.
If English is not your first language, we require proof of your English language ability.
For further guidance on the qualifications we can accept, please see our English Language requirements .
Your personal statement is a chance to express why you have chosen the course, why you have chosen to study at Oxford Brookes and why you are a suitable candidate for the course.
Your personal statement should be around 500 words in length.
Reference letters should be from someone who knows you academically, such as your teacher.
We may be able to accept a professional reference from a recent employer if you are unable to obtain an academic reference.
The references should be on official headed paper, signed and dated.
The pages below are designed to guide you through the next stages of your application, help to answer common queries and highlight what to expect next.
Academic entry requirements
Credit transfer
Help with your application
Next steps
Help when you need it

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/how-to-apply/entry-requirements:
We accept a wide range of qualifications, ranging from A-level results to HNDs, and, in some cases, prior work experience.
If you're 21 or over, there is a range of routes you can take into higher education.
Full details on undergraduate course entry requirements.
Details on postgraduate taught and research course entry requirements.
Pre-degree / foundation courses
Entry requirements for foundation degrees, HNDs, and the DipHE in nursing.
If you're over 21, learn more about what you can do to meet our entry requirements.
Medical / police clearance
See our list of courses that require medical and/or police clearance.
Contextual admissions
Our Contextual Admissions policy forms part of our commitment to ensuring that all students with the potential to succeed at Oxford Brookes have equality of access.
It may be that your prior coursework or work experience can count toward you application.
Find out more about credit transfer

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/how-to-apply/credit-transfer:
Did you know, you can join us part-way through a degree programme?
Most of our courses consider applications for entry part-way through the course for students who have credit from previous learning or relevant professional experience.
You can apply for undergraduate or postgraduate programmes, and with varying levels of credit or qualification.
It can sometimes feel a bit complicated, so the information on this page is designed to help you understand which route might be right for you.
We encourage students of all ages and from all backgrounds to study with us and know that many people have made significant achievements either through work or private study.
Credit entry allows you to start an Oxford Brookes degree part way through by transferring credit you have achieved elsewhere.
Examples of credit you could transfer include:
We work with organisations across the world to provide progression into Oxford Brookes courses.
You can find a list of our progression agreements here .
The Assessment of Prior Learning (APL) is the accreditation of previously acquired certificated learning and it might include Open University modules or in-company training, for example.
Brookes recognises certain professional qualifications awarded by bodies such as the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA), and the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC).
The Assessment of Prior Experiential Learning (APEL) recognises knowledge or skills acquired through life, work experience and study which has not been formally assessed through any academic or professional certification.
It might include, for example, computer programming, editing skills or organisational skills.
Admission through credit via APL or APEL is a more complicated process in which the University will calculate the value of the knowledge you have gained through your work experience.
If you would like more information about whether or not you may be eligible for the award of credit, please contact our Admissions team .
If you’re a student applying for a full time undergraduate course you should apply through UCAS.
If you’re applying for a taught postgraduate programme, a part-time programme at any level or if you’re an international student , you should apply via our direct application form .
Make sure you include all the modules you have studied or are currently studying elsewhere within the qualifications and personal statement section.
More information and transcripts will be required once your application has been submitted.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/how-to-apply/terms-and-conditions-of-enrolment:
There are 5 sets of terms and conditions to cover different types of students:
The Terms and Conditions of Enrolment that apply to you will generally depend on the date on which you accepted your offer of a place at Oxford Brookes University.
Admissions Office admissions@brookes.ac.uk + 44 (0) 1865 535000 +44 (0) 1865 483983 (fax)
Student Protection Plan (PDF)
Applicants enrolling on apprenticeship programmes delivered by an Associate College Partner (ACP) as the main provider:
Applicants enrolling on apprenticeship programmes delivered by Oxford Brookes University as the main provider:
Applicants enrolling on programmes delivered in partnership with Global Banking School Limited (GBS):
Applicants enrolling on programmes delivered in partnership with the London School of Commerce & IT Limited (LSCI):
Students accepting an offer on all other programmes:
Under the Higher Education and Research Act 2017, the Office for Students (OfS) operates a registration system to regulate and authorize UK higher education providers (known as Learning Providers).
Oxford Brookes University is registered with the OfS under UKPRN 10004930 .

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/how-to-apply/late-applications:
It’s not too late to apply
The final deadline for UCAS applications is 30 June.
Did you know that many universities and colleges accept applications after the UCAS January deadline?
Don’t worry if you’ve missed the UCAS January deadline, changed your mind about what course you want to study, or haven’t got the offers you had hoped for – there is still time to apply to study with us in September.
There are some simple steps you can take to make a late application.
Some courses can fill up quickly, so if you know which one you’re interested in, it is better to apply sooner rather than later to avoid disappointment.
You can apply through UCAS (final UCAS deadline for applications is 30 June), or through UCAS Extra (if you’ve already applied but aren’t holding any offers).
Some things to bear in mind as you make your decision:
You can check which courses still have vacancies after the January deadline on the UCAS website .
The final UCAS deadline for applications is 30 June.
The number of course vacancies available will decrease the later you leave it, so apply as early as possible.
You’ll need a UCAS code for each course you apply for.
You'll find these at the top of each course page.
Our institution name is OXFD and the institution code is 066.
Make sure you’ve given yourself plenty of time to research courses, write a great personal statement and given your referees time to provide references.
If you do not apply by 30 June you can enter Clearing, which opens on 5 July.
If you are waiting for results from a level 3 course (eg.
BTEC or A-Levels) you won’t be given any offers in Clearing until your final results are received.
UCAS Extra is available to applicants who want to add new course choices.
It is available from late February for all undergraduate applications.
If you have not received any offers or you have declined offers you did receive, then you might be able to add another choice.
If you are holding an offer from a university or college, you will need to decline this before you can use Extra.
You can only apply to one course at a time, meaning you cannot have an insurance choice.
If Extra is available to you it will show up as a button when you sign in to track your application.
See the UCAS website for more information on Extra including applicable fees.
Please be aware that not all courses will have vacancies available through Extra.
If you are considering studying part-time, you will typically make a direct application to the university.
You will find course listings on the university websites and information on how to apply.
UCAS also provides part-time course listings .
You will need to apply for student finance as soon as possible – even if you’re not sure which course you will join in September.
You can apply for student finance without holding an offer.
You will be asked to add course details when you apply, but you can update this if you decide on a different course later.
It can take up to 6 weeks to process student finance applications.
Applications for full-time student finance open in February.
If you have completed an application and submitted all supporting documents by 31 May, your loan will be approved in time for your course start date in September.
If not, your money could be late.
Part-time applications can be made from late spring.
Check the student finance website for more details.
You can find more information on making an application
If you plan to live in halls, you normally won’t be able to apply for accommodation until you’ve applied through UCAS and accepted an offer.
If you are going to live away from home, particularly in halls of residence, you may only be able to apply for accommodation once you have accepted an offer.
We guarantee accommodation in one of your 5 hall choices if you make us your firm choice and apply by the deadline.
We also guarantee accommodation if you are an Insurance applicant and you apply by the deadline, however, this may not be in one of your preferred choices.
If you plan to live in private accommodation, some student letting providers will want confirmation that you have accepted an offer.
For both private and university accommodation, you may need to pay a holding deposit, so it’s important that you are happy with your choice of course and accommodation.
Although you can’t apply for accommodation before you’ve accepted a place, make sure you do your research in advance so that you can make your application as soon as possible.
Student life
Find out more about Clearing

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/how-to-apply/understanding-university:
University can seem daunting - whether you’re getting ready to apply or you’ve never thought about it as an option.
These pages are here to help you whenever you need it.
If you want to know what a bachelor’s degree is, you’re worried about budgeting, or you want to make sense of the application process, these pages will give you all the information you need.
Understanding courses
Should I go to university?
Can I afford university?
Choosing a university
Personal statements
Interviews and portfolios
Spending money at university
Support
Open Day tips

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/new-students/preparing-for-life-at-brookes:
You're joining the Oxford Brookes community!
Find out more about what to expect.
We look forward to welcoming you to the Oxford Brookes community whether you are based on one of our campuses or studying a distance-learning course.
Here you can learn about some key parts of life as a student, including what you can do before you start and where to find out more.
Many students at Oxford Brookes choose to live in halls of residence for their first year and some stay for later years too.
We have a selection of halls of residence with different prices and styles of room.
Other students, including those based in Swindon, will choose to rent a private house alone or with housemates, or commute in from home.
Wherever you live, you are welcome to use the campus facilities and get involved in events.
Oxford Brookes halls of residence each have a WhatsApp group which all residents are welcome to join.
Make sure to join yours to find out about events, activities and receive other useful information.
You can find out details about how to join when you arrive at your hall.
There are a variety of ways of funding your studies.
Many students will apply for student finance to cover for tuition fees and help with living costs.
There are also bursaries and scholarships available for certain courses and students in particular circumstances.
If you need some extra advice, the Student Money Advice Team would be pleased to help you.
It's useful to get to know your campus as not only will you attend classes here, you can study and socialise here too.
Headington Campus is made up of three sites:
You'll find that people often use the term 'Headington Campus' to refer to the Gipsy Lane site.
We also have a campus in Swindon for nursing courses.
Our maps and campus pages provide lots more information, including PDF maps of all the sites, guides to which subjects are based there, facilities and directions.
If you'd like to know specifically which campus and buildings you'll be using the most, you are welcome to contact us and ask.
You can find a lot of information about how university teaching and learning works, the different support and development services, and how to develop good study habits in our university Quick Guide.
You should receive a paper copy in your university induction but there is also an online version with links to key information which you can access before you arrive if you wish.
University Quick Start Guide
In September the university is launching a new initiative called Think Space, which brings together workshops, drop-ins and social events hosted by a range of departments that are aimed at helping you reach your full potential.
Events focus on a wide range of topics including research and writing, wellbeing and motivation, employability, mathematics and statistics and digital skills including use of AI.
Think Space events are a great way to meet new people and develop your skills at the same time.
The full Think Space webpages will be available soon.
The Inclusive Support Service includes a range of specialist advice and support available to disabled and dyslexic/SpLD students and students with long-term physical and mental health conditions.
We recommend contacting the team in advance so that they have plenty of time to discuss your options with you.
They can put any agreed support in place ready for your arrival.
If you think you will need adapted accommodation or assistance on campus, please let the Inclusive Support Team know as soon as possible by emailing inclusivesupport@brookes.ac.uk .
The Inclusive Support team are running a selection of pre-arrival webinars designed to help students prepare for their time at Oxford Brookes.
Some are for students with ASC (Autism Spectrum Condition) while others are open to all students.
Find out more about Inclusive Support webinars for new students .
We've put together a shopping map of Oxford for anyone new to the city.
This isn't a full list of all shopping options but gives suggestions for good places to try.
The map includes food shops, homeware stores for bedding and kitchen supplies, pharmacies, pick-up points for online delivery collection and more.
You can also find cultural food stores including halal butchers.
If you follow a specific diet, such as a vegan or gluten-free diet, you'll find a good selection of options both in large supermarkets and in local health food stores.
Many businesses offer student discounts.
We've included links to some of the biggest student discount schemes below.
These include business and services all over the country and internationally, so wherever you are based, you should find some great deals.
Oxford is a great city to live in as it's small enough to explore, but lively and busy with lots to do.
It has a long and fascinating history and some beautiful spots to enjoy.
It's easy to get to Oxford as there are major bus and train routes connecting it to a number of airports and other cities.
Travelling round the city is commonly done via bus or bicycle.
Oxford has a huge number of bus routes including the 400 and 100 bus routes which connect Headington Campus to our halls of residence and the city centre.
If you'd like to cycle, there are plenty of places to buy bikes.
The Bike Doctor visits campus regularly to offer maintenance and repair sessions.
You can also get around the city quickly and easily on Voi e-scooters, but you must:
As a student, you will be eligible for a 20% discount on Voi passes and subscriptions .
If you plan to commute into Oxford by car, we recommend using Thornhill or Seacourt Park and Ride as there is limited parking on campus and it is reserved for students with certain permits.
You can get buses from the Park and Rides directly to Headington Campus.
If you would prefer to travel by train, it's worth getting yourself a railcard.
These provide you with 1/3 discount on your rail fares.
Lots of students work part-time alongside their studies.
There are plenty of opportunities for work both internal to Oxford Brookes and around your city.
We recommend speaking with the Oxford Brookes Careers Team.
They will be at the Fair in the Forum during Welcome Weekend, plus they will run a workshop during Induction Week all about finding part-time jobs.
More details are available on our events calendar .
An alternative option to consider is volunteering.
This is often a great boost to your CV/resume, but can also be a great way of meeting people, keeping busy and learning new skills.
If you think you might be interested, look out for the volunteering workshop during Induction Week or come and speak to the Careers team at the Fair in the Forum.
There are a range of ways to get involved at Oxford Brookes.
The Brookes Union societies provide opportunities for students with similar interests or cultures to meet and socialise, while the networks represent and bring together students from underrepresented communities.
Brookes Sport offer different approaches to sport and fitness, whether you are a casual user or would like to join a team.
Whoever you are, there should be an opportunity for you to meet like-minded people and enjoy yourself.
Join us at the Sports Fair on Wednesday 17 September and the Freshers' Fair on Friday 19 September to learn more and sign up for whatever interests you.
We would be very happy to speak with you if you have further questions.
You are welcome to email us at induction@brookes.ac.uk or send us a chat with your question.
Alternatively, you can find out about the support options for new students or view a list of useful contacts .

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/new-students/welcome-weekend:
Saturday 13 and Sunday 14 September 2025
Whether you will be moving into halls, commuting or living in Oxford, there will be welcome events and support services available at the Headington Campus.
The weekend offers a good opportunity to get to know other students, prepare for Induction Week and find out more about what Oxford Brookes University has to offer.
The Student Induction Team will be available on campus and remotely to offer support and advice.
Will you be living in a University hall of residence?
Check the Accommodation page on moving in for more information on arriving, parking and collecting your keys, plus who to contact if you have any questions.
If you are still deciding on your accommodation, you can read more about how to apply for halls of residence here .
Some halls of residence and Oxford Brookes houses have contracts which start earlier than Welcome Weekend.
You can choose the move-in date which works for you as long as it falls within your contract.
Road closure
A portion of Botley Road will be closed until autumn 2026, impacting the 400/U1 bus route.
You can read more on the Oxford Bus Company website.
Read about the Botley Road closure .
Visit the fair on Saturday or Sunday afternoon to learn about the wide range of support services and opportunities available to you as a new Oxford Brookes student.
Whatever you want to talk about - careers, health, study resources, community and more - there will be someone here to help you.
If you will arrive late and miss the Fair, don't worry - we will publish a full list of all the services who attended and how to contact them for advice.
When you join Oxford Brookes, you automatically become a member of Brookes Union, the University's students' union.
Brookes Union is here to help you get the best out of student life and will be hosting a welcome event on Sunday 14 September in the Central Courtyard at Headington Campus.
Expect music, fun and chances to meet new people, plus you can find out more about the Union's other upcoming events and activities.
Everyone is welcome to join so we hope to see you there!
Find out more about what Brookes Union has to offer - from societies and networks to events and advice.
More details will be added throughout the summer so make sure to check back again before you arrive.
Read the Brookes Union blog for the latest news.
We like to make sure you are never too far away from a friendly face during the induction period.
Our team includes not only staff, but also students from across all years of study and studying a variety of different courses.
We will be available both on campus and online in case there is anything you need to ask.
You don't even need to have a specific question - just come over and say hello and we can make sure you have all the information you need.
We are available via chat and email now.
Our in-person services and phone line will open from Monday 8 September.
Contact the Student Induction Team
The International Student Advice Team (ISAT) are here to guide and advise all incoming international students.
Find out more about what they offer on our international students' page.
Information for international students
We have an extensive support network at Oxford Brookes.
If you have a question or concern which isn't covered by any of the teams on this page, you can check out our guide to other teams and services who can help you.
Supporting you
If you are travelling to Oxford from London or a major airport, check here for information on the different travel options available to you.
Are you moving in to Oxford Brookes accommodation?
Find out about key collection, contacting your hall, what to pack and more.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/new-students/induction-week:
Monday 15 to Friday 19 September 2025
The most important part of Induction Week is the schedule of events that your faculty team puts together for you, known as your course induction.
This will take place at the campus where most of your teaching occurs.
Your course induction schedule is designed to introduce you to your academic team and the facilities and learning platforms you'll be using while you study here.
It will help you understand what studying your chosen course will be like.
Your course induction is compulsory so it should be your top priority.
Course induction schedules will be available to view online from Monday 1 September onwards.
A small number of courses have inductions which start earlier than Monday 15 September and these are available to view now.
Example course induction schedule
Courses with early inductions
Around your course induction events, you can use your free time to attend other events open to all students.
Our events calendar will list what's on each day - it's up to you to choose what interests you.
You can expect to see events like a cademic workshops, tours and talks, sessions for international students and social events.
If you are interested in sports, make sure to attend the Sports Fair where you can meet the teams and clubs at Oxford Brookes.
You can be a serious student athlete or just enjoy keeping fit in your spare time - everyone is welcome!
The biggest event of the week will be the Freshers' Fair on Friday 19 September 2025 when lots of the Brookes Union Societies come together on the Headington Campus.
Don't miss it - you might find a society which interests you!
Many of the societies will be running free Give it a Go sessions during September so you can try out the society without buying a membership.
You can find the society and welcome events on the Brookes Union events page .
Online enrolment opens from Wednesday 3 September onward so you might have already completed it by the time Induction Week starts.
Once you are enrolled, you will gain access to University study platforms, some of which you may need to use during your course induction.
You'll also get access to your Oxford Brookes emails and calendar which is where you'll find your study timetable.
The Student Induction Team is more than happy to chat to new students about enrolment and help with any issues.
Complete your online enrolment
The Student Induction Team is here to help you get ready for Induction Week and settle into Oxford Brookes.
Our in-person services open from Monday 8 September 2025.
Whether you have one quick question or lots to talk about, you can come and see us at the Reception for New Students on the Headington Campus.
You can also contact us remotely by phone, chat or email.
Typical topics covered in a course induction schedule might include:
Your schedule might also include optional sessions, like drop-ins, which you can choose to attend if you have any questions.
This varies between courses and faculties.
Some may have activities every day of the week, while others may schedule their activities over just one or two days.
Most schedules will leave you some free time.
You can decide how busy you would like to be during this free time.
Most courses will have on-campus inductions at the same campus where the majority of their teaching takes place.
On your schedule, each event will include the location, like this:
If you aren't sure where to find the room and building, you can contact the Student Induction Team or speak to any campus reception.
Make sure you arrive with plenty of time before your session starts.
Many induction schedules also include some online events which might be live Zoom sessions or pre-recorded talks or videos to watch.
Events like this are described as 'on-demand', meaning you can choose when you do them.
Joint Honours students study two subjects, each of which will have its own course induction schedule.
Each course induction will include the following:
Please attend the course welcome and introductions and course taster sessions for both of your subjects (so two of each).
They will be timed so they don't clash with each other.
You need only attend one School welcome session and one School social event overall, even if they appear on the induction schedules for both of your subjects.
Please contact the Student Induction Team with any queries about your Joint Honours induction.
Part-time degree students are welcome to join the appropriate induction for their course/module.
Please note it is not compulsory for you to attend these induction events as we appreciate some part-time students have other commitments.
Some part-time students studying in health care will have an induction as part of their first teaching session and your course will be in contact with you about this.
If you're joining a course part-way through via credit entry, we understand that you will be new to Oxford Brookes even if you aren't new to university.
We expect that you will benefit from the activities and support on offer during induction as you adapt to life at Oxford Brookes.
Many courses explicitly advertise induction schedules for credit entry students, such as the 'Final Year Entry' courses.
If there isn't a specific induction schedule for you, or you have questions about your schedule, feel free to contact us at induction@brookes.ac.uk for advice.
You are more than welcome to join any of the general induction events for all students.
More information will be available on our events calendar from mid-August.
Yes, there is an induction schedule for exchange and study abroad students.
It will include a welcome session on the Sunday of Welcome Weekend which all exchange students are invited to join.
There may also be some faculty-specific welcome sessions.
Your induction schedule will let you know which you should attend.
If you have any queries, please contact the Global Engagement Team at studyabroad@brookes.ac.uk .
If you are studying Equine Science (BSc) with Abingdon and Witney College, your induction will be at Oxford Brookes.
Otherwise your induction will be at your college.
If you would like to know more, please contact acpstudent@brookes.ac.uk .
Please note: if you are studying at one of our partner colleges, you will need to complete enrolment with both Oxford Brookes (online) and with your college.
Your course induction is very important and we strongly recommend you attend.
It will cover important information to prepare you for when your studies begin.
If you do arrive late, please contact us and/or your faculty team so that we can ensure you catch up with anything you've missed.
If you are an international student travelling to the UK and something happens which delays your travel, please inform both the Student Induction Team and the International Student Advice Team (ISAT) as soon as possible and let us know when you expect to arrive.
Check back here from Wednesday 13 August 2025 as these webpages will be updated with more information about online enrolment and your new student checklist.
Course induction schedules will be live from Monday 1 September 2025 .
Please make sure you find your schedule so you know where to be during Induction Week.
If your course induction starts early, your schedule will be available earlier as well.
Read more about early inductions .

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/new-students/international-students:
Contact the International Student Advice Team
We are looking forward to welcoming our new international students from across the world in September 2025.
We recognise that coming to study in the UK is an exciting time but can also feel a little daunting.
There will be plenty of support in place to help you settle into life at Oxford Brookes University.
If you are still in the process of applying for a visa and need advice, please refer to the International Student Advice Team's information on Visas and Immigration .
If you are not a UK national, your online enrolment process will include a Right to Study check, whether or not you need a Student visa.
Please make sure you read about these checks and complete them by the deadline.
Right to study checks
We have a dedicated team to support all our international students.
ISAT provides lots of resources before you arrive and a wide range of welcome activities for when you get here.
ISAT can help you with:
There will be a number of social events and workshops available during Welcome Weekend and Induction Week.
We've highlighted some of the most important ones below, or you can view the full list on the main events calendar .
Learn more about ISAT
Sign up to the WhatsApp community for updates and announcements from the team.
You can also join the September 2025 group and chat to other new students.
Join the WhatsApp community
ISAT offer online Preparing for Your Arrival workshops which will talk about how to arrive at your accommodation, what to bring, the UK culture, how to make friends and what happens next.
You will also get the chance to meet other new students.
You will need to register beforehand to join by completing the registration form.
Where : Online - register for the 'Preparing For Your Arrival' workshops
When : 10:30am on Friday 15 August and 2:00pm on Thursday 28 August
The International Student Advice Team has organised a Meet and Greet Service to help you to get to your Brookes Accommodation.
There will be a meeting point just outside the Headington campus near the Airline bus stop.
The team will greet you and help you get the right transport to your accommodation.
Where : Next to the Lloyd Building on the Headington Campus
When : 9:00am - 5:00pm, Saturday 13 and Sunday 14 September 2025
A welcome to new international students, a guide to how ISAT can support you, and important information to help you make the most of your time at the University and in the UK.
Where : John Henry Brookes Lecture Theatre, John Henry Brookes Building, Headington Campus
When : 1:00pm - 2:00pm on Sunday 14 September
The International Student Meeting point (ISMP) is a help desk for new international students, The International Student Advisers and International Student Helpers are here to answer any questions you have.
Where : The Forum, John Henry Brookes Building, Headington Campus
When : 10:30am - 3:00pm, daily from Saturday 13 September to Wednesday 17 September
The Global Engagement Team offers support and advice to exchange and study abroad students at Oxford Brookes.
Make sure to attend their Welcome Briefing session on Sunday 14 September where you will:
We recommend you attend the introductory session for all new international students followed by this briefing as both sessions will be useful to you.
Full details can be found on the events calendar from Wednesday 13 August and on your course induction schedule which will be published on 1 September.
Learn about your course induction schedule plus the other activities and events you can join if you want to.
Find out which events in Induction Week are specifically for international students.
A guide for all new international students about adapting to student life in the UK.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/new-students/student-checklist:
Everything you need to do before you start your course
Please make sure you complete any of these tasks that apply to you.
This will ensure you have everything set up and ready for you to begin your studies.
The Student Induction Team can advise you about any of the tasks on this list.
Feel free to chat with us below.
Still using data?
Connect your device to Wi-Fi
Enrolment is the process all students need to complete in order to become an official Oxford Brookes University student.
We will send you an email inviting you to enrol.
If you are not a UK national you will also need to complete your Right to Study checks to be fully enrolled.
You can do them either before or after your online enrolment.
During Induction Week, most courses will have their own programme of events that you must attend.
These will be available from 1 September onwards.
You can set up and access your email, calendar and other online University systems from Monday 8 September onwards provided you have enrolled successfully first.
You'll need to register any optional modules by the end of Induction Week.
Compulsory modules will appear on your timetable automatically.
This course supports our students to understand consent and feel confident applying it, so we can keep ourselves and other people safe.
Your student ID card proves you attend Oxford Brookes and has a number of other benefits too.
Make sure to collect yours when we notify you it's ready.
The Inclusive Support Service provides advice and support for disabled students and those with long-term physical and mental health conditions.
They are happy to discuss with you the options for support at university, from your studies to your accommodation.
Find out about Inclusive Support
It's really easy to get around Oxford by bus.
A discounted student bus pass gets you a year's travel on all city centre services.
Whether you want to commute between home and University or you just fancy exploring, a bus pass may save you money long-term.
Read more about student bus passes
In addition to the above, there are some other things you might want to think about doing before you start at Oxford Brookes or as you settle in.
It's up to you to decide which of these might be interesting or helpful.
Our team are here to help, so if you aren't sure what might be relevant to you, please feel free to contact us for advice.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/new-students/events-calendar-september:
Connecting you to all the different activities on offer during Induction Week and beyond.
Your first priority during Induction Week should be your course induction schedule.
In addition to your course induction, the University runs many workshops, help desks and events open to all new students.
All of the events on this calendar are optional - you can choose to attend as many as you like in the free time around your course induction and classes.
This calendar will continue to be updated with more event details until early September.
You might also be interested in...
What's on today?
Jump to Welcome Weekend events
Jump to Induction Week events
Jump to semester events
Are you starting a course at Oxford Brookes in September 2025?
Are you going to be living in one of our Halls next year and have a burning question to ask us?
Join our Q&A session over on our Instagram story to submit your questions!
Join live online: Oxford Brookes Residences Instagram
Welcome to Oxford Brookes!
We’re excited to welcome you or welcome you back to Oxford Brookes this September.
Do you have any questions about sport, the gym, memberships or staying active while at university?
Join us for an Instagram Q&A where you can submit your questions via our stories.
Join live online: Brookes Sport Instagram
Do you have questions or would you like to find out more about the support available?
Join one of the Q&A Instagram sessions where you will be able to submit questions via our stories and we will share our responses or contact you directly to assist!
Join live online: ISAT Oxford Brookes Instagram
A drop-in for disabled students.
This includes specific learning difficulties such as dyslexia, dyspraxia/DCD, attention deficit disorder and dyscalculia, autistic spectrum conditions, and long-term physical and mental health conditions, including practical support with applications for Disabled Student Allowance (DSA) and navigation through the process.
Join live online: Inclusive Support drop-in-enquiries
If you are unable to attend any of the online drop-in sessions, please email dsaadvice@brookes.ac.uk to make an individual appointment.
Prayers and Khutbah led by Sheikh Ramzy or another member of the University community.
Ground floor prayer r oom, Buckley Building, Headington Campus
We know that new students find it difficult to navigate places on their own as soon as they arrive!
The International Student Advice Team has therefore organised a Meet and Greet Service to help you to get to your Brookes Accommodation.
There will be a meeting point just outside the Headington campus, that you can come to once you arrive at the Airline bus stop, to take transport to your accommodation.
We are looking forward to welcoming you!
More information is available online on the Activities for new arrivals webpage .
Our International Student Advisers and International Student Helpers are here to answer any questions you have.
Come and see us to: join one of our free tours, learn about our events, pick up a SIM card, or just to have a chat.
The Forum, John Henry Brookes Building, Headington Campus
Headington Campus tours for international students.
The tours will be led by our International Student Helpers and last approximately an hour.
International Student Meeting Point, The Forum, John Henry Brookes Building, Headington Campus
Join our Fair in the Forum to learn more about the wide range of support services and opportunities available to you as a new Oxford Brookes student.
City Centre tour for international students.
Join us for a tour of the city centre to explore Oxford, find out information about shops and points of interest and to make friends.
Tours will last approximately 1 hour.
The event is free of charge.
Meet at 1:30pm at the International Student Meeting Point, The Forum, John Henry Brookes Building, Headington Campus
Alternatively you can make your own way into Oxford and meet the tour at Carfax Tower, Queen St, Oxford OX1 1ET at 2:00pm .
Time to relax and make friends!
Join the International Student Advice Team (ISAT) and Student Helpers for a quiz and free breakfast along with other activities!
John Henry Brookes Basement Lecture Theatre, John Henry Brookes Building, Headington Campus
John Henry Brookes Lecture Theatre, John Henry Brookes Building, Headington Campus
The second day of the Fair in the Forum.
Join the Fair to learn more about the wide range of support services and opportunities available to you as a new Oxford Brookes student.
Studying in another country provides an excellent opportunity to explore a new culture, and learn new perspectives.
However, adapting to new ways of studying and living in a new culture can be challenging.
This session aims to provide you with information to help you to adapt, and give you the change speak to current international students about their experience.
JHB308, Kennedy Lecture Theatre, John Henry Brookes Building, Headington Campus
An introduction session for all exchange and study abroad students from the Global Exchanges Team.
After a full day of information and freebies, celebrate starting at Brookes with your students’ union - there’ll be music, games, and food!
This is the perfect opportunity to head over to Headington Campus and meet new people, plus find out more about what Induction Week is and the events and activities on offer.
Central Courtyard, Headington Campus
Ready to kickstart your morning in the best way possible?
This event is open to all Brookes students who self-identify as a woman.
Whether you want to meet like-minded people, find out more about the committee’s plans for the year, or are passionate about creating change, come along for a free brunch and find out more about joining our Women's Network .
See you at brunch!
The Yard, John Henry Brookes Building, Headington Campus
Are you moving in this September?
Sign up for a guided tour of your hall to explore the facilities available and meet the Hall team and International Student Advice Team!
Spaces are limited so please sign up.
Sign up for the Crescent Hall Tour
For more information, head to our Events and Activities webpage .
Sign up for the Paul Kent Hall Tour
Sign up for the Warneford Hall Tour
Meet other students over soup and learn about the support available for students from the Multifaith Chaplaincy team (drop-in event).
More information is available online on the Multifaith Chaplaincy team webpage .
Garden Room, Buckley Building, Headington Campus
Sign up for the Cheney Student Village Tour
Sign up for the Clive Booth Student Village Tour
Information for new international students about the practical and personal support available through the International Student Advice Team (ISAT).
JHB208, Chakrabarti Lecture Theatre, John Henry Brookes Building (JHBB), Headington Campus
Take a tour of the Headington Library and find out how to get the most out of your Library service.
Tour lasts 30 minutes.
No need to book, just turn up at any of the following start times:
Welcome Desk, Library Level 1, John Henry Brookes Building, Headington Campus
Start your university journey with a warm welcome and a tasty breakfast!
Our welcome breakfast is a relaxed and friendly way to meet fellow students and settle into hall life.
Enjoy a free breakfast spread with something for everyone - from fresh pastries and porridge to hot drinks like tea, coffee and hot chocolate.
Grab a bite, and start making connections in your new home away from home.
We can’t wait to meet you!
For more information, head to the Accommodation Events and Activities webpage.
This event is open to all Oxford Brookes students who started their postgraduate course after the age of 25 or their undergraduate course after the age of 21.
Whether you want to meet like-minded people, find out more about the committee’s plans for the year, or are passionate about creating change, come along for a free brunch and find out more about Mature Students' Network and Postgraduate Students' Network .
This workshop will help explore British culture and provide tips on how to adapt to living in the UK.
JHB203, John Henry Brookes Building, Headington Campus
Join us to discuss big ideas over tea, cake and fruit.
We begin each session with a set of themes and conversation prompts.
Students are invited to select questions they wish to discuss and to add their own questions as well.
Conversation Café runs every week at the same time, welcomes people of all faiths and worldviews and celebrates the different perspectives that we all bring.
Garden Room, Multifaith Chaplaincy, Buckley Building, Headington Campus
Oxford Brookes students can enjoy free access to our gym facilities every Wednesday, all year round.
Just bring your student ID to reception on your first visit to get started.
Brookes Sport, Headington Campus
For more information, head to our Accommodation Events and Activities webpage.
Our Student Networks are more than just a student group – they're your go-to social space where you can find your community on campus.
Whether you're passionate about creating change on campus or just want to meet like-minded people, come along for a free brunch and find out more about joining our Black Students' Network.
More information is available online on the Black Students' Network webpage .
For new or continuing continuing students who would like help with the use of Moodle or our other e-learning tools.
Come and ask our Moodle experts in this session.
Join live online: Moodle drop-in sessions
Bring a craft if you have one and join us for tea and a chat.
There will be craft materials and colouring sheets or you can simply come to meet other people in a relaxed environment.
Drop in any time and stay as long as you would like.
Take time out of the busy-ness of Welcome Week to learn some basic crochet stitches and make a 'worry worm' fidget toy.
Please sign up because space is limited.
Sign up for Create Space: Basic Crochet JHBB.G.02, Think Space, John Henry Brookes Building, Headington Campus
This workshop will offer international students ideas about how to manage their money in the UK, and will include practical information about opening bank accounts, personal budgeting and finding part-time work.
Interested in an International Exchange or Study Abroad opportunity as part of your programme?
Join the Global Mobility and Engagement team for a short talk and a chance to ask any questions you might have!
JHB408, Snow Room, John Henry Brookes Building, Headington Campus
Join humanist and other secular or non-religious students to meet one another and discuss our values and approach to university life.
This group is student-led and supported by the Multifaith Chaplaincy.
We would love your input on how it develops.
Join us for a fun-filled Pizza Night across Clive Booth, Cheney Student Village, Crescent Hall, Paul Kent Hall, Warneford Hall, and Westminster Hall!
Indulge in a variety of delicious pizzas while enjoying an evening packed with exciting games and activities.
This event is not just about great food - it's also a fantastic opportunity to relax, meet new people, and start building your hall community from day one.
This event is open to all Brookes students who self-identify as LGBTQ+.
Whether you want to meet like-minded people, find out more about the committee’s plans for the year, or are passionate about creating change, come along for a free brunch and find out more about joining our LGBTQ+ Students' Network .
Find your team at Oxford Brookes.
With nearly 40 Student Sports Clubs, there’s something for everyone.
Whether you’re looking to get involved socially or represent Oxford Brookes, you can meet our clubs and learn more about Brookes Sport and Active Wellness at the Sports Fair.
We can’t wait to welcome you.
Can’t make it in person?
Follow us on Instagram @brookessportoxford for updates.
The first hour of the Fair (10am to 11am) is a dedicated quiet time for those with additional needs.
If you’d like a staff buddy to walk with you, just message us on Instagram.
We’ll share more details in the lead-up.
Throughout the day, you can also head to the Sports Centre for guided tours and a chance to try some activities.
The climbing wall will also be free to use all day.
See you there!
ISAT will be here to support new students arriving in the UK.
Come to see us if you have any questions about your visa, studying and living in the UK or just to say hello.
We look forward to welcoming you.
JHB G.11, John Henry Brookes Building, Headington Campus
A welcoming group for any trans or gender non-conforming student who would like to meet others having the same experience.
This meeting is for students who have not attended the group before to meet one another.
Please sign up to receive details of the venue.
Sign up for the Trans+ peer support welcome event
Like board games?
Think you might like board games?
Come on your own / with a group / a flatmate / someone you just met over coffee this morning and explore our collection of games.
We have a wide selection of co-operative board games where you work together to beat the game as well as some that will really bring out your competitive streak!
Library staff will be around if you need any help, and there will be snacks to keep you going!
Library Platform, Library Level 3, John Henry Brookes Building, Headington Campus
Volunteering can be done around your studies.
It is a fantastic way to add experience to your CV, get to know the local community and meet new people.
Come along to this session to find out more about our Volunteer Centre and how to get started!
JHB G.02, Think Space, John Henry Brookes Building, Headington Campus
This workshop will give you the opportunity to learn about how to find part time work, the type of work available, and how to manage your time alongside working.
A welcoming and inclusive community for students to explore the Bible together.
We invite students from all faiths and worldviews to join the conversation, and will not pressure you to change.
Garden Room (Multifaith Chaplaincy), Buckley Building, Headington Campus
Our Disabled Students' Network includes any Oxford Brookes student who self-defines as disabled, including - but not limited to - those with a long-term illness, a physical disability, neurodivergent students, specific learning difficulties and mental health.
Whether you want to meet like-minded people, find out more about the committee’s plans for the year, or are passionate about creating change, come along for a free brunch and find out more about joining our Disabled Students' Network .
Brookes Union's annual Freshers’ Fair is an exciting event that is free to attend for all Oxford Brookes students.
This is your chance to talk to the students running our societies and network and find out how to get involved in their Give it a Go taster events, plus there'll be local and national brands offering loads of student discounts and freebies to pick up on the day.
A new academic year means a fresh start for everyone, so whether you’re in first year, final year or doing a postgraduate degree why not come along and get more out of your time at Oxford Brookes?
More information is available online on the Brookes Union webpage .
John Henry Brookes Building, Headington Campus
In this informal session, we will explore varied mature students' experiences of being at university.
We’ll explore practical strategies for time management, helping you balance academic work with personal, family, and professional commitments.
You’ll also be introduced to the wide range of support services available and we will explore  key concerns mature students often face such as confidence, digital literacy, or fitting in.
Join us and meet new people, make plans for how you will make the most of your time at Oxford Brookes and be empowered from day one.
CLC G.02 and CLC G.03, Sir Kenneth Wheare Hall, Clerici Building, Headington Campus
Join Rob, our amazing tour guide, for a walking tour of historic Oxford.
Tour lasts approximately 1 hour.
Martyr ’s Memorial, 13 Magdalen Street, Oxford OX1 3AE
For more information, head to the Accommodation Events and Activities webpage .
Ready for a night of fun, strategy, and a little friendly competition?
Join us for a board game night, where you can relax, meet fellow residents, and battle it out over classic and modern games!
Fir Ground Floor Event Space, Clive Booth Student Village
Independent study involves needing to organise your own time really efficiently.
This session explores how to ensure that your medium to long-term planning is effective enough to make your short-term workload manageable.
It explores digital tools that can help you organise time and tasks and will show how effective time management reduces stress, increases motivation and gives you the chance to have a life that is not all about work.
Online on Zoom Book your place on the 'Managing your time and staying motivated' session on Tuesday 23 September
This workshop, which is open to both students and staff, is designed to help you gain confidence using Google Sheets and Microsoft Excel.
Whether you're brand new or need a refresher and want to go back to basics, we'll walk through essential vocabulary, formatting tools, and basic formulas to help you organize and understand your data more easily.
Numbers are limited so early booking is advised.
JHBB.G.02, Think Space, John Henry Brookes Building, Headington Campus Book your place on the 'Introduction to Spreadsheets' session on Tuesday 23 September
We begin each session by choosing a topic relevant to university life or the world we live in and let the conversation develop.
Social Space, Crescent Hall
Rowan House Social Space, Paul Kent Hall
Join us at the Part-Time Jobs Fair on 25th September and connect with local employers offering roles that fit around your uni schedule.
Whether you're after retail, hospitality, tutoring, or admin work – there’s something for everyone.
Don’t miss this chance to boost your CV and earn while you learn!
Sign up for the Trans+ peer support group
A welcoming and inclusive community for students to explore the Bible together every week.
Social Space, Warneford Hall
All postgrads welcome to a quiet and supportive online space.
Bring your lunch and support for your fellow postgrads!
Feel free to drop in the online group whenever you’re available.
Online on Zoom Book your place on Postgrad Peer Lunch and Support
We’re bringing sustainability straight to your doorstep!
Come along to our Sustainability Pop-Up Roadshow and find out how you can get involved in making your halls (and the planet!) a greener place to live.
We’ll also be handing out some sustainable goodies to help you start your eco-journey in style!
Clive Booth Student Village
This session is part of the Academic Writing Lab series, which will take you through the processes involved in planning and writing assignments.
These are informal sessions suitable for any level of study and may be particularly useful to students studying in a UK university for the first time.
This week's session is about getting started and explores how to use task instructions and other resources to get a clearer idea of what your lecturers are hoping to see.
Led by a lecturer from the Centre for Academic Development, this session also offers the opportunity for you to raise any questions about your studies in your first week of classes.
Think Space, JHBB.G.02, John Henry Brookes Building, Headington Campus Book your place on the 'Assignments: What do they want you to do?' session on Monday 29 September
Volunteering is a great way to give back to the local community and develop crucial skills and work experience.
The Volunteer Fair is your chance to talk with charities and find the right volunteering role for you.
Let your loved ones know how you are settling into life in Oxford with a postcard home.
Join Brookes Residences and ISAT to design and write your own postcard, and then your postcard will be sent free of charge to your chosen loved ones!
Drop in between 12 noon and 4.00pm to send your free postcard.
JHB.G.02 (Think Space), John Henry Brookes Building, Headington Campus
Weekly in-depth Bible study and prayer for staff and students.
Join us from wherever you are to experience God and share your faith with other believers.
Join online via Zoom
Are you completely new to statistics?
This workshop offers a clear, non-technical introduction to the key concepts behind statistics.
We'll explore how quantitative data is collected, interpreted, and discussed without diving into calculations.
Perfect for beginners looking to build confidence with statistical vocabulary and ideas.
Think Space, JHBB.G.02, John Henry Brookes Building, Headington Campus Book your place on the 'Thinking statistically' session
Crescent Hall
Paul Kent Hall
Being an effective student involves developing the skills and qualities you already have and acquiring new ones.
This workshop will provide you with the tools to analyse how you can reach your full potential at university and make the most of the developmental opportunities that are available to you.
If you are looking for springboard for change, this could be it!
Online on Zoom Book your place on the 'Build your academic skills' session
Warneford Hall
Have you been given an assignment that you’re not sure how to approach?
Perhaps you’ve struggled in the past to understand exactly what you need to write?
This session will show you how to use your task instructions and other resources to get a clearer idea of what your lecturers are hoping to see.
Perfect for undergraduates or anyone who wants more confidence in this area, this session will last one hour and be followed by a chance for you to ask questions and discuss your specific assignments.
Online on Zoom Book your place on the 'Assignments: What do they want you to do?' session on Thursday 2 October
In this week's Academic Writing Lab session, we explore strategies to read academic texts and make notes in an efficient and purposeful way.
As a researcher, it is important that your reading is not just about gathering the thoughts of others, but developing your own thinking to inform your writing.
We will consider how you know whether you are reading the right things, how to make the most of your reading time, and how to ensure that the notes we take are useful.
JHBB.G.02, Think Space, John Henry Brookes Building, Headington Campus Book your place on the 'Effective reading and note making' session on Monday 6 October
Online on Zoom Book your place on the 'Managing your time and staying motivated' session on Tuesday 7 October
Online on Zoom Book your place on the 'Assignments: What do they want you to do?' session on Wednesday 8 October
This session explores strategies to read academic texts and make notes in an efficient and purposeful way.
Online on Zoom Book your place on the 'Effective reading and note making' session on Thursday 9 October
JHBB.G.02, Think Space, John Henry Brookes Building, Headington Campus Book your place on the 'Introduction to Spreadshee ts' session on Thursday 9 October

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/new-students/supporting-you:
Our extensive support network for students at Oxford Brookes University.
Coming to university is a big change - you're adapting to a new place, new people and new ways of doing things.
All of this can be exciting and enjoyable but it can also sometimes feel overwhelming.
It’s quite normal and it’s okay to ask for support or advice at these times.
How can we help you today?
I'm nervous about starting at Oxford Brookes, can you give me any advice?
I want to learn about specific support for students like myself
I'd like to ask about a certain topic
I'd like to see the full list of support services available at Oxford Brookes
Everyone will have a slightly different experience at university so our best advice is to contact us directly .
We are more than happy to talk you through your first few weeks at Oxford Brookes, focusing on the kind of activities and support that suits you the best.
However, there are some things that work for nearly everyone, so we recommend considering the following.
Learn about and consider joining Brookes Union societies , Brookes Union networks or seeing what Brookes Sport has to offer.
You can invest as much or as little as you want - for instance, you can play a sport casually or join a team.
It can feel intimidating if you have a fairly empty schedule and haven't met many people yet.
We offer a calendar of events open to all students so you can find things to do in your free time.
Many of these activities are low cost or free and plenty don't involve alcohol, so there is something for everyone.
You might also want to consider volunteering some of your time to a local cause or activity through the Volunteer Centre .
As well as all the support within Oxford Brookes, there are some really useful external resources available.
Student Minds is excellent for helping you manage the transition to university while looking after your mental health.
If you'd like to work on your cooking, take a look at the Student Food Project .
Lots of people in your faculty are invested in your success, from your Academic Adviser to your Student Support Coordinator.
Once you've met them as part of your course induction, make sure to check in with them if you need to.
Lastly, while it's great to talk to family and/or friends from home, doing it too much can make you feel more isolated.
It's important to also set aside time to immerse yourself in Oxford life and meet new people.
The International Student Advice Team (ISAT) offer lots of support for international students, from visa advice to social events.
They run the Global Buddies programme, offer accommodation meet and greets, and provide practical guidance for living in Oxford.
We recommend all international students read about the services they offer.
During the induction period they will run an International Students Welcome Session and a selection of useful workshops to help you adapt to life in the UK.
Find out how to meet or contact the International Student Advice Team
Other useful resources include:
Oxford Brookes is proud to have a vibrant LGBTQ+ student community and is a Stonewall Diversity Champion.
There are a variety of options for support including a peer support group for trans and gender non-conforming students and the LGBTQ+ student network .
Read more about support for LGBTQ+ students
There is dedicated support at Oxford Brookes for mature students including advice on topics such as finance, child care and academic support.
You are also very welcome to join the mature students' network for peer support and socialising.
Read more about support for mature students
This includes specific learning difficulties such as dyslexia, dyspraxia/DCD, attention deficit disorder and dyscalculia, autistic spectrum conditions and  long-term physical and mental health conditions.
We recommend getting in contact with them as early as you can, to ensure that the right support is in place ready for when you start at Oxford Brookes.
It's worth contacting them even after you arrive though as there is still plenty they may be able to help you with.
Read more about the Inclusive Support Service
During Induction Week there will be regular online and in-person drop-in sessions with the Inclusive Support Service.
Anyone can join these sessions.
You can find these on the events calendar .
They are also running some pre-arrival webinars to help students prepare for life at university.
We want to make sure student carers get the most out of their time at Oxford Brookes and have full access to all our support services.
We have a dedicated student welfare adviser who works with student carers to agree the best support plan for you.
We also offer a bursary for young carers subject to eligibility.
Read more about support for student carers
We understand that you may require some extra support if you are coming to university from care.
We have a dedicated student welfare adviser who can work with you to agree the most appropriate support plan.
There are also practical services we can offer, such as bursaries (subject to eligibility) and guaranteed 52-week accommodation.
Read more about support for care experienced students
We understand that you may require some extra support if you are estranged from your parent/s or guardian/s.
Read more about support for estranged students
Starting university involves many new experiences, and involves navigating processes, systems and even language that will be unfamiliar to you.
To help with this, the Centre for Academic Development has produced the Oxford Brookes Quick Start Guide .
The Quick Start Guide can be used as a glossary of university terminology, which can be really helpful if there is an issue you would like to explore but you are not sure who to talk to about it.
It will explain who does what within the University, how your coursework is assessed, what the difference is between a Chancellor and Vice-Chancellor and much more.
The Quick Start Guide is designed to help you understand how university works and, therefore, how you can make the most of the opportunities waiting for you at Oxford Brookes University.
Read the University Quick Start Guide
During Induction Week there will be part-time jobs workshops running to help get you started.
There are often specific workshops for international students looking for part-time jobs too.
You can find out more on the events calendar .
You can also visit the Oxford Brookes Careers website to find out what help is available.
As well as the Brookes Job Shop , the Careers team offer useful advice and guidance on topics such as CVs, applications and interviews.
You might also want to consider volunteering.
It's great experience for your future career and can be a brilliant way of meeting others and filling your time, plus you might learn some new skills.
Find out more about volunteering .
We recommend taking a look at the University's guide to living costs which includes topics like:
It’s not unusual to be thinking about safety in a new environment, especially if you are moving away from home.
Oxford generally ranks high on the list of safe university cities, but it’s still good to know about the things you can do to keep yourself safe, plus who can help you if you need it.
Here are the security contact details - please add them as contacts.
Each hall of residence has an on-site residence manager and hall supervisors.
There is support on-site through the night too, and our hall staff are experienced at making new students feel at home.
Your hall team can give you the right contact numbers to call if you need help out of office hours - these may be on display in your kitchen or hallway, or available in the hall office.
Make sure to save them as contacts in case you need them any time.
The Nightsafe Oxford Network is designed to help people feel safe in Oxford at night.
We also have a University-wide security team .
They offer plenty of useful information including a short video about personal security and advice on how to stay safe during nights out .
Oxford Brookes is an inclusive, safe and respectful university.
There’s no place for sexual violence or abuse here.
We expect all Oxford Brookes students to play their part in building an inclusive, safe and respectful campus by engaging with our sexual consent education course .
You will be asked to complete this from August onwards.
The course is mandatory, but you can opt out if the content may prove challenging or upsetting to you.
We encourage you to take a look at the information and support available if possible.
There are a range of different resources and teams that can assist you in maintaining good mental health and/or help you if you are struggling.
If you are unsure who to contact or wish to talk to someone about your support needs, use the student support contact form .
The Student Support Services Team aims to reply within three working days of receiving your form.
If you need help filling in the form, or if you cannot access it, please contact studentsupportservices@brookes.ac.uk .
The Multifaith Chaplaincy is here to offer companionship and spiritual care to all members of the University.
They offer a range of events including regular worship and religious services and social events.
You don't have to be religious to join their social events - everyone is welcome.
They also offer pastoral care and a safe place to talk.
If you are looking to meet new people, they run Student Connect, a service to put you in touch with like-minded people.
Learn more about the Multifaith Chaplaincy
The first few weeks of university can be a lot to handle.
If you need to take a break somewhere away from all the activity, we recommend the following:
The Sensory Space
JHB 1.07, Library Wellbeing Zone, Headington Campus
Monday to Friday 8am - 6pm
Rooms for prayer or quiet reflection
Prayer/quiet room, ground floor of the Buckley Building, Headington Campus
Prayer room, G.42, Marston Road site
Quiet room, 1.63, Marston Road site
Headington Hill Park (quiet and leafy with places to sit)
Head down Headington Road in the direction of Oxford city centre.
It will be on your right before you reach the bottom of the hill.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/new-students/induction-team:
We will be available both on campus and remotely in case there is anything you need to ask.
You don't even need to have a specific question.
Just come over and say hello and we can make sure you have all the information you need.
The Student Induction Team will be here in person and by phone from Monday 8 September .
You can email us all year round.
View opening hours for our services
Get help with online enrolment
Our team is made up of students in different years and studying a variety of subjects plus some permanent staff members.
We have all experienced at least one induction before, and as everyone's experience is unique, that means we have lots of different perspectives on what coming to university is like.
We can talk you through the basics and discuss general information any new student needs to know, or we can discuss your specific questions and interests.
If you'd like to hear about what we enjoy doing at Oxford Brookes, or how we got help when we needed it, our team members are generally very happy to share.
Looking for places to shop or eat?
Maybe you'd like to know how to travel around Oxford?
Take advantage of our local knowledge and ask!
We'd love to tell you about our favourite places around the city.
Do you need help with your online enrolment?
Contact our colleagues in the Online Enrolment Team for support and troubleshooting.
They a re available from Wednesday 3 September onwards.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/new-students/contacts:
For advice about arrivals and induction as a new student:
For support with your online enrolment:
Contacts within Oxford Brookes University
Student finance and UCAS information
Contact us with questions about your application, including deferrals and course changes (pre-enrolment) and updates on your CAS if you are an international student.
Contact us with queries about halls or Oxford Brookes housing applications, or for arrivals information for halls and Oxford Brookes housing.
The Accommodation Bureau is located in AB1.01b, Abercrombie Building, Headington Campus.
Phone line opening hours:
Office opening hours:
Contact the Global Engagement Team with questions about the exchanges and study abroad programmes.
We can also offer advice regarding your modules if you study one of these programmes.
Contact us with questions relating to tuition fees.
We can also discuss rent payments for Oxford Brookes halls or houses.
Contact us for advice on travelling to the UK and how to get to Oxford, any questions you may have about your Student visa, and practical advice to help you settle in including how to open a bank account.
For support with IT services, equipment or reporting issues.
Please note you can log issues via the IT Services Portal even if you are a new student and don't have a login yet.
Contact us with questions regarding studying at one of our partner colleges.
Contact us with general enquiries about research degrees or with specific questions about your enrolment.
Contact us with questions about safety, security and accessing campus.
Contact us about disability services, mental health and wellbeing support at Oxford Brookes.
Semester time opening hours:
Vacation opening hours:

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/parents-and-carers/the-application-process:
The Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS) is the system through which you select and apply for almost all full-time undergraduate courses in the UK.
This is a brief overview of the stages involved.
For more detailed information see our applicants' timeline and how to apply pages.
If your child is currently in education, they will make their UCAS application through their school or college.
They will write a personal statement to support their application, and a teacher will write a reference for them.
If they are not in education they can apply as an individual.
For more details, visit UCAS web pages for parents and guardians .
Students can apply for up to five choices through UCAS.
This could be a similar course at five universities, five courses at one university, or any mixture in-between.
Internal admissions staff at each university will assess whether each applicant is capable of completing a course, based on their achieved and predicted grades, personal statement and academic reference.
The process may take a few days, weeks or even longer.
When a decision has been made, students will receive the response in UCAS Hub, the online system that allows your child to check the progress of their UCAS application.
These responses include:
Our admissions team is here to help your child at every stage of their application to Oxford Brookes.
Contact us at admissions@brookes.ac.uk
When your child has had responses from every institution they have applied to, they will have to choose:
Has your child...?

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/parents-and-carers/fees-and-finance:
Your child will apply for these through the Student Loans Company (SLC).
All first-time undergraduate students are eligible for a tuition fee loan of up to £9,250 per year.
Find out more with Ten important facts about student finance
Alert Tuition fees for 2024 will be published in September 2023.
Other threshold figures may also change.
See the most up-to-date information about student loans and other financial support
See more details
If your child is applying for a tuition fee loan and a maintenance loan that depends on your household income, they’ll be asked to enter your email address in their application.
Your child won’t have to repay their student loan until they’ve left university and their income is over £25,725 a year.
If their income drops below £25,725, repayments will stop.
Any debt remaining after 30 years is written off.
Alert The Student Finance calculator helps provide an estimate of the financial support that your child may be eligible for: www.gov.uk/student-finance-calculator
Your child may also be eligible for extra financial help through a bursary or scholarship.
For more information please see the Department of Health and Social Care
Please visit NHS Learning Support Fund for more information
The average student spends in the region of £9,804-£11,894 a year on living expenses.
See here for living costs including cost calculator and student Mollie Huckin's top tips on living within a student budget.
“Plan your meals and do your food shopping online, that way you’re less likely to impulse buy.”
Mollie Huckin, studying English Literature and Psychology
Find out more about funding and the financial support available by coming to one of our Open Days or Applicant Days where you can attend dedicated talks and meet staff from our Finance office.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/parents-and-carers/accommodation:
Most first-year students live in halls of residence.
This provides a safe, welcoming environment in which your child can get used to living independently.
It’s also a great way to meet other new students while they are settling in.
Find out more about our halls and other options
We guarantee that all full-time first-year students who choose Oxford Brookes as either their firm or insurance choice will be offered accommodation as long as they apply by the deadline and meet the academic criteria for their offer.
For full details on our guarantees please take a look at our allocation policy .
Each Brookes-managed hall (with the exception of Friar Court who can contact Brookes Lettings ) has a dedicated on-site manager to support students during the day, and Hall Wardens available overnight to provide additional assistance.
Our hall staff are experienced in helping new students settle in and feel at home.
In addition, Oxford Brookes provides 24/7 campus security to ensure a safe and supportive living environment.
For more information, please take a look at our support in halls.
All students who live in University-managed halls are provided with contents insurance covering their time in halls.
For full details, please take a look at our student insurance .
All halls are on a bus route - connecting our campus sites with the city centre.
The University is situated in one of the safest student areas in the country according to research conducted by the Complete University Guide
Campus facilities include:
If your child has any concerns about living in their hall, encourage them to speak with the staff at their hall office.
The team is there to help and can offer support with a wide range of issues, big or small.
It’s important to bear in mind that we need to hear directly from the student.
We have a contractual agreement with them, and are unable to discuss their contract with anybody else under Data Protection legislation .

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/parents-and-carers/support-safety-and-wellbeing:
When your child goes to university, it’s an exciting time but it can feel daunting too - for both them and you.
For many students it’s the first time they have lived away from home.
We ensure that plenty of help and support is on hand, both while they settle in and throughout their time at Oxford Brookes.
Support and wellbeing
Our halls of residence provide a safe and supportive environment for our students.
Each hall has an on-site residence manager and hall supervisors to help and advise during the day.
There’s support on-site through the night too.
Hall staff are experienced at making people feel at home.
The University is situated in one of the safest student areas in the country according to research on staying safe at university, conducted by the Complete University Guide .
Find out more about our halls
There are more than 100 student societies and around 40 sports clubs.
These are a great way of getting to know other students, whether your child lives in halls or at home.
These are trained members of staff based within every subject area.
They are a first point of contact for students, providing confidential advice on any personal or study-based concerns or giving guidance to more specialist help.
A medical centre and an NHS dental clinic are based on Headington Campus, and there are local GP services close to the other campuses.
Our wellbeing centre offers confidential one-to-one counselling with trained, experienced staff.
There is also online and group support, workshops and talks.
A range of specialist services are on hand for any student with a disability or with dyslexia or other specific learning difficulties (SpLD) .
Help can include:
There is a multifaith chaplaincy giving friendship and spiritual care to students from any faith tradition, or no faith at all.
Brookes Union has trained advisers who can help with a wide range of problems from finances and housing to studies, health or wellbeing.
The International Student Advice Team can advise your child before they arrive and help with immigration, employment and finance issues.
There are also buddying and social schemes to help them settle in, make friends and adapt to being at university in the UK.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/parents-and-carers/preparing-your-child-for-university:
For many students, going to university is the first time they have lived away from home.
You can play a valuable role in preparing your child for this important new phase in their life.
“"Since I came to university I’ve learned the basics, like doing the chores and keeping track of stuff.
It’s not just about education; it’s about being independent and discovering who you are."”
Harminda Surana, studied Human Biology
It is normal for new students based in halls of residence to feel a little unsettled as they get used to their new environment and routine.
Most students feel significantly better once they are a few weeks into the term.
If they continue to have problems always encourage them to talk to hall staff, their student support coordinator, or the University wellbeing team .
An important part of coming to university is adjusting to a new life as an independent adult.
When a student starts university, they are responsible for themselves, and our relationship is with them rather than their parents.
Under Data Protection legislation we are not permitted to disclose to you any personal information relating to your child.
As part of life at Oxford Brookes, we ensure that our students can easily access support and advice from trained, approachable staff on everything from concerns about their studies to practical issues such as accommodation or budgeting problems, or health and wellbeing concerns.
Once your child is at Oxford Brookes, there are plenty of ways you can keep in touch with what’s going on at the University, from receiving our latest news via X or Facebook or attending public lectures and many other community events that take place at the University throughout the year.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/parents-and-carers/employment-opportunities:
Employers want graduates with proven skills.
Our degrees are designed with the real world in mind, giving your child the opportunity to build their employability, and there are plenty of other ways that they can develop valuable new skills and experience for the workplace.
“At Oxford Brookes University, 87% of full-time undergraduate students are in work or further study 15 months after graduation.”
HESA Graduate Outcomes Survey 2021/22 - published June 2024
Many of our degree courses including healthcare, business and the built environment, are recognised by professional awarding bodies.
Our strong links with many different industries and professions mean that there are great opportunities for work placements.
Some of our courses have a compulsory one-year work placement or series of placements, while on others it is optional.
Dan Pope, BSc (Hons) Nursing (Children’s) graduate
On some courses, students are teamed up with a senior professional from industry.
Mentors provide personalised guidance tailored to your needs and goals, sharing industry insights and best practices to help you develop a deeper understanding of your chosen career path.
Your mentor will offer practical advice on how to take the first steps in your career, as well as support to enhance your confidence and self-esteem.
Oxford Brookes has links with around 150 partner universities all over the world including 21 European countries and further afield from Argentina to the United States.
“Studying abroad makes you stand out from the crowd and shows that you are confident and well rounded.
I wish I could do my six months all over again!
”
Chloe Green, studied English Language and Communication.
Went on study exchange to Griffith University, Queensland, Australia
By working part time, your child is increasing their experience of being in the workplace as well as boosting their funds.
Oxford is a great city for part-time and seasonal work.
We encourage students to try new things beyond their course.
As well as enriching their experiences, it can shape their thinking about a future career.
Our app-based scheme, BrookesEDGE , is designed to mark achievements beyond their course and can be shared with future employers.
The careers service offers tailored guidance to students, including one-to-one sessions, workshops, advice on CV-writing, interview practice and online resources.
The service is free of charge for up to 3 years after graduation.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/parents-and-carers/jargon-buster:
A person who has graduated (completed a course and gained a qualification) from a particular university.
Tailored visit days for students who have already applied to understand in more depth what studying at Oxford Brookes will be like.
An undergraduate honours degree awarded for a course in an arts-related subject, such as art and design, humanities, education, social studies and languages.
An undergraduate honours degree awarded for courses in engineering.
An undergraduate honours degree awarded for a course in a science-related subject, such as mathematics, science, nursing and health-related courses.
If a student doesn’t get the grades they need on results day in August, they can enter Clearing - when universities publish online any unfilled places on their courses.
Two subjects are studied.
‘Deferring’ means applying for a course and then taking a year out before coming to university.
Students can apply for deferred entry by ticking the deferred entry box on their UCAS form.
If your child decides to defer after results day, they should contact the university to ensure this is possible.
A person who has completed and passed their degree and been awarded their qualification.
An honours degree awarded for an undergraduate law degree.
These days give prospective students the opportunity to get a taste of a university, see the campus and student halls, meet students, and attend subject talks.
Completed as part of the UCAS application.
It gives prospective students the opportunity to set out why they are interested in a particular course and what they can bring to it.
A university teaching term.
Most universities have semesters which run from September to January and February to June, with examinations at the end of each semester.
One subject is studied.
Loans are available from the Student Loans Company to help students pay their living and study expenses while they are at university.
The organisation responsible for processing applications to UK universities for undergraduate courses.
If your child receives no offers, they can still apply to university through this process.
It allows students to search for universities with available places and make one additional choice at a time.
It runs from February until early July.
An online system developed by UCAS that allows your child to check the progress of their application.
A degree or higher qualification studied at university following school or college.
The teaching costs of a degree that are initially loaned by the government, and are then paid pack by a graduate after they have completed their course.
UCAS
Discover Uni
Parents' and Carers' Guide (pdf)

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/study-options:
We don’t believe that a 'typical' or 'average' student exists - we welcome people from all walks of life and want you to feel comfortable and at home at Oxford Brookes.
We will offer plenty of support and guidance about starting your studies or return to study if you have taken a break.
Our distance learning options give you the flexibility to study for an Oxford Brookes degree level qualification from your home.
Some courses are only available through distance learning.
Others include both distance learning and on-campus options, for example short study periods.
Please check the details of the course you are interested in to see if it suits your needs.
Search distance learning options
Part time study offers you the flexibility to adapt your pace of study to your personal circumstances.
You will be treated identically to those studying full-time and you will be entitled to the same wide range of services, including full access to the University and its facilities.
The information here applies to people who have UK or EU residential status.
If you have overseas residential status you should contact the Admissions Office for advice about studying as a part-time student.
Learn more about part-time study
Associate students follow modules from the Undergraduate Modular Programme.
Usually, Associate students take one or two modules per year, rather than the entire year of a degree programme.
A module is a self-contained unit of study from within an undergraduate course.
Most are one semester long (15 weeks) and represent about 150 hours study.
You have the same benefits and services as any other student, including access to the library, computers, careers service, study advice and other resources.
The Admissions Team can give you advice on whether Associate study would suit you.
Find out more about associate study
If you think your circumstances might be a barrier to you studying, we recommend that you talk to our Admissions team to explore ways that might make studying possible for you.
They will discuss your aims, interests and circumstances and give you advice and guidance tailored to you and your needs.
They may recommend flexible or part time learning, or advice on the type of course best suited to you or whether a course in a partner college or elsewhere would be the best first step.
You will need to be IT literate in order to cope with the demands of any Oxford Brookes course – but there is plenty of support on hand to help you achieve the skill required.
Our service desk points provide key IT support for all students across the University, are open during the day and evenings and offer free information and guidance on using the university’s computer network.
Any student wishing to learn more about computing can take introductory modules as part of their programme of study.
Find out more about support for modern day learning
If you are considering coming to Oxford Brookes as a mature student you will not be alone.
Many of our older students return to study for a range of reasons - possibly in order to change career, gain qualifications or to learn more about an area of interest.
Our Wellbeing Team offers advice and guidance to anyone thinking of becoming a mature student on what to expect, how your study can be tailored to your circumstances and the support available once you are here.
Find out more about Wellbeing

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/study-options/common-questions-about-part-time-study:
Most of our courses can be studied full-time, part-time, or a mix of both.
You have the same choice as full-time students, you just study at a slower rate, taking one to three modules each semester and usually gaining your honours degree in five to six years.
Courses that involve a compulsory work placement or supervised work experience may take longer.
You will probably attend the University two half-days a week, but for some courses this requirement can rise to three or four half days.
We seek to be as accommodating as possible to individual circumstances.
For instance, part-time students, and students who are parents, are given priority when seminar teaching groups are allocated.
Similarly, if you have been offered a full-time place and wish to convert to part-time before taking up your place you are likely to be able to do so.
You should be able to plan your likely timetable a year ahead but few of the courses are confined to one particular day of the week, so you are probably not going to be able to set aside the same day for attendance over the whole period of a degree.
We encourage all our students to seek all the support they need.
However, if you did run into difficulties and need to take a break, you can ask for ‘approved time out’ and your academic adviser can guide you through the implications of this.
Progress through a course is made by accumulating credits for each module passed.
You may be entitled to the award of a Certificate of Higher Education on gaining eight basic module credits, or a Diploma of Higher Education on passing 16 module credits at basic and advanced level.
Details on fees can be found in our section on Undergraduate finance
As a part-time student, you may be eligible for support with fees through Student Finance England.
For information about funding for part time students please visit the Student Finance England website.
We offer a wide range of support to all students, both academic and personal.
Students can use the university nursery , which caters for children between the ages of 4 months and 5 years.
Information and advice is available from the Brookes Union Advice Service about any state support you may be entitled to.
If you are under 21 you will need to meet the usual entry requirements and must meet the specific requirements of each course.
If you have not studied for a while and wish to discuss the entry procedure we recommend you contact the Admissions Office for advice.
All applications for part-time courses are made directly to the university .
For help or advice about studying at Oxford Brookes please contact our:
+44 (0) 1865 484848 query@brookes.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/apprenticeships:
Future-proof your workforce | Advance your career
View apprenticeships on offer
They provide a training framework for developing a new member of staff or upskilling a current employee.
For employees - apprenticeships provide the opportunity to learn new skills, study whilst working, and apply academic theory directly into the workplace.
The training for some programmes can facilitate career progression with new accreditations - all while earning a salary, and receiving paid time off to study and attend teaching sessions.
The cost of apprenticeship training for employers can typically be met, in full or in part, through the apprenticeship levy - or supported government funding for non-levy payers.
Oxford Brookes offer a range of higher and degree apprenticeships directly, as well as in collaboration with our Associate College Partners (ACPs).
+ 44 (0) 1865 534900 option 4
apprentices@brookes.ac.uk
Download our guide for employers
View employers apprenticeship journey
Apprenticeships delivered by Oxford Brookes and our Associate College Partners.
Apprentices are employed and receive a wage, and typically attend University part time.
Apprenticeships are an exciting way to earn, learn and receive a nationally recognised qualification.
Learn more about our apprenticeships with webinar sessions and presentations for employers and employees hosted across the year.
Apprenticeships are highly attractive to well qualified candidates looking for a way to combine work and study.
Guidance for levy payers and non-levy payers.
A successful apprenticeship programme needs the commitment of the apprentice, training provider and, crucially, the employer.
How and where to promote apprenticeship vacancies, and what help is available.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/courses/undergraduate/your-offer:
Here's everything you need to know before making a decision on your offer
Accept your offer
Congratulations!
You've received an offer of a place to study at Oxford Brookes University.
On this page, you’ll find the information you need to accept your offer and find out more about life here at Oxford Brookes.
Joining us this September?
Find out everything you need to know before you join.
New Students Pages
There's no better way to confirm whether Oxford Brookes is the place for you than visiting us in person.
We have regular Open Days taking place throughout the year that will allow you to:
We also offer webinars too!
When you make Oxford Brookes your firm choice university, you will be able to start planning your accommodation options for when you study here.
We guarantee accommodation for students who confirm our offer and apply by the deadline*.
*Terms and conditions apply.
If you’re a UK student, we have a range of financial support that you can combine with your student loan to support you through your time at Oxford Brookes.
If you’re from a lower income household, you could be eligible for the Oxford Brookes Bursary, worth up to £3,000 per year.
Find out more about the Brookes Bursary
If you are an international student, you could be eligible for a scholarship worth towards your tuition fees.
Find out more about the scholarships we have in place for international students below.
Find out more about Global Scholarships
Choose Oxford Brookes as your firm choice on UCAS, and we will confirm your place this summer, even if you miss your offer by one grade.*
There are a small number of exceptions where we are not able to apply this due to strict capacities on the number of places or existing flexibility already built into our offers.
The University recognises a wide range of international qualifications, however, it is not possible to apply a standard approach to flexibility across all international qualifications.
Please visit our website or contact our Admissions team for more information about international requirements.
*This is applied as a reduction equivalent to one A level grade (8 UCAS tariff points).
Our students tell us that they love our supportive staff and first rate facilities.
Our strong links to industry mean excellent placements and opportunities to prepare you for your future career.
The city of Oxford is one of the most culturally diverse cities in the UK, with a vibrant and cosmopolitan community.
It’s a great place to live, with a strong and active student population.
Oxford is well connected to the rest of the country with excellent bus and train networks and the M40 nearby, so it’s easy to visit home or explore other cities such as London, Bath or Bristol.
Book your call with our admissions team now
Oxford really has something for everyone, but don't just take our word for it.
Discover what our students love most about being a student in Oxford.
Now that you have received your offer, you can either accept your offer as your first choice (firm acceptance), accept it as your second choice (insurance acceptance), or decline.
To respond to your offer, simply log into your UCAS account, visit ‘Your choices’ and reply to our offer.
Accept your offer on UCAS Hub
If you applied directly to Oxford Brookes, you can log into our applicant portal to accept your offer.
Accept your offer via the applicant portal
Getting your very own place can be one of the most exciting parts of university life.
At Oxford Brookes University we offer a wide range of accommodation to suit all needs.
They’re all situated close to bus routes, making it easy for you to get around the city and to your lectures.
Check out our accommodation pages for full details.
From societies to sports, from part-time work to city life, we’ve gathered a few videos to show you what life is like at Oxford Brookes.
Whether you’re a gym-user or a quarterback, a rower or a cricketer, Brookes sport has a team for you.
Looking to try something new?
Brookes Union has over 80 societies you can join, from dancing to EDM.
Getting a part-time job whilst studying is not only a great way to earn some extra money, it’s also a good way to learn new skills and make new friends.
Join Catrin as she discusses part-time work opportunities in Oxford.
Oxford is a great place to live, with a vibrant and active student population.
Join Casey as she takes you on a tour of all of her favourite places - from restaurants on the Cowley Road, to fascinating museums.
Join Ore as she travels around and discovers the best ways to visit all that the city has to offer.
Our Oxford campus sites are located around the city and are all connected to each other and the city centre by Oxford's bus network.
Harcourt Hill Campus is to the west of Oxford and Headington Campus is on the eastern side of the city.
Our on-site campus tours are the best way to find out if Oxford Brookes is the right place for you.
Can’t get to our campus?
Join a campus tour

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/courses/undergraduate/portfolio-guidance-for-architecture-applicants:
Guidance Notes for Architecture (K100) and Interior Architecture (W250) applications.
The portfolio is an opportunity to demonstrate a sense of yourself as a visually creative person.
We are eager to see a wide range in your creative ability.
At Oxford Brookes University we value this and only consider students who have provided a portfolio.
Therefore it is important that your portfolio is as diverse as possible.
To give us a good introduction to you as a designer, we ask for a portfolio that contains work illustrating your creativity rather than your technical ability.
Suggestions are as follows:
A mix of media, e.g.
If you would like to share examples of 3D work you have created, such as the examples below, please share these with us by taking good quality photos and incorporating these into your digital portfolio.
We would expect to see at least 15-20 pieces of work as a minimum.
Feel free to include any kind of work you have done and we suggest a mix of both A-level and other personal work (non-A-level).
Your portfolio is all about your work and your ability, so present it in the best way possible.
Ensure that all of your work is in order and clearly labelled.
We do not expect everyone to have all of these elements.
However we are keen to see your point of view, and what kind of architectures you find exciting.
Show us your passions, ambition and commitment to creative endeavour.
Architecture is a challenging subject, so show initiative.
Surprise us.
We understand that some of your work may have been submitted for A-level examinations or may be large models, in which case we ask that you include these as clear and focused photographs.
Take a look at our School of Architecture’s 2020 End of Year shows website to see work by this year’s final year undergraduate and postgraduate students.
This will give you insight into the sorts of projects that our students work on and the range of work that they create.
When putting your portfolio together, ensure that it is well organised and that your work is clearly labelled.
You can present your portfolio as a PDF file or you can use an online service to put your portfolio together.
For example, you could use website such as Behance , Flickr or Issuu to build an online portfolio.
Carbonmade is another popular digital portfolio service but please note that this website does require a fee.
If you wish to upload your portfolio as a PDF, please share this with us by using Google Drive where you will be able to upload your PDF file and obtain a URL link.
Please remember to amend the sharing settings so everyone who receives the link is able to view your work.
We expect that you should receive a response to portfolio submissions within three weeks of the submission date.
If you have not received a response by that point please contact admissions@brookes.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/courses/postgraduate/research:
Our research is recognised internationally and atracts high quality staff and students as well as major funded projects.
As a research student at Oxford Brookes you will join a vibrant and supportive environment, and benefit from expert supervision and a strong programme of research training.
Explore our research degrees to learn more about our research, centres and groups, funding and communities.
Graduate College

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/courses/professional-and-short-courses/healthcare-cpd:
Browse our CPD course list
Under our specialist portfolio, we offer a number of CPD opportunities ranging from one-day masterclasses, workshops and short courses, to clinical and non-clinical academic pathways including undergraduate, post-graduate and doctoral level study.
Our flexible approach offers opportunities to study with us on a full-time or part-time basis, with a view to support busy working professionals in achieving their future career aspirations.
Our courses, study days and workshops are tailored to all professional groups and can be offered on a bespoke and flexible basis, subject to your needs and requirements.
Email us at hlscpdadmissions@brookes.ac.uk
Subscribe to our CPD Newsletter*
* This newsletter will provide ongoing access to a diverse range of healthcare webinars and keep you updated on our expanding portfolio of educational offerings.
Browse our full portfolio of CPD programmes.
We provide programmes tailored to your bespoke needs through accreditation.
Details of our current partners and their programmes.
One-day masterclasses, workshops and short courses.
A test for nurses and midwives who want to register and work in the UK.
An insightful and stimulating OSCE Train the Trainer day, offered at our Swindon and Oxford Campuses.
thecpdunit@brookes.ac.uk
Sign up to receive regular CPD information for health and social care professionals.
This includes announcements of our free lunchtime webinars.
After signing up to this newsletter, you will receive occasional emails from Oxford Brookes about relevant events and news relating to our CPD provision.
We do not sell or distribute your data to any third parties.
Read our privacy policy below.*
* Privacy policy

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/courses/professional-and-short-courses/business:
Welcome to Oxford Brookes Business School’s Continuing Professional Development (CPD) courses.
Our mission is to inspire minds with insight and ambition, equipping individuals and businesses to thrive in an ever-changing global marketplace.
With strong connections to industry leaders, businesses, and a diverse network of global partners, we bring cutting-edge expertise to help you grow and succeed.
Our six new CPD business courses are designed to enhance your skills, providing practical knowledge tailored to your needs.
Whether you're an individual seeking career advancement or a business looking to invest in your team’s development, we’re here to help you unlock your full potential.
We look forward to connecting with you.
Improving your sustainability
Business improvement for operational excellence
Unlocking strategic innovation for competitive advantage
Finance for strategic thinkers
Leadership and change
Implementing strategy

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/courses/professional-and-short-courses/resilience:
The nature of humanitarian and development work is physically, emotionally and mentally demanding.
In today's frantic world, mental wellbeing is more important than ever and if you’re working in challenging situations, protecting your wellbeing and resilience must be a necessity.
This unique course is designed to enhance your understanding of mental health in crisis settings, build a self-care practice, as well as personal and collective resilience.
From mastering the fundamentals of providing psychosocial first aid and support to ways to deal with stress, trauma, loss and grief, this course ensures you have the skills to take care of yourself and others.
Led by national and international experts in the field, this course will be an outstanding addition to your CV.
Next dates to be announced soon.
Venue: Online via Zoom
The course includes 6 key modules:
Martina is an Associate Lecturer in Development and Emergency Practice at Oxford Brookes University.
Her research is dedicated to mental health and wellbeing in the humanitarian sector.
She is a Psychosocial First Aid Trainer and Mental Health First Aider.
Martina also provides advisory and research support to the Government of Slovakia and is a Mental Health Consultant for the Slovak Red Cross developing staff care programmes, delivering psychosocial first aid trainings and psychosocial support programmes for refugees.
Ea is a technical advisor and trainer at the IFRC Reference Centre for Psychosocial Support covering areas of support to National Societies in Europe.
Ea has been a MHPSS delegate for IFRC since 2008 with missions after emergencies such as the cyclone in Myanmar, earthquake in Haiti and floodings in Pakistan and has worked in countries such as Lebanon and Syria during the Syrian crisis.
Her background is in psychomotor and family therapy.
Gemma Houldey has over 15 years of experience with human rights and humanitarian programmes, particularly in the Middle East and East Africa, and over 6 years of research and training focused on staff care in the aid sector.
Her PhD thesis and new book, “The Vulnerable Humanitarian: Ending Burnout Culture in the Aid Sector” draws on research conducted in Kenya and her own personal experience.
Kate is a counselling psychologist with more than 2 decades of experience in psychological therapy, training, and consultancy for clients in a range of settings including refugees and asylum seekers, staff in the international aid sector, expatriate workers and serving military personnel and veterans.
A former humanitarian worker herself, she worked for Medecins sans Frontiers and the ICRC.
Karen has worked in the humanitarian and development sectors for over 17 years as a staff wellbeing, safeguarding and MHPSS specialist.
She has worked in conflict and post-conflict countries in the Middle East as well as Central and Eastern Africa and has been a practicing therapist for over 20 years, specialising in trauma and critical incident support.
Karen's work has included developing and delivering Staff Care Policies, National Mental Health Counsellor Training Frameworks, Staff Wellbeing Training Manuals and large scale MHPSS programmes.
Hitendra is a trained mindfulness teacher and mindfulness & wellbeing Adviser at Simply Mindful.
He has been active in the development and humanitarian sector now for over 20 years and his experience includes working with Action Against Hunger UK, the Africa Educational Trust, The Bishop Simeon Trust, Disability & Development Partners and Comic Relief.
Hitendra is also a Lecturer at London South Bank University, and the Course Director on the MSc Development Studies.
This course is aimed at professionals who are working in the humanitarian and development sector, all frontline workers within the humanitarian and development field (staff from INGOs, NGOs and UN organisations), as well as students on development and humanitarian courses, and all those who are planning to work in crisis settings.
Whether you’re working in a small or large organisation, HR, or simply just want to learn new things, you’ll find this course beneficial for you!
"What I loved about the course was that I had an opportunity to interact with experienced professionals who shared practical, evidence-based tools and strategies.
I learnt how to practice wellbeing, mindfulness, empathy, resilience and be better equipped to deal with crises.
What I’ve learnt during the course can not only be applied in crisis settings but can also help us with individual, social and structural stresses.
Therefore, I would recommend this course to professionals working in the humanitarian and development sector as well as to students from any discipline."
Rabeya, Architect and Development Practitioner, Bangladesh
"The Resilience, Wellbeing and Mental Health Support in Crisis Settings course was extremely helpful to me.
The sessions that I attended were extraordinarily relevant and resonant with what I was experiencing at that moment.
Despite my previous, decade-long career in healthcare which was focused on preventative health and cultivating the tools of mental well-being in hundreds of clients, humanitarian action has pushed me to the outer limits of attaining this balance in myself.
This course affirmed my experience of the challenges we encounter in humanitarian work, provided additional tools that I continue to use daily and also suggested follow up resources to further my wellbeing, as I continue to operate in crisis settings."
Julia, AMANZI - Water to Schools (Founder), United States & South Africa
"What I found particularly helpful were the practical exercises and role plays, which allow you to challenge yourself and grow.
There is a sense of building a safe space and network with peers, which is invaluable.
There are plenty of resources to go deeper.
And the instructors are both knowledgeable and a joy to work with!
I would thoroughly recommend this course, as it gives you the tools to apply mental health awareness not just at work but also in personal life."
Martina, External Relations and Communication Consultant, WHO, Italy
If you have any enquiries about the course, please email us at cendep@brookes.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/courses/partner-colleges/why-study-at-a-partner-college:
There are many reasons why you may choose to study an Oxford Brookes qualification closer to home
Staying at home and studying can often be cheaper as well as more convenient, particularly if you plan to study alongside a career, or in between family commitments.
“I chose to use a partner college for my final/top-up year after attending a university for the first two, because it was more convenient, both location wise, and it fits in better with my personal life.
There aren’t many universities close to me offering Animal Science courses.
I also find the support of the teachers really good and enjoy the smaller classes.”
Keely Torres, BSc (Hons) Animal Behaviour & Welfare, Solihull College & University Centre
Fitting studying in around work and other commitments can be challenging, so our courses have been specifically shaped to help you manage your workload, allowing you to earn while you learn if you wish.
Timetables for classes are generally scheduled to fit around typical work commitments - often taking place one day a week or in the evening.
Work-based learning placements are an essential element in a foundation degree, giving you ‘on-the-job’ real-life experience.
“I was impressed with the smaller class sizes, one-to-one opportunities, live job experiences and the passion and enthusiasm of the tutors showing me around, explaining about the course and the facilities.
Chris Taylor graduated with an Oxford Brookes BA Honours degree in Graphic Design from New College Swindon
It can be cheaper to study at a partner college.
Visit our fees pages for more information, including fees for EU students.
Fees and funding
We want you to get the most out of your time as a student.
There is always help at hand if you need a bit of  expert guidance - whether from your tutors, fellow students or from college services.
As an automatic member of the Oxford Brookes student union, you are also entitled to use its independent advice service too.
“During my time at college, I have enjoyed the teaching and received great support from dedicated and experienced tutors.”
Lauren Spensley graduated with an Oxford Brookes foundation degree in Business and Management Practice
You’ll receive as much or as little help as you would like to guide you through your learning.
You enjoy the benefits and support services of being a student of the partner college as well as many of those at Oxford Brookes.
“The lecturers at Abingdon & Witney College are amazingly knowledgeable and 100% supportive; they genuinely really want you to succeed.”
Beth Lewis, student of Equine Science and Thoroughbred Management, Abingdon & Witney College

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/courses/partner-colleges/why-brookes:
With an Oxford Brookes course, you are safe in the knowledge that you are studying for a well recognised qualification taught to the highest standards expected in higher education.
All our courses are carefully designed by experienced academics to meet the needs of students.
They work in partnership with knowledgeable, industry-informed college teaching staff to ensure delivery of degree-level learning.
All are passionate about their subject and making it accessible to others.
Oxford Brookes prides itself on inspiring students to expand the way they think and explore their subject.
Many of its academics are internationally recognised trailblazers in their subject area - whether it be in the sciences, humanities, technology or other fields.
UCAS describes a foundation degree as…
"...a degree level qualification which combines academic study with workplace learning.
Designed in association with employers, they are qualifications to equip people with the relevant skills, knowledge and understanding to achieve academic results as well as improve performance and productivity in the workplace.
A foundation degree is the equivalent of two-thirds of a full honours degree and is a fully flexible qualification allowing students to study part-time or full-time to fit their lifestyle."
We offer a wide variety of foundation degree courses and in many subject areas you can 'top up' with a final third year, to graduate with a full honours degree.
Explore the courses we offer
You may not need traditional qualifications to get onto a course - work experience, previous learning and a desire to study all count when we consider your application.
See individual college websites for further details
Not only will you enjoy the great facilities and learning resources at your college, but as an Oxford Brookes student, you will be able to take advantage of our University resources and services - both online and on campus.
For example, you can enjoy access to our extensive online library and membership of the Brookes Union .
If you are studying in one of the colleges local to Oxford Brookes - or if you are on campus - you also have access to facilities such as the sports centre , the social learning spaces, eateries and library in our award-winning John Henry Brookes Building, and our careers centre .

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/courses/partner-colleges/explore-your-options:
Open days, prospectuses, tours and more
Our partner colleges offer open days, tours and prospectuses that feature our courses.
Visit their webpages below to find out more.
As a student at a partner college, you will benefit from being both a student of the college and of Oxford Brookes.
On top of college facilities, you’ll have access to university resources and services - both online and on campus - at Oxford Brookes.
If you’re thinking of studying close to Oxford, take the opportunity to visit us .

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/courses/partner-colleges/building-your-career:
Courses designed with employment and career development in mind
If you're looking to enhance your job prospects, then a foundation degree or full degree could be the qualification for you.
Our courses are specifically designed with employment and career development in mind and offer academic study combined with workplace learning.
Foundation degrees are designed to equip you with the skills, knowledge and understanding to enhance academic and workplace performance, making them ideal if you're unsure about committing to a full degree or want to study while working, all within a shorter timeframe than a full degree.
Over 2,500 foundation degree courses are available nationally.
More than 30 are on offer with Oxford Brookes.
Our courses are specifically of interest to employers since they are designed in partnership with industry experts to equip learners with the relevant skills, knowledge and understanding their employees require.
Level 7+
Level 6
Level 5
Level 4
Level 3
Master's degree, PhD
University Degree
BA, BSc, BEng
Top up
Foundation Degree
FdA, FdSc, FdEng
HND
HNC
A levels, BTEC L3, Access to HE Diploma or equivalent
The University and our partner colleges have strong relationships with a wide range of companies, both local and national.
Many of our tutors have worked - or continue to work - in their relevant sector.
By improving both your academic and technical work-based skills, you can bring added value to your job and contribute towards your employer’s future success.
A foundation degree can open doors and give you many different options.
Once you’ve gained your foundation degree, you have the option to ‘top up’ to achieve a full honours degree.
You may choose to continue your studies by entering the third year of an Oxford Brookes bachelor’s degree in a related subject.
Alternatively, some of our partner colleges deliver one-year bachelor courses allowing you to study for a full degree locally.
Throughout your time at our partner colleges, you will benefit from a programme of activities we have developed with Oxford Brookes.
This includes support for those interested in progressing from a foundation degree to a full bachelor’s degree .
"My creative course was very practical and I benefited from hands-on experience that has given me new skills, dramatically increased my confidence and most importantly has led to me being offered a job for one of the best furniture makers in the UK."
Nicholas Wright studied the Oxford Brookes BA Honours degree in Furniture Design and Make at City of Oxford College (Activate Learning)
"The teachers are really helpful and easy to get along with.
With a top-up year now available at UCS, I have a clear progression route that will help build firm foundations for my career."
Rebecca Smith studied an Oxford Brookes foundation degree in Sports Science with Sports Coaching Education at Bridgwater & Taunton College

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/courses/partner-colleges/new-students:
Congratulations on gaining a place to study on one of our courses delivered at a partner college!
This section of our website explains what enrolment involves for new students studying at one of partner colleges.
Once you've completed online enrolment, you will be able to access University services and resources and get your Oxford Brookes student card.
Download your New Students' Guide
From Wednesday, 3rd of September 2025, an ‘invitation to enrol’ email will begin to be sent to new students who have accepted an unconditional offer.
Please don’t worry if you don’t receive an invitation email on this exact date - it’s a rolling process.
If you have applied in late August or September, there might be a delay in us contacting you.
Don't worry if this is the case - you can still enrol at the college and complete online enrolment as soon as you are eligible.
Once you have met the conditions of your offer and this has been processed by the University, you will receive an email from Brookes explaining how to complete your online enrolment and giving you your student number and link to create a password.
We will use the email address on your UCAS or application form.
If you haven’t received an email, check your junk folders and spam filters.
Proceed to Oxford Brookes online enrolment
Please note, you will need to complete enrolment with both Oxford Brookes (online) and with your college.
Please check with your college whether this will also be online or in person and for further details.
More about enrolment at partner colleges
Once you have completed your online enrolment with us, your student ID card will be sent to your partner college/university centre where it can then be collected.
If you are studying at one of our colleges local to Brookes and have applied for accommodation, learn more about our accommodation .

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/courses/partner-colleges/current-students:
Your time as a student is as unique as you are.
We want to help you make the most of student life and enjoy the experience that is best suited you.
Most of your student life is likely to be based in your college, where you can tap into its unique set of resources, support and advice.
However, if you study at one of the partner colleges local to Oxford Brookes - or are thinking of visiting the University - there are a number of things you may wish to explore.
Brookes systems and resources
Student support services
Graduation and beyond
It is easy to visit Oxford Brookes if you wish as it is well serviced by public transport.
See our travel pages for more information.
“Get your work done and out of the way.
There’s so much time for relaxing and hanging with friends when you have got all your work out of the way.
It takes away any pressure you have as well as making the whole experience more enjoyable.”
Top student tip

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/courses/additional-language-modules/common-european-framework-levels:
In 2001, a European Union Council Resolution (November 2001) recommended the use of this Council of Europe instrument in setting up systems of validation of language competences.
The Common European Framework provides a basis for the mutual recognition of language qualifications, thus facilitating educational and occupational mobility.
It is increasingly used in the reform of national curricula and by international consortia for the comparison of language certificates.
You will be able to present Brookes credits in languages to another institution or to an employer knowing exactly what level it refers to within the Common European Framework.
Can understand and use familiar everyday expressions and very basic phrases aimed at the satisfaction of needs of a concrete type.
Can introduce him/herself and others and can ask and answer questions about personal details such as where he/she lives, people he/she knows and things he/she has.
Can interact in a simple way provided the other person talks slowly and clearly and is prepared to help.
Can understand sentences and frequently used expressions related to areas of most immediate relevance (e.g.
very basic personal and family information, shopping, local geography, employment).
Can communicate in simple and routine tasks requiring a simple and direct exchange of information on familiar and routine matters.
Can describe in simple terms aspects of his/her background, immediate environment and matters in areas of immediate need.
Can understand the main points of clear standard input on familiar matters regularly encountered in work, school, leisure etc.
Can deal with most situations likely to arise whilst travelling in an area where the language is spoken.
Can produce simple connected text on topics which are familiar or of personal interest.
Can describe experiences and events, dreams, hopes and ambitions and briefly give reasons and explanations for opinions and plan.
Can understand the main ideas of complex text on both concrete and abstract topics, including technical discussions in his/her field of specialisation.
Can interact with a degree of fluency and spontaneity that makes regular interaction with native speakers quite possible without strain for either party.
Can produce clear, detailed text on a wide range of subjects and explain a viewpoint on a topical issue giving the advantages and disadvantages of various option.
Can understand a wide range of demanding, longer texts and recognise implicit meaning.
Can express him/herself fluently and spontaneously without much obvious searching for expressions.
Can use language flexibly and effectively for social, academic and professional purposes.
Can produce clear, well-structured detailed text on complex subjects showing controlled use of organisational patterns, connectors and cohesive device.
Can understand with ease virtually everything heard or read.
Can summarise information from different spoken and written sources, reconstruction arguments and accounts in a coherent presentation.
Can express him/herself spontaneously, very fluently and precisely, differentiating finer shades of meaning even in more complex situations
You can test your level through DIALANG .
These tests can help you choose your level but are not intended as placement tests and we cannot be held responsible for the wrong choice of class.
Semester 2 Timetable
+44 (0) 1865 534001

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/international-students/applying-to-arriving/next-steps:
Some courses may fill up quickly, therefore applications may close early.
The information below is for taught undergraduate, postgraduate or pathways programmes.
View information for Research Degree programmes .
Announcement When you receive an offer, this will either be an unconditional or a conditional offer.
An unconditional offer means that you have met the entry requirements for your course and are guaranteed a place at Oxford Brookes University.
A conditional offer means that you are required to meet certain conditions specified by the university before you can take up your place at Oxford Brookes.
If you applied directly to the University, all information about your offer will be sent to you by our admissions team.
To reply to your offer and accept your place you will need to reply directly to the University by the deadline given.
If you applied through UCAS, you will be asked to choose your ‘firm acceptance’ (your first choice) and your ‘insurance acceptance’ (your second or back-up choice), once every university that you have applied to has made their decision.
You must make your decision by the deadline UCAS gives you, otherwise your offers will be declined automatically.
It is important that you read our conditions of acceptance before accepting a place at Oxford Brookes University.
All international applicants will need to pay a deposit to secure their place at Oxford Brookes, or provide evidence of financial sponsorship by an Oxford Brookes approved sponsor.
The deposit will be deducted from your first tuition fees payment.
It is important to note that even if you have indicated the acceptance of your place through our portal or through UCAS, you will still need to pay your deposit in order to secure it.
The deposit you are required to pay may vary as outlined below.
Applicants from India, Pakistan, Ghana, Afghanistan, Iran, Iraq, Libya and Syria are required to pay a £3,000 deposit to confirm their place and begin the CAS process .
A £5,000 top-up deposit is then required to receive their CAS.
To ensure a smooth application process, applicants are encouraged to pay their deposit as early as possible.
Applicants who are required to pay a £5,000 top-up can opt to pay the full £8,000 deposit in one lump sum if they wish.
Applicants from Nepal, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka are required to pay a £300 deposit to confirm their place and begin the CAS process .
A £7,700 top-up deposit is then required to receive their CAS.
Applicants who are required to pay a £7,700 top-up can opt to pay the full £8,000 deposit in one lump sum if they wish.
Applicants from Pakistan and Bangladesh who have applied for our pathway courses (Foundation and Pre-Master's) are required to pay their full tuition fee to confirm their place and the CAS process .
Applicants from all other countries / regions are required to pay a £3,000 deposit to confirm their place and begin the CAS process .
They are not required to pay an additional top-up deposit to receive their CAS.
Find out more about how to pay your deposit
Before you start your course, you will also need to decide how you are going to pay your tuition fees.
You can pay your tuition fees in instalments by a number of different methods.
More information on paying your fees .
You will be able to apply for a place in our halls of residence once you have accepted your offer.
You will be sent an email from our Accommodation Bureau, inviting you to apply.
If you are starting a course in September, we will send you your invitation after you have accepted your offer and you will need to apply by late July.
If you are starting in January, we will send you your invitation to apply in November and you will need to apply by mid-December.
Find out more about our halls of residence .
Once you have been assigned a room in a Hall of Residence, you will be required to sign a formal contract digitally.
As soon as you sign your contract, you are entering into a legally binding financial agreement, so you should be aware of these terms and agree to them before signing.
Find out more about these terms .
Most applicants will receive a conditional offer.
This means that we would like to offer you a place on your chosen course, but we do not yet have sufficient information from you to confirm that place.
Your offer letter will clearly state the conditions of your offer.
The conditions are typically:
Once you have met any of the conditions for your course, you should send proof immediately to the Admissions Office.
Direct applicants can upload their evidence directly to their portal.
If English is not your first language and you have not yet taken a recognised English language test, it is likely that a condition of your offer will relate to English language.
We accept a number of English Language qualifications , and are now offering the Kaplan Test of English (KTE) which is an easy-to-access, online English test that can be taken from home.
You can register online for the KTE test .
If you have already taken an English language test, but not reached the required level, you could take our Pre-sessional English course .
If you successfully complete this course, you will meet our language entry requirements without needing to take another external English language test.
When you have met all the conditions of your offer you will receive an unconditional offer and your place at Oxford Brookes University is guaranteed.
There is a lot to do when preparing for university.
One of the most important things is getting your CAS (Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies) from us.
You need a CAS so that you can get your Student Visa to study in the UK.
We use CAS Shield, an online self-service system, which allows you to upload all the vital information and documents that our Applicant Compliance Team needs to issue your CAS.
You’ll also be able to view live updates on your CAS Shield profile at any time.
Find out about the CAS process and what documents you will need to supply
If you intend to study or research one of the subjects included in the Academic Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS) , including science, engineering, and technology, we will need a valid ATAS certificate before we can award you a CAS.
Learn more about ATAS requirements .
The final step is enrolment and moving in!
You’ll be sent information about how to enrol and what to do when you arrive nearer the time.
In the meantime, you can find lots of useful advice on preparing to move to the UK from our International Student Advice Team .
The application to enrolment process for research degree programmes differs to the process for our taught programmes outlined above.
Please see an overview of the process below.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/international-students/applying-to-arriving/help-when-you-need-it:
Contacts in your country
Visas and immigration
Student finance

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/international-students/courses/undergraduate-courses:
Oxford Brookes University is the perfect place to study an undergraduate degree.
An Oxford Brookes degree is not just an inspirational learning experience, it will also help you become internationally employable.
From real-life projects and work experience to transferable skills, we give you everything you need to help you pursue your chosen career path.
An emphasis on applying your knowledge to the real world
Work placements to give you the hands-on experience that employers value
Exchange opportunities in over 150 countries
Integrated foundation courses to help you meet the entry requirements
September and January start dates for many of our courses
Free academic English language support throughout your studies
Courses starting in January 2026
Courses starting in September 2025
Business and Management student Sufyan Habeeb Hussain realised he wanted to make a positive change in business after he saw his father lose his job during the economic recession of 2008.
The BA (Hons) Business and Management course at Oxford Brookes University appealed to Sufyan as it was one of the few in the UK that had a January intake.
This gave him time to make sure that this course was the right one for him.
As well as finding the lecturers really approachable, he found Oxford Brookes offered lots of opportunities through its jobs fairs and societies.
By joining the Business Society and the Indian Society, Sufyan got to meet like minded people, as well as those from the same culture as him.
This really helped him settle into life in Oxford.
Why other international students chose Oxford Brookes
In the UK, undergraduate study leads to a first degree, called a bachelor's degree.
Bachelor qualifications can include BA (Arts), BEng (Engineering), BSc (Science), BmedSc (Medical Science) and LLB (Law).
Bachelor degrees usually last three years, or four years with a work placement.
Bachelor's degrees can be either single honours or combined honours.
A single honour degree focuses on one subject area, while combined honours involves studying two subjects equally, or specialising in one subject and taking fewer modules in the other.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/international-students/courses/postgraduate-courses:
Postgraduate study can advance your career and open doors for your future.
Excellent teaching, strong partnerships and broad research expertise make Oxford Brookes the ideal place to study for a postgraduate qualification – whether you are aiming to deepen your subject knowledge, acquire a professional qualification or undertake your own original research.
Find out how to apply
“I found [Oxford] Brookes to be very innovative, modern, and vibrant.
In my master's, I'm learning a lot and I can definitely say that I'm going to be able to apply it in the corporate world after I graduate.”
Meline Gueguen, France, MSc International Business Management and Finance
See why other international students chose Oxford Brookes
Our taught master’s typically last one year full-time, or up to two years if it includes a work placement.
Master’s qualifications include LLM (International Law), MA (Arts), MArch (Architecture), MEng (Engineering) and MSc (Science).
Shorter Postgraduate Diploma or Postgraduate Certificate options are available for some courses.
Pre-Masters courses will improve your study skills, subject knowledge and academic English so you are ready for a master’s degree in the UK.
Research degrees are based on critically investigating and evaluating approved topics and presenting and defending a substantial thesis (written paper).
Research degree awards can either be a Master of Philosophy (MPhil), usually requiring two years of full-time study, or Doctor of Philosophy (PhD), usually requiring three years of study.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/international-students/courses/english-and-pathways:
Our pathways courses help you prepare for your chosen undergraduate or postgraduate degree whilst becoming accustomed to university life.
Our main goal is to get you on to your bachelor’s or master’s degree feeling prepared, confident and excited.
If you pass with sufficient grades, you will be guaranteed a place on your degree.
Improve your study skills, subject knowledge and academic English so you are ready for a bachelor's degree in the UK.
Improve your study skills, subject knowledge and academic English so you are ready for a master's degree in the UK.
Raise your English to the level you need for your degree
Meet our student support team who will help you with a range of academic and non-academic issues during your course.
Apply online today

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/international-students/courses/distance-learning:
Our distance learning options give you the flexibility to study for a Brookes degree level qualification from your home country.
Courses with distance learning options

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/international-students/fees-and-funding/scholarships-and-financial-support:
We offer a range of scholarships and financial support to help our international students with the costs of studying at Oxford Brookes University.
You can find out more about some of these schemes below.
Make sure you also visit our funding finder tool to find out what funding support you may be eligible to apply for.
Search Funding Finder
Are you an international student joining us in September 2025?
You could be eligible for our £2,000 International Student Scholarship.
We know that moving to a new country can be a challenge, and we believe that early preparation is an important factor in student success.
In order to encourage our students to be well prepared for their new life in the UK, we are offering a £2,000 scholarship to support students who make their deposit payment by a specified deadline.
Find out more about the £2,000 International Student Scholarship
Funding your studies
Funding and financial help for prospective students.
Fee finder
Paying your deposit
Find out more about paying your tuition fee deposit.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/international-students/why-oxford-brookes/life-in-oxford:
Based in the world-famous and historic city of Oxford, you can explore contemporary culture in a beautiful setting.
And it’s a great hopping-off spot to explore the rest of the UK.
Living in halls is a fantastic way to make friends and be part of university life.
We have a great range of accommodation to suit your lifestyle, budget and course.
Whether it’s playing in a team for Brookes Sport, joining a Brookes Union society or relaxing with friends in one of the city’s many cafes or parks you’ll find plenty to do when you’re not studying!
Campus life is a key part of your university experience.
Our award-winning buildings and exceptional facilities provide inspirational places for you to live and learn in.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/international-students/why-oxford-brookes/meet-our-students:
Spain, BSc (Hons) Criminology and International Relations
UAE, BSc (Hons) Nutrition
South Africa, LLB (Hons) Law
India, BSc (Hons) International Hospitality Management
Philippines, LLB (Hons) Law with Business
Hong Kong, BA (Hons) Music
Spain, BA (Hons) History of Art
Hong Kong, BSc (Hons) International Hospitality Management
Norway, BA (Hons) Media, Journalism and Publishing
Lithuania, BSc (Hons) Psychology
Kazakhstan, BSc (Hons) Business Management and International Relations
Brazil, BA (Hons) Business and Marketing Management
Hong Kong, BA (Hons) Urban Design, Planning and Development
Malaysia, BA (Hons) Architecture
Philippines, BA (Hons) Fine Art
Chile, International Foundation followed by BA (Hons) Media, Journalism and Publishing
Belgium, BA (Hons) Media, Journalism and Publishing
Pakistan, BA (Hons) Marketing Management
Vietnam, BA (Hons) Business Management
Turkey, BSc (Hons) Biomedical Science
Italy, BA (Hons) International Business Management
China, International Foundation followed by BSc (Hons) Accounting and Finance
India, BA (Hons) Architecture
Norway, BA (Hons) Music
Nigeria, LLB (Hons) Law
Sweden, International Foundation followed by BSc (Hons) Business and Marketing Management
Croatia, International Foundation followed by BSc (Hons) Finance, Economics and International Business
Poland, International Foundation followed by BSc (Hons) Law
Morocco, International Foundation followed by BEng Mechanical Engineering
Netherlands, International Foundation followed by BSc (Hons) Hospitality Management
China, BSc (Hons) International Hospitality Management
Japan, Modules in English language and foreign language teaching whilst on exchange from the University of Kitakyushu
Germany, Modules in Architecture whilst on exchange
USA, Modules in Communication, Media and Culture whilst on exchange from California State University, Sacramento
Malaysia, LLB (Hons) Law
Turks And Caicos Islands, International Foundation followed by BSc (Hons) Environmental Sciences
Hong Kong, BSc (Hons) Nutrition
USA, International Foundation followed by BA (Hons) Film Studies, and Communication, Media and Culture
Uganda, International Foundation followed by LLB (Hons) Law
Russia, BSc (Hons) International Hospitality Management
Zimbabwe, International Foundation followed by BSc (Hons) Business Management and Sociology
France, BA (Hons) Economics, Politics and International Relations
Norway, BA (Hons) Business and Marketing Management
Spain, BSc (Hons) Criminology and International Relations.
Completed exchange at APU (Ritsumeikan Asia Pacific University), Japan.
Lithuania, BSc (Hons) Psychology.
Completed one Exchange semester at High Point University, North Carolina, USA
Canada, Modules in Publishing while on exchange from York University
Kuwait, Pre-sessional English followed by MSc Rehabilitation
Thailand, Pre-sessional English followed by MSc International Hospitality, Events and Tourism Management
China, Pre-sessional English
South Korea, Pre-sessional English followed by Pre-Master's followed by MSc International Hotel and Tourism Management
Brazil, Pre-sessional English followed by MSc Sustainable Building - Performance and Design
Vietnam, Pre-Master’s followed by MSc International Hospitality, Events and Tourism Management
India, Pre-Master's followed by MSc Psychology
Indonesia, Pre-Master's followed by MSc Digital Marketing
Indonesia, Pre-Master's followed by MSc Software Engineering
Pakistan, Pre-Master's followed by MSc Finance
Jordan, Pre-Master's followed by Master's in Business
South Korea, Pre-Master's followed by MSc Project Management in the Built Environment
Nigeria, MSc Management in Health and Social Care
France, MSc International Business Management and Finance
USA, MA Publishing Media
Spain, MA History
Canada, MPH Public Health
Japan, MA Education (TESOL)
Saudi Arabia, MSc Midwifery
Nigeria, MPH Public Health
Greece, MSc Applied Human Nutrition
Thailand, MSc Marketing
India, MSc Motorsport Engineering
India, MArch Architecture
Nigeria, MSc International Business and Economics
Nigeria, MArchD Applied Design in Architecture
China, MSc International Business Management
China, MSc International Hospitality, Events, and Tourism Management
Hong Kong, MSc Physiotherapy
Malaysia, MArch Architecture
Poland, MSc International Luxury Marketing
Russia, MA Journalism
USA, MSc International Business Management
Denmark, MSc Management
Russia, LLM International Law
Iraq, PhD Urban Design
Turkey, MA International Relations
China, MSc International Hospitality, Events and Tourism Management
Malaysia, BA (Hons) Architecture, followed by MArchD
Thailand, University English followed by MSc International Hospitality, Events and Tourism Management
USA, MSc Motorsport Engineering
Pre-sessional English followed by MSc Rehabilitation
Brazil, University English followed by MSc Sustainable Building - Performance and Design
Pakistain, Pre-Master's followed by MSc Finance
Thailand, MArchD Applied Design in Architecture
South Korea, University English followed by Pre-Master's followed by MSc International Hotel and Tourism Management
Chile, Pre-sessional English followed by LLM International Law
France, MSc International Hotel and Tourism Management
Japan, MA Fine Art
Chile, International Foundation follow by BA (Hons) Media, Journalism and Publishing
Switzerland, International Foundation followed by BSc (Hons) Business, Enterprise and Entrepreneurship
Latvia, International Foundation
Nepal, BA (Hons) International Business Management

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/international-students/why-oxford-brookes/support:
Every international student needs some support to achieve their potential and feel happy and well at university.
Whether you just need some quick study tips, in-depth academic advice, physical or mental health support, or comprehensive careers guidance, we offer extensive support to meet your academic and personal needs.
You will have a member of teaching staff dedicated to guiding you throughout your studies and providing comprehensive academic support.
They may help you to reflect on your academic progress, review your career aspirations, and support you in communicating with other academic staff.
Read more about our academic advisers .
You can take classes to develop and perfect your academic English skills during your undergraduate or postgraduate degree.
Some classes are credit bearing so they contribute to your degree.
Find out more about English language support.
.
In addition, you can access tutorials, workshops and online resources to help you reach your academic potential.
“I used Wellbeing in my second year when I went through a rough patch and they really helped me.
I probably wouldn't have finished my degree without the Wellbeing staff.”
Nursu Ceren Kuyucu - Turkey, Bsc (Hons) Biomedical Science
Our advisers in the International Student Advice Team (ISAT) offer a wide range of practical support and advice regarding your visa status, employment options, personal finance and more.
ISAT also runs social events, trips and other activities so you can meet other students outside of the classroom and explore Oxford and other parts of the UK.
One reason you might study with us is the benefit an Oxford Brookes degree gives you when applying for your dream job.
Our outstanding Careers service provides all the help you need including one-to-one consultations, practice interviews, workshops on job searching and CV/resume writing, and on-campus job fairs where you can meet prospective employers.
You can use Careers for up to three years after you graduate.
Speak with one of our counsellors about any personal or psychological issues you want to discuss.
Alternatively, take part in a group workshop, attend a talk or use the service’s range of helpful resources.
Our Disability and Dyslexia/SpLD support services provide comprehensive support and advice throughout your student journy.
This includes financial support for assistive technology, in-class support, special exam arrangements and more.
Our facilities and accommodation are also designed with people with disabilities' needs in mind.
Our on-campus medical centre offers a friendly, confidential primary medical service.
Damira Dental Studios, Oxford dentistry service , provides a complete range of dental treatments from fully qualified dentists.
Our Global Buddies scheme can partner you with a current UK student to help you settle into university life at Oxford Brookes.
You might keep in touch throughout the year by email, via social media or in person, including at Global Buddies social events.
“I have used the Centre for Academic Development service to help check my assignments.
This was incredibly helpful as I am not a home student so my grammar mistakes in essays are common.”
Samirah Altukhaim - Kuwait, pre-sessional English followed by MSc Rehabilitation
Run by elected students, for students, the students’ union is here to help with a range of issues including finance, academic and housing.
They will also help you join or set up a student group and run events.
Located within your course department, your student support co-ordinators will often be your first stop for academic or personal advice.
They will be able to assist you themselves or refer you through to specialist support around the university.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/international-students/your-country/australia:
At Oxford Brookes University, we are proud of our diverse international student community, and we welcome students from Australia onto our campuses every year.
Students enjoy a memorable and rewarding student experience in the heart of one of the UK’s most iconic and beautiful cities.
By studying at Oxford Brookes, you’ll be making a valuable investment into your future.
You’ll benefit from outstanding teaching, modern facilities and innovative courses, while feeling supported by our various teams including your dedicated academic adviser, Student Support Coordinators and other specialist teams who are there to guide you during your journey with us.
Many of our lecturers are world leaders in their field and are passionate about your learning experience.
With international experience so valued by today’s global employers, upon graduation you’ll be well-placed for a successful career in your chosen field.
Based in Oxford, UK
Attend an open day or course webinar
Whether you’re looking to pursue your passion, further your career, or move in a new direction, we have a wide range of degrees that can help you achieve your goal.
Here are some popular courses studied by Australian students.
You’ll have a wide range of career options when you graduate from our Mechanical Engineering degree.
Our graduates have gone on to work in aerospace, automotive and motorsport, manufacturing and more.
Studying Psychology equips you with the skills to apply psychology in various fields.
With hands-on experience and expert guidance from researchers, you'll gain deep insights into human behavior for a rewarding career.
Our flexible degree is a coach development programme driven by and provided for the development of coaching practice, and has been designed in consultation with leading organisations in the sector.
We offer a range of scholarships to help make studying at Oxford Brookes more affordable.
Students who are starting their degree with us could qualify for one of our International Student Scholarships.
Find out more about what scholarships are available to you.
Find out more about scholarships
Pass in the relevant Year 12 Senior Secondary Certificate plus ATAR score.
See all undergraduate requirements
See all postgraduate requirements
Start your application now
Applying to a university in the UK is a simple process - this video will show you what you need to do or you can read more about how to apply .
Oxford Brookes has representatives around the world who can advise you about study options at the University and can help you fill in an application form free of charge.
If you would like help, contact one of our local agents from the list below.
The British Council also has offices worldwide and can help you find out more about Oxford Brookes and how to apply.
AAS Education Consultant (Sydney Office)
Level 45 / 680 George Street, Haymarket NSW 2000, Australia (61) 4-9399-0155 enquiry@aaseducation.com.au
AECC Global (Melbourne Office)
Ground Floor, 20 Queen Street, Melbourne, Victoria 3000 (+61) 3-7020-0720
Other AECC Global offices are located in: Brisbane and Sydney.
IDP Education
373 Lonsdale St, Melbourne VIC 3000, Australia (+61) 3-9606-1800
Other IDP Education offices are located in: Adelaide, Brisbane, Canberra, Perth and Sydney.
Come to one of our events and learn more about studying at Oxford Brookes as an international student.
This is a great opportunity to speak to a representative about our courses, scholarships and funding opportunities, the application process and life in the UK.
We aim to meet as many international students as possible at exhibitions and visits around the world, giving you the opportunity to find out more about life at Oxford Brookes.
If you're not able to attend an event or there isn't anything coming up in your country, you can contact your country advisor for information.
Discover everything that student life at Oxford Brookes has to offer.
Whether you are dedicated to your chosen sport, or want to try something new, there are lots of opportunities for students at Oxford Brookes to get involved.
Our courses don’t just give you a degree - they give you work placements, professional knowledge, links into industry, integrated careers guidance and so much more to build you employability.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/international-students/your-country/azerbaijan:
Students from Azerbaijan are warmly welcomed onto our campuses every year.
We attract students from over 140 different countries, and are very proud of our diverse international student community.
We provide a welcoming and supportive environment with plenty of opportunities to meet other like-minded students, so you’ll feel at home in no time when you join us here at Oxford Brookes.
You’ll also find outstanding modern facilities, innovative teaching methods, access to work placements and career guidance.
You’ll obtain the skills and international experience that many employers are looking for.
By studying abroad at Oxford Brookes, you’ll be opening many doors to a bright and successful future in your chosen field.
Here are some popular courses studied by students from Azerbaijan.
Our Accounting and Finance degree will help you to develop an international perspective and excellent skills in: team work, problem solving and communication.
From day one on our Business and Management degree, you’ll explore big issues while developing skills that will shape your future.
Explore the relationship between people and spaces on our BA (Hons) Architecture course.
Begin your education as an architect at one of the oldest and well regarded schools of architecture in the UK.
77 Samad Vurghun street Officers Park AZ1022 Baku bahram.gurbanov@idp.com IDP website T (+994) 12 505 10 51/61/71 / (+994) 77 277 35 30
15, Nobel Ave., Azure Business Center Baku info@azeristudent.az Azeri Student website T (+994) 12 488 66 78
StudyIn Haydar Aliyev Prospekti 152 Çinar Plaza İş Merkezi A Blok 4.Kat 64m Bakü, Azerbaycan
+994 12 408 23 03 baku@gostudyin.com
Oxford Brookes courses don’t just give you a degree - they give you work placements, professional knowledge, links into industry, integrated careers guidance and so much more to build your employability.
We are proud to have received a host of achievements and accolades, including 11 National Teaching Fellowships for our staff.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/international-students/your-country/bangladesh:
At Oxford Brookes University, we are proud of our diverse international student community, and we welcome students from Bangladesh onto our campuses every year.
We offer a world-class student experience in the iconic city of Oxford, an inspirational centre for education where students flourish.
Oxford is also thriving with a lively arts and culture scene, and is famous for its iconic architecture, museums and galleries.
Whatever your interests, there is something for everyone in Oxford.
We are one of the UK’s leading modern universities, known throughout the world for our innovative courses, outstanding facilities, expert teaching and strong industry-employer links.
You’ll graduate with the fundamental skills and international experience to excel in your chosen career and achieve your aspirations.
We welcome students from all religions and have a Muslim Student Guide (Arabic) or Muslim Student Guide (English) with information about the Muslim community here in Oxford and at the university.
Based in Delhi, India
Here are some popular courses studied by students from Bangladesh.
The course will prepare you for a successful international career with either a commercial or not-for-profit organisation.
Our course is rooted in real-world and industry-relevant experiences.
It provides the basis for starting a career in computing and IT.
With this MSc you’ll gain an introduction to key concepts including: psychology of consumer behaviour, how to create a marketing plan, hospitality operations and strategic financial management.
AHZ Associates Gulshan 4th Floor, Taher Tower, 10 DIT II Circle, Gulshan -2, Dhaka n.dhaka@ahzassociates.co.uk +880 1313444854
Dhanmondi Nahar Green Summit, 2nd floor(level 2), Plot-43 Dhanmondi-27, Dhaka-1209 s.dhaka@ahzassociates.co.uk +880 1313444855
Uttara Plot-30, (3rd floor) Sector-11, Sonargaon Janapath, Uttara, Dhaka-1230 uttara@ahzassociates.co.uk +880 1321147366
Rajshahi Gaffar Plaza, Miapara, (Second Floor West side) Shaheb Bazar Road, Boalia , Ghoramara, Rajshahi-6100 rajshahi@ahzassociates.co.uk +880 1958049423 Sylhet Chowhatta 5th Floor, RN Tower, Medical College Rd, Sylhet.
sylh@ahzassociates.co.uk +880 1755614758 Chattogram Husna Mansion (2nd Floor), 1702 CDA Avenue, GEC Circle, Chittagong, Bangladesh ctg@ahzassociates.co.uk +880 1755614778 Khulna Pustak Bhavan (3rd floor), 2 KDA Avenue, Khulna 9100 khulna@ahzassociates.co.uk +880 1329668456
Career Paths Career Paths 102 Park Road, New DOHS, Mohakhali, Dhaka-1206 +880-1958282051 info@careerpaths.com.bd
Crizac Ltd Contact name: Christopher F.
Nagle 24 Great Chapel Street, Soho, London, W1F 8FS +44 7780 790316 obu@crizac.com
Education Hub Level 7, Manama MS Toren, Gulshan Badda Link Road.
Dhaka 1212, Bangladesh +880 1751178483 info@educationhub-bd.com
Dhaka office Flat #A-2, House #3 (Oriental Plaza), Road #4, Block #F, Banani, Dhaka – 1213.
+880 1767-696649 dhaka@edvoy.com Sylhet office 906 (Lift-9), Al-Hamra Shopping City, Zindabazar, Sylhet – 3100 +880 1767-696649 sylhet@edvoy.com
Excellence Consultants Bangladesh | Dhaka 1230 Uttara Model Town | Sector # 01, Road # 05, House # 11 +880-1706691313 ceo@excellencecorp.org
v.agarwal@gatewayabroad.com Gateway Abroad website Telephone: +91 33 40572777
Level 13, 333 George Street Sydney, New South Wales, Australia 2000
(+61) 286440649 matt.beazley@upgrad.com
Hamid Tower 4th Floor, Level 5 Gulshan Circle 2 1212 Dhaka
infobd@idp.com IDP Education website Telephone: +88 09666782782 / +04467667788
Infinite Group 1-59-60, First floor, Lajpat Nagar - I, Lajpat Nagar (South Delhi), New Delhi, South Delhi-110024, Delhi +91 98118 74247 UK1@infinitegroup.org
Knowquest Education # VII/C 96 Pattom Manjaly Road, North Kuthiathode P O Ernakulam, Kochi India - 683594 +91-7889009380 nkalia@kqsg.info
House: 09 (Level 2) Road: 04; Block: F (Next to Banani Chairmanbari Mosque) Chairman Bari Banani 1213 Dhaka apply@newwayuk.com New Way UK website Telephone: +8801842224482 / +8801958482102 / +8801970304631 / +8801644474563
(2nd floor) Modhuban Building 15/1 Dhaka Sylhet Road Kusumbag C/A Maulvi Bazar 3200 Sylhet mo@newwayuk.com New Way UK website +8801709-332743
Al-Hamra Shopping Center House No – 915, 9th Floor (Lift – 8) Hazrat Shahjalal Road Zindabazar Sylhet sy@newwayuk.com New Way UK website +8801304022511 / +8801842224482
PFEC Education and Migration Consultants SIMA Blossom (5th Floor) Plot 390 (Old), 03 (New) (Besides RAPA Plaza), Road-27 (Old) 16 (New), Dhaka-1209, Bangladesh +880 9609800300 shahid@pfecglobal.com
Shabuj Global 1st Floor, 94A Whitechapel High Street London E1 7RA
+44 7850 349791 z.alam@shabujglobal.com
Sonya International Education Centre Level 5, 155 Queen Street, Melbourne, Victoria, 3000, Australia T: +61 410 371962 F: +61 3 967 00072 parminder@siecindia.com
StudyIn Flat 10/B, 9th Floor (Level-10), Rupsha Tower, Road # 17, Kamal Ataturk Avenue, Banani C/A, Dhaka-1213 Tel: +880 1338-799683 dhaka@gostudyinuk.com
LilyRin Tower (2nd Floor), House-39/1, Road-2, Dhanmondi-2, Dhaka-1205, Bangladesh dhanmondi@tclglobal.co.uk TCL Global website +880 961 09 30003, +880 140 70 76526 + 44 7939 940559
Flat- A, Level 11, Navana Tower, 45 Gulshan Avenue, Gulshan-1, Dhaka 1212, Bangladesh gulshan@tclglobal.co.uk TCL Global website +880 961 09 30003, +880 140 7076526 + 44 7939 940559
911/C Al Hamra Shopping City, (9th floor) Zindabazar, Sylhet-3100, Bangladesh sylhet@tclglobal.co.uk TCL Global website +880 961 09 30003, +880 140 70 76526 + 44 7939 940559
Troyee Plaza, House-34 (5th Floor), Sonargaon Janapath, Sector-11, Uttara Dhaka – 1230, Bangladesh uttara@tclglobal.co.uk TCL Global website +880 961 09 30003, +880 140 70 76526 + 44 7939 940559
We are proud to have received a host of achievements and accolades, including 12 National Teaching Fellowships for our staff.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/international-students/your-country/brazil:
Students from Brazil are warmly welcomed onto our campuses every year.
Book a meeting with Javier
Here are some popular courses studied by Brazilians students.
Explore the pressing issues, actors and power struggles in today’s globalised world - and get the skills and sector insight to start a career in international relations.
Superb industry links and world-class research make Oxford Brookes one of the best places in the UK to study Mechanical Engineering at postgraduate level.
info@studyacrossthepond.com +52 (55) 8421 4929
Global Lexis 354 Banbury Road Oxford OX2 7PP karina.capitman@globallexis.co.uk +44 (0) 1865 513973
Gradeup Education Consultancy Branches: Curitiba and São Paulo Phone: +55 11 91837-1750 WhatsApp: +55 11 91837-1750 info@gradeup.com.br
OK STUDENT BRASIL Avenida Queiroz Filho, 1560 Condominio Vista Verde Office Torre Sabiá, sala 119 São Paulo info@okstudent.com.br
Studies Planet
Rua Joaquim Floriano, 72 – conj.
87 – Itaim Bibi 04534-000 São Paulo
brasil@studiesplanet.
com (+55) 11 96623 9696
UK head office: (+44) 7956253150
Volemi SAS Calle 70 5 22 Bloque 1 Apto 402 Bogota, Colombia
+57 319 499 0000 alejandra@volemi.com
BA (Hons) Business and Marketing Management.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/international-students/your-country/canada:
Students from Canada have flourished during their time at Oxford Brookes University for many years, enjoying a world-class student experience in the heart of an iconic city and creating lasting memories and friendships with students from all over the world.
While Oxford’s rich educational history goes back centuries, we are one of the UK’s leading modern universities, known for our innovative courses, modern facilities, expert teaching and strong industry-employer links.
We are very proud of our outstanding sports facilities, with a variety of clubs for students of all levels, from rowing to rugby and badminton to basketball.
Furthermore, many of our lecturers are world leaders in their field and are passionate about your learning experience.
You’ll graduate with the fundamental skills and international experience to succeed in your chosen career and confidently enter the global job market.
Here are some popular courses studied by Canadian students.
Our LLB gives you the communication, and advocacy skills for a successful legal career.
Many of our graduates have gone on to careers as barristers and solicitors.
Our MSc International Business Management course course will prepare you for a successful international career with either a commercial or not-for-profit organisation.
During our MArchD programme you will construct a substantial portfolio of design work that fulfils the requirements of ARB/RIBA Part II and LAM.
Across the Pond
+1-905-315-1190 info@studyacrossthepond.com
Unit 900-901, 2345 Yonge Street, Toronto, ON M4P 2E5, Canada
info.toronto@idp.com +1 416-560-3796 (Ria) / +1 647-205-1115 (Amy)
10th Floor Bankers Hall West, 888, 3rd Street.
South West, Suite 1000 Calgary Alberta T2P 5C5 Canada +1 (403) 244 3809 alberta@studyin-uk.com
MPH Public Health.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/international-students/your-country/china:
At Oxford Brookes University, we are proud of our diverse international student community, and we welcome a large cohort of students from China onto our campuses every year.
You can start your degree in China before joining us in Oxford for the final two years of your degree.
Check the programmes in your country section to see what courses are available for the Transitional Year One in Chengdu.
For more information in your own language, please follow us on Weibo .
You can also follow us on WeChat by scanning the QR code below or search 牛津布鲁克斯大学.
Visit our Chinese website
Here are some popular courses studied by students from China.
Our MSc Accounting and Finance balances technical accounting and finance knowledge with practical skills.
We provide world-class education that fully prepares you for a successful and fulfilling career in the international hospitality and hotel industry.
If you want to add to your existing qualifications and transition to an Honours degree, our Business Management (Final Year Entry) course is for you.
Chengdu University of Technology
We have a long standing partnership with Chengdu University of Technology and offer dual degrees in Business, Accounting and Computing, taught entirely in China.
Oxford Brookes University has set-up collaborative programmes with Chengdu University of Technology to deliver dual degrees approved by the Chinese Ministry of Education in the following areas:
Each degree will be a four year full-time campus-based course at Chengdu University of Technology, and will include a compulsory foundation year to allow you to improve your English and academic skills.
Please note this provision is only available if you are accessing places via the NCEE system.
At the end of the programme successful graduates will receive a dual award, one degree certificate from Oxford Brookes University and one from Chengdu University of Technology.
If you would like to find out more, please visit the Chengdu University of Technology website.
Oxford Brookes University opened a Confucius Institute on Headington Campus in 2016.
The Confucius Institute is a partnership with the Foreign Languages Teaching and Research Press (FLTRP) at Beijing Foreign Studies University.
The Confucius Institute at Oxford Brookes uniquely concentrates on publishing - an area which enjoys an international reputation both at the University and across the city of Oxford.
The Confucius Institute runs Chinese language courses and organises events which promote Chinese language and culture.
It also aims to encourage socio-cultural exchanges, mutual learning opportunities and building friendships.
To find out more about the Confucius Institute at Oxford Brookes, please visit the Confucius Institute website, or contact Spring or Xi:
Spring Zhang - Deputy Director Tel: +44 (0) 1865 484414 Email: xzhang@brookes.ac.uk
Ms Xi Chen - Co-Director Tel: +44 (0) 1865 484282 Email: xchen@brookes.ac.uk
51offer 12th Floor, HangHui Building (Zone B) 600 Yunjin Road Xuhui District, 200232 Shanghai vipapplication@51offer.com T 86-21-63545822 F 86-21-61529071
Amber Education Services Ltd Rm 1715, Kerry Centre Renmin Nan Road Luohu District Shenzhen Guangdong Province 518001 marketing@amberedu.com T (+86) 755 2518 1511 F (+86) 755 2518 1514
Other Amber offices are located in: Beijing, Dalian, Guangzhou, Shenzhen and Wuhan
BCIC Zhongguancun Technology Service Mansion Room B205, Building 1, No.
2 Guanzhuang Road Chaoyang District Beijing info@bcic.co.uk
Beijing New Oriental Vision Overseas Consulting Floor 8, New Oriental South Building, Zhongguancun, Haidian District 100080 Beijing ukinternational@xdf.cn T 86-10-62605599 - 6709
Room 1808, Buildign 1 No.
1 Yard, Shangdi 10th Street Haidian District 100085 Beijing csyk100@163.com +86 01062280050
Rm.1218, No.23-1 Beiguang Building, Huangsi Street, Xicheng District, Beijing, China T: +86 10 82086559
Dongfang International Center for Education Exchange 19th floor, Jinyu Mansion, No.129 Xuanwumen Xidajie, Xicheng District, Bejing, China duan@cscdf.org T: +86-10-66411821
EIC Group Head Office 2 F, Guangzhou Library 42 Zhongshan Si Road 510055 Guangzhou marketing.uk@eiceducation.com T (+86) 20 6272 9966 F (+86) 20 8386 7652
Other EIC offices are located in: Beijing, Changsha, Chongqing, Dalian, Guangzhou/Gitic, Jinan, Qingdao, Shanghai, Shenyang, Shenzhen, Wuhan, Xiamen & Zhongshan.
Rom 1304, Numb.
8 building, Yuanyangxintiandi Beijing daniel.wu@edie.ac.cn T: +86 18310679882
GEA (Global Education Alliance Limited) Address: 8/F, TianAn Life Centre, No.285 Linhe Dong Road, Tianhe District, Guangzhou, Guangdong Province 510610, China ukasia@geaworld.org T: +86-20-87564402 Other GEA offices are located in: Guangzhou, Shanghai, Wuhan, Chengdu, Xi’an, Taipei, Kuala Lumpur, Ho Chi Minh City, Ulaanbaatar City, and Sydney.
Golden Arrow 1st Floor, Mansion 3 231 Nong, Lv Di Avenue Huaqiao Intl Business Park Jiangsu Province 215332 Kunshan goldenarrowhq@ukpass.org T: +86 21 39206156
Huatong Xinnuo Int'l Cultural Exchange Center Ltd (HTI) 12F Canxing Buidling, No.
158 Longqi Road, Shanghai, China, 200032 ukeu@ht-international.net +86-21-51506887
IDP Suite 1405, Level 14, HongKong Plaza No 283, Middle Huaihai Road Huangpu District Shanghai 200021 info.shanghai@idp.com T: +86 21 6390 7000 F: +86 21 6390 7066
Other IDP Promising offices are located in: Beijing, Shenzhen, Guangzhou, Chongqing, Nanjing, Hangzhou, Chengdu, Wuhan, Ningbo, Qingdao, Xi'an and Suzhou.
Index Education Services Room 507 Longyu International Business Square No 329 Hengfeng Road 200070 Shanghai china.office@indexedu.com T +86 (021) 32231071 - 607
Other Index offices are located in: Beijing, Guangzhou, Chongqing, Chengdu, Wuhan, Zhengzhou, Qingdao and Xuzhou.
LiuCheng International Group Floor 1, Building A, Huaye Creative Garden 111 Eshan road 200127 Shanghai hezuo@51liucheng.com +86 21 20575666
Naus Bridge International Education Room 2106, Building A Century Economic and Trade Building NO.72 West Three Ring Road North Haidan District Beijing info@nausedu.com T: +86 18519689937
Overseas Education Investment Management Ltd UK (OEIM) 9C-106, Chengdu University of Technology No.
1 Dongsan Lu, Erxianqiao Sichuan 610059 Chengdu jojo.zhong@sucdutedu.org T (+86) 28 8693 0938 F: (+86) 28 8407 3183
Suite 802 Block A Ziguang Development Tower No.11 Huixin Dongjie Chaoyang District 100029 Beijing beijing@poweracademy.cn T: (+86) 10 5979 9010 F: (+86) 10 6482 3332
Other offices are located in: Hangzhou, Shanghai, Xi’an City, Chengdu.
Ray Education Consulting Limited Block 7, 3rd Floor, No.
167 East Jiangwan Road Shanghai international@rayedu.com.cn T: +86-21-33161136
Shanghai Golden Education Co.Ltd Block A3 No.
171 Huayuan Road Hongkou District Shanghai aaron.song@gaodun.cn T: +86 (0)21 51210506
Rm 1610, Yangpu Technology Building, Lane 2005 Huang Xing Road Shanghai, China shjinhong01@163.com T: + 86-21-51047085
Shinyway International 4F Area A, Dragon Century Plaza No.1 Hangda Road Hangzhou international@shinyway.com.cn T: (+86) 571 8790 1122
Other Shinyway International offices are located in: Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, Shenzhen, Chengdu, Nanjing, Wuhan, Tianjin, Chongqing, Shanxi, Changchun, Anhui, Ningbo, Wenzhou, Suzhou, Liaoning, Quingdao, Taizhou and Jinhua.
Shanghai Room 704, Feidiao International Building, No.
1065 Zhaojiabang Road, Xuhui District Shanghai +86 13818109632 shanghai@studyin-uk.cn Visit the StudyIn China website Beijing 28 Fucheng Road Haidian District, Beijing +86 15721283391 beijing@studyin-uk.cn Changsha 1344 Room, 13th Floor, Block B Aux Plaza International Apartment, Yinpenling, Yuelu District, Changsha, Hunan Province
+86 13974886786 changsha@studyin-uk.cn Guangzhou 1201 Room, No.122 East Tiyu Road Tianhe District, Guangzhou City Guangdong Province
+86 18819277774 guangzhou@studyin-uk.cn
Wiseway International Co Ltd Head Office 13 Floor (12A Floor), Hesheng Jiaye Plaza 32 Zhongguancun Avenue Haidian District Beijing 100086 international@wiseway.com T: (+86) 10 6894 6699 F: (+86) 10 6264 8687
Other Wiseway offices are located in: Changsha, Nanjing, Ningbo, Shanghai, Taiyuan, Wenzhou, Wuhan & Xi'an.
Yingmei International Education Group Rm 3805 United Plaza 1468 Nanjing Road West Shanghai 200041 admin@yingmei-edu.com T: +86-21-80220920
MSc International Hospitality, Events, and Tourism Management.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/international-students/your-country/egypt:
At Oxford Brookes University, we welcome students from Egypt onto our campuses every year.
Our students enjoy a fun and inspiring student experience in one of the UK’s most famous and beautiful cities.
Whether you love exploring the cobbled streets or enjoy reading a book in one of the city's many cafes, you’ll find something in Oxford for you.
Here are some popular courses studied by students from Egypt.
Our postgraduate ARB and RIBA accredited MArchD will help you add a design specialisation to your portfolio that transforms your practice; and that has an impact on society.
The course will prepare you for a successful international career with either a commercial or not-for-profit organisation, or with your own start-up.
Our Computer Science course develops you into a skilled computer scientist.
You will gain a strong knowledge of theory and technologies.
15 Al Shaheed Sayed Zakareya St.
Fifth Floor, Appartment 9 Masaken Sheraton Heliopolis Cairo info@education-basket.com Education Basket website
Cairo office Tower 12, 4th floor Unit 43, Bavaria Towers Maadi Ring Road, Katameya, Cairo, Egypt +20 (10) 154 55441 hussam.a@edvoy.com
3 Gameyat Al Haq Fe AlHayah Sheraton Heliopolis Cairo info@globalstudyuk.com egypt@globalstudyuk.com Global Study website +20 2269 9753
There is also an office in Alexandria.
admin@visionedu.co.uk F (+962) 6581 4936
Office: IDP Education – New Cairo Elite Building, 90 th Street, 5 th Settlement, 4 th Floor Unit B365 +202 385 90/91 / 92 +202 281 338 39 ahmed.ibrahim@idp.com info.egypt@idp.com IDP website
Office: IDP Education – Sheikh Zayed Office 304, 2 nd Floor, Plaza 34 Administration Building, Shabab St., Sheikh Zayed district +202 385 17 424 / 425 hossam.hosny@idp.com info.westcairo@idp.com IDP website
Office: IDP Education – Alexandria 20 Mahmoud El Deeb St., El Sabah Building 11 th Floor, Office (B), El Khaleeg Tower, Zizinia +203 584 016 1 / 2 / 4 hossam.hosny@idp.com info.alexandria@idp.com IDP website
24 Gamal El Din Dweedar Nasr City Cairo egypt@tclglobal.co.uk TCL Global website +20 101 818 7247
Silver Star Mall Ekhnatoon St.
Above Saudi Market.
4th District – 1st zone – 5th Settlement wesam.azzam@globalvisionegypt.com +2 02 2617 0600
Discover everything that student life at Oxford Brookes has to offer

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/international-students/your-country/france:
At Oxford Brookes University, we are proud of our diverse international student community, and we welcome a large cohort of students from France onto our campuses every year.
Book a Zoom 1:1
Here are some popular courses studied by French students.
You’ll examine how states and societies cooperate on our international relations postgraduate course, and question world politics and the global political economy.
Please check the individual course page and use the equivalency table at the link below to work out the specific requirements for your course.
Qualifications equivalent to UK A-levels:
Please check the individual course page for the bachelor degree requirement and use the equivalency table at the link below to work out your specific requirement.
Qualifications equivalent to a UK bachelor degree:
Study Experience 66 rue Condorcet Paris 75009
+33 (0) 1 71 60 03 06 info@studyexperience.fr
MSc International Business Management and Finance
Oxford Brookes courses don't just give you a degree - they give you work placements, professional knowledge, links to industry, integrated careers guidance and so much more to build your employability.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/international-students/your-country/germany:
Students from Germany have joined us at Oxford Brookes University for many years, enjoying a memorable student life in the heart of a famous city located in the centre of England.
While Oxford’s rich educational history goes back centuries, we are one of the UK’s leading modern universities, known throughout the world for our innovative courses, outstanding facilities, expert teaching and strong industry-employer links.
With our supportive and nurturing environment, students quickly settle in and feel at home.
Your dedicated academic adviser, Student Support Coordinators and other specialist teams will support your academic and personal development, helping you to achieve your potential.
You’ll graduate with the fundamental skills and international experience to succeed in your chosen career and become internationally employable.
Here are some popular courses studied by German students.
By combining theory and hands-on learning, our postgraduate Mechanical Engineering master’s degree helps you get ready for a career in the field.
Our Medical Science degree takes you on a fascinating exploration of the human body.
If you’re curious and have a strong interest in biology and physiology, this course is for you.
Qualification equivalent to UK A-levels:
Abitur/Zeugnis der Allgemeinen Hochschulreife
Global Lexis 354 Banbury Road Oxford United Kingdom OX2 7PP
+44 (0) 1865 513973 karina.capitman@globallexis.co.uk
Oxford Brookes courses don't just give you a degree - they give you work placements, professional knowledge, links into industry, integrated careers guidance and so much more to build your employability.
Modules in Architecture whilst on exchange

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/international-students/your-country/ghana:
Students from Ghana are welcomed at Oxford Brookes University every year.
A degree from Oxford Brookes is an investment in your future, with global employers placing a huge amount of value in international qualifications and experience.
We design our courses to help you gain the practical skills and knowledge that employers look for, and prepare you for entry into the global job market.
Based in Abuja, Nigeria
Here are some popular courses studied by students from Ghana.
With 50% of the global population now living in cities, the ownership and management of urban real estate is an ever growing business.
Our Real Estate degree prepares you for a career as a chartered surveyor.
By completing our Nursing (Mental Health) - Pre-Registration course, you'll be able to contribute significantly to high-quality client care, deliver nursing interventions, and apply your knowledge to real-life situations.
Come Study International 18 Sunflower street Tulip Avenue East Legon Accra info@comestudyinternational.com +233 234 415 005
CUPA Study International 42 Olusegun Obasanjo Way, Pigfarm Junction, Accra cupastudyinternational@gmail.com +233 302 224516
Graduate Guidance Group Ltd C16 Ingenuity Lab, Innovation Park, Jubilee Campus, University of Nottingham, NG7 2TU emma@graduateguidancegroup.com +44 7410411885
Accra offices
IDP Osu The Orangery, First Floor, 11 Otswe Street, Osu Ako-Ajei, Accra GL-414-2890 T: +233554614200 accra@idp.com IDP East Legon The Orangery, Second Floor, 89 La Bawaleshi Road, East Legon, Accra GA-414-2890 T: +233302557991 eastlegon@idp.com
Other office
IDP Kumasi First Floor, Plot 25A, Ahodwo Roundabout, Nhyiaeso, Kumasi AK-238-8426 T: +233553772910 kumasi@idp.com
IDP Ghana website
StudyIn 79 Gateway Road, CP Junction Kasoa, Accra, Ghana +233596041176 accra@gostudyin.com
No-3, Lucy prah Street.
Block Rahodwo, Kumasi, Ghana ghana@tclglokul.co.uk +447494044463 + 44 7939 940559
Uniabroad Delta Chambers, Waiyaki Way Westlands, Nairobi, Kenya +254 716 612 223 stella@uni-abroad.com

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/international-students/your-country/greece:
Students from Greece have joined us at Oxford Brookes for many years, enjoying a memorable student life in the heart of a famous and historical city.
While Oxford’s rich educational history goes back centuries, Oxford Brookes is one of the UK’s leading modern universities, known throughout the world for innovative courses, outstanding facilities, expert teaching and strong industry-employer links.
Here are some popular courses studied by Greek students.
Take your first step to becoming a registered architect with our BA (Hons) in Architecture.
Design buildings that help communities to prosper, or that solve environmental, social and economic challenges.
Our MSc in International Hospitality, Events and Tourism Management provides you with both the academic and practical skills needed to succeed in your future career within a fast-paced, ever-changing industry.
On our postgraduate Motorsport Engineering course, you’ll get the right blend of practical experience and theory to prepare you for a successful and rewarding career in the motorsport industry.
Undergraduate minimum entry requirements
Postgraduate minimum entry requirements
84 Vas.
Sofias Avenue, 115 28 Athens, Greece E: international@network.gr T: +30 (210) 748-8131 / +30 (210) 778-2401
Suite 204, 155 Arch.Makarios Ill Ave.
Limassol, 3026, Cyprus E: nicholas@acadiaeducation.com T: 2575 4442
10A Daidalou Street, Agioi Omologites, Nicosia, CY 1085, Cyprus marlenephilippou3@gmail.com +357 96 131300
Why choose Oxford Brookes
MSc Applied Human Nutrition
Oxford Brookes courses don't just give you a degree - they give you work placements, professional knowledge, links to industry, integrated careers guidance.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/international-students/your-country/hong-kong:
Students from Hong Kong & Macau, SAR have been joining us at Oxford Brookes University for many years.
Students enjoy a varied and fulfilling student life in the heart of a famous and historical city, which is packed with museums, galleries, bars and restaurants.
You’ll benefit from innovative teaching methods, access to work placements, career guidance and contact with businesses and industries.
We offer a supportive and nurturing environment where our practical and relevant courses prepare you with the skills and knowledge which are highly sought-after in today’s global job market.
Find out how our internationally respected degrees will provide you with a firm foundation for your future.
Here are some popular courses studied by students from Hong Kong & Macau, SAR.
Developed in close consultation with leading practitioners, this innovative course is led by the latest approaches and best-practice in the global real estate sector.
Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education (HKDSE).
AAS Education Consultancy Mong Kok, Kowloon (Head Office) Room 1708, 17F Grand Plaza Office, Tower Two, 625 Nathan Road, Mong Kok
+852 2323 3287 or +852 9389 9940 enquiry@aas.com.hk
Amber Education Services Ltd Room 1208, Tai Yau Building No 181 Johnston Road Wan Chai
T (+852) 2377 7888 WhatsApp: (+852) 61176512 premier@amberedu.com.hk
AUG Study T: +852 2392 1592 hongkong@augstudy.com
Britannia Study Link (Asia) Ltd 28/F, Chinachem Leighton Plaza Leighton Road Causeway Bay
+852 3184 0362 support@britannia-study.com
British United Education Services Ltd 15/F, Belgian Bank Building, 721-725 Nathan Road, Mongkok, Kowloon
T: +852 3426 9976 WhatsApp: +852 3426 9976 info@britishunited.net
DaDi Education Group Ltd Room 703, 7F, TOP, 700 Nathan Road Mongkok Kowloon
T: 852 23148312 gini@dadi.com.hk
HKIES Overseas Education Centre Unit 1302-03 Pilkem Commercial Centre 8 Pilkem Street Jordan Kowloon
T (+852) 2264 8990 WhatsApp: +852 5386 8699 info@hkies.com.hk
IDP Education Room 2807-2809, 28th Floor, Harbour Centre 25 Harbour Road Wanchai
T (+852) 2179 3600 WhatsApp: +852 5148 8870 info.hongkong@idp.com
LinkedU 8/F, Chinachem Tower, 34 - 37 Connaught Road Central, Hong Kong
T: (+852) 2157 3822 WhatsApp: 9439 2266 enquiry@linkedu.hk
StudyIn Room 1309, Tai Yau Building, 181 Johnston Road, Wan Chai T: +852 66037792 hongkong@gostudyin.com
BSc (Hons) International Hospitality Management
BA (Hons) Music

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/international-students/your-country/india:
Students from India will find a warm welcome here at Oxford Brookes University.
We attract students from over 140 different countries and the greatest number of international students are from India.
This gives our students the best of both worlds.
There is the familiarity of fellow students from your home country, but also the opportunity to meet lots of new people from all over the world.
You’ll become part of this friendly and supportive community in no time.
Students who study abroad place themselves at an advantage when entering the job market.
Employers are interested in graduates who have studied abroad, as this shows an ability to manage and adapt to new situations and challenges.
At Oxford Brookes, find out how our reputation for excellent teaching standards, relevant work placements and industry connections will provide you with a firm foundation for your future.
Here are some popular courses studied by Indian students.
You will build on your imagination, individuality, and inspiration.
And develop an experiential understanding of the world.
All India Senior School Certificate Examination
We may require up to 4 weeks to process your application.
We will confirm the outcome of your application as soon as a decision has been reached.
Oxford Brookes works with a small number of approved University agents in India.
You can see a full list of our agents below.
If you are applying through an agent or agency that does not appear on this list, but is claiming to work on behalf of the University, please contact our in-country representative for further advice and guidance.
As part of our process for supporting applicants, all offer holders will be required to take a pre-CAS interview in Enroly CAS Shield.
Please check your emails for important updates.
ApplyAbroad 1-844-972-7759 help@applyboard.com
Bittrack Foreign Education Consultants 301, Karmyog Heights (Commercial), Opp.
Zodiac Plaza Nr Shambhu Coffee Bar, H.L.
Commerce College Road, Navrangpura, Ahmedabad – 380006, Gujarat, India.
+91 9824042605 hemant@bittrack.com
Chopras Head Office 1006 Chiranjiv Tower 43 Nehru Place New Delhi 110019
T +91- (0)11 43810000 / F (+91) 11 2628 0361 delhi@thechopras.com
Other Chopras offices are located in: Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chandigarh, Chennai, Cochin, Coimbatore, Gurgoan, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Pune & Trivandrum
Crizac Ltd obu@crizac.com
Edroots International 2nd floor, Hazmi Towers, Perinthalmanna, Malappuram, Kerala - 679322, India
director@edroots.in +91 4933 272333
Chennai office Habeeb Centre, No 51 TTK Road, Alwarpet, Chennai 600 018 +91 96580 08569 contact@edvoy.com Hyderabad office 3rd Floor, SB Towers, Nagarjuna Cir Rd, above Bata showroom, Mothi Nagar, Dwarakapuri, Punjagutta, Hyderabad 500082 +91 96580 08569 contact@edvoy.com New Delhi office 4th Floor, Rajlok Building 24, Nehru Place, New Delhi 110 001 +91 96580 08569 contact@edvoy.com Vijayawada office No.40-1-6, 2nd Floor, Sri Balaji Plaza Beside Kalanikethan, M.G.Road, Labbipet, Vijayawada 520010, Andhra Pradesh +91 96580 08569 contact@edvoy.com
Edwise International Head Office 2, Jer Mahal, Ground Floor Dhobi Talao Junction Opp Metro Adlabs Mumbai 400002
T (+91) 22 4081 3333 /F (+91) 22 2200 3269 mumbai@edwiseinternational.com
Other Edwise International offices are located in: Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Baroda, Chandigarh, Chennai, Cochin, Coimbatore, Hyderabad, Indore, Kolkata, Malad, New Delhi, Pune, Santacruz, Surai, Thane and Vizag
Elite E2 Level 14, Concorde Towers, UB City, Vittal Mallya Road, Bengaluru, Karnataka, 560001, India T: +91-9182091008 harshaceo@eliteesquare.com
Fateh Education Consulting Pvt Ltd.
2/11, West Patel Nagar, Opp.
Metro Pillar no.
189, New Delhi, 110008 +91 11418 46600 info@fateheducation.com
Gateway Abroad Wing A, Constantia Bldg, 11, Dr U.N.
Bramachari Street, Kolkata 700017
+91-33-40572777 v.agarwal@gatewayabroad.com
GeeBee Education Head Office 27, Vaswani Mansions, 5th Floor opp.K.C.
College, Dinshaw Vachha Road, Churchgate Mumbai 400020
T +91 22 43222333 / F +91 22 22854453 upesh@geebeeworld.com
Other GeeBee Education offices are located in: Ahmedabad, Bhopal, Chennai, Coimbatore, Goa, Jalandhar Kolhapur, Ludhiana, Nagpur, Mangalore, Pune, Vashi
IDP Education 2nd Floor, 61, Chimes Building Sector 44 Gurgaon (Haryana) 122003
T: (+91) 124 4411888 info.gurgaon@idp.com
Other IDP Education offices are located in: Ahmedabad, Amritsar, Bangalore, Chandigarh, Chennai, Coimbatore, Gujarat, Hyderabad, Jalandhar, Kochi, Kolkata, Lucknow, Ludhiana, Mangalore, Mumbai, Nagpur, New Delhi, Pune, Surat, Thane, Trivandrum, Vadodara, Vijaywada and Vishakhapatnam
International Placewell Consultants Pvt.
Ltd.
(IPC) 601, Bhikaji Cama Bhawan Bhikaji Cama Place Near Hotel Hyatt Regency New Delhi
(+91) 11 26714580 , (+91) 11 26714581 , (+91) 11 26162017 , (+91) 98 10005111 delhi@educationoverseas.com
Other IPC offices are located in Bangalore, Hyderabad and Jaipur.
KC Overseas Education Private Limited ‘Krishna’, Plot No.
10/2 I.T.
Park, Opp.
V.N.I.T (Behind Infotech Tower) Parsodi Maharashtra Nagpur 440022
+91-0712-2222061 pankaj@kcoverseas.com
NWC India (New Way Consultancy) First floor.
Office no.2 Salarpur Sector 102 Noida Uttar Pradesh 201304
+91 9873979048 india@uacu.uk
Hyderabad office 146, Regus, Level 1, Midtown Building, Rd Number 1, opp.
Jalgam Vengal Rao Park, Dwarakapuri, Banjara Hills, Hyderabad, Telangana 500034 Contact: Arun Srinivasan - arun.srinivasan@qs.com Mumbai office Spaces - Inspire Hub, Western Heights, JP Road, Saint Louis Convent Rd, Andheri West, Mumbai, Maharashtra 400053 Contact: Himanshu Rajput - Himanshu.rajput@qs.com Bangalore office QS Quacquarelli Symonds India Pvt Ltd 4th Floor, Nitesh Timesquare, Sy No.
8, M.
G.
Road, Bengaluru, 560 001 Contact: Arun Srinivasan - arun.srinivasan@qs.com Chennai office 406, Workafella, 10, Uthamar Gandhi Salai, Nungambakkam High Road, Nungambakkam, Chennai, Tamil Nadu – 600034 Contact: Arun Srinivasan - arun.srinivasan@qs.com Top Universities website
Santamonica Study Abroad Mercy Estate M 3rd Floor, Chochin, Kerala, India, 682015
T: +91 (0) 4844140999 nicy@santamonicaedu.in in@santamonicaedu.in
StudyIn
Ahmedabad 307, 3rd Floor, Zodiac Plaza, H L, Commerce College Rd, beside Nabard Vihar, Navrangpura, Ahmedabad, Gujarat 380009, India Tel: +91 08069191264 ahmedabad@gostudyin.com
Amritsar 4th Floor, SCO-128.
Nagpal Tower-1, District Shopping Center, Amritsar, Punjab -143001, India Tel: +91 08069191281 amritsar@gostudyin.com
Bangalore - JP Nagar #273, My Bhavan Building, 2nd floor, 15th Cross, 20th Main, 5th phase JP Nagar, Bangalore - 560078, Karnataka, India
Tel: +91 08069191278 bengaluru.jpnagar@gostudyin.com
Bangalore - MG Road Sai Complex, No 114,3rd Floor Mahatma Gandhi Rd, Haridevpur, Shanthala Nagar, Ashok Nagar, Bengaluru, Karnataka 560001, India
Tel: +91 08069191261 bengaluru@gostudyin.com
Bhubaneswar 202, 2nd Floor, Anuj Times Square, Plot No.
361, Janpath, Sahid Nagar, Bhubaneswar 751007, India Tel: +91 08069191282 bhubaneswar@gostudyin.com
Chandigarh SCO 95-96-97, 1st Floor, Sector 17-D, Chandigarh - 160017, India
Tel: +91 08069191255 chandigarh@gostudyin.com Chennai No.
6, Crown Court Cathedral Road Gopalapuram (Opposite to Semmozhi Ponga and Near to Khazana Jewellery), Chennai, Tamil Nadu 600086, India
Tel: +91 08069191262 chennai@gostudyin.com
Coimbatore 3rd floor , 657, Tristar Tower, Avinashi Rd, Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu 641037, India
Tel: +91 08069191268 coimbatore@gostudyin.com
Delhi - Connaught Place Suite 9-13, 1st, H Block, Middle Cir, Block H, Connaught Place, New Delhi, Delhi 110001, India
Tel: +91 08069191250 delhi@studyin-uk.com
Delhi - Nehru Place 402A, 4th Floor, Eros corporate Tower, opposite Metro Station, Nehru Place, New Delhi, Delhi 110019, India
Tel: +91 08069191251 delhi.nehruplace@gostudyin.com Delhi - Rajouri Garden J-2/6, Second Floor, B.K.
Dutt Market, Block J, Rajouri Garden, New Delhi - 110027, India
Tel: +91 08069191276 delhi.rajourigarden@gostudyin.com
Delhi - Noida K1, S-07, Second Floor, Dharam Palace Near ICICI Bank, Sector 18, Noida 201301, India
Tel: +91 08069191277 noida@gostudyin.com
Delhi - Gurugram Time Tower, Unit No.219, 2nd Floor, Mehrauli-Gurgaon Rd, Gurugram, Haryana 122002, India
Tel: +91 08069191252 gurugram@gostudyin.com
Hyderabad H.No.6-3-1090/C, Ground Floor, R.K.Plaza, Raj Bhavan Road, Somajiguda, Opposite to Mahavir Skoda Car Showroom, Hyderabad, Telangana 500082, India
Tel: +91 08069191269 hyderabad@gostudyin.com
Indore 3rd floor, Tower 61, AB Rd, Opposite C-21 Mall, Scheme 54 PU4, Indore, Madhya Pradesh 452010, India
Tel: +91 08069191270 indore@gostudyin.com
Jaipur 312-313, 3rd Floor, Signature tower,Tonk Rd, Near Nehru bal Udhyan, Lalkothi, Jaipur, Rajathan,302015, India
Tel: +91 08069191254 jaipur@gostudyin.com
Kochi Ground Floor ,Raj Soudh Building, Opp UCO Bank, Near Kanoos Theatre, Ravipuram, M G Road Kochi 682016, India
Tel: +91 08069191267 kochi@gostudyin.com
Kolkata 1st Floor, 6, Little Russel St, opposite Middleton Inn, Kankaria Estates, Park Street area, Kolkata, West Bengal 700071, India Tel: +91 08069191263 kolkata@gostudyin.com
Kozhikode 1/5030 Bhumidaya Grandeur, 4th floor, Nadakkavu cross road, Nadakkavu, Kozhikode, Kerala 673011, India Tel: +91 08069191260 kozhikode@gostudyin.com
Lucknow 4th floor, Shalimar Square, 408, 126/31, BN Road, Lalbagh, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh 226001, India Tel: +91 08069191253 lucknow@gostudyin.com
Ludhiana S.C.O 7-8, Second Floor, Pakhowal Rd, near Naveen Bharat furnishers, Jila Kacheri Area, Gurdev Nagar, Ludhiana, Punjab 141001, India Tel: +91 08069191256 ludhiana@gostudyin.com
Mumbai - Andheri Office no 301, 3rd Floor Stanford Building, At the junction of Swami Vivekananda road, NBS Mahindra Showroom, and, Juhu Tara Lane, Andheri West, Mumbai, Maharashtra 400058, India
Tel: +91 08069191257 mumbai@gostudyin.com
Mumbai - Bandra ABM House, 6th Floor Linking Road, Bandra (W Near Shoppers Stop), Mumbai, Maharashtra 400050, India Tel: +91 08069191258 mumbai@gostudyin.com
Mumbai - Thane B Wing, 2nd Floor, Pitrusmruti, Gokhale Rd, Shivaji Path, Naupada, Thane, Maharashtra 400602, India Tel: +91 08069191258 thane@gostudyin.com
Pune Office Number 1, Final Plot no 314 CTS - 930, Aditya Centeegra, Fergusson College Rd, Shivajinagar, Pune, Maharashtra 411005, India
Tel: +91 08069191273 pune@gostudyin.com
Nagpur 5th floor at Lotus, Plot no 5, Gorepeth layout, West High Court Road, Dharampeth, Nagpur - 440010, India
Tel: +91 0712 3100290 nagpur@gostudyin.com
Mysuru Number 26, D-2, Block 3, 1, Temple Rd, Vani Vilas Mohalla, Mysuru, Karnataka 570002, India
Tel: +91 08069191271 mysuru@gostudyin.com
Vadodara 112, 1st Floor, Pancham High Street, Old Padra Rd, Opposite Bankers Heart Institute, Vidyutnagar Colony, IOC Nagar, Akota, Vadodara, Gujarat, India Tel: +91 08069191265 vadodara@gostudyin.com
Vijayawada 1 Ground Floor, Hrt Plaza, D.No 40-1, 100B & 40-1-100B, MG Rd, NCBN Colony, Benz Circle, Vijayawada, Andhra Pradesh 520010, India
Tel: +91 08069191272 vijayawada@gostudyin.com
Study Smart 23, Gold Field Plaza, 3rd Floor, Opp Wadia College Bund Garden Rd Pune Maharashtra 411001
+91-9650680072 chetan@studysmart.co.in
Other Study Smart offices are located in Delhi and Ahmednagar
CC 36 / 1951 D7-12, 2nd Floor, Kaloor Tower, Kaloor, Kochi-682017, Kerala, India india@tclglobal.co.uk +91 8583858651 + 44 7939 940559
UniScholars A-1304, A Wing, 13th Floor, Marathon Futurex, Mafatlal Mills Compound N.M Joshi Marg, Lower Parcel 400 013 +91 22 3511 9225 contact@unischolars.com
MArch Architecture.
BSc (Hons) International Hospitality Management.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/international-students/your-country/indonesia:
At Oxford Brookes University, we currently have a number of Indonesian students enrolled on our courses, and we welcome students from Indonesia onto our campuses every year.
By studying abroad at Oxford Brookes, you’ll gain many skills that are widely sought after by global employers, while experiencing a memorable student life in the heart of a famous city, located in the centre of England.
You’ll benefit from outstanding teaching, modern facilities and innovative courses, while feeling supported by our various teams including your dedicated academic adviser, Student Support Coordinators and other specialist teams who will support your academic and personal development.
Based in Malaysia
Here are some popular courses studied by students from Indonesia.
From day one on our Business and Management degree, you'll explore big issues while developing skills that will shape your future.
When you study Architecture at Oxford Brookes you will find yourself part of a vibrant community of staff and students.
Our courses are accredited by RIBA and ARB.
On our MSc Digital Marketing, we’ll show you how your ideas can drive profits for businesses and make a positive contribution to society at the same time.
AUG Study Jl.
Dipatiukur 66F Bandung 40132 bandung@augstudy.com T: (62-22) 8252 1043 / (62-22) 78 2323 0505 F: (62-22) 8252 1043
AUG Study also has offices in Jakarta and Surabaya
ICAN Education Boulevard Gading Serpong, AA3 No.
61 - 62, Gading Serpong, Tangerang info@ican-education.com (+6221) 5421 0200 (+6221) 5422 0200
IDP Education Kompleks Ruko Plaza 5 Pondok Indah Blok D - 11 Jl.
Margaguna Raya 12140 Jakarta Selatan info.southjakarta@idp.com T: (62) 21 7234 944 / 21 727 90950
Other IDP Education offices are located in: Jakarta Kuningan, Jakarta Kelapa Gading, Bandung, Semarang, Yogyakarta, Medan, Makassar.
JACK StudyAbroad Indonesia Tangerang office Ruko Financial Center BA2 No 54 Gading Serpong, Tangerang 15810 +6221 547 6600 juwita@jackstudy.com South Jakarta office Ruko Plaza 5 Blok C1, Pondok Indah, Jl Margaguna Raya, Jakarta Selatan 12140
+6221 2751 8878 juwita@jackstudy.com
North Jakarta office The Plaza No 9AB, Jl.
Pantai Indah Utara 2 Pantai Indah Kapuk, Jakarta Utara 14460
+6221 3001 0508 juwita@jackstudy.com
Medan office Jl Aipda KS Tubun d/h Jl Sumatera No 4A Kota Medan, Sumatera Utara 20211
+6261 66475118 juwita@jackstudy.com
StudyIn Jakarta Suite H, 5th Floor, Kensington Office Tower Kelapa Gading Jakarta, Indonesia +62 838 11141214 jakarta@gostudyin.com Alam Sutera The Brooklyn SOHO Tower B (East) - 7th Fl.
Unit O, Jl.
Alam Sutera Boulevard, Tangerang Selatan 15320 Alam Sutera, Indonesia +62 81292339008 jakarta@gostudyin.com Surabaya Praxis Office Surabaya - 3rd Fl.
Unit P32-01 Jl.
Sono Kembang no.
4-6 Surabaya 60271 Indonesia +62 822 4555 5909 surabaya@gostudyin.com
Pre-Master's followed by MSc Digital Marketing

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/international-students/your-country/international-students-in-the-uk:
Many of our international students who come to Oxford Brookes University are already studying GCSEs, A-levels and Foundation courses at schools and colleges across the UK.
We are proud of our diverse and international student community, offering a supportive and nurturing environment with plenty of opportunities for you to meet like-minded students, so you’ll settle in and feel at home in no time.
We are one of the UK’s leading modern universities, known globally for innovative courses, outstanding teaching and strong industry-employer links.
We offer a world-class student experience in the heart of an iconic, historical city which is full of opportunities for you to grow and realise your potential.
Here are some popular courses studied by students from Thailand.
No matter what you studied at undergraduate level, we’ll help you develop your computing skills to a professional standard.
Our approach to teaching is based on a set of values which redefine the function of architecture in terms of the human relationships that underlie society.
A-levels, from BCC.
Good honours bachelor’s degree.
2nd floor, Kingsland House 122-124 Regent St, Soho W1B 5SA London
marketing@amberedu.co.uk +44 (0) 20 7734 0274
Additional offices in China and Hong Kong.
Prama House 267 Banbury Road OX2 7HT Oxford info@bcic.co.uk BCIC website +44 (0) 1865 339598
BC Business Centrum Elscot House Arcadia Avenue N3 2JU London slb@brited.com BritEd website Tel: 0845 301 1225 Fax: 0845 301 1226 Skype: brited1
4th Floor, 17-18 Margaret Street, W1W 8RP London marketing@edmedu.com 0207 580 1521
Office also in Seoul.
9 Portland Street Aytoun Street entrance Manchester M1 3BE international@edvoy.com Edvoy website +44 (0)161 233 4295
EIC, Room 712, Peter House 16 Oxford Street M1 5AN Manchester info@eiceducation.com 0161 209 3330
Offices in Hong Kong and across China.
Hackney Community College Edspace Falkirk Street N16HQ London john@enroly.com Enroly Ltd website 07553199109
354 Banbury Road Oxford OX2 7PP karina.capitman@globallexis.co.uk Global Lexis Ltd website +44 (0) 1865 513973
22 Gilbert Street W1K 5EJ London info@globalstudyuk.com Global Study UK website +44 (0)20 7486 4762
2nd Floor 130 High Street Oxford OX1 4DH admissions@ig-es.com IG-ES website +44 (0)1865 72 23 26
29 Threadneedle Street EC2R 8AY London admissions@ukuni.net UKuni website +44 (0) 203 856 8180
Other offices located in Manchester.
The Hive Enterprise Centre The Old Central Library Victoria Avenue Southend-on-Sea SS2 6EX Essex play@playoverseas.co.uk Play Overseas website
Boardman House (Ground Floor Office-1) 64 Broadway Stratford E15 1NT London ad@uacu.uk New Way UK website +44 203 488 1195 / +44 7722 990005
9-11 Wollaton Street NG1 5RH Nottingham info@okstudent.co.uk
15 Castle Gate Nottingham NG1 7AQ info@qobolak.com Qobolak Education website Tel: +44 115 958 8846 Mob: +44 7747 533 212
8 Northumberland Avenue London WC2N 5BY erika.rodriguez@studiesplanet.com +44 7956 253150
StudyIn 3rd Floor 211-213 Regent Street W1B 4NF London info@gostudyin.com +44 (0) 20-7287-7040
Unit 9, St.
Georges Business Centre St.
Georges Square Portsmouth PO1 3EZ international@tclglobal.co.uk support@tclglobal.co.uk TCL Global website +44 (0) 23 9283 9210 / +44 (0) 7534 736460
The Hive Enterprise Center Victoria Avenue Southend-on-Sea Essex SS2 6EX sport@studentsportcompany.com Student Sport Company website
For enquiries based on Europe, United Kingdom, Hong Kong, Singapore and/or South Africa.
International House 24 Holborn Viaduct London EC1A 2BN enquiries@university-direct.com Uni Direct website 0207 0606861 / 07928 697349
info@uniserveducation.com Uniserv Education website +44 7813 976 257
267 Banbury Road Prama House OX2 7HT Oxford onder@unitedtowers.com +44 740 722 70 16
Offices also across Turkey.
The HIF Blisworth Road Gayton, Northamptonshire NN7 3EY, UK
Wendover Education website +44 7570772334

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/international-students/your-country/italy:
Students from Italy are warmly welcomed onto our campuses every year.
Here are some popular courses studied by Italian students.
Study Psychology at Oxford Brookes and we’ll help you discover the wide range of applications of psychology and how you can find a rewarding career with your new skills.
Begin your education as an architect at one of the old and well regarded schools of architecture in the UK.
Qualification equivalent to a UK bachelor degree:
Global Lexis Ltd 354 Banbury Road Oxford United Kingdom OX2 7PP
Studey 5 Greenwich View Place Suite 1, 5th Floor City Reach London E14 9NN
+393519908554 hello@studey.com
University advisor: Tina Poletto
StudyIn Via dell’architettura 8, 00144 Rome, Italy
+39 339 706 6538 rome@gostudyin.com
TutorYou Viale Luigi Majno 7 Milan 20122
+39 3897860005 info@tutoryou.eu
BA (Hons) International Business Management.
Oxford Brookes courses give you work placements, professional knowledge, links into industry, integrated careers guidance and so much more to build your employability.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/international-students/your-country/japan:
Students from Japan have joined us at Oxford Brookes for many years, enjoying a memorable student life in the heart of a famous and historical city.
Here are some popular courses studied by students from Japan.
In Oxford, a political epicentre, you’ll be at the heart of modern political discourse – there are active discussions on racism and colonialism, and refugee action.
On this course, you’ll develop advanced practitioner skills that you can apply across educational settings.
This pre-sessional English course helps you to improve your academic English for successful study at an English-speaking university.
Tokyo (Country Head Office) Okada Bldg.
4F, 1-19-8 Shibuya Shibuya-ku, Tokyo, Japan Nishitokyo, Tokyo, Japan 150-0002 +81 (0)3-6427-9605 study@beo.jp
Osaka office Kyoei Building.
2F, Room 210-C, 2-8-11 Shibata, Kita-ku, Osaka City, Osaka, Japan 530-0012 +81 (0)6-4256-7161
Tokyo 3rd Floor Takagi Bldg, 2-15-14, Kamiosaki, Shinagawa-ku, Tokyo 141-0021, Japan tokyo@gostudyin.com Tel: +81 03-5272-9143
Osaka 2F Nissei Building East 2-2-13 Shibata Kita-ku Osaka 530-0012 osaka@gostudyin.com Tel: +81 6 7878 5681
MA Education (TESOL)
MA Fine Art

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/international-students/your-country/jordan:
At Oxford Brookes University, we are proud of our diverse international student community, and we welcome students from Jordan onto our campuses every year.
Here are some popular courses studied by students from Jordan.
Our successful and innovative MPH in Public Health welcomes UK, EU and international applicants from a wide range of professions
Bridge International for Academic Services Al-Husseini Group Commercial Building Zahran Street (between 7th and 8th Circle) (8th floor) – Office number 810 PO Box 1599 11821 Amman bridge@bridge.jo +9626 5810137 / +9626 5815521
IDP Education National Foundation for Universities Services Jubiha, Yajouz Street, Almanhal Cross, Almanhal Centre 1st Floor, Office No 106 PO Box 1059 11941 Amman info.amman@idp.com Tel: +962 6 5356610 Fax: +962 6 5356620
International Placewell Consultants dubai@unidirection.com +97 1504293760
Pre-Master's followed by Master's in Business

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/international-students/your-country/kazakhstan:
Students from Kazakhstan have joined us at Oxford Brookes for many years, enjoying a memorable student life in the heart of a famous and historical city.
Here are some popular courses studied by students from kazakhstan.
With our MSc Hospitality, Events and Tourism Management, you’ll gain an introduction to key concepts including: psychology of consumer behaviour, how to create a marketing plan, hospitality operations and
strategic financial management.
If your first degree is not in computing but you want to move into IT then our BCS accredited MSc in Computing Science is ideal for you.
Dostyk 210, Block A, 5th Floor, Office 52, Almaty, Kazakhstan,050051 Contact: Zhenya Zholdasbayeva - Yevgeniya@qs.com Top Universities website
StudyIn Abay Avenue 130, Almaty 050046, Kazakhastan Tel: +7 447809406205 almaty@gostudyin.com
BSc (Hons) Business Management and International Relations

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/international-students/your-country/kenya:
Oxford Brookes University is a very popular choice among Kenyan students who choose to study in the UK.
We attract students from over 140 countries who flourish as part of our diverse international student community.
Oxford is an exciting student city with stunning architecture, inspiring museums alongside lively bars and cosy cafes.
Whether you love trying new types of food, enjoy exploring an art gallery or library, or prefer taking a walk with friends in one of the many parks, there is something in Oxford for you.
We are known globally for our innovative courses, outstanding facilities and strong industry-employer links.
You’ll gain the fundamental skills to excel in your chosen career, and graduate with the international experience that is very highly valued in today’s global job market.
Here are some popular courses studied by students from Kenya.
Our MSc Finance programme balances technical knowledge with practical skills.
You are taught in small interactive groups by experts from the finance industry as well as leading researchers.
Graduate Guidance Group Ltd C16 Ingenuity Lab, Innovation Park, Jubilee Campus, University of Nottingham, NG7 2TU +44 7410411885 emma@graduateguidancegroup.com
IDP Education Kenya Soin Arcade, mezzanine floor suite 22 Westlands Road Westlands Nairobi info.nairobi@idp.com +254 729129799 / +254 752092287
Nairobi G-01, Madonna House, Westlands Road Westlands, Nairobi, Kenya Tel: +254 755688242 nairobi@gostudyin.com Mombasa Second Floor, Amal Plaza, Links Road Nyali, Mombasa 84453-80100, Kenya Tel: +254 780 450 642 mombasa@gostudyin.com
Westlands, Krishna Centre 7th Floor Suite 721 Woodvale Grove Nairobi, Kenya kenya@tclglobal.co.uk +2540107406426 + 44 7939 940559
Uniserv Education - Eldoret - Kenya 1st Floor Rupa's Mall Uganda Road P.O.
Box 6364 – 30100 Eldoret info@uniserveducation.com +254 735 536 101
Uniserv Education - Kisumu - Kenya 2nd floor- Tivoli Centre Achieng Oneko Road (Next to Post Bank) Kisumu kisumu@uniserveducation.com +254733311727
Uniserv Education - Mombasa 4th Floor Texas Tower (Next to Nyali Cinemax) Nyali Road P.O.
Box 95649-80106 Mombasa info@uniserveducation.com +254 738 861 664
9th Floor - Fortis Tower Woodvale Grove Westlands Nairobi info@uniserveducation.com +254 735 014 549 | +254 717 014 549 | +254 723 597 445

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/international-students/your-country/kuwait:
Students from Kuwait have joined us at Oxford Brookes University for many years, enjoying a memorable student life in the heart of a famous city located in the centre of England.
We work closely with Kuwait's Ministry of Education and feature on their list of approved universities .
Here are some popular courses studied by students from Kuwait.
On this course, you’ll take your interest in literature to the next level.
You’ll explore everything from Elizabethan lyrics to New York stories.
Easy Apply Education Floor M1, Office 36, Sanabel Tower, Jaber Almubarak St, Sharq Kuwait City
+965 22088665 info@easyapplyedu.com
Deema Tower Abdulla Al Mubarak Street 28976 Kuwait City info@education-basket.com
Global Study info@globalstudyuk.com +44 (0)20 7486 4762
Al-Sharq Abdullah Al-Ahmad Street Al-Babtain Tower Beside Al-Amiri Hospital, M2 Floor, Office 57 P.O.Box: 2860, Al-Salmiya 22053 Salmiya admin@visionedu.co.uk / kuwait@visionedu.co.uk +965-22923131 / +965-22923132
Dalal Complex 9th Floor Salem Al Mubarak Street Salmiya info.kuwait@idp.com +965 22288094/5/6 Fax:+965 22288095
IEC Abroad admissions@iecabroad.com +44 (0)161 233 4295
Intelligent Partners website
JNS Office No.
1009, Grosvenor Business Bay Tower, Business Bay, Dubai, UAE
+971 508421646 arfat.jami@jnsedu.com
Office No.
(21), Floor (Mezzanine), Al Tujjar Tower, Al-Mirqab, Block (2), Abdulaziz Hamad Al-Saqer Street, building No.
(49), Kuwait City, Kuwait apply.uk@tclglobal.co.uk +966 539626555 +44 79399 40559

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/international-students/your-country/lebanon:
Students from Lebanon have been joining us at Oxford Brookes University for many years.
Students enjoy an exciting and fulfilling student life in the heart of a famous and historical city, which is packed with museums, galleries, shops, bars and restaurants.
You’ll benefit from unique teaching methods, access to work placements, career guidance and contact with businesses and industries.
We are proud of our supportive and nurturing environment where our practical and relevant courses prepare you with the skills and knowledge required for today’s global job market.
Here are some popular courses studied by students from Lebanon.
Study at one of the UK's oldest and most renowned Schools of Architecture.
Experience a transformative journey with the Masters in Architecture at Oxford Brookes.
Our Urban Design MA brings together theory and design practice to develop your urban design skills.
Education Basket Al-Arz Street, Acar Building 3rd Floor, Office 303 Gemmayzeh/Saifi Beirut info@education-basket.com
Global Study Harouni Building Thomas Edisson Street Ramlet El Baida Beirut info@globalstudyuk.com lebanon@globalstudyuk.com +961 (0)1 811 432
There are also offices in Hamra and Jbeil.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/international-students/your-country/malaysia:
Students from Malaysia are warmly welcomed onto our campuses every year.
You’ll obtain the skills and international experience that global employers are looking for.
By studying abroad at Oxford Brookes, you’ll be opening many doors to a bright and successful future in your chosen career.
Here are some popular courses studied by Malaysian students.
Whatever area of business you want to go into, accounting and financial skills will always be in demand.
At Oxford Brookes, you’ll build a strong understanding of how businesses operate around the world.
Develop your skills as an architectural designer with the MArchD Applied Design in Architecture course and choose a unique design specialisation to enhance your portfolio.
Degree programmes from private higher education providers must be accredited by the Malaysian Qualifications Agency and registered within the Malaysian Qualifications Register.
Bandar Sunway office A -02-03, Sunway Geo Avenue, Jalan Lagoon Selatan, Bandar Sunway, 47500 Subang Jaya, Selangor, Malaysia
+60 33 099 5932 tangwooi.khoo@aeccglobal.com Petaling Jaya office Co-Labs, Level 4, The Starling Mall No.
6, Jalan SS 21/37, Damansara Utama, 47400 Petaling Jaya, Selangor.
+60 12 2206343 munyeu.lai@aeccglobal.com Kuala Lumpur office Q Sentral, Level 39, (East Wing, 2A, Jalan Stesen Sentral 2, Kuala Lumpur Sentral, 50470 Kuala Lumpur +60 17 9135932 jared.tung@aeccglobal.com
AUG Student Services Suite 19.02, 19th Floor, Wisma MCA 163 Jalan Ampang Kuala Lumpur 50450
Tel: +60321622266 WhatsApp: +60 12 969 9708 Fax: +60321818881 kl@augstudy.com
AUG also has offices in Kuala Lumpur, Penang, Ipoh, Kota Bharu, Kuantan, Nilai, Malacca, Segamat, Johor Bahru and Kuching.
Easy Study Solutions LK2-G-03, Laman ARECA BBN Street 12/1, Putra Nilai, 71800.
Negeri Sembilan, Malaysia
+60122380777 mary@easy-study-solutions.com
IDP Education 6th Floor, West Block, Wisma Selangor Dredging 142-C Jalan Ampang Kuala Lumpur 50450
T: (+603) 2162 3755 F: +603 2162 2078 info.kualalumpur@idp.com
Other IDP Education offices are located in: Subang Jaya, Penang, Johor Bahru, Kuching, Kota Kinabalu.
Inquota Education Services North Block Suite 7-7 Ampwalk, 218 Jalan Ampang, 50450 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia T: 603-21817557 inquota.education@ gmail.com
MABECS B-3A-05, Block B West, PJ8 23 Jalan Barat, Section 8 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan 46050
Tel: (+60) 3 7956 7655 Fax: (+60) 3 7955 0876 ukdegrees@mabecs.com
4-5-1, Plaza Sentral, Block D (4), Jalan Stesen Sentral 5,50470 Kuala Lumpur Sentral, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia Contact: Kevin Romao - kevin.romao@qs.com Top Universities website
StudyIn Unit 43-G, Block D Zenith Corporate Park Jalan SS7/26 Kelana Jaya Petaling Jaya Selangor
+60378861936 malaysia@gostudyin.com
Taylor's Placement Centre No 1, Jalan SS 15/8 Subang Jaya Selangor Darul Ehsan 47500
T: +603 5636 2641 F: +603 5638 1689 placement@tiannet.com.sg
TEDvisory (Tertiary Education Advisory) W03A2, 3rd Floor, West Block, Wisma Golden Eagle Realty, Jalan Ampang, 50450 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
T: (+6) 03 2161 5875 or 1800 22 6628 (domestic toll-free) info@tedvisory.com
LLB (Hons) Law
MArch Architecture

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/international-students/your-country/mexico:
Students from Mexico have joined us at Oxford Brookes for many years, enjoying a memorable student life in the heart of a famous and historical city.
Here are some popular courses studied by students from Mexico.
Our location in the heart of the UK motorsport valley, close to most of the Formula 1 teams and their supply chain, gives us unrivalled access to motorsport companies.
The Broad Club Contact name: Leonardo Fabio Duque Gomez Docklands Business Centre Suite 12/3d.
10-16 Tiller Road, Docklands, London England E14 8PX +44 (0) 7933 218349 leonardo@theboradclub.com
Global Lexis 354 Banbury Road Oxford United Kingdom OX2 7PP karina.capitman@globallexis.co.uk +44 (0) 1865 513973
Av.
Los Insurgentes Sur 1458, Ciudad de Mexico, Mexico mexico@studiesplanet.
com (+52) 55 3562 7881

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/international-students/your-country/morocco:
Students from Morocco have joined us at Oxford Brookes University for many years, enjoying a memorable student life in the heart of a famous city based in the centre of England.
Here are some popular courses studied by students from Morocco.
Globe Education Group 76 Bb Abdelmourmen Res Koutoubia Apt 71 Casablanca, Maroc Apt 71 Casablanca meriem.a@geg.ma 00212661191710
StudyIn 207 Boulevard Zerktouni, 5th floor office 20, Casablanca 20100, Morocco Tel: +212 766971419 casablanca@gostudyin.com
Resident Koutobia Immeuble 13 No 2 Ain Chock Casablanca morocco@tclglobal.co.uk +212(0)666 83 78 81 +212(0)666 83 78 87 +212(0)522 87 40 31 +212(0)522 50 81 91
30, Rue Abou Faris Al Marini 20-46 bp-10 000 Rabat morocco@tclglobal.co.uk +212(0)663 40 40 03 / +212(0)5 37 73 18 31
International Foundation followed by BEng Mechanical Engineering

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/international-students/your-country/nepal:
Students from Nepal are warmly welcomed onto our campuses every year.
Here are some popular courses studied by students from Nepal.
With our MSc you’ll gain an introduction to key concepts including: psychology of consumer behaviour, how to create a marketing plan, hospitality operations and strategic financial management.
Our course is accredited by the Association of MBAs (AMBA) and the Chartered Management Institute (CMI).
AHZ Associates
Kathmandu Ramshah Path-1753, Putalisadak, Kathmandu Ward No-28.
nepal1@ahzassociates.co.uk +977 980-2346891
Madan Bhandari Road, Opposite Krishna Tower, New Baneshwor, Kathmandu nepal@ahzassociates.co.uk +977 980-2346898
Pokhara Pokhara Trade Mall (3rd Floor), Chipledhunga, Pokhara 33700 pokhara@ahzassociates.co.uk +977 980-2351964
Butwal West side of Milan Chowk Sky Bridge, Butwal 32907 nepal@ahzassociates.co.uk +977 980-2346898
Alfa Beta Institute Alfa Beta Complex, New Baneshwor, Kathmandu, Nepal, 44600 +977-15970123 contracts@alfabetaedu.com Contact: Dwiraj Sharma
Bizz Education 42 Plungington Road, PR1 7RB, United Kingdom +44 (0) 7447 627889 info@bizzeducation.co.uk
Dolphin Education Consultancy BJ Bhawan 4th Floor, Exhibition Road, Kathmandu, Nepal
+9779851036272 prem@dolphineducation.com.np
Education Asia Level 5, Share Market Complex, Putalisadak 31, Kathmandu Nepal +977 1 5367889 admin@educationasia.com
Edwise Foundation Shubhashree Complex 6th & 7th Floor New Plaza-32 Kathmandu info@edwisefoundation.com +977-1-4428908 / +977-1-4424916
Gateway Abroad v.agarwal@gatewayabroad.com +91-33-40572777
Hub International Education Kathmandu Metropolitan City-1, Kathmandu, Bagmati, Nepal
+977 01-5342096 / +977 01-5348227 sarita@hubintl.edu.np
Motif Education Abroad 5th Floor Omkar Building, New Baneshwor Kathmandu, Nepal +977-1-4791816 | 4795449 umesh@motif.com.np
Kathmandu 2nd Floor, Agriculture Development Bank Putalisadak-44600, Kathmandu, Nepal
Tel: +977 15903980 kathmandu@gostudyin.com
Baneshwor 1st floor of Nepal Skin Hospital Pvt Ltd, Madan Bhandari Road, New Baneshwor, Kathmandu 44600, Nepal
Tel: +977 01 5903980 baneshwor@gostudyin.com
Butwal 1st Floor, Milan Chowk, Rupandehi, Opposite Diyalo Foodland, Butwal-9, Nepal
Tel: +977 9802589313 butwal@gostudyin.com
Chitwan 4th Floor, KL Mall, Lionschowk, Narayanghat, Chitwan 44200, Nepal
Tel: +977 056490130 chitwan@gostudyin.com
Itahari 3rd Floor, Central Plaza, Itahari-6, Sunsari, Nepal
Tel: +977 025 590515 Itahari@gostudyin.com
Pokhara Radha Home, Second Floor, opposite UFO, above Nepal Investment Bank Ltd, Chiple Dhunga Road Pokhara 33700, Nepal
Tel: +977 61-590052 pokhara@gostudyin.com
SPiE Overseas Education Consultants B 109, 5th Floor, Shreenath Plaza, Fergusson College Road, Pune, Maharashtra 411005, India +977 9840385858 subhanshu@spieindia.com
Minbhawan-31, Aloknagar, Kathmandu, Nepal, 44600 nepal@tclglobal.co.uk +977 9802344148 + 44 7939 940559

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/international-students/your-country/nigeria:
At Oxford Brookes University, we are proud of our diverse international student community, and we welcome a large cohort of students from Nigeria onto our campuses every year.
We offer a world-class student experience in the historic city of Oxford, an inspirational centre for education where students thrive.
Oxford is also famous for its vibrant arts and culture scene, and is known for its beautiful architecture, museums and galleries.
Whatever your interests, you’ll find something for you in Oxford.
We are one of the UK’s leading modern universities, known throughout the world for our outstanding courses, modern facilities, expert teaching and strong industry-employer links.
Join our community of students from over 140 different countries for a truly memorable and rewarding experience.
Here are some popular courses studied by Nigerian students.
Our adult nursing degree shows you how to care for people in a variety of settings, meeting their mental and physical health needs across their lifespan.
Please note that due to unprecedented demand, we will only be accepting applications from students applying through one of our contracted representatives.
You can see a full list of our representatives below.
Please contact the Nigeria office if you need further support and guidance.
Ada Nwokeji 38 Gana street Maitama Abuja
+2348068286947 hello@school-finders.co.uk
Abuja Office Discovery Mall, 2nd Floor, Business Box Office, Plot 215, Konoko Crescent.
Adetokunbo Ademola Way.
Wuse II, Abuja.
+2348060554378 applications.nigeria@aeccglobal.com Lagos Office Premier Hub and Innovation Center 1B Birrel Avenue, Barracks Bus stop, Behind Fidelity Bank PLC.
Off Hebert Macaulay Way.
Yaba, Lagos.
Nigeria +2349124497923 applications.nigeria@aeccglobal.com
Dave Abion Consultancy 3 Olu Oni Close, Off Kafi Street Beside Ikeja City Mall, Entrance Gate 1 Alausa, Ikeja Lagos
T +2348062700622 , +2347055177000 , +2347087757986 , +2348187222632 F: 01-2714723 info@daveabion.com
Other Dave Abion Consultancy offices are located in: Abuja, Port Harcourt & Victoria Island.
Lagos
IDP Lagos Ikeja – Alausa 3rd Floor, Omatsola Complex, 17 Kafi Street, Alausa Ikeja, Lagos Tel: +234 (0) 8057126781 Email: Ikeja@ idp .com
IDP Lagos Ikeja – GRA 52 - 54 Isaac John Street Ikeja GRA, 101233, Lagos State, Nigeria Tel: +234 (0)13440035 Tel: info.lagos@ idp .com IDP Lagos – Victoria Island 2A Louis Solomon Close, Victoria Island, Lagos Tel: +234 (0) 8139629332 Email: Vi@ idp .com
Other IDP offices
IDP Abuja 50 Ademola Adetokunbo Crescent (Osas & Oseji Building), between UBA and H-Medix, Abuja Tel: +234 (0) 92906508 Email: Abuja@ idp .com
IDP Port Harcourt 45 Stadium Road, beside Bereton School, Port Harcourt, Rivers State Tel: +234 (0) 8116709992 Email: Ph@ idp .com
IDP Enugu Suite B8, First Floor, Bethel Plaza, 36 Garden Avenue, Enugu Tel: +234 (0) 8074235705 Email: Enugu@ idp .com
IDP Ibadan 1st Floor, Ile Ori Detu, 1 Shell Close Onireke, Ibadan Tel: +234 (0) 9037233489 Email: Ibadan@ idp .com
IDP Kano Ground Floor (Suite 10A), JBS Plaza, No 375 Civic Centre Road, Kano Tel: +234 (0) 8166575768 Email: Kano@ idp .com
IDP Nasarawa (Virtual) Tel: +234 (0) 8122227346 Email: Damilola@ idp .com
House 3 C Close 6922 Road Adkan Estate Gwarinpa Abuja 900108
+2347088254421 chukwumannamdi@gmail.com
Michael Adekanlf/Ama-Dove 3rd floor, 3 Awoloxo way Ikoga Lawos
08030575677 ; 08025324468 admissions@amadovenigeria.net
NWC Nigeria (New Way Consultancy) Kaduna
4 Barnawa Close Off Chalawa Cresent Barnawa Kaduna
+234 (0)8030447894 jo@nwc.ac
Unit 6 The City Mall Onikan Roundabout Lagos Island Lagos
+234 (0)8030447894 africa@uacu.uk
No 11 Pietersburg Street, Off Nairobi Crescent, Wuse 2, Abuja FCT, Nigeria Contact: Michelle Arikpo - marikpo@qs.com Top Universities website
Lagos 2, Ahmed Onibudo Street Victoria Island, Lagos, Nigeria 28, Ilorin Street Off Adelabu Street, Surulere, Lagos
No 1 General Ogumudia Road Lekki, Lagos, Nigeria Tel: +234 8109124550 lagos@gostudyin.com Abuja 10 Durban Street, Wuse 2, Abuja, Nigeria Tel: +234 8082055733 abuja@gostudyin.com Port Harcourt Plot F6 Deborah Lawson House, Sani Abacha road, GRA, Phase 3, Port Harcourt, Rivers State Tel: +234 9168348662 portharcourt@gostudyin.com Onitsha 87, Ogbo Avenue, Woliwo Onitsha, Anambra State Tel: +234 9168348662 onitsha@gostudyin.com
TCL Global Abuja Suite 5017, GA 247 Plaza, Ahmadu Bello Way, Mabushi, Abuja, Nigeria
+23480 6829 0705 +44 79399 40559 nigeria@tclglobal.co.uk
Ibadan 78 Ring Road, Henry Tee Building, Ibadan, Oyo State, Nigeria
+23480 7877 3100, +234 907 566 0284 +44 79399 40559 nigeria@tclglobal.co.uk Lagos 6A Adeboye Solanke, Avenue-Off Allen Avenue, Ikeja, Lagos, Nigeria
+234 913 776 1525, +234 907 566 0284 +44 79399 40559 nigeria@tclglobal.co.uk
TGM Education 3rd Floor, Kobis Building 18/20 Kudirat Abiola Way Oregun Lagos
+2348023765748 info@tgmeducation.com
Other TGM Education offices are located in Abuja and Sokoto
WIN Education 56 Opebi Rd Opebi Ikeja 101233
+234 818 8881 394 nigeria@win-ed.com
MSc Management in Health and Social Care
BA (Hons) Business and Management

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/international-students/your-country/norway:
At Oxford Brookes University, we are proud of our diverse international student community, and we welcome a large cohort of students from Norway onto our campuses every year.
Students enjoy a memorable and rewarding student experience in the heart of one of the UK’s most stunning and famous cities, which offers everything from galleries and museums, bars and cafes, to botanical gardens and parks.
Whatever your interests are, you’ll find something in Oxford to inspire you.
We offer a supportive, friendly and stimulating environment where our students grow and flourish.
Alongside our excellent teaching we offer work placements, industry connections and career guidance to build your employability.
An Oxford Brookes degree is truly an investment into your future.
Find out more about why Oxford Brookes is such a fantastic place to study.
Here are some popular courses studied by Norwegian students.
This course will give you up-to-date knowledge and skills in digital journalism and publishing with an emphasis on writing and publishing.
Across the Pond is our official representative in Norway.
Their team of Norwegian UK graduates would be happy to help you with your application as well as answer any questions you may have about the university, our courses and local funding from Lånekassen.
Across the Pond also holds information on relevant scholarships for you, both from our university, but also other sources.
Contact information for Across the Pond in Norway:
Find out more:
You will be able to get information about our university by contacting Across the Pond at any time, or by attending any of Across the Ponds events throughout the year.
BA (Hons) Business and Marketing Management
BA (Hons) Media, Journalism and Publishing

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/international-students/your-country/oman:
At Oxford Brookes University, we are proud of our diverse international student community, and we welcome students from Oman onto our campuses every year.
Here are some popular courses studied by students from Oman.
Our Paramedic Science course gives you the skills you need to work as a paramedic.
Paramedics are registered Allied Health Professionals (AHPs).
Global Study Fourth Floor Office 45, Ibn Awaa Way Way 361, Building 5965 Seeb Muscat info@globalstudyuk.com oman@globalstudyuk.com +20 3385 6807
Al Wafa Centre for Higher Education Services Building No: 3974, 1st Floor Beside the Oman Society for Fine Arts (Photography club) 1st street after General Directorate of Social Insurance North Oziba, Way No 4863 PO Box 1975, PC 130 Muscat admin@visionedu.co.uk oman@visionedu.co.uk Mobile: +968 95716547 F:+968 24499744
IDP Education 01st Floor Madinah Plaza Madinat Al Sultan Qaboos Atahibah info.muscat@idp.com T: (+968) 2469 6452 F: (+968) 24 696 451

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/international-students/your-country/other-countries:
We welcome students from all over the world but do not currently have a page with specific information for your particular country.
Please see below for general information on entry requirements and contact details of our representatives around the world.
We will accept equivalent academic qualifications from around the world.
The requirements will depend on the specific course.
We consider applicants on a case by case basis so please contact us if you have any questions.
You will usually need to have:
If you do not meet the requirements for direct entry, you can take one of our foundation courses .
If you have already completed a higher education level qualification, you may be able to transfer this to one of our undergraduate courses and start in the second or third year.
For taught courses, you will normally need an honours degree, a postgraduate diploma or an equivalent qualification.
For some courses this may need to be in the same subject (or related area) as your intended postgraduate degree.
For all our courses, you will need to show your English language skills are high enough to succeed in your studies.
Your academic qualifications may show us this.
Find out more about our English language requirements .
If you're not able to attend an event or there isn't anything coming up in your country, you can contact your country representative for information.
We work closely with a selection of agents and organisations all over the world and recommend you choose one of these trusted partners to ensure you are given all the information you need about studying with us.
You can also contact our Global Recruitment team to find out more about studying here.
Find your contact below.
Tirana Rruga Moskat, Zayeb Business Center, K.2 Tirana, Albania 1001
Tel: +355 67 400 5360 tirana@gostudyin.com
TCL Global - Algeria 27 Rue Les Oliviers Residence Les Roseraies Sidi Yahia Hydra +213 798 34 07 08 / +213 542 17 99 26 / +213 794 22 55 14 / +213 23 46 97 52 algeria@tclglobal.co.uk
Global Lexis Ltd 354 Banbury Road Oxford United Kingdom OX2 7PP +44 (0) 1865 513973 karina.capitman@globallexis.co.uk
Studies Planet Avenida Sesquicentenario 4540, M75 L3, San Jorge Village Country Club argentina@ studiesplanet.com (+54) 9 11 2894 7425 UK head office: (+44) 7956253150
AUG Study QG 16, Prince Centre 8 Quay Street Haymarket Sydney 2000 New South Wales T: + 61 2 9211 0966 F: + 61 2 9211 9366 sydney@augstudy.com AUG also has offices in Adelaide, Brisbane, Melbourne and Perth Australia Education Victoria Pty.
20 Queen Street Melbourne Victoria 3000 +919899459933 Manmeet.bindra@aeccglobal.com
Education Resources Network Office 1105, Park Lane Tower, Business Bay, Dubai +971508540515 o.mirza@ernglobal.org
Global Study +44 (0)20 7486 4762 info@globalstudyuk.com Global Vision for Academic Services Al Adliyah Block 0336, Road 3605 Near Alumni Club Building 247, 1st Floor Office 11 T: +97313617216 Mob: +97337776062 F: +973 13617927 admin@visionedu.co.uk / bahrain@visionedu.co.uk IDP Education Office 4122 West Tower, Bahrain Financial Harbour King Faisal Highway, Manama +973 17502946 info.bahrain@idp.com IEC Abroad Ltd +44 (0)161 233 4295 admissions@iecabroad.com Intelligent Partners International Placewell Consultants +97 1504293760 dubai@unidirection.com
Wendover Education The HIF Gayton Northampton NN7 3EY +44 7570772334 Study Experience 143/4 Avenue Louise Brussels 1050 +32 (0)2 899 75 15 info@studyexperience.be
IntegralEdu bul.
"Evlogi Georgiev" 99 Sofia 1142 T: +359 280 50 600 F: +359 2950 55 70 integral@integral.bg IntegralEdu also has offices in Blagoevgrad, Burgas, Varna, Veliko Tarnovo, Plovdiv and Ruse
Expert Education and Visa Services Kathmandu 44600 +977-9801213419 p.subedi@experteducation.com.
au Contact: Mr Prakash Subedi SafeNet Groups Block C, Ground and 11th Floor (No: 1106), Pearl Condominium, Kabar Aye Pagoda Road, Bahan Township, Yangon.
+44 (0) 7773773812 adam.zaw@safenetgroups.com
IDP Education #167, St.
163 corner St 480 Phnom Penh T (+855) 23 222 325 F: 855 23 426 608 info.phnompenh@idp.com StudyIn #BT2-992, Beung Torteung Thngay 2 (OCIC), Kean Khlang, Chroy Changva, Phnom Penh, Cambodia Tel: +855 (0) 10 582 522 phnompenh@gostudyin.com
Across The Pond +52 (55) 8421 4929 info@studyacrossthepond.com Global Lexis Ltd 354 Banbury Road Oxford United Kingdom OX2 7PP +44 (0) 1865 513973 karina.capitman@globallexis.co.uk
Across The Pond +52 (55) 8421 4929 info@studyacrossthepond.com Global Lexis Ltd 354 Banbury Road Oxford United Kingdom OX2 7PP +44 (0) 1865 513973 karina.capitman@globallexis.co.uk QS Colombia WeWork, Carrera 11B No.
99 – 25, Bogota, Colombia, 110221 Jessica.lopez@qs.com
Studies Planet Av.
15 No 118 -75, Oficina 103 Bogota colombia1@ studiesplanet.com (+57) 311 475 3505 (+57) 324 283 5641 UK head office: (+44) 7956253150
StudyIn Calle 106 # 54 - 78 Of.
702 Bogota, Colombia
Tel: +57 1 7186226 bogota@gostudyin.com
Volemi SAS Calle 70 5 22 Bloque 1 Apto 402 Bogota, Colombia +57 319 499 0000 alejandra@volemi.com
IntegralEdu Draškovićeva 4 Zagreb 10000 T: +385 (0) 1 468-338-1 F: +385 91 468-338-2 info@integraledu.org Study Abroad Advising Centre Trg N.Š.Zrinskog Zagreb +385 98 909 2726 tina@uniworld.hr Study Abroad Advising Centre also has an office in Split
Acadia Educational Services Office 204, 155 Arch.Makarios III Ave.
Limassol 3026 T (+357) 2575 4442/F (+357) 2573 8395 info@acadiaeducation.com S.M.A.R.T.
Options Educational Services 8, Roumelis Street Suite 401 Strovolos Nicosia 2063 T (+357) 96 131300 marlenephilippou3@gmail.com StudyIn Athinon 30, office 101-B Agios Dometios, 2363 Nicosia, Cyprus Tel: +357 22778700 nicosia@gostudyin.com
Study Abroad Advising Centre Korunní Dvůr A2 Korunní 104, 101 00 Praha 10 +420 734 693 278 info@unilink.cz
Baltic Council for International Education 7 Narva Str., Tallinn 10117 Т: +372 6998300, +372 6998301 F: +372 6998304 tallinn@balticcouncil.org
Network 84 Valissis Sofias Avenue Athens 11528 0030 210 74 88 131 international@network.gr NETWORK - THESSALONIKI 18 P.
Mela and Tsimiski Thessaloniki 546 22 00302310 240 394 salonica@network.gr SI-UK Athens Leof.
Kifisias 260 Chalandri 152 32 Athens +30 210 6753000 athens@studyin-uk.com
IDP Education No.
3 Sanaz Dead End Northern Ghalandari Street Mirzapour Street Shariati Avenue Tehran Iran 1931744953 +98 9821-75292 (Ext 1) kazem.mousavipour@idp.
com IEC Abroad Ltd +44 (0)161 233 4295 admissions@iecabroad.com Wendover Education The HIF Gayton Northampton NN7 3EY +44 7570772334 UK Study Number 2, Unit 4, Second Floor Chaman Deadlock Valiasr Street Tehran T (+98) 21 8865 2080 - 2 / F (+98) 21 8865 2238
Sheshi Zahir Pajaziti, Kati 1, Nr.
5 Pristina, Kosova
Tel: +383-4844-1246 pristina@gostudyin.com
Oxford Education Siraprapa Sae-Ieo, General Manager Unit B10, Asean Mall Building Kamphaeng Meuang Road Vientiane Capital +856 21 419124 / +856 20 96997488 siraprapa@ox-edu.com Find them on Facebook
StudyIn Phonsinuan Village, Sisattanak District Vientiane capital, (In fornt of Muong Thanh Vientiane Hotel), Laos
Tel: +856 20 59829329 vientiane@gostudyin.com
Baltic Council for International Education 33/35 Gertrudes Str.
Office 302, Riga LV-1011 T: +371 67317627, +371 67317630 F: +371 67317631 riga@balticcouncil.org Baltic Council also has an office in Ventspils KALBA Latvia Vaļņu iela 5 Rīga LV-1050 +371 25638009 studies@kalba.lv
IDP Education Office No.
22, Ground Floor Tripoli Tower Tripoli T (+218) 21 7252140 info.tripoli@idp.com IEC Abroad Ltd +44 (0)161 233 4295 admissions@iecabroad.com
Baltic Council for International Education 4, Jogailos str., Vilnius LT - 01116 T: +370 5 269 00 56 T: +370 645 72232 lietuva@balticcouncil.org
KALBA Lithuania Lvovo str.
25 Vilnius LT- 09320 +378 800 30030 info@kalba.lt
Other offices in Lithuania: Vytauto ave.
32 LT- 44328, Kaunas Paryžiaus Komunos str.
2A.
LT- 91149, Klaipėda Tilžės str.
124 LT-77160, Šiauliai J.
Urbšio g.
LT-35169, Panevėžys Seirijų str.
3 LT-62116, Alytus Vytauto str.
27 A LT-68300, Marijampolė J.
Basanavičiaus ave.
7 LT-70103, Vilkaviškis
IDP Education 1st Floor, Ken Lee Building 20 Edith Cavell Street Port Louis T (+230) 210 1971 Mob: +230 52532325 F: +230 210 4035 info.mauritius@idp.com
Uniabroad Delta Chambers, Waiyaki Way Westlands, Nairobi, Kenya.
+254 716 612 223 stella@uni-abroad.com
Pardo 434, Piso 16, Miraflores, Lima, Peru peru@studiesplanet.com (+51) 926 877 306 UK head office: (+44) 7956253150
AUG Study Unit 104, GF, E-Square Bldg #416 Ortigas Ave San Juan City 1500 Metro Manila +632 655 8800 manila@augstudy.com IDP Education 16th Floor, Marco Polo Ortigas Sapphire Road, Ortigas Business Centre Pasig City Manila 1600 T (+632) 535 3320 info.manila@idp.com Other IDP Education offices are located in Cebu City StudyIn Suite C, 8th Floor, The Valero Tower, 122 Valero St, Salcedo Village, Makati City, Philippines Tel: +63 945 703 0478 manila@gostudyin.com United Towers Educational Consulting Unit 1702, Atlanta Center Anapolis Street Greenhills San Juan +63 2 584 2869 info@unitedtowers.com
Baltic Council for International Education Waryńskiego 3A, Warszawa 00-645 +48 576382 088 info@balticcouncil.pl StudyIn Widok Towers, al.Jerozolimskie 44, 11th Floor 00-024, Warszawa, Poland Tel: +48 730 75 74 85 warsaw@gostudyin.com
IntegralEdu Blvd.
General Gh.
Magheru Nr.41, Et.1, Apt.1 Sector 1 Bucuresti 010326 T +40 021 311 6003, 04 F +40 021 311 0572 office@integraledu.ro IntegralEdu also has offices in Constanţa, Craiova, Galaţi, Iași and Timişoara Study Abroad Advising Centre Str Caimatei Nr 20 Etaj 2 Sector 2 Bucharest +40 75 709 9187 saac.romania@gmail.com
+254 716 612 223 stella@uni-abroad.com Uniserv Education - Kigaly - Rwanda Yyussa Plaza, 1st Floor (Opp.
Chez Lando Hotel) Kisementi Remera Kimironko Road Kigali KG 11 ST +250 785 556 511 info@uniserveducation.com
IDP Education 4th Level, Regional Language Centre (RELC) 30 Orange Grove Road 258352 T (+65) 6736 7040/41/25 F: +65 6737 1736 info.singapore@idp.com AUG Study 7 Maxwell Road # 02-100 Annex B MND Complex 069111 + 65 6227 0380 singapore@augstudy.com JACK StudyAbroad #08-02 Orchard Gateway@Emerald (Opposite Somerset 313) 238851 +65 67376734 info@studyabroad.sg The Student Sport Company The Hive Enterprise Center Victoria Avenue Southend-on-Sea Essex SS2 6EX sport@studentsportcompany.com YINGMEI International Education RM 2601 United Plaza 1468 Nanjing Road West Shanghai 021-62178973 ad5@yimgmei-edu.com
Study Abroad Advising Centre Soltesovej 16 Bratislava +421903696676 info@unilink.sk
Global Vision for Academic Services F (+962) 6581 4936 admin@visionedu.co.uk
StudyIn Oilcom Petrol Station Near Veta, Nyerere/Chang'ombe Road P.O.BOX 40163 Dar es Salaam, Tanzania Tel: +255 677 500 800 daressalaam@gostudyin.com Uniserv Education - Dar Es Salaam - Tanzania Suite 229, 2nd Floor, , Harbour View Towers (Formerly J M Mall) Samora Avenue Dar Es Salaam +255 22 212 9036 info@uniserveducation.com
StudyIn 10/1, Afrosiyob Street, Mirabad District Tashkent City, 100000, Uzbekistan
Tel: +99897 170 00 66 tashkent@gostudyin.com
BritEd slb@brited.com Uniabroad Delta Chambers, Waiyaki Way Westlands, Nairobi, Kenya.
Student  support

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/international-students/your-country/pakistan:
Oxford Brookes University is a very popular choice among students from Pakistan who choose to study in the UK.
When you join us here in Oxford, you’ll feel at home in no time.
Oxford is a vibrant student city with historical architecture, inspiring museums alongside many shops, bars and cafes.
Whether you love meeting friends for a coffee, enjoy exploring a museum, or prefer wandering the cobbled streets and admiring the beautiful buildings, there is something in Oxford for you.
We are known throughout the world for our innovative courses, modern facilities and strong links with businesses and industry.
By studying at Oxford Brookes, you’ll gain the fundamental skills to excel in your chosen career, and graduate with the international experience that is very highly valued in today’s global job market.
Here are some popular courses studied by students from Pakistan.
Edvoy Lahore Edvoy Educational Services Ltd., Main Blvd Gulberg, Block H Gulberg 2, Lahore, 45000, Pakistan +92 4235872333 Lahore@edvoy.com Edvoy Islamabad Office no 28, First Floor Parkland City, I-8 Markaz Islamabad +92 518897051 Islamabad@edvoy.com Edvoy Faisalabad 14-A Kohinoor City Faisalabad +92 415488333 Faisalabad@edvoy.com
Falcon Education & Consultancy Services G 48, Suite 1 Commercial Area DHA Phae-1 Lahore Cantt 54792 Lahore abidi@falconedu.com +92 42 35730897-8
HR Consultants No.
35, First Floor Beverly Center, Blue Area 56-G Jinnah Avenue 44000 Islamabad hr1@hrpakistan.com T: +92 321 5101791 / +44 (0) 7438249729 F: +92 51 2206453
Other HR Consultants offices are located in: Faisalabad, Lahore, Karachi, Multan, Peshawar and Rawalpindi.
HR Faisalabad Mr.
Hamid Rauf Office No.
1, First Floor, Hassan Shopping Mall, Peoples Colony, 38000 Faisalabad obu@hrpakistan.com Mobile/WhatsApp: +92 3215101791 / Phone: +92 418719401
HR Head Office Islamabad Mr.
Arafat Shahid - Office Manager Office No.
35, 1st Floor Beverly Centre Blue Area, Jinnah Avenue 44000 Islamabad obu@hrpakistan.com Mobile: +92 323 2307007 / Phone: +92 51 2206451-2
HR Karachi Parsa Tower Mr.
302, 3rd Floor, Parsa Tower, Plot NO.
31-1-A, Block-6, PECHS, Main Shahrah-e-Faisal 74400 Karachi obu@hrpakistan.com Mobile/WhatsApp: +92 321510179 1 / Phone: +9221 35212107
HR Karachi DHA Mr.
Hamid Rauf 56-C, Shahbaz Lane, Near Saba Avenue, Phase 6 75500 Karachi obu@hrpakistan.com Mobile/WhatsApp: +92 3215101791
HR Karachi Saddar Mr.
Hamid Rauf HR Consultants (Pvt) Ltd Office No.
107, First Floor, Trade Tower, Abdullah Haroon Road, 74400 Karachi obu@hrpakistan.com Mobile/WhatsApp: +92 3215101791 / Phone: +92 2135689746 / +92 135674239
HR Lahore DHA Mr.
Hamid Rauf Building No.
29CCA, opposite PENTA Square, DHA Phase 5, 54660 Lahore obu@hrpakistan.com Mobile/WhatsApp: +92 3215101791 / Phone: +92 4237189291 / +92 4237189295 / +92 4237189296 / +92 4237189297
HR Lahore Gulberg Mr.
214, 2nd Floor, Siddique Trade Center, Main Boulevard Gulberg, 54660 Lahore obu@hrpakistan.com Mobile/WhatsApp: +92 3215101791 / Phone: +92 4235787470 / +92 4235787496
HR Multan Mr.
Hamid Rauf Office No: 5, Upper Ground Floor, Business City Plaza, Bosan Road 60000 Multan obu@hrpakistan.com Mobile/WhatsApp: +92 3215101791 / Phone: +92 616511751
HR Peshawar Mr.
Hamid Rauf SS Plaza, Abdara Road University Town 25000 Peshawar obu@hrpakistan.com Mobile/WhatsApp: +92 3215101791 / Phone: +92 917250010
HR Rawalpindi Mr.
Hamid Rauf UCAT Building, Near Sana Plaza, Walayat Khan Road, Chaklala Scheme III, 46000 Rawalpindi obu@hrpakistan.com Mobile/WhatsApp: +92 3215101791 / Phone: +92 518316608 / +92 515133725
Shiraz Rasheed - Office Manager Office G-13 Ground Floor ISE Tower, 55-B Jinnah Avenue Islamabad shiraz.rasheed@idp.com +92 3354747002
IDP Karachi Khurram Aijaz Bhatti - Person of contact Suite #1402, 14th Floor, Vital Foakh Tower Main Shahrah-e-Faisal, Karachi info.karachi@idp.com +92 2134320978 / +92 2134320979
Taimoor Ali Qureshi - Office Manager Office 29 & 30, 2nd Floor, Park Lane Tower 172 Tufail Road Lahore Cantonment taimoor.qureshi@idp.com +92 3227888828
IEIS Group Plaza no 329 Lily Road, River View Commercial Bahria Town Phase 7, Rawalpindi, Pakistan
ueku@ieis.org.uk +92 336 5295006
Faisalabad Office No.06, 3rd Floor, Legacy Tower Kohinoor City Jaranwalaroad Faisalabad, Pakistan
Tel: +92 041 8554200 faisalabad@gostudyin.com
Islamabad Beverly Beverly Centre, Office -33, Mezzanine Floor, Nazim-ud-din Rd, Islamabad, Pakistan
Tel: +92 51 2722666 islamabad@gostudyin.com
Islamabad I-8 (MOU) Office # 11 and 12 1st floor Pakland city center I-8 Markaz Islamabad, Pakistan
Tel: +92 51 480 0900 islamabad@gostudyin.com Jhelum Azan Plaza, First Floor, Old GT Road, Machine Muhallah No 3, Jhelum, Pakistan Tel: +92 54 423 4333 jhelum@gostudyin.com
Karachi - Gulshan-e-Iqbal Office # 2, 1st Floor, Darup Furqan Apartment, Gulshan e Iqbal, Karachi, Pakistan Tel: +92 342 2227043 karachi@gostudyin.com
Karachi - Zamzama 1st Floor, Building # 16-C, Lane # 4, Zamzama Commercial, Phase-5 Defence Housing Authority, Karachi, Pakistan
Tel: +92 342 2227043 karachi@gostudyin.com
Lahore - DHA Ground floor, Plaza No 8, Block K, DHA Phase 1 Commercial Lahore, Pakistan
Tel: +92 301 4434942 lahore@gostudyin.com
Lahore - Faisal Town 841 Ground Floor, Maulana Shaukat Ali Road, Faisal Town, near Nadeem Buffet, Lahore, Pakistan
Tel: +92 42 32332608 lahore@gostudyin.com Multan Office No.31 to 34, 2nd Floor Business City Plaza, Main Bosan Road, Multan, Pakistan
Tel: +92 61 6211008 multan@gostudyin.com
Peshawar Office # 10, First Floor, JK Shopping Mall University Road, Peshawar, Pakistan
Tel: +92 91 5840322 peshawar@gostudyin.com
Rawalpindi ASFE ARCADE 953 Ground Floor, Main Service Road West Islamabad Expressway, Dhok Kala Khan, Rawalpindi, Pakistan Tel: +92 51 4264181 rawalpindi@gostudyin.com
Sahiwal Ground Floor, Al-Madina Tower, Commercial Market Fareed Town, Sahiwal, Punjab, Pakistan
Tel: +92 40 4550137 sahiwal@gostudyin.com
Islamabad office Office NO 09, 2nd Floor, City Arcade Plaza, I-8 Markaz, Islamabad, Pakistan
+92 310 2289368 +92 310 0002414 pakistan@tclglobal.co.uk
Lahore office 4-Z, Commercial Plaza, DHA Phase Sector Z, DHA Phase 3, Lahore, DHA Sector Z, Lahore, 54700 Pakistan
+92 310 2289352 +92 310 0002414 + 44 7939 940559 pakistan@tclglobal.co.uk
VICPAK Consultancy Services Office # 28-30, 3rd Floor, Pakland City Center, I-8 Markaz Islamabad, 44000
+92 51 5730848 info@vicpakconsultant.com
Pre-Master's followed by MSc Finance

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/international-students/your-country/portugal:
Students from Portugal have flourished during their time at Oxford Brookes University for many years, enjoying a world-class student experience in the heart of an iconic city while creating lasting memories and friendships with students from all over the world.
We are very proud of our outstanding sports facilities, with a variety of clubs for students of all levels, from football to volleyball and boxing to hockey.
Book a meeting with Rachel
Here are some popular courses studied by students from Portugal.
Develop your knowledge and skills with our MSc in Marketing Communications Management.
Our graduates have found employment with large brands such as Amazon, Jaguar and others.
If you have a passion for hospitality and the determination to succeed, our International Tourism and Hospitality Management degree is for you.
Information Planet Lisbon/Oporto/Madeira info@informationplanet.pt T: 00351 216048022 / 00351 918537287
IEC Rua Latino Coelho 87, 1050-134 Lisboa, Portugal portugal@iecformacion.
com
OK Estudante Rua Alexandre Herculano Nº 2, 1º Dto.
1150-006 Lisboa info@okestudante.pt (+351) 218 289 204
Avenida de Berna 11, 3º Andar 1050-030 Lisboa support@ucademics.com (+351) 211 319 469

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/international-students/your-country/qatar:
At Oxford Brookes University, we welcome students from Qatar onto our campuses every year.
Our students enjoy an inspiring and varied student experience in the heart of a beautiful city.
Whether you love exploring the cobbled streets, enjoy reading a book in one of the city's many cafes, or prefer playing football in a nearby park with friends, you’ll find something in Oxford for you.
Here are some popular courses studied by students from Qatar.
On our MSc in Accounting & Finance, you’ll gain up to 7 exemptions from the papers required to become a qualified accountant with ACCA.
Our Mechanical Engineering BEng course develops you into a skilled incorporated engineer and prepares you for a career in any area of mechanical engineering.
Intelligent Partners Al Sharan Center Shop No.
5 Al Saad Road (next to Royal Plaza Mall) Doha +974 44149282
Qobolak Education 5th Floor, Commercial Bank Plaza West Bay, Doha P.
O.
Box: 27111 qatar@qobolak.com +974 4452 7999
StudyIn Office No 17, 14th Floor, The Gate Mall, Tower 4, 63 Mayasoloun Street, P.O.
Box 10805, West Bay, Doha, Qatar Tel: +974 5076 0041 WhatsApp: +974 5027 6246 doha@gostudyin.com

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/international-students/your-country/saudi-arabia:
Oxford Brookes University is a very popular choice among students from Saudi Arabia who choose to study in the UK.
We work closely with the Saudi Ministry of Education and feature on their list of approved universities .
Here are some popular courses studied by students from Saudi Arabia.
We provide world-class education that fully prepares you for a successful and fulfilling career in the international hospitality, events and tourism industry.
Our master’s degree allows you to undertake a Mental Health Nursing course which leads to registration with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC).
Riyadh office 303, 3rd Floor Sada Premium Business Center, Next to Braira hotel, Olaya Street, Riyadh, 11557, Saudi Arabia.
+966 118104 444 admissions@edvoy.com
11, 3rd Floor Badr Al Tahlia Building Prince Mohammed Bin Abdul Aziz Street (Al Tahlia Street) Alrawda 23432- 4397 Jeddah Jeddah@visionedu.co.uk +966 12 2611202 / 54 0082215
Another office is in Riyadh.
IDP Al Rabiea tower, Al Fahd Hotel Building, 6th floor, Office 601 Olaya Main Road (south) cross with Kherais Riyadh info.riyadh@idp.com T: +966 92000 1704 F: +966 1 201 5011
Other IDP Education offices are located in: Jeddah, Al Khobar.
IEC Abroad No.
28, Zahran Tower Office North of Square (Morabba'a Bridge) Al Madinah Road Jeddah jeddah@iecabroad.com +996 (0)2682 1285
IEC Abroad also have offices in Riyadh and Alkhobar.
IG for Education Services Global Based in the UK info@ig-es.com
Visit the Intelligent Partners website
Qobolak Education King Fahad Area Alolaya Street Opposite Taybah Mall Ground Floor 12271 Riyadh saudi@qobolak.com T: +966 11 26 300 26 Mob: +966 56 3322 123
StudyIn Uthman Ibn Affan Road, Al Izdihar District, Riyadh 12485, Saudi Arabia Tel: +966 55 165 8370 riyadh@gostudyin.com
TCL Global Office No.
24, Building No.
7250, King Fahad Road, Secondary No.
4135, Al Olaya, 12311, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia ksa@tclglobal.co.uk +966 50 544 4945, +966 53 962 6555 + 44 7939 940559
UKuni Riyadh Office Office 7, First Floor, 3144 King Abdullah Br Road, Riyadh 12481-6181 +966 11 275-4606 Jeddah Office Office 11, First Floor, 7807 Prince Sultan Street, As Salamah district Jeddah 23437-2117 +966 12 602-2214 Al Khobar Office Office 701, Seventh Floor, 6125 Prince Turkey Street, Al-Yarmouk, Al Khobar 34412-3155 +966 13 837-2228
MSc Midwifery (Pre-Registration)

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/international-students/your-country/south-africa:
Students from South Africa have joined us at Oxford Brookes University for many years, enjoying a memorable student life in the heart of a famous city based in the centre of England.
Here are some popular courses studied by students from South Africa.
Our LLB at Oxford Brookes is a law degree that gives you the critical thinking, communication, and advocacy skills to prepare you for a successful legal career.
Getting started with your application
BritEd 788-790 Finchley Road NW11 7TJ London, United Kingdom slb@brited.com Tel: +44 (0) 845 301 1225 Fax: +44 (0) 845 301 1226 Skype: brited1
Global Education South Africa 11a 7th avenue Park Town North Randburg Johannesburg nico@global-education.co.za +27 11 2686545
Global Education represent students from South Africa, Zimbabwe, Namibia, Botswana, Swaziland, Mozambique and Malawi.
Sarah Bacon The HIF Gayton NN7 3EY Northampton sarah@oxfordeducationconsulting.com +44 (0)1604 857655
The Student Sport Company The Hive Enterprise Center Victoria Avenue Southend-on-Sea SS2 6EX Essex sport@studentsportcompany.com

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/international-students/your-country/south-korea:
Students from South Korea are warmly welcomed onto our campuses every year.
Here are some popular courses studied by students from South Korea.
With our MSc Hospitality, Events and Tourism Management, you’ll gain an introduction to key concepts including:psychology of consumer behaviour, how to create a marketing plan, hospitality operations and
strategic financial management.
EDM Education Co Ltd 6F.
22, Seocho-daero 78-gil, Seocho-gu, Seoul, 06621 Republic of Korea marketing2@edmedu.com T (+82) 2-562-5091 EDM Education is also located in: Seoul
IDP Education 12 FL, S&G Tower, 61 Seocho-daero 77-gil, Seocho-gu 06611 Seoul info.gangnam@idp.com +82-2-550-0303 Other IDP Education offices are located in: Chongno, Busan
UK Education Network 607 Osung Building 113 Yeoksam-ro Gangnam-gu 06242 Seoul uken@uken.kr (+82) 2 2052 1221
Pre-Master's followed by MSc Project Management in the Built Environment.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/international-students/your-country/spain:
Students from Spain have been joining us at Oxford Brookes University for many years.
Here are some popular courses studied by Spanish students.
At Oxford Brookes you won’t just learn practical mechanical skills.
You’ll develop your design engineering expertise and think about what the vehicles of the future will look like.
Qualification equivalent to UK A-levels: Título de Bachiller
10-16 Tiller Road, Docklands, London England E14 8PX +44 7933218349 leonardo@theboradclub.com
IEC C/ Lagasca No135, 1oB Madrid 28006
+34 91 579 22 88 hello@iecformacion.com
UniWorld +44 (0) 7527 167357 info@uniworlduk.com
BSc (Hons) Criminology and International Relations.
MA History.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/international-students/your-country/sri-lanka:
Students from Sri Lanka have been joining us at Oxford Brookes University for many years.
Here are some popular courses studied by students from Sri Lanka.
With our MSc Hospitality, Events and Tourism Management course, you’ll gain an introduction to key concepts such as psychology of consumer behaviour and how to create a marketing plan.
AHZ Associates Colombo 3rd Floor, No.
243, R.A.
De Mel Mawatha, Colombo 03 srilanka@ahzassociates.co.uk +94 777910230
161/D/1 Makola Road, Kiribathgoda, Sri Lanka +94 777 54 38 54 info@burclanka.com
Campus Direct 36B, Gower Street, Colombo 05, Sri Lanka +94 77 900 5555 info@cduk.lk
Colombo office Level 26, World Trade Center - East Tower, Echelon Square, Colombo-01, Sri Lanka +94 771731717 srilanka@edvoy.com
IDP Education Serendib Tower No- 324, 3rd & 4th Floor, Galle Road, Colombo – 3 info.srilanka@idp.com + 94 11 77 11 888 / +94 72 411 6386
Colombo 517-2/1, Second Floor, Mayfair House, Galle Road, Colombo 3, 00400, Colombo Tel: +0094740011814 colombo@gostudyin.com Jaffna No 284 Sathira Junction, Hospital Road, Jaffna, Sri Lanka Tel: +0094771215879 jaffna@gostudyin.com
56/3 Main St, Battaramulla, Sri Lanka srilanka@tclglobal.co.uk +94 72 072 8698 + 44 7939 940559

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/international-students/your-country/switzerland:
Students from Switzerland have flourished during their time at Oxford Brookes University for many years, enjoying a world-class student experience in the heart of an iconic city while creating lasting memories and friendships with students from all over the world.
We are very proud of our outstanding sports facilities, with a variety of clubs for students of all levels, from football to fencing and boxing to basketball.
Here are some popular courses studied by Swiss students.
Design buildings that help communities to prosper, or that solve environmental, social and economic challenges as part of a rewarding career.
Our Biosciences degrees are designed to develop your professional skills alongside theory, providing a great foundation for a wide range of careers.
International Foundation followed by BSc (Hons) Business, Enterprise and Entrepreneurship.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/international-students/your-country/taiwan:
At Oxford Brookes University, we are proud of our diverse international student community, and we welcome students from Taiwan onto our campuses every year.
Here are some popular courses studied by students from Taiwan.
On our MSc Digital Marketing at Oxford Brookes, we’ll show you how your ideas can drive profits for businesses and make a positive contribution to society at the same time.
IDP Education 7F., No.
169, Sec.
4 ZhongXiao E.
Rd., DaAn Dist.
Taipei City 106662 info.taipei@idp.com +886 (0)2-2778-2600
Other IDP Education offices are located in: Banqiao, Taoyuan, Hsinchu, Taichung, Tainan and Kaohsiung.
Index Educational Services 10F, No 261 Section 3 Roosevelt Road 106 Taipei City service@indexedu.com.tw T:(+886) 2 2369 2928 F:(+886) 2 2362 8495
Other Index offices are located in: Kaohsiung and Taichung.
OH!
Study Taipei Renai Road, Sec 109, 4th Floor Da'an Dist Taipei City 10689 ohstudy@ohstudy.net T: 02-2751-1919 F: 02-2741-2890
OxBridge Consulting, Inc.
12F-5., No.
206, Sec.
2, Nanjing E.
Rd., Zhongshan Dist., Taipei City 10491, Taiwan service@oxbridge.com.tw T: (+886) 2 2779 0801 F: (+886) 2 2779 0803
Taipei 6F-1, No.
1, Section 4, Xinyi Road, Da’an District, Taipei City, 106 Taiwan
Tel: +886 2 27556365 taipei@gostudyin.com
Taipei City 9F.-14, No.
68, Sec.
4 Roosevelt Rd., Zhongzheng Dist.
Taipei City 10046 Taiwan (R.O.C.) ask@win-ed.com.tw T: (+886) 2-2367-8616

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/international-students/your-country/thailand:
At Oxford Brookes University, we currently have a number of Thai students enrolled on our courses, and we welcome students from Thailand onto our campuses every year.
By studying overseas at Oxford Brookes, you’ll obtain skills that are widely sought-after by global employers, while experiencing a memorable student life in the heart of a famous city.
Our MSc in Digital Marketing enables you to specialise in planning and applying digital marketing strategies.
Bangkok office Edvoy Educational Services Ltd.
Co., Ltd Maneeya Center Building, 518/5 Ploenchit Road, Lumpini, Bangkok 10330, Thailand +66 (0) 250 4585-6 thailand@iecabroad.com
Silom (Country Head Offce) 317 Kamol Sukosol Building, 15th Floor Silom, Bangkok Thailand 10500 +66(0)2-635-5230 info@hands-on.co.th
Pinklao office Central Plaza Pinklao Tower A, 7/129 Room No.OF21501/1, 15th floor Borommaratchachonnani Road, Arun Amarin, Bangkok Noi, Bangkok, 10700 +66 (0)99-803-6569
Sukhumvit office 8 T-One Building, 20th Floor, Sukhumvit Road Phra Khanong Subdistrict, Khlong Toei Sukhumvit Bangkok, Thailand 10110 +66 (0)2-821-6877
Chiang Mai office Floor 3, Siripanich Building 191, Huay Kaew Road Suthep Suthep Subdistrict, Mueang Chiang Mai, Chiang Mai, Thailand 50200 +66 (0)89-217-5454
IDP Bangkok 1 Office: 4th Floor CP Tower 313 Silom Road Bangrak, Bangkok 10500 info.bangkok1@idp.com T: (+66) 2 638 3111
IDP Bangkok 2 Office: 215 Phaya Thai Rd Khwaeng Pathum Wan, Pathum Wan Bangkok 10330 info.bangkok2@idp.com T: (+89) 666 4634
Visit the IDP Thailand website Other IDP Education offices are located in Khon Kaen and Chiang Mai
Mango Learning Express 18 The Unicorn, 15th floor, Unit 1511, Phayathai Rd., Tung Phayathai, Ratchatewi, Bangkok 10400 T: +6621293313 info@mangolearningexpress.com
One Education 518/3 Maneeya Center North, 4th Floor Phloen Chit Rd, Pathum Wan Bangkok
Bangkok 1 VASU 1 Building, 5th Floor Suite 501 Soi Sukhumvit 25, Sukhumvit Road, Wattana Bangkok 10110, Thailand
Tel: +66 (0)2-260-6033 bangkok@gostudyin.com
Chiang Mai 11/1-2 Jaban Road, T.
Sriphoom, A.
Muang Chiang Mai 50200, Thailand
Tel: +66 91 079 9303 chiangmai@gostudyin.com
WIN Education Head Office – Asoke 3rd FL, Jasmine City Building Sukhumvit 23 Bangkok ask@win-ed.com Admissions queries - please email application@win-ed.com T: +66 84 664 3559 WIN Education also have offices in Samyan Mitrtown, Lardprao, Pinklao and Chiang Mai.
Pre-sessional English followed by MSc International Hospitality, Events and Tourism Management.
MArchD Applied Design in Architecture.
Brookes Union & societies

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/international-students/your-country/turkey:
The UK is widely chosen as a study destination by Turkish students, with Oxford Brookes being a very popular choice.
We attract students from over 140 countries, including a large cohort of students from Turkey, who flourish as part of our diverse international student community.
Oxford is a vibrant student city with beautiful architecture, inspiring museums alongside lively bars and cosy cafes.
Whether you love trying new cuisines, enjoy wandering around an art gallery or taking a walk with friends in nature, there is something in Oxford for you.
We are known globally for our innovative courses, modern facilities and strong industry-employer links.
You’ll gain the fundamental skills to excel in your chosen career, and graduate with the international experience that is so highly valued in today’s global job market.
Here are some popular courses studied by Turkish students.
On our postgraduate Motorsport Engineering course, you’ll get the right blend of practical experience and theory to prepare you for a career in motorsport.
You'll gain a strong foundation in marketing theory and practice with our MSc Marketing.
You will combine theory and practice to develop the key skills that employers are looking for.
On our Computer Science degree you can take your first step into computer science.
Through your learning, studies and development you build everything you need for a successful career in any area of computing.
Alternatif Education Counselling Services Taksim Meydani, Siraselviler Cad.
Taner Palas Apt.
No:9 Kat:2 Daire:5 Beyoglu Istanbul 34437
(+90) 212 292 4326 ups@alternatifecs.com info@alternatifecs.com
Other Alternatif offices are located in Ankara and Izmir.
ATEC Yurtdisi Egitim Danismanligi Istanbul office Caddebostan, Bagdat Cad.
Koksal Apt No:317 K:2 D:8, 34728 Kadikoy/Istanbul
Ankara office Barbaros Mah.
John F Kennedy Caddesi Baskent Apt.
No: 28 D:46 Cankaya/Ankara
T (+90) 216 550 1213 / F (+90) 216 550 1216 atec@atec.com.tr
Atlas Educational Services Inonu Cad.
Hariciye Konagi Sok.
Ozan Han, No:9 K:3 Beyoglu Istanbul
T (+90) 212 249 53 10 / F (+90) 212 252 33 76 atlas@atlasedu.com
Central Office Inonu Cad.
Ozan Han No:9 K:3 Beyoglu Istanbul
T +90 212 249 5310
2nd Most Busy Office Halitaga Cad.
Vahap Bey Sok.
No:29 K:1 D:4 Kadikoy Istanbul
T +90 216 411 1155
Other Atlas offices are located in Ankara, Antalya, Bursa, Gaziantep, Izmir, Kayseri, Konya, Sydney and London.
British Education Bureau Consultancy Istiklal Caddesi Kallavi Sokak No:1 Leon Apartmanı Kat 3-4 Beyoğlu Istanbul
+90 212 2444 000 turkeyist@britisheducation.com.tr
Other BEB offices:
Ankara Office: Ufuk Üniversitesi Caddesi, The Paragon, No:3 Kat:23 Çukurambar /Ankara
+90 312 258 63 23 turkeyank@britisheducation.com.tr
Izmir Office: Manas Bulvari.
Adalet Mah.
Folkart Towers.
B Kule Kat:34 D:3408 , Bayrakli / Izmir
+90 232 323 10 10 turkeyizm@britisheducation.com.tr
Edcon Education Consultancy Valikonağı Cad.
No:67 K:7 D:7 34365 Nişantaşı Istanbul
Tel: +90 (0) 212 234 4899 Fax: +90 (0) 212 230 1761 fulyaakcil@edcon.com.tr
Other Edcon Education Consultancy offices:
Istanbul (Nisantasi) Office: Valikonagi Caddesi Konak, Apt.
67/7 Nisantasi, 34365, Istanbul
+90 212 234 48 99 banu@edcon.com.tr
Ankara Office: Tunus Caddesi 63/5, Kavaklidere, 6680, Ankara
+90 312 427 90 00 oytun@edcon.com.tr
Izmir Office: Kibris Sehitleri Caddesi N28 K2, D5 Nuray Apt Alsancak, 35220, Izmir
+90 232 425 25 56 izmir@edcon.com.tr
Istanbul (Saskinbakkal) Office: Bagdat Cad N365/7 Saskinbakkal Kadikoy, 34740, Istanbul
+90 216 301 13 23 fulyaakcil@edcon.com.tr
Istanbul (Bahcesehir) Office: Bahcesehir 2.kisim AvniAkyol Cad.
LocaEvleri B Blok No.45 Kat.
-6 Basaksehir, 34480, Istanbul
+90 212 669 29 29 oya@edcon.com.tr
Bursa Office: FSM Bulvari Bulvar 224 Sit C Blok D8 Nilufer, 16110, Bursa
+90 224 223 03 30 tugba@edcon.com.tr
EDUKAS İzmir Office Alsancak, Kültür Mah.
Dr.
Mustafa Enver Bey Cad.
Ayşe Apt, No:16 Kat:1 Daire:2 Konak
(+90) 232 4220556 izmir@edukas.com.tr
Alternative offices are located in Istanbul and Ankara:
Istanbul Office (Europe side): Lotus Nişantaşı, Workinton, Halaskargazi Cd.
No:38-66 Şişli Istanbul
(+90) 212 4014190 istanbul@edukas.com.tr
Istanbul Office (Anatolian side): Suadiye Mahallesi Bağdat Caddesi No:359 Kat:3 Daire:7 Kadıköy
(+90) 216 4082220 istanbul@edukas.com.tr
Ankara Office: Remzi Oğuz Arık Mah.
Bestekar Sokak Üniversite Apt.
No:61 Kat:2 Daire:3 Orta Blok Çankaya
(+90) 312 4650464 ankara@edukas.com.tr
IDP Education Harbiye Mah.
Cumhuriyet Cad.
Kahan Apt No:40/4 (located in the same building as Kahve Dunyasi) Elmadağ, Şişli Istanbul
T (+90) 212 245 1588 seval.sir@idp.com
14 Dartington Avenue Woodley Reading RG4 3PD
+44 (0) 7753 626229 sirin@smylesconsulting.co.uk
StudyIn Istanbul Fulya Mahallesi, Büyükdere Caddesi Torun Center, No:74/D, Kat:3 Ofis:10/2, 34349 Şişli/İstanbul, Turkey +90 2129950735 istanbul@gostudyin.com StudyIn Ankara Kızılırmak Mahallesi Ufuk Üniversitesi Caddesi Next Level Loft Ofis 4 / 72 - 76 A Kat:27, 06510 Söğütözü, Ankara, Turkey +90 2129950735 ankara@gostudyin.com StudyIn Atasehir Küçükbakkalköy Mh.
Merdivenköy Yolu Cd.
Rüya Sk.
No: 12/18 Ataşehir / İstanbul +90 2129950735 atasehir@gostudyin.com StudyIn Denizli Çamlaraltı Mah.
6014 Sk.
No:6 D:2 Kınıklı / Denizli +90 2129950735 denizli@gostudyin.com StudyIn Izmir Folkart Towers A kule Adalet Mh.
Manas Bul.
No:47/B Kat: 26, Daire: 2601 Bayraklı – İzmir +90 2129950735 izmir@gostudyin.com
United Towers Educational Consulting Taksim Meydani.
Mete Cad.
Mete Palas Apt No: 20/9 34427 Beyoglu Istanbul
+90 (212) 244 50 05 kemal@unitedtowers.com
United Towers also has offices in Ankara, Izmir and Gaziantep.
MA International Relations
BSc (Hons) Biomedical Science

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/international-students/your-country/uganda:
Students from Uganda have been coming to Oxford Brookes University for many years and we currently have a number Ugandan students enrolled at the University.
We are one of the UK's leading modern universities, and with our innovative teaching methods and the support we offer our students you will achieve results that are internationally respected and a degree that will open doors in the global employment market.
Attend an open day or webinar
Here are some popular courses studied by students from Uganda.
Uniserv Education SM Chambers, Plot 14 Kintu Road Opposite Serena Hotel Staff Gate Kampala info@uniserveducation.com +256 709 688 080
Academic & wellbeing support

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/international-students/your-country/united-arab-emirates:
Students from the United Arab Emirates are welcomed at Oxford Brookes University every year.
We design our courses to help you gain the practical skills and knowledge that employers are looking for, and prepare you for entry into the global job market.
Here are some popular courses studied by Emirati students.
Thawawaya/General Secondary Education Certificate PLUS a recognised foundation course
Brighter Admission Consultant 1602, 1 Lake Plaza, Dubai
+971 589997527 info@gotouniv.com
Global Study +44 (0)20 7486 4762 info@globalstudyuk.com
IDP Education Dubai IDP Education Ltd, 7th Floor, The One Tower, Sheikh Zayed Road, Dubai, UAE T +971 4 3446814 Info.dubai@idp.com
Abu Dhabi IDP Education Ltd, Office 404, Syscom College Building, Airport Road, Near Corniche, Abu Dhabi, UAE T +971 2 6228367 / +971 2 6228368
International Placewell Consultants Block 13, office No: F-18 Dubai Knowledge Park Dubai
+97 1504293760 dubai@unidirection.com
Knowledge Horizon Office 704, ACICO Business Park Deira PO BOX 29114 Dubai
T (+971) 4 298 0994 / F (+971) 4 298 0995 info@knowledgehorizon.com
Qobolak Education +971 555 777 395 mostafa@qobolak.com
StudyIn Office No.
104, Al Masaood Tower, 54 Al Maktoum Rd - Deira - Riggat Al Buteen Dubai Tel: +971 43868900 dubai@gostudyin.com
TCL Global Talib Education Support Services LLC, 1208A & 1209A, Floor 12A, DAMAC Executive Heights, Jebel Ali Race Course Road, Barsha Heights, Dubai, UAE T +971 54 217 2237 uae@tclglobal.co.uk
Uniserv Education Office F37 Block 2B Knowledge Village Dubai P.O.
Box 501730
+971 58 831 5450 info@uniserveducation.com
Brookes Sport has a whole range of activities, sports and opportunities for everyone.
BSc (Hons) Nutrition

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/international-students/your-country/usa:
At Oxford Brookes University, we are proud of our diverse international student community, and we welcome a large cohort of students from the USA onto our campuses every year.
At Oxford Brookes, we welcome transfer students.
Many of our students join us after spending one, two, or three years at a US university or community college.
To apply, submit your application indicating that you'd like to transfer credits, upload your transcripts, and we’ll assess your credits for you.
Here are some popular courses studied by American students.
On our postgraduate Motorsport Engineering course, you'll get the right blend of practical experience and theory to prepare you for a career in motorsport.
Oxford Brookes USA representative can advise you about your study options and help you fill in an application.
If you would like help, contact Javier Garcia Sunthorn at jgarcia-sunthorn@brookes.ac.uk .
Oxford Brookes University participates in the William D.
Ford Federal Direct Loan (Direct Loan) Program.
Please read through the information provided here before starting the application process.
You may find the process very different to applications made to US schools.
From rowing to netball, there are plenty of opportunities to get active while at Oxford Brookes.
MSc International Business Management

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/international-students/your-country/vietnam:
Students from Vietnam are warmly welcomed onto our campuses every year.
Here are some popular courses studied by students from Vietnam.
With our MSc Marketing and Brand Management course, you'll develop a strong foundation in marketing theory and practice combined with a specialist perspective on brand management.
This course will take your English language teaching to the next level.
You’ll master the pedagogical theory behind key teaching approaches, helping you to meaningfully progress your career.
Our LLB at Oxford Brookes is a law degree that gives you the critical thinking and communication skills to prepare you for a successful legal career, with opportunities to build the skills you’ll need in practice.
Global Education Services Company Hồ Chí Minh office 255 Nguyen Dinh Chieu Street Ward 5 District 3 Hồ Chí Minh hochiminh@gse.edu.vn 028 3820 7759 Hà Nội office Tầng 2, Tòa nhà Toserco, 273 Kim Mã, Q.
Ba Đình, Hà Nội hanoi@gse.edu.vn 024 3771 3561
Ho Chi Minh (Country Head Office) Huy Son Building, Floor 8, 7-9-11 Mai Thi Luu, Dakao Ward District 1, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam 700000
+84 28 2200 0580 info.hcm@handson-beo.vn
IDP Education Star Building, 33C Mac Dinh Chi Street Dakao Ward, District 1 Ho Chi Minh City info.hcmc@idp.com T (+84) 8 3910 4205 F: +84 8 3910 4206
Other IDP Education offices are located in: Ho Chi Minh City District 5, Hanoi, Danang, Can Tho.
INDEC INDEC Building Alley 474 Xa Dan Street Dong Da District Hanoi City info@indec.vn T: +84 437327203 F: +84 437327204
InterGreat Education Group 20th floor Icon4 Tower 243A De La Thanh Hanoi (+84) 024-71018889
ISC Education Hanoi Central 1st Fl., Phu Dien Building 83A Ly Thuong Kiet street Cua Nam ward Hoan Kiem district Hanoi hanoi@isc.education (+84) 024 3941 1906 ISC Education Hanoi West 8th floor, Daeha Business Center, 360 Kim Ma street, Ngoc Khanh ward, Ba Dinh district, Hanoi hanoiwest@isc.education (+84) 024 3792 5288
ISC Education Ho Chi Minh 5th Floor, 35 Mac Dinh Chi street.
Da Kao Ward District 1 Ho Chi Minh City hochiminh@isc.education (+84) 028 3824 6622
Hanoi 54-56 Tue Tinh St., Hai Ba Trung Dist.
Hanoi, Vietnam
Tel: +99897 170 00 66 hanoi@gostudyin.com
Ho Chi Minh 172 Bui Thi Xuan St., Dist.1 Ho Chi Minh city, Vietnam
Tel: +84963049860 hochiminh@gostudyin.com
Vietint Education Joint Stock Company 19P Thuy Khue Street Tay Ho District Hanoi trang.nguyen@vietint.net T: +84 (0) 437764024 F: +84 (0) 437737336
Come to one of our events and learn more about studying at Oxford Brookes University as an international student.
BA (Hons) Business Management

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/international-students/your-country/zimbabwe:
At Oxford Brookes University, we currently have a number of Zimbabwean students enrolled on our courses, and we welcome students from Zimbabwe onto our campuses every year.
By studying abroad at Oxford Brookes, you’ll gain many skills that are widely sought-after by global employers, while experiencing a memorable student life in the heart of a famous city, located in the centre of England.
Here are some popular courses studied by students from Zimbabwe.
With our MSc Hospitality, Events and Tourism Management, you’ll gain an introduction to key concepts including: psychology of consumer behaviour, how to create a marketing plan, hospitality operations and strategic financial management.
BritEd Ltd 788-790 Finchley Road NW11 7TJ London, UK info@brited.com 0845 301 1225
The Uni People 14 Aintree Road Highlands Harare info@theunipeople.co.zw +263 772 322680 / +263 787 481848
International Foundation followed by BSc (Hons) Business Management and Sociology

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/about-brookes/partnerships/teaching-partnerships:
Oxford Brookes University is internationally focused and proud to have numerous links around the world.
Through teaching partnerships, we extend the delivery of our programmes beyond our campuses, as well as enabling the development of new franchise, distance learning or dual degree programmes.
Oxford Brookes University has teaching partnerships across multiple continents and countries, including in China, Greece, Kenya, Gibraltar and Sri Lanka, to name but a few.
See our rankings and achievements
To learn more about partnering with Oxford Brookes University please contact the Global Partnerships Team at globalpartnerships@brookes.ac.uk .
If you are interested in partnering with us for programme delivery, please read the process for new partner approval .
globalpartnerships@brookes.ac.uk
Dual Awards
Validation of degree programme in Health and Social Care

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/why-oxford-brookes/employment/work-placements:
Work placements are a brilliant way to develop and build upon the theory you learn during your course, and Oxford Brookes supports students in finding the best opportunities for them.
Having a successful work placement on your CV can help you stand out from the crowd when applying for jobs.
Many of our work placement students are offered a role in their placement company when they graduate.
Browse our courses to find out more about the work placement opportunities in the subjects you’re interested in.
You can look at the placements you're interested in by clicking on the company name here.
“The thing I value most is you feel really empowered.”
Anna-Nicole Hunt
Business and Marketing Management
Anna-Nicole spent her third year on placement at House of Fraser in the web store management team.
What do you value most about being on placement?
The thing I value most is you feel really empowered.
You have such a purpose and you go out and are achieving something every day.
You are always on the go.
You feel like you have such a responsibility and that you are making a difference.
You get to see how you make a contribution to the company’s performance.
What would you say to a student thinking about doing a placement?
I don’t have any regrets about doing a placement at all.
Being in this placement I’ve built relationships not just with this company but with brands outside of this company.
It opens so many doors.
“The realisation that you can do the job you’re training to do - that’s the main point really.”
Occupational Therapy
During his third year he worked as a Student Occupational Therapist at West Berkshire Community Hospital.
Ryan has also completed placements at Farmability and in community teams.
What has being in the workplace given you, compared with being in classes?
Being able to make it more tangible.
Otherwise you’re learning from a textbook, you’re learning a particular case study to use your skill set on, but try as they might at the university, that’s never going to be the person you work with again - there’s a very individualised aspect.
There’s more diversity in the workplace, you get to experience more.
What makes you happiest about your work placement?
Going into your first placement, don’t worry.
The biggest lesson I have learned through being at university is it’s ok to mess things up.
You’re not going to mess things up so badly that someone’s going to come to any real harm, especially on your first placement.
You’re looked after very well.
“Working in the world’s biggest entertainment company has enabled me to work in high pressure situations and learn so much more.”
Sahra Kaneghah
Sahra spent her third year working as a Multiproperty Intern for The Walt Disney Company.
In terms of personal skills like confidence, do you feel like your placement has helped you improve?
100% - although I am confident in my abilities and my work ethic at Brookes, I believe that now that I have put my skills into practice I have really improved them.
Definitely a massive boost of confidence – I believe in my abilities and am given responsibilities that challenge me professionally.
Additionally, working in the world’s biggest entertainment company has enabled me to work in high pressure situations and learn so much more.
Also, the networking is great!
Each connection I make here is so valuable.
“The placements are the reason I chose Brookes”
Harriet Quainton
Mental Health Nursing
During her third year Harriet was on placement as a Student Mental Health Nurse with CAMHS (Child and Adolescent Mental Health Services).
She has also completed placements in the Older Adult Community Mental Health team and in her first year was placed at the Acute Male Vaughan Thomas Ward at the Warneford Hospital.
Were you aware of the placement opportunities when you applied for the course?
I’m not an academic person, so to do three years of just academic work - I would never have applied for the course.
It’s not something I thrive in.
Fortunately I’ve passed all my assignments (bar one exam), but the placements are the reason I chose Brookes over other places.
What has made you proudest on placement?
On my second placement, the consultant on the ward (who’s quite a renowned consultant in Oxford and has been for many years) welcomed me to the team and thought that I was actually a qualified nurse.
He didn’t for a minute believe I was actually a student, and when I did say that I’m actually a student nurse, he said ‘oh, is this your management placement then?’, and I was like no I’m first year!
So that was really nice.
“It just sets you apart from other candidates when you’ve got a year’s work experience under your belt.”
Alex Wenyon
Alex spent her third year on placement as an international and UK Marketing Assistant for Harley-Davidson.
Were the placements something that set Brookes apart when you were thinking about where to go to uni?
Definitely, because I knew I wanted to do a year in industry.
I knew that it would just open me up to a lot more opportunities and what I’m doing (in marketing), it just sets you apart from other candidates when you’ve got a year’s work experience under your belt.
It’s so competitive nowadays for university students to get jobs, so you’re going to try and provide yourself with the most opportunities that you can to set yourself apart from others.
Do you feel like you did manage to balance working and rowing?
Yes, luckily Harley were really great - in my interview I said I am a rower...I asked if it would be OK if I worked over all my lunch breaks, I got in half an hour earlier, I left work half an hour later, to build up my hours so I could do Wednesday afternoons.
Luckily they said yes!
In the interview it was pretty gutsy of me to ask them, but I didn't want them to go into it with any other impressions, I didn't want to suddenly turn around once I’d got the job and say actually can I do this.
I didn’t think that was fair
“"Being able to have a placement gives you so much more perspective about what you’re going to be doing for a career.
And you learn so many new skills you didn’t even know you’d need to build"”
Emily Cregan
During her second year Emily spent one of her placements working as a Student Mental Health Nurse at the Vaughan Thomas Ward (Warneford Hospital).
It puts what you learn into practice, we get to actually use it with real people.
Seeing it actually help people sticks with you - if anything it inspires me to learn more.
What makes you happiest or proudest about your work placement?
Being able to see how even as a student nurse I can affect someone and be part of their care.
Seeing the improvement of someone and seeing someone being able to take control of their life again with the knowledge that I played a part in the care they received.
I was terrified before going on placement - you feel like you’re expected to know a lot but that’s not true.
Everyone there helps you learn.
And don’t be afraid that you feel like you don’t know enough, it’ll come while you’re there.
“The experience you gain being on placement and being away from the university for a year is invaluable.
It has taught me so much”
Alex Styles
Accounting and Finance
Alex spent her third year on placement in the Credit Risk Department of Lloyds Banking Group.
What sort of skills do you think you’ve learnt on placement?
My communication skills have increased exponentially, I talk to stakeholders on a day to day basis not only within my own team but in the wider risk community and it has become apparent clear communication is key to getting them to agree to your ideas/projects.My technical skills have improved significantly...I have also gained invaluable business skills, nothing will compare to working within a big firm such as Lloyds and having exposure to what the real working world is all about.Yeah, honestly, the skills you learn from placement are invaluable.
I’d say don’t be afraid if your friends aren’t applying, don’t be afraid that you might not like your placement or you’re not ready for it, because the experience you gain being on placement and being away from the university for a year is invaluable.
“It’s opened doors and got me thinking more around the other areas I could work in future.”
Anna Burrows
During her third year, Anna completed a placement as a Student Occupational Therapist with Unlocking Potential (a children’s charity) in a mainstream primary school.
She has also completed placements in a stroke unit in Kingston and a forensic unit at Bethlem Royal working with males with personality disorders.
Do you feel like this has helped you decide on a future career?
I never thought I’d work with children, and having that positive experience made me think this is definitely something I’m interested in.
It’s opened doors and got me thinking more around the other areas I could work in future.
The real world experience, the application that you won’t get in a classroom or even with role playing with other students.
Really seeing the process that we do, the OT process, in action from the start with referral to the end plan and discharge, or however it works.
Actually having a go at doing all the steps yourself really helps your confidence and knowledge about what the OT role is in that setting.
“I can’t think back to what it was like before.
Although you’ve learnt so much theory at university, which is really useful, it’s absolutely nothing like the practical ”
Kat Daly
Kat spent her third year working as a Corporate Account Assistant at GOSH (the Great Ormond Street Hospital children's charity).
I can’t think back to what it was like before.
Although you’ve learnt so much theory at university, which is really useful, it’s absolutely nothing like the practical.
It’s made me feel so much more confident now, knowing that when I graduate, when I go to grad scheme interviews and so on, I’ve got so much to talk about now.
I can’t imagine now what I would have talked about before.
So much that you can use in interviews, assessment days...it’s really really valuable.
Has this influenced where you want to go with your career?
Yes definitely.
With this experience I know where I want to start looking and it’s definitely corporate fundraising.
And also with the collaborative working I’ve been able to rule out some things that I know don’t suit my personality.
It’s definitely steered where I’m going to be looking when I finish university.
“You feel that what you are doing is making a difference and you’re using your knowledge base for a purpose”
Tarryn Ashworth
Tarryn completed a placement as a Student Occupational Therapist at the Nuffield Orthopaedic Centre (working in a paediatric role with outpatients) during her third year.
I was aware, especially on the interview day.
Placements are mandatory everywhere, but Oxford Brookes came across as more supportive of placements.
What was your stand-out moment on placement?
One of my practice educators said that she had seen me develop and said I was ready to go into practice.
One of her little phrases was ‘would I let you work with my grandmother?’ and she said she’d give me her grandmother!
It was nice to know that that long haul has actually paid off.
That recognition is something you look forward to.
What are you most proud of about being on placement?
Being able to manage myself and my own caseload and being recognised for that.
Practice educators are really supportive and the ongoing praise was really beneficial.
To be able to get recognition for doing well.
“We can see the direct impact upon the company and our consumers”
Lucy Newman
Lucy spent her third year working as an Events Executive at Sipsmith.
A better understanding of the adult world.
It has also shown me how theory that you learn in uni does apply to the workplace and it actually can make it easier to apply it which I have sometimes found difficult.
I have also developed lots of personal skills which I didn’t realise I would need to develop.
Being able to be imaginative and to see your results.
When the team produce fab work it’s great to see and we are lucky as we can see the direct impact upon the company and our consumers.
I did not think that I would develop skills like I have, as I have always been fairly confident and happy to engage with others, but it is quite different when you enter into a workplace with people of different ages and experiences.
“Don’t be worried about making mistakes, you’re going to learn from them.”
Matt Boffin
Matt completed one of his placements as a Student Mental Health Nurse with the Oxford City Adult Mental Health Team.
Have you faced any particular challenges?
How do you feel that you’ve overcome them?
I think there are always challenges, especially because I had no experience of working in a mental health environment before.
Going into a mental health ward was a bit intimidating, but you just talk to the staff, talk to the mentor and tell them what your worries are and they help you.
What would you say to a student about to start their first placement?
Don’t be worried about making mistakes, you’re going to learn from them.
If you go in worrying about making mistakes, then you’re not going to learn as much as you need to.
Don’t be scared.
And enjoy it!
“Everyone says you can apply your theory, which I think is true, but also it’s about developing it”
Lucy Hughes
Lucy spent her third year on placement as a Project Manager at Harvey Thorneycroft Ltd.
How would you sum up your placement?
It’s been one of my most enjoyable years at university...I think you change as a person - the skills I thought I had I’ve really been able to develop, and the skills I thought I didn’t have I’ve learnt or developed.
I’ve just loved it!
Everyone says you can apply your theory, which I think is true, but also it’s about developing it so you wouldn’t necessarily know that you’re thinking directly of a theory, but it’s having the understanding in an environment.
It was one of the main reasons I chose to do a degree here, there were a lot of similar courses, but they didn’t necessarily have the placement opportunities.
For me it was one of the big factors.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/about-brookes/at-a-glance/results-and-achievements:
10 National Teaching Fellowships recognising outstanding teaching
Higher Education Academy
Among the world’s top universities in 21 individual subject areas
QS World University Rankings by Subject 2024
14 Olympic medals have been won by former rowing students
Ranked in the top 10 in South East England
The world’s first Fairtrade university
Providing fair terms of trade for workers in the developing world
Top 20 in the world and 7th in Europe for our Global MBA
QS Distance Online Learning MBA Rankings 2023
48.8% female professors, compared to a sector average of 29.7%
Athena SWAN Bronze Award
97% of research at Oxford Brookes is internationally recognised and 70% is 'world leading' quality or 'internationally excellent'
Research Excellence Framework 2021

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/study-abroad-and-exchanges/coming-to-brookes/how-to-apply:
To apply for our Exchange or Study Abroad programmes, you will need to meet our academic and English language requirements.
Oxford Brookes University offers a Pre-sessional English course , if you wish to study an English language programme prior to the start of your chosen academic programme.
If you are interested in our Study Abroad (Fee Paying) Programme, please complete the Expression of Interest form .
Please visit our fee information page before completing the Expression of Interest form.
Information can be found on our Fees page , under the 'Associate study and International Study Abroad students' section.
Once your application has been approved, you will receive an email with application instructions.
This is only applicable to students whose home university does not have an exchange agreement with Oxford Brookes.
The documents required are:
Please note that incomplete applications will not be processed, except if you are awaiting results of language tests.
In this case, your application will remain conditional until you can demonstrate that you have met the English Language requirements.
Students who express their interest to Study Abroad for Autumn 2025 Entry (Full Year or 1 Semester).
Students who express their interest to Study Abroad for Spring 2026.
“Coming to Brookes was a magical and life changing experience!
Can't imagine a better place for an exchange ”
Angelika, English Literature Exchange student from Greece
Contact our Global Mobility & Engagement Team
Before you can apply for an exchange at Oxford Brookes University, you must first be nominated by the home university .
Please speak to your home university international exchanges office directly about the application process.
Once we have received your nomination, you will be sent an email containing a link to the online application portal.
Students nominated for Autumn 2025 (Full Year or 1 Semester)
Students nominated for Spring 2026

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/study-abroad-and-exchanges/coming-to-brookes/academic-study:
Our flexible programme enables you to customise your study so that it meets the academic requirements of your home university degree.
You can choose from a wide range of subjects.
“I had an amazing time in Oxford and as an Erasmus Student at Oxford Brookes.
The city is a great combination of tradition and innovation.
My courses were extremely interesting in small groups with motivated people and inspiring lectures.
There was a great balance between theoretical lectures and practical applied courses.”
Stefan, Exchange student from Germany
You can find more information about the modules available by looking at the course catalogue.
Please watch the guidance video first, which provides important information about how to search for modules.
There are a range of subject areas available at Oxford Brookes:
Our academic year is split into 2 semesters starting in September and January.
Each semester consists of a 12-week teaching period followed by examinations.
See our semester calendar for details.
Courses at Oxford Brookes are made up of modules - self-contained classes that are taught and assessed independently of each other.
A single undergraduate module (7.5 ECTS) will involve approximately 150 study hours in total, which includes attending lectures and seminars, as well as independent study and assessment.
Some modules are double and involve approximately 300 study hours.
A single postgraduate module (10ECTS) will involve approximately 200 study hours in total, which includes attending lectures and seminars, as well as independent study and assessment.
Postgraduate modules vary in size and the study hours are determined by the size of module.
You will be sent detailed information about selecting your modules once you have been nominated by your home university.
In order to be a full-time student, you will need to take the equivalent of 4 single modules (30 ECTS) per semester.
You can add a 5th module if it is a language module (Academic English, Spanish, French etc).
In order to be a full-time student, you will need to take the equivalent of 30 ECTS per semester.
You can add an additional module if it is a language module (Academic English, Spanish, French etc).
All credits gained at Oxford Brookes are transferable to your degree as agreed with your home institution.
Credits at Oxford Brookes are awarded for each module in the UK Credit Accumulation and Transfer Scheme (CATS).
The chart below shows the equivalent in the European Credit Transfer System (ECTS).
Please check the credit requirements for your degree programme with your own university.
If your first language is not English there is a range of options available to you.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/study-abroad-and-exchanges/coming-to-brookes/after-applying:
Your application will be reviewed by the Global Exchanges and Study Abroad Team for completeness and to confirm that you meet the University's entry requirements.
Where appropriate, we will also liaise with your home university.
“Besides studying, I had time to join different amazing trips for international students or explore the city with my new international friends from my course.
I would recommend Exchanges and especially at Oxford Brookes to everyone, since it helps you to really advance professionally and personally.
Many thanks for the great time and perfect organisation.”
If you do not have immigration permission that allows you to study in the UK, you will need to obtain this before you start your study.
Please see our guide to applying for a visa for more details.
If you are applying for a Student visa you will need to make sure that you meet the UK Border Agency's English language requirements for visas.
We understand that coming to live and study in the UK may be a new experience for you, so we do all we can to help you settle in.
You will be sent information about travelling to Oxford and where to go when you arrive at Oxford Brookes.
There is also plenty of information on our website.
Preparation and arrival guide
You will be invited to attend our welcome meeting in Week 0 where you will receive further information about studying at Oxford Brookes.
The details of the meeting will be included in your acceptance letter.
Online enrolment
All students will need to complete online enrolment via our student record system prior to arriving at Oxford Brookes.
You will be sent your student number and password, which will allow you to do.
Further information concerning induction and orientation activities will be included in your offer letter.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/study-abroad-and-exchanges/coming-to-brookes/contact-us:
There are various ways to contact our Global Mobility and Engagement Team to discuss your study abroad options.
Visit our Exchange Partners page for information on what each university has to offer, and whether or not they offer sufficient modules relevant for your Oxford Brookes degree.
Contact the relevant member of staff in your faculty to discuss how an exchange programme will fit in with your degree before applying for the exchange.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/study-abroad-and-exchanges/going-from-brookes/exchanges:
Announcement Applications to study abroad during the 2025/26 academic year are open until 18 February 2025.
Complete the study abroad application form
We have many agreements with partner universities worldwide in Australia, USA, Canada, Europe, Hong Kong, Japan and many others to enable you to enhance your student experience, acquire additional transferable skills and make you stand out from the crowd with a much more impressive CV!
Don’t miss out on this opportunity!
Contact our Global Mobility and Engagement Team
“My exchange in Japan was such a life-changing experience.
I was really fascinated with the country, the most striking things were definitely the people I met there and the culture, its environment and atmosphere.
It felt like home.”
Chandra Jayasuriya, Criminology and International Relations student, who completed an exchange at  APU (Ritsumeikan Asia Pacific University), Japan
Find out how to apply for an exchange.
Most students go on exchange during the second year of their degree.
Applications for exchanges taking place in the academic year 2025/26 will open in January 2025.
The application deadline will be 18 February 2025.
Complete our expression of interest form and the Global Mobility and Engagement team will contact you when applications open, or contact the team if you have any queries.
Most undergraduate students can apply to go on exchange with approval from their Exchange or Subject Coordinator.
A few programmes now offer an optional year abroad between Level 5 and Level 6.
(Remember your degree programme will be extended to 4 years) Most programmes can study abroad for 1 semester in 2nd year of study.
You will need a 2.5/4.00 (55%-59% for further details click HERE ) in your studies by the application deadline.
Language students need to obtain a pass.
Please visit our Exchange Partners pages for information on what each university has to offer.
It is important to check if the university of interest offers the appropriate number of modules relevant to your subject area.
Europe European universities are linked with specific subject areas at Brookes.
Outside Europe Oxford Brookes has exchange agreements with universities in Australia, Canada, Hong Kong, Japan, Kazakhstan, Mexico, Thailand, Uruguay, the United States and Vietnam.
Universities in these countries are open to all subjects unless specified.
The only Japanese partner university open to non-Japanese studies students is Ritsumeikan Asia Pacific University (APU).
Your programme at Brookes is credited with the study you undertake at the host university.
You do not normally have to increase the length of your programme.
However, some courses require students who wish to study abroad to do so by adding an additional year to their programme.
This is non credit-bearing.
Find out more about modules and credits
Before you leave, you will need to pay your tuition fees to Oxford Brookes or to confirm with Oxford Brookes that your Student Loans Company will contribute towards your fees as usual.
You might be also entitled to a tuition fee waiver.
You do not have to pay any tuition fees to the host university.
You will be responsible for costs such as travel and accommodation.
Other costs you need to consider are health insurance and visas.
Students with finance based on household income may qualify for a travel grant from Student Finance England.
Please note that if you are going on exchange for one semester only, you will be responsible for finding someone to take over your accommodation in the UK.
If you are unable to do this, you will have to cover the cost of your accommodation commitments at home, as well as abroad.
Find out more about fees and costs
As part of your planning, you should consider the impact of Brexit on the immigration rules for entry to your host country.
Information about this may be provided by host universities, or work placements.
Information can also be found on the relevant embassy websites.
If you are an EU student you will not need to apply for a visa to go on a European exchange.
You will also normally receive information on the visa process with the acceptance letter from the host institution.
As part of the visa application you might need to:
Demonstrate your English language level if you are a non-native speaker of English.
We recommend discussing this with the Exchanges Office at your host university immediately after nomination to ensure that you have time to take a test if needed.
Sometimes the test you took in order to study at Oxford Brookes might be sufficient, or if you went to school in a native-speaking country prior to your university studies.
Should you need to retake a language test, you are responsible for the costs.
Complete medical records at your GP.
If you have spent most of your life outside of the UK you may need to get some medical documents from your home country.
If these are issued in another language you will need to have them officially translated into English.
Complete criminal checks by the police and get the documents officially stamped by The Foreign and Commonwealth Office or another authority.
The procedures will vary depending on your host country and your nationality.
You are responsible for any costs.
There will be more information about the visa procedures, time frames and costs on the relevant embassy's website.
To ensure you allow enough time for this process you should check the details as soon as you have been nominated by Oxford Brookes Exchanges Office.
You will also be able to include the costs in your budgeting.
It's important to be aware of the travel and health insurance options and requirements.
Find out more about insurance for your exchange.
Some students doing combined degrees are able to go on exchange to one or two of our partner universities as long as your academic department(s) approve those choices.
Discuss this with the relevant member of staff in your faculty .
If the institution is in a country where English is not the official language you will need to check whether they teach in English.
In some case it is essential to have a good knowledge of the language of the country.
Full-time undergraduate students can take one additional language module per year at Brookes.
Find out more about studying our additional language modules .
If you do not get the required 2.5/4.00 (55%-59% for further details click HERE ) GPA or above in time for the application process in February, we can put your application on hold and wait for your semester 2 results.
If you have achieved 2.5/4.00, your application will be taken forward.
Find out more about what to expect during your exchange.
Find out more about what to expect after your exchange.
Contact our Global Mobility and Engagement team for an informal chat.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/study-abroad-and-exchanges/going-from-brookes/european-work-placements:
Stand out from the crowd - take a European work placement as part of your studies.
Announcement Under the Withdrawal Agreement negotiated with the EU, the UK will continue to participate in the Erasmus+ programme (2014-2020).
This means that the University will continue to use EU funding for the full duration of our Erasmus+ Grant Agreement, which expires in May 2023.
Access to Erasmus+ funding is dependent on the UK's position on the Erasmus+ programme.
Erasmus+ grants for work placements can be paid to students:
Students with a severe disability or exceptional special needs may be able to access extra funding to cover additional costs associated with studying or working in Europe through the Erasmus+ programme.
Please contact erasmus@brookes.ac.uk for further information.
Students undertaking work placements may be in any year of study and are eligible for a total of 12 months mobility, exchange and/or work placement (funded or unfunded) during each cycle of higher education (undergraduate/masters/doctorate).
Work placements are periods of work and training undertaken in an enterprise or any other workplace relevant to the student’s higher education.
A wide variety of organisations may act as a host, provided that the placement contributes to the student’s course of study.
The following types of organisation are not eligible as host organisations:
Under the Withdrawal Agreement negotiated with the EU, the UK will continue to participate in the Erasmus+ programme (2014-2020).
The Erasmus+ programme is the European Union's flagship educational exchange programme for higher education institutions.
It was set up with the aim of encouraging students and staff to undertake periods of work or study throughout Europe and it involves the cooperation between the universities of 33 countries.
Further information about the programme can be found on the British Council website .
Through Erasmus+, students are eligible to receive a grant, which comes from the European Commission in Brussels, through the UK National Agency (British Council).
The amount of the grant is determined by the country of destination and the length of the period of study or work placement.
The funding is a contribution towards the costs of living abroad, but will not cover all expenses incurred.
It is not means tested.
In order to access the grant you will need to complete all the compulsory Erasmus+ forms for each mobility you undertake.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/study-abroad-and-exchanges/going-from-brookes/other-international-opportunities:
A range of opportunities are available to give you a wider international experience as part of your studies.
If you are a full-time student currently enrolled on an undergraduate degree course and planning a Global Mobility experience, you might be eligible to receive Turing Scheme funding throughout your placement.
Please visit our FAQs for further details about the Turing Scheme.
If you are not interested in studying for a full semester abroad, why not consider applying for a summer school instead?
Summer schools provide a great opportunity for students from a diverse range of backgrounds to experience a period of study abroad.
In addition to the academic programme, summer schools also offer a range of social activities, so you have plenty of opportunities to get to know other students, as well as your new environment.
Want to know more?
The list of available summer schools are to be published in late February or early March.
Taking part in a BUNAC overseas work/volunteer programme gives you the chance to live and work in a new and exciting country and do something really worthwhile with your time off from work or studies.
Programmes last from as little as five weeks to as long as two whole years.
Participants can take part in a BUNAC programme as part of their summer vacation, during a gap year, after graduation or as a career break.
For more information about various programmes, costs and application process visit the BUNAC website .
Academic scholarships offered through Generation UK are for periods of non-degree study ranging from a single semester to a full academic year at mainland Chinese universities.
Applicants for all Generation UK academic scholarships must be:
All Generation UK academic scholarships cover: Tuition fees (in China), accommodation, monthly living stipend and medical insurance.
For more information, please visit the Generation UK webpage .
If you are chosen to be part of this programme, please contact studyabroad@brookes.ac.uk
Omprakash EdGE offers students a unique opportunity for professional development, personal growth, and immersive experiential learning within the Omprakash network of grassroots health, education, and environmental projects in over 30 countries.
EdGE supplements traditional field placements in an international network with a 12-week pre-departure curriculum, personalised guidance and support, and a capstone project.
By training and supporting students throughout their engagement with the international network, EdGE helps them become more inspired and critically informed agents of social change.
See their video for Oxford Brookes students on the right of this webpage or view their YouTube channel .
For more information, please visit the Omprakash EdGE website .
Do you see why development issues matter in Africa, Asia and Latin America?
Do you see why exploring local communities can be more exciting than visiting tourist hotspots?
Do you see why volunteering overseas can build skills which can assist you in your future career?
ICYE-UK is a registered charity and is part of an international federation of exchange NGOs that place volunteers on social, community and environmental projects worldwide for between 3 weeks and 12 months.
Their placements enable individuals to live and volunteer in another country, learn a new language, gain a true insight into another culture, and a better understanding of their own and other people’s lives.
ICYE-UK also provides voluntary placements with local charities in the UK for individuals from all over the world.
Volunteering with ICYE is a fantastic opportunity for a placement year, after graduation or as a career break.
To find out more about the projects, support and training, please visit the ICYE-UK website .
The majority of Japan Exchange and Teaching (JET) Programme participants work as Assistant Language Teachers (ALTs), assisting with English teaching in schools across Japan.
As an ALT your role will be to assist Japanese Teachers of English rather than lead classes on your own.
English teaching in Japan has traditionally focused more on reading and writing skills than on oral communication.
Even at Senior High School level, students’ spoken English is generally quite basic.
As an ALT, you will play a key role in promoting communicative training in the classroom.
Contact with an ALT also provides your students with a valuable chance to become familiar with another culture.
Please find more information on their website .
If you get chosen, please contact studyabroad@brookes.ac.uk
The Study China Programme offers students a unique opportunity to experience Chinese life, culture, language and business.
The programme is managed by The University of Manchester and funded by the Government's Department for Business, Innovation and Skills.
This distinctive programme offers the opportunity to interact with Chinese students, academic staff, local families and businesses, providing profound access to this fascinating country.
Throughout the programme you will be immersed in a vibrant campus environment at a leading Chinese University, ensuring that your Study China experience is truly unforgettable!
Please note, that if the programme dates collide with Oxford Brookes semester dates, you will need to contact your academic adviser to discuss if you can apply for the programme and are allowed to miss some days of teaching.
Please visit the Study China website for application deadlines and information on the application process.
You need to apply directly to the programme via Study China website.
Should you get accepted, please contact studyabroad@brookes.ac.uk
“From the friendly and caring culture to the diverse range of food I loved every second I spent in China and will never forget my time spent there.”
Oxford Brookes LLB Law student who took part in Study China

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/fees/make-a-payment/payment-of-us-student-loans:
Announcement This information is for use only by current students and applicants who have a US Federal Aid loan plan in place.
Payment to students with US Federal loans in place for the Academic Year 2025-26 will be made by a bank transfer.
We request that you complete this form to facilitate the prompt payment of your loan.
The University receives funds from US Federal Aid institutions in week 1 of each semester.
Further information including dates for disbursement can be found in paragraph 7 .
If you are a new student , you can complete this form once you arrive in the UK and open a bank account.
A UK bank account is the preferred option to prevent your payment being subjected to conversion rates when it is paid to the university and back to a US account.
Payments to UK bank accounts can be reach the account in (1-2 working days) whereas transfers to US bank accounts can be subject to delays caused by operation of the international banking system.
Please note the provisions of the Data Privacy Notice

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/fees/make-a-payment/online-payment-terms-and-conditions:
These terms and conditions relate solely to the payment transaction that you wish to make and are secondary to the University’s terms and conditions that apply to the subject matter of the payment (“ Master Terms ”).
Please note that for security and fraud prevention the University uses third party processors to process all payment transactions.
Your personal data will be used in accordance with the University’s Privacy Notice .
Credit/Debit card payments
In order to make a payment via the web you will need your:
If you are making a payment on behalf of another person, you will need to ask them for this information first.
It is your responsibility to ensure the student’s details are correct.
We accept no liability for any payments that are misallocated where you have given incorrect information.
It is your responsibility to check that payment has been made and allocated correctly.
Please notify us immediately of any errors and we will endeavour to assist.
Payments usually clear into our account in 2 or 3 working days.
We cannot accept any liability if payment is refused or declined by your debit/credit card supplier for whatever reason.
All payments made through this online payment facility must be made in pounds sterling (£GBP).
You are responsible for the payment of any currency conversion costs or other charges incurred in making the payment or in processing a refund.
Once a transaction has been completed, the payment may not be cancelled.
In certain circumstances, you may be entitled to a refund in accordance with the Master Terms.
The formation, existence, construction, performance, validity and all aspects whatsoever of these terms and conditions or of any individual term or condition herein will be governed by the laws of England and Wales.
The courts of England and Wales will have non-exclusive jurisdiction to settle any disputes which may arise out of or in connection with the terms and conditions.
The parties irrevocably agree to submit to that jurisdiction.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/prospective-students/accommodation-fees:
Oxford Brookes University offers a variety of hall and housing choices.
Most of our halls are managed by the University.
For these halls, your first payment will be your first rent charge, due in early October.
However, some halls do require a deposit or rent advance as part of confirming the booking.
Please visit the hall pages for more information.
Payments for university-managed accommodation are made online via our Accommodation Portal or via Recurring Card Payment (RCP).
RCP allows the university to automatically collect payments on scheduled dates so you don't need to remember to log in and pay - this can be set up when confirming your contract.
The portal accepts Visa Credit, Visa Debit, Mastercard and Electron.
You will receive an email shortly before each due date to remind you that your rent is due.
If you accept a place in a third-party/partnership hall, payment arrangements will be different.
Please refer to the provider's own website for full information.
Paying on behalf of a student?
Use our Online Payment System
If you are paying university-managed accommodation fees on a student's behalf, you can use our online payment system .
When making payment, you will need the following details of the student:
Due dates are subject to change.
The prices given are for all contracts starting in September 2025 and one semester contracts starting January 2026.
These prices are correct at the time of publication (May 2025).
Current students should always refer to their Accommodation Portal account for the most up-to-date information.
Reset filters
Three instalments
The eight instalments are due on the first day of each month
The prices given are for contracts starting in September 2025 and correct at the time of publication (May 2025).
The ten instalments are due on the first day of each month
If you are a January intake student, then your accommodation options will be different.
Please see our Instalment options for January contracts.
These contracts are for the period 17 January 2026 until 5 June 2026 (139 nights) and can be paid in 1, 2 or 4 instalments.
These contracts are for the period 17 January 2026 until 28 August 2026 (223 nights) and can be paid in 1, 2 or 4 instalments.
These contracts dates will be confirmed as soon as possible.
Jan to Jan contracts can be paid in 1, 3 or 11 instalments.
If you are unsure how to pay your accommodation fees, please see our paying for your accommodation section.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/funding/undergraduate-tuition-fee-loans-for-uk-students:
September 2025 / January 2026
Home
£9,535 (maximum)
Funding is available for each year of course.
31 August 2026
Terms and Conditions
All home students who are resident in the UK and studying towards their first degree can apply for a tuition fee loan to cover their course costs.
The loan is for £9,535 (full tuition fees).
Loans for part-time study are also available.
Students apply for each year of their course, and the tuition fees are paid directly to your university over the year of study.
You will only repay this loan in the year after you’ve completed your studies, and once you are earning more than £25,000.
Eligible part-time students also have access to loans for tuition fees.
They won't have to pay upfront as long as it's their first degree.
To apply for a tuition fee loan please contact Student Finance England .
Repayments will be 9% of any income above £25,000, so the amount you repay each month will depend on your earnings.
Examples of monthly repayments for loans covering tuition and living costs:
Repayments will be deducted automatically from your pay packet.
All outstanding repayments will be written off after 40 years
Please refer to the websites, listed above, of the regions from where you are applying.
Please refer to the websites, listed above, of the regions from where you are applying.
For information about your tuition fee liability if you are leaving the university and you have a tuition fee loan please refer to point 7 of the refund policy .
Further details

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/funding/postgraduate-masters-loan-england:
Postgraduate
£12,858 (in 2025-26)
All applicants who meet the criteria
The UK government offers a postgraduate loans scheme for new students starting master's courses.
The scheme is open to part-time and full-time students, and in 2025/26 the maximum loan available is £12,858.
Part-time students will receive the loan over two years of study.
These loans are administered by the Student Loans Company, and unlike undergraduate loans they are paid directly to the student as a contribution towards study-related costs or living costs.
Students with a PG loan receive their loan in 3 instalments to their account during the year of study.
Note : PGCE student funding is via the undergraduate SFE route.
To be eligible this must be your first postgraduate course of study (master's level), and you must be under 60 on the first day of the academic year.
Visit Gov.uk for more on eligibility criteria .
Applications should be made via your student account with Student Finance England.
​Where a postgraduate student is in receipt of a postgraduate loan from the Student Loans Company (SLC), tuition fees can be paid in line with the instalment dates and percentage of loan specified in the loan agreement letter.
Please be aware that if a student with a postgraduate loan withdraws from their studies early, their liability to pay tuition fees remains is set out in paragraph 2.3.4 of the University's Student Debt Policy.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/how-to-apply/applying-through-ucas/after-you-apply:
Thank you for applying to study at Oxford Brookes!
Here’s an idea of what happens next - both on our side and yours.
We'll receive your application from UCAS.
We will review your application and decide if you are right for this course - looking at things like whether you have (or will have) the necessary qualifications, predicted grades and your personal statement.
For some courses you will be invited to interview before we make a decision.
Our admissions team will be working as quickly as they can to respond to your application - but be prepared to wait, as response times can vary.
How long you wait is not an indication of whether you are likely to receive an offer or not - just how busy the admissions team is!
You will be notified that your application status has been updated via UCAS initially, and we will email you if you are successfully offered a place.
If you have applied for more than one course, we will consider and respond to each application separately.
If you receive an offer, you may be invited to Applicant Day.
This is a great chance to meet current students and teaching staff, learn more about your course and really get a feel for life at Oxford Brookes.
If you’ve already attended Open Day, Applicant Day can refresh your memories of Oxford Brookes, give you a new perspective as an offer holder, and help you make your final decision about university.
Please note that some courses do not run sessions at Applicant Day - if you don’t receive an invitation and would like to arrange a visit to the university or have any questions, please get in touch .
It’s important that you understand the type of decision you have received and what to do next.
Types of decision:
Once you have received decisions back on all your applications, UCAS will send you a deadline for making your Firm or Insurance choices.
More information on making your choices is on the UCAS website .
If you need any further information to help in making your decision, don’t hesitate to get in touch.
If we’ve made you an offer and you’ve chosen us as your Firm or Insurance choice, it’s time to start thinking about your next steps towards university.
If you’ve received a Conditional offer, the most important thing you can do now is to keep working hard to meet the conditions of your offer.
If you hold our offer as either Firm or Insurance choice, we will be in touch from April onwards with further information on how to apply for student accommodation.
In the meantime, you can browse the accommodation pages and think about where you might like to live.
You can also start thinking about finance and other elements of student life , such as living in Oxford and the support we offer.
You may also receive:
On results day in August, UCAS provides examination results for A-levels and AS-levels.
We normally receive results for BTEC qualifications, the International Baccalaureate, and the Access to Higher Education Diploma during July, and Scottish Higher and Advanced Higher results earlier in August.
If your offer is conditional upon obtaining certain grades in examinations not listed above, you should send a copy of your results in writing direct to the Admissions Office as soon as you receive them.
See our application timeline for more information about what happens when you receive the examination results for a conditional offer.
If you haven’t quite met the grades, we may still be able to confirm our offer - this will depend on how well you have done, on any exceptional circumstances, and on how many places we have left.
If you have applied directly to Oxford Brookes (ie not through UCAS) you will be notified of our decision by the University directly.
If we have made you an offer, this notification will include information about how to accept your offer - using either an online form or a postal reply slip.
If your offer was conditional, you should send your results to the Admissions Office as soon as you have them, even if they are A-level results - UCAS supply A-level results only for UCAS applicants.
If you don't quite get the grades you need, your application will undergo further consideration before a decision is made.
In some cases we may still be able to offer you a place
If your offer is conditional for a postgraduate taught course, you should send your results directly to the department running your course as soon as you have them.
Please contact the department to see if the University has been able to confirm your offer of a place.
Throughout this process, all important information from us and updates about your application will come via email - make sure you check it regularly and contact us at admissions@brookes.ac.uk if your details change.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/how-to-apply/applying-through-ucas/changing-your-application:
It is not unusual for applicants to re-think their course choices.
If you feel that the course you have applied for is no longer the right one for you, please complete our Course Change Request form .
The Admissions Office is happy to consider a request, subject to availability.
Any changes made will be updated via your UCAS Hub or Application Portal.
If the change is not possible, the team will be in touch via email.
Note: Please contact us by the end of August if you want to change your course(s), as it is not always possible during your first semester.
It is important that you keep us informed of any changes to your personal details, this should be sent by email or in writing to the Admissions Office at admissions@brookes.ac.uk .
You will be getting a number of important documents over the coming months.
It's very important that you keep the Admissions Office at Oxford Brookes University (and UCAS or UCAS Teacher Training) notified of any change of address or other contact details.
We are happy to consider a request to defer your entry for most courses, if your circumstances or plans change during the year.
If you would prefer to start your course at a later date, you can submit a request to defer *.
While we are not able to guarantee the option of a deferral, we will do our best to accommodate your request.
If you are unable to submit this form, please email the below information to us at admissions@brookes.ac.uk .
Please entitle your email ‘Deferral request’.
+ 44 (0) 1865 535000
admissions@brookes.ac.uk
+44 (0)1865 484848

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/how-to-apply/applying-through-ucas/deferred-applications:
You can apply for deferred entry to Oxford Brookes by including this information in your UCAS application.
If you decide you want to defer your entry having already applied, see our information on changing your application .
If you’ve received an offer for a deferred place, there are a few things you need to remember:
If you're not going to be able to access your email during the year before you start university, you might want to consider giving us permission to talk to a friend or family member about your application.
We take data protection seriously and won't discuss your application with anyone else without your permission.
If you do want another person to deal with us on your behalf, you need to email us (from the same email address as you used when you first applied) giving the details of the person you nominate, along with that person's email address.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/how-to-apply/applying-directly/changing-your-application:
It’s not unusual to re-think your course choice, so please don’t worry if you have a change of heart.
We can help!
We’re always happy to consider a course change request, subject to availability and entry criteria.
If you’re a direct applicant :
If you’ve applied via UCAS :
Changes will normally be reflected on your UCAS Hub or Applicant Portal within 5 days, but if the change is not possible for any reason, we’ll be in touch with you by email to outline your options.
Please let us know if your contact details change so that you don’t miss out on any important communication.
If you’ve applied directly, please use the Applicant Portal to update your details.
If you’d prefer to start your course at a later date (or join us sooner!) we’re happy to consider your request, subject to availability and entry criteria.
If you’ve applied via UCAS:
If you are unable to submit this form, please email us at admissions@brookes.ac.uk .
Please title your email ‘Deferral request’, provide a brief explanation of your reason for requesting a deferral and include the following details:

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/how-to-apply/applying-directly/postgraduate-applications:
Most taught master's degrees, postgraduate diplomas and certificates and professional courses use our online direct application form on the applying directly page .
Exceptions are as follows:
If you’re unsure of the right application route, please check the individual course information for specific application details.
Before you apply, make sure you meet the postgraduate taught course entry requirements.
Check entry requirements
Find out more about applying for a postgraduate research degree.
Becoming a postgraduate research student

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/how-to-apply/entry-requirements/undergraduate-courses:
Wherever possible we make our conditional offers using the UCAS tariff.
This gives great flexibility, particularly if you are offering a mix of qualifications, such as two A-levels plus a BTEC National Extended Certificate.
In many cases, we don’t specify grades to be achieved, because we are looking for achievement across a range of qualifications or subjects.
You will find typical offers on each course entry .
The course entries also list any specific entry requirements, such as passes in particular subjects or specific grades, which may be a condition of entry.
Our standard entry requirement is three A-levels or equivalent qualifications.
In some cases, courses have specific required subjects and additional GCSE requirements.
In addition to A-levels, we accept a wide range of other qualifications including:
You may need to meet country specific and English language requirements to be eligible for undergraduate study.
See further entry requirements on our international students pages .
If you cannot find your own combination of likely grades and qualifications, do not be deterred - contact our Admissions Office and they will be able to advise on whether you are likely to meet the requirements for a particular course.
If your qualifications are not equivalent to the above, you may be interested in our programme of foundation courses .

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/how-to-apply/entry-requirements/postgraduate-courses:
The normal entry requirement for a master’s course is an honours degree, a postgraduate diploma or an equivalent professional qualification.
This should usually be in the same discipline (or a related subject) as your intended postgraduate degree.
Applications are also welcomed from those with other qualifications or with experience which demonstrates appropriate knowledge and skills at honours degree standard.
For information on entry requirements for specific courses, please refer to individual course entries.
If English is not your first language you will need to meet the University’s English language requirements for postgraduate courses .
For some courses a higher level of English may be required; please check individual course details.
The minimum entry requirement for the degree of MA, MSc and LLM by Research is a lower second-class UK honours degree or equivalent qualification.
Applications are also welcomed from those holding qualifications other than the above and will be considered on their merits and in relation to the nature and scope of the work proposed.
You will be required to provide the names of 2 academic referees.
The minimum entry requirement for the degree of MPhil or MPhil with transfer to PhD is a first-class or upper second-class UK honours degree or equivalent qualification.
The normal entry requirement for the degree of PhD is a master’s degree in a discipline which is appropriate to the proposed research and which has included research training and a research project.
In exceptional cases, applicants who have a good honours degree (or equivalent) may apply for direct registration to PhD if they have appropriate research or professional experience at postgraduate level which has resulted in published work, written reports or other appropriate evidence of accomplishment.
You may need to meet specific country and English language requirements to apply for postgraduate study.
See entry requirements on our international students pages .

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/how-to-apply/entry-requirements/pre-degree-or-foundation-courses:
Applicants must:
A reference from your employer to support the application will be required.
Applicants must also satisfy the foundation degree interview requirements.
Applicants aged under 21 should normally have:
or
All foundation courses require a high school diploma, leaving certificate or equivalent.
For further detailed requirements see specific course entries.
English language qualifications range from IELTS 5.0 to 6.5.
If you don't have IELTS, then consider enrolling on one of our Academic English courses .
Minimum entry requirements are 1 subject at A-level or 6-unit Vocational A-level (or exceptionally two at AS-level or 3-unit Vocational A-level) with 3 or 4 at GCSE, or O-level, or National Certificate or Diploma.
In addition, each HND may have particular subject requirements.
The full-time course lasts 2 years, and the sandwich course lasts 3 years.
Holders of suitable HNDs are often accepted into the second year of a degree course.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/how-to-apply/entry-requirements/mature-applications:
If you are thinking about returning to study, come along to our Open Days and visit our VIP area for mature students in Headington Campus.
Have your questions answered by staff and current mature students, enjoy complimentary refreshments and connect with fellow learners interested in returning to study.
You are welcome to bring your little ones along - we have a special craft table to keep them entertained.
Don't miss out on this opportunity to gather valuable insights and support.
Book now
Our experience is that mature students often produce outstanding results!
If you are aged 21 or above we will consider your application without the normal entry requirements if you can show evidence of academic potential.
However, as the number of mature applicants is steadily increasing, you need to recognise that gaining a place may be a competitive process.
We will look favourably on previous experience or professional qualifications that show you are ready to cope with study at degree or higher diploma level.
You can prepare yourself for entry to higher education through one of the following routes:
If you enrol as an associate student at Oxford Brookes, you can take individual modules on a part-time basis to qualify for admission in a subsequent year.
This route has the advantage of enabling you to sample the modular programme while allowing you and the staff to determine your aptitude for your chosen subjects.
Please note that progression onto a degree course is not automatic.
Find out more about Associate study
You can take one of these year-long pre-degree courses to help you reach the entry requirements needed for degree level study in a particular subject area.
Successful completion of a recognised access course prepares you for degree-level study.
There are over 1,000 recognised courses nationally and a number offered in the Oxford region at further education colleges and community education centres .
Study options include one-year full-time courses or part-time day and evening courses over 2 years.
There are also a number of pre-access courses which you may be advised to take prior to enrolling on an access course.
Further details are available from the access course leaders at individual colleges.
Many local further education colleges and community education centres offer these courses, which are particularly suitable if a degree programme has a specific requirement, eg A-level French for a languages course, or GCSE Mathematics or Statistics for a psychology course.
Find out more about Foundation courses
If you have worries or concerns about your decision to return to education consider contacting our Mature Students' Adviser.
Find out more about the Mature Students Support Service

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/how-to-apply/entry-requirements/medical-or-police-clearance:
If you are applying to a course which involves working with children or vulnerable adults, such as teacher training, nursing, physiotherapy or social work, you cannot be admitted to the course until you have satisfied a number of non-academic conditions.
These include a satisfactory Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) disclosure and satisfactory disclosure under the Criminal Offenders Act.
A full list of the non-academic conditions you will be required to satisfy will be included when you receive an offer of a place, along with a detailed guide on what you need to do to meet these conditions.
Please note that there will be a deadline by which you need to meet non-academic conditions, which will also be mentioned in your offer of a place.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/how-to-apply/entry-requirements/access-centres:
Quality Assurance Agency (QAA) recognised access courses are available at the following institutions in the Oxford region.
Abingdon and Witney College tel: 01235 555585 (Abingdon) tel: 01993 703464 (Witney) www.abingdon-witney.ac.uk
Activate Learning tel: 01865 550550 www.cityofoxford.ac.uk www.banbury-bicester.ac.uk
Aylesbury College tel: 01296 588588 www.aylesbury.ac.uk
Headington Area Community Education Centre tel: 01865 727148
Newbury College tel: 01635 845000 www.newbury-college.ac.uk
New College Swindon tel: 01793 611470 www.newcollege.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/how-to-apply/entry-requirements/ucas-tariff:
Details of the qualifications needed under the new UCAS Tariff.
Achieving 96 points
Achieving 104 points
Achieving 112 points
Achieving 120 points
Achieving 128 points
Achieving 136 points
To find out about achieving other UCAS Tariff point entry requirements not listed here, please visit the UCAS website .

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/how-to-apply/entry-requirements/contextual-admissions:
At Oxford Brookes University, we want to attract students from all backgrounds who have the potential to succeed.
We seek to be a fully inclusive institution that reflects society at large, and provides an excellent student experience, a breadth of opportunities and successful outcomes for all students irrespective of their background.
It allows us to use of a range of national and individual data to ensure that we are taking a rounded view of an individual applicant’s potential.
It also supports us to make a reduced offer to students where the evidence suggests that their prior attainment may not be a full reflection of their future potential.
Our contextual offer is a grade reduction of up to 3 grades below the standard entry requirements.
Details of our standard and contextual offer entry requirements are available on course pages .
If you are a UK student applying for an undergraduate degree (excluding foundation years and foundation degrees), you may be eligible for a contextual offer if one of the following statements applies to you:
In addition, you may be eligible if you meet a combination of the following criteria:
and
There’s no separate application form, so apply in the usual way through UCAS and if you meet any of the criteria we’ll consider you for a contextual offer.
Remember to indicate your residential status or if you have lived in care, if relevant.
You can find out it you are eligible for other support including bursaries and scholarships and our tailored support packages for specific groups of students.
If we make you an offer, we’ll invite you to an applicant day with all other offer holders.
Here you’ll meet the academics and current students from your course, and have the opportunity to find out more about the full range of experiences Oxford Brookes has to offer.
We offer a travel bursary for applicant day events .
If you accept our offer, we’ll contact you nearer the summer to let you know about a range of opportunities to find out more about Oxford Brookes, and to support your transition into university life.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/how-to-apply/understanding-university/understanding-courses:
Universities can use a lot of jargon, making it difficult to find information.
Check out our jargon buster to help make sense of it all.
We’ve explained some of the main things you need to know here too.
These are higher education qualifications awarded on completion of an academic undergraduate course.
These are equivalent to the first 2 years of a Bachelor’s degree and:
Once you have gained a foundation degree, you have the option to ‘top up’ to achieve a full honours degree .
There are over 50,000 courses listed on UCAS (Universities and Colleges Admissions Service).
There are 395 Higher Education Institutions in the UK, including 130 universities.
This gives you a lot more choice than the subjects you study at school!
You’ll need to do some research to find out what’s available.
Some courses have fewer teaching hours and expect a lot of independent study from students.
Others give you a lot of time working with tutors or in labs, but with less independent work.
Many courses offer the opportunity to study part time, or to study two or more subjects in combination with one another, or even to travel abroad.
Choose a course which you will find interesting enough to motivate you right to the end.
If you need help or don’t understand something about a course, telephone or email the admissions team.
Contact details are available in prospectuses and on websites.
Entry requirements for higher education courses use the UCAS tariff.
This is a system that assigns points to different types of post-16 (Level 3) qualifications.
So whatever your qualifications are, you can see if you meet the entry requirements for a course.
Read more about the UCAS tariff , or calculate your UCAS points .
You apply to full-time Bachelor’s and Foundation degrees through UCAS .
To study a course part-time you apply directly to the institution where the course is taught.
These are one-year courses for students who want to study a university degree course in a specific field, but don’t have the right grades or required subjects.
For example, if you want to study a science related course, but haven’t done a science subject at Level 3, a Foundation course might be right for you.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/how-to-apply/understanding-university/should-i-go-to-university:
University means different things to different people.
Everybody’s experience will be different, so only you can answer this question.
It’s a big decision, and you’ll invest a lot of time and money in going to university.
Here is an overview of the benefits university could bring you, so you can make a decision about what’s best for you.
Ultimately, you’ll be at university to learn.
University courses exist to give you in depth knowledge of a subject.
This could be a subject you love, one to prepare you for a certain job, or something new that interests you.
Universities give you different learning opportunities to any other institution.
You will learn from experts, use the best facilities and meet people who are passionate about the same thing as you.
The Department for Education’s most recent research in 2021 showed that university graduates earn on average £10,000 more per year than people without a degree.
The non-graduate unemployment rate (5.5%) was nearly double that of university graduates (3.2%).
Having a university degree means you’re more likely to get a job, and would probably earn more.
Some people worry that studying instead of working puts them behind people who spent that time starting their careers.
You might have heard that it's better to enter an organisation and 'work your way up'.
This might be true in specific industries, but you should research this carefully.
Some careers aren't an option without a degree, like medicine and law, and for many entry-level roles you need an undergraduate degree to get the job.
Some employers offer fast-track schemes to help you advance - but only if you went to university.
The skills and experience you gain at university (in all the ways we've listed here) will put you in a far stronger position to start work.
Remember, university is about learning.
You’ll learn about your subject, you’ll learn more about yourself and where you might want to go in life, and you’ll learn transferable skills that will apply to most future careers.
There are jobs you could have that might not even exist yet!
A ‘job for life’ is an old idea, and you’re likely to have several roles in several fields during your career.
Most courses will teach you critical thinking, good presentation, teamwork, time management and leadership that you can apply to any workplace.
A degree can prepare you for a future that you haven’t even decided on yet.
In your first year, find something you love and do it in your spare time.
Then in your second and third year you could help organise the society.
You’ll be making friends, having fun, and showing off your skills to future employers.
Most societies have a committee that run it.
Roles like president, secretary, treasurer and social planner will need filling.
You could gain event management, budgeting, problem solving and organisational skills while doing something you really enjoy!
Find out more about societies at Oxford Brookes .
We live in a globalised economy.
Employers want graduates with a global perspective, life experience and confidence.
You want adventure and new experiences.
Get both by studying or working abroad!
Step outside your comfort zone and come home with broadened horizons, new friends and loads for your CV.
Many universities organise exchanges with their partner institutions around the world.
You could also take part in the Erasmus scheme, which focuses on universities in European countries.
Find out more about study abroad and exchanges at Oxford Brookes .
All major universities have a students’ union.
This is an organisation separate to the university run by students for students.
It is dedicated to social activities, representation, and academic support.
There are lots of ways to get involved with the students’ union.
You can run for election to join the committee, become a course or student representative, volunteer or work on various projects…the list goes on.
It all gives you great experience, helps you to meet new friends and looks brilliant on a CV.
Find out more about Brookes Union .
The university, the students' union and societies will organise volunteering opportunities.
This can change your life and open your eyes to things you've never experienced before.
Whatever you volunteer to do, you will gain interpersonal skills, understanding and empathy.
The fact that these skills will boost your employability is just the icing on the cake when you're helping people.
Find out more about volunteering opportunities at Oxford Brookes .
Employers value work placements extremely highly.
This is because you’ll have direct experience of working in their industry.
Many courses offer a year-long paid or unpaid work placement after the second year.
This is usually optional, and compulsory on some courses.
Graduates often get offers of full-time employment from the company they had a placement with.
Make sure you research your course to find out about work placement opportunities.
Find out more about the benefits of doing a work placement .
This is a short term post with a company, often over the summer vacation.
This helps you build up experience, skills and industry contacts.
They are similar to work placements, but are not organised through a university.
The university can help you find one and help with applications.
Many internships are given only to graduates or undergraduates and are not available to people without a university background.
Universities are dedicated to helping you start a career.
It’s up to you to make the most of the help they offer.
Universities usually have a free careers service that you can use during your studies and for a time after graduating.
These can provide careers advice and guidance, CV and cover letter writing workshops, mock interviews, and direct links to employers.
This kind of service would cost you outside university.
Find out more about how our Careers team can help you.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/how-to-apply/understanding-university/can-i-afford-university:
Everyone can afford to go to university.
It is expensive, but student finance means if you’re from the UK and applying to university in England, you don’t have to pay for it up front.
Universities can charge up to £9,250 per year for your course.
Some charge less.
This includes teaching, use of university facilities and administration costs.
You do not need to pay these fees up front.
Student Finance England provides a tuition fee loan.
You are responsible for paying for things like accommodation, bills, food, travel, social activities, sport and books.
Student Finance England provides a maintenance loan to help cover these costs.
Find out your estimated living costs
Check out this guide to student finance if you want to find out more.
There’s also loads of information on The Student Room .
Universities provide bursaries and scholarships.
This is money given to you by the university that you do not need to pay back.
Bursaries are based on financial need, and scholarships are usually based on academic achievement.
Each university will offer different financial support, so make sure you check what’s available to you when you’re researching universities.
You might be eligible for something and not even know it!
The government also offers extra funding for students with physical, mental and learning difficulties, students with children, and students with adult dependants.
You do not need to pay this back.
Universities might also offer fee waivers - a reduction in tuition fees.
This often depends on household income.
You’ll need to look at university websites to find out details.
Find out more about funding your studies
There’s no denying that living on a student budget can be tough.
But if you’re sensible, you won’t have any problems.
Check out our tips on making the most of your money , and remember that universities will often have a financial advice service you can use.
It’s important to think about cost of living when you’re researching universities.
Some cities cost more to live in than others.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/how-to-apply/understanding-university/choosing-a-university:
Where you study is just as important as what you study.
There are 130 universities in the UK and student life will be different at all of them.
Think about your choices carefully and try to visit the university in person before making your decision.
Choose a university where you feel comfortable and enjoy the atmosphere - you’ll be investing a lot of time and money in your university experience, so do your research!
*A campus university is one on a contained site (or sites), usually outside or very near a major town.
Other universities have facilities scattered across a city.
**For example, Oxford Brookes has around 18,000 students and Manchester has around 39,000.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/how-to-apply/understanding-university/how-do-i-apply-to-university:
Applications to full-time higher education courses in the UK are made through UCAS.
You apply using an online application system.
Your school or college will give you a buzzword that lets you login.
When you’ve applied, you can check the progress of your application using UCAS Hub.
You can find out more about the application process on our applying through UCAS web page .
Check out our application timeline to find out what you need to do and when to do it.
Remember, your school or college will have their own deadline to make sure they have time to check your application and write your references.
You should start your research as soon as possible!

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/how-to-apply/understanding-university/personal-statements:
Your personal statement is an important part of the application process.
It is how you show a university that you are right for their course.
Writing a good one can take a lot of work, but don’t worry.
This isn’t a test, but an opportunity to show yourself off in the best possible light.
You need to show them what would make you a good student.
Be clear, be honest, and be enthusiastic about your course.
The university is interested in you as a student.
Show them that you are interested in your subject and will work hard at it during your studies.
Look in detail at what studying this subject will involve and try to apply your existing knowledge or experience.
Make sure you include why you’re interested in both subjects and talk about them both equally.
Relevant work experience can look great in your personal statement.
Make sure you’re specific about what you have learnt and how it relates to your course.
If it isn’t directly relevant, include the transferable skills you’ve gained.
The example here relates the work experience to the course.
Even the most basic work experience looks good if you write about it well.
It will also show the admissions team your critical and reflective thinking skills, and that you can write creatively.
Include activities that support your course choice.
For example, going to galleries and museums for art or history courses.
If you’re writing about your clubs and teams, be specific about the skills you’ve learnt from them.
This could include teamwork, perseverance and time management.
Include any personal achievements and what they demonstrate.
For example, taking part in a fundraising event could show your commitment and organisational skills.
If you have any positions of responsibility like being a club leader or student mentor, describe those.
You’ll need to include it in your personal statement.
Describe how you plan to use it constructively.
Pushing yourself out of your comfort zone, learning new skills, volunteering and experiencing new cultures (if you choose to travel) all look great on personal statements.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/how-to-apply/understanding-university/interviews-and-portfolios:
Alert Due to the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic, it is likely that we will be running our interviews via Skype or other online video conferencing platforms.
We may also ask for electronic versions of portfolios for subject areas that require examples of student work.
Most UK universities do not hold interviews for most courses.
Interviews are used for a range of courses that are particularly demanding (like medicine).
And for some courses where the way a student speaks or presents themselves is important (like education).
Oxford and Cambridge hold interviews as part of their general undergraduate admissions process.
These are particularly competitive.
Tutors need this extra source of information beyond the UCAS form to identify candidates who are best-suited to their teaching.
Because of this, a lot of unhelpful mythology has grown up around interviews.
Universities are simply looking to recruit the best students that they can.
There are no hidden agendas, and no trick questions.
Your interviewers expect you to be nervous.
You aren’t on trial!
The most important thing is to prepare.
Tutors are looking for students who are enthusiastic, hard-working, and knowledgeable.
The best way to show these qualities is to read around the subject in advance.
Do this carefully and critically - so you can say whether you agreed with the author, and why.
Ask for advice from your teachers about what would be useful to read.
Some universities publish lists of recommended first year reading online.
If you have read a piece or two of that literature, and have your own opinions on it, you will make a good impression!
Never claim to have read something that you haven’t.
It won’t take your interviewers long to figure it out.
Whatever the result, try to enjoy the day.
This is an opportunity to discuss an interesting subject with some experts.
You might even get some good ideas to think about in the run-up to your examinations.
For subjects like art, design, photography, architecture and other creative subjects, universities will often require you to submit a portfolio.
This is a collection of your work which the university uses to assess your talent and suitability for the course.
Knowing how much to include and choosing the right pieces can be difficult.
Look at the guidelines on the university’s website and follow them as closely as you can.
Some will have specific guidelines relating to sizes, number of pieces, content, format and so on.
Here are some general points on creating the best portfolio:

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/how-to-apply/understanding-university/spending-money-at-university:
If you’re worried about money at university, your first stop should be our can I afford to go to university page (spoiler alert: yes, you can!).
You might hear horror stories about student budgets, but here are some realistic tips to help you make the most of your money.
Check all the bursaries and scholarships your university offers.
Every university has a different system, and you may be eligible without even knowing it.
You don’t have to pay back bursaries or scholarships.
There are charitable organisations offering grants dependent on your circumstances, location or course.
You might be eligible.
Search online: unigrants , MoneySavingExpert education grants and turn2us can help you find options that are right for you.
This is worth doing - you could be thousands of pounds better off!
These can be much better than most current accounts.
They often offer an interest free overdraft (this can be a real help if money is tight).
They also usually have added extras like Young Person’s Railcards.
Always be careful and monitor your account, especially around the date when your rent goes out.
Keep an eye on your account online or get your bank’s app to keep track of your balance.
MoneySavingExpert have a great student bank account guide .
Going home and visiting friends at other unis can cost a lot without one.
They might seem expensive at first, but they pay for themselves after about 3 journeys because of the money you’ve saved.
You can get them free with certain student bank accounts, or you can buy one online or at your train station.
16-25 railcard
You’ll get a student ID when you enrol at university.
This means you can get all sorts of discounts in all sorts of places.
Always ask if they have a student discount!
You can also buy a TOTUM card (from £14.99 for one year membership) for more specific discounts.
This can pay for itself, but check if you’d actually shop in the places you get discounts before getting one.
Books can be really expensive at university.
Try to use the books in the library or get second-hand copies which aren’t as expensive.
Be careful, though; many courses require you to use particular editions of important texts so always ask your tutor’s advice.
If you have to buy the books at full price, share them with your coursemates.
Check out these supermarket shopping tips , including what time most of the big shops reduce their food.
Avoid takeaways and ready meals.
They add up!
Try clubbing together with housemates and take it in turns to cook.
You won’t have to cook every night and when you do, the food you buy will be in larger quantities (and therefore better value).
It’s a nice way to get to know your housemates better.
Some universities offer big discounts on software packages to their own students.
Some providers will have sales with specific student discounts.
You can also get word processing, database and publishing software for free through open service providers.
Lots of students need part-time jobs to get by or for some extra cash.
Consider what kind of work will look good on your CV too.
Working as a Student Ambassador for your university is a great experience and will give you skills that make you more employable than shelf stacking or bar work.
You might be able to find jobs which are relevant to your course or career ambitions.
Research thoroughly and take the advice of your university’s careers service.
You can find out more about the support we offer our students on our careers web page .
So many people are locked into expensive contracts.
Billmonitor examines your phone use to work out which contract and provider is best for you.
They can get you into serious financial trouble.
If you have a student bank account with a good free overdraft, you shouldn’t need a credit card.
If you have to get one to hire cars/equipment then don’t use it for anything else.
If you move out of halls and into private accommodation, you’ll start dealing with energy companies.
Compare them using price comparison websites and get advice from MoneySavingExpert on cheap energy .
Also look at ways to save in your daily routine.
Do full loads of laundry, have short showers instead of baths, hang up laundry rather than tumble drying, only use as much water as you need in the kettle… every little helps!
Your union will have a free advice service which can help you with all sorts of financial (and other) problems.
If you’re worried, they can help.
It could be anything from landlords and deposits to debt and budget advice.
If you run into serious financial difficulty they may also be able to provide you with hardship funds.
You can find out more about the support and help our Students’ Union offer on the Brookes Union website .

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/how-to-apply/understanding-university/accommodation:
Most (but not all) students move away from home to go to university, which is usually a big step.
Here’s a guide to the main things you’ll need to think about if you’re considering living in university accommodation.
Students usually stay in halls for their first year and then move into private accommodation.
Some universities offer halls for your whole degree.
Halls of residence are owned and managed by the university.
They are divided up into flats, usually of about 6 rooms.
There are options with private or shared bathrooms.
All halls are self-catered, each flat has its own shared kitchen.
Sometimes there’ll be a vending machine and some bigger halls can have pubs built in.
There’ll be a reception and wardens if you need help with anything.
Halls will always have nearby bike racks, students in halls are not permitted to keep a car in Oxford.
Wi-fi is available in halls and across the university.
You’ll meet your flatmates when you move in.
It’s a great opportunity to make new friends and learn how to live with new people.
This means organising rotas for cleaning or shopping, relating to people from different backgrounds, and keeping shared spaces clean and tidy.
There will usually be Facebook groups for individual halls - have a look before you move in and you could find your new flatmates before meeting them in person.
It probably won’t be massive, but it will definitely be big enough.
There will be a bed (with mattress and mattress protector), a desk and a chair.
You’ll have storage space and shelves for what you bring with you.
Remember, it’s better to bring too little than too much.
You can always bring more of your things back with you after going home during the winter break.
Make sure you check what you can and can’t bring - there will be a list of banned items.
These can include certain types of furniture, large speakers and fairy lights.
The cost of halls depends on several things, including location, facilities, and how new the building is.
You can see some examples of Oxford Brookes accommodation options .
Bills are typically included in the cost.
So no worries about heating, electricity, hot water or internet!
If you want a TV, you will have to buy a licence for your room.
You should get information in your first week.
You will probably have to pay a deposit.
As long as you don’t damage anything in your room and shared spaces, you will get this back after you leave.
Halls are very secure and there will probably be 2 or 3 locked doors to get to your room.
Some students take out insurance on their belongings just to be safe, and some halls include insurance in the cost.
Make sure to get advice from the wardens or reception about keeping safe in and around your halls.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/how-to-apply/understanding-university/support:
Universities have a lot of facilities to support you (both personally and in your studies).
Make sure you find out what is available.
If you need a specific type of support, this could be the deciding factor when you’re choosing universities.
If you have any personal concerns whilst at university, there will specialist services available.
You can find out more about the services we offer on our Student support and wellbeing web pages .
Universities welcome students from all religious backgrounds.
Many will have special facilities on campus such as chaplaincies and prayer rooms.
You can find out more about the provisions we have available here at Oxford Brookes in our Multifaith Chaplaincy web pages .
There are student societies for certain religions too, so you can connect with others from your faith and explore it more.
Most universities have GP surgeries for students, and some universities have dental services on campus.
It is always a good idea to register with a doctor when you arrive at university (if you’re moving away from home).
Each university will have their own library, along with a variety of online resources.
Universities will provide a range of study support facilities for their students, such as:
Find out more about our facilities on the Oxford Brookes Library web pages .
Or to find out more about how we offer student support with academic skills, check out our Centre for Academic Development web pages .
Students’ unions are run by students, for students.
The union provides social activities and events, as well as important support.
Most students’ unions will provide:
Find out more about the support our Students’ Union provides on the Brookes Union website .
Universities have careers services designed to help you get ready for the workplace.
You can get feedback on your CV and go to interview skills sessions.
Universities also give help and advice in finding part-time work while you study.
They also help you make the transition from education into work, providing advice, support and information on possible careers.
If you want to go into further study, you can get advice about that too.
With planning and preparation, higher education is accessible for many people with disabilities.
The most important thing to do is contact your chosen universities and ask them about the specific support you need.
Extensive support is available from universities and the government to help you adapt to university life and meet your learning needs.
DSA grants are designed to help pay for extra course costs students can face as a direct result of a disability.
The amount you receive depends on the type of extra help you need (not your household income).

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/how-to-apply/understanding-university/open-day-tips:
The best way to get a real sense of what it’ll be like to study at university is to attend an open day.
Below are some pointers that can help you make the most of your day.
Book your place now
Before you attend your Open Day
Find out which universities offer the courses you are interested in and make a note of their open day dates.
From subject talks to campus tours - everyone has different priorities from an open day.
Tailor your day to suit your needs - making sure you allow enough time to do it all.
Open days are the perfect opportunity for you to ask questions about all aspects of university life.
Noting these down beforehand will help to remind you to ask them on the day.
Having someone by your side at an open day can help you feel more supported.
You can also bounce ideas off one another, or get a second opinion.
Be clear on how you are getting to the open day.
Planning your travel to the event will help your day run more smoothly.
Check out the open day travel information online.
Most universities will have a list of frequently asked questions for open days.
From what to bring, to the cost of parking.
Find out more about your course by attending a subject-specific talk.
Academics and students will also be on hand to answer any questions you might have.
Get practical information from admissions, accommodation and finance.
Find out about application deadlines and the support available.
Ask students about life at university.
They will be able to give you a more personal account.
It’s likely you’ll be taking in a lot of information.
Take photos to help remind you of the day.
They can act as a prompt when reviewing what you liked about the university.
There’s a world outside of the university to explore.
This place could be your home for the next few years.
It is important to picture yourself living there.
Going to university is more than just studying for a degree - it’s about the whole experience.
Find out more about the university clubs and societies.
“I fell in love with Oxford and the university as a whole when visiting on Open Day.”
Hannah Cooper, Graduate
“Coming to an open day sealed Brookes as my first choice.
The enthusiasm from the academic staff was particularly uplifting and encouraging.”
Gary Neal, Graduate

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/new-students/induction-week/courses-with-alternative-inductions:
Most courses at Oxford Brookes University have their induction during Induction Week (15 - 19 September) and begin their teaching the week afterwards.
However, there are some courses which start their inductions and teaching at different times.
It's important to know if your course is one of these as it might mean starting your induction activities earlier.
Please check the below table.
If your course is not mentioned on this page, your induction will begin as standard in the week commencing Monday 15 September and the schedule will be ready to view by 1 September.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/new-students/student-checklist/online-enrolment:
For most students online enrolment will open from Wednesday 3 September onwards , provided you have an unconditional offer.
Please check for emails from Oxford Brookes which will notify you when you are eligible to enrol.
We will continue to send emails in batches as more students become unconditional.
Please check the emails have not gone into your spam folder.
If you have applied to Oxford Brookes using a school or college email address, please make sure you update it to a personal email.
School and college email addresses are usually closed down once you are no longer a student there.
You can do this via UCAS track or by contacting enrolment@brookes.ac.uk .
Some September courses start earlier than others.
If your course has an early start date, you might be invited to enrol earlier than the first week of September.
If you have received an email inviting you to enrol, please proceed with the steps on this page.
The Online Enrolment Team is available to help you from Wednesday 3 September onwards.
Contact the Online Enrolment Team
How to enrol
Enrolment FAQs
Finance FAQs
Once enrolment is open, you will receive two emails:
Please note that the link in the second email only lasts for 48 hours, but you can request a new one if yours expires.
Once you have access to your User ID (student number) and password, you can use these to log in and start your online enrolment in the Student Information portal.
Continuing students also have to enrol.
If you are a continuing student, you will be notified via email when enrolment is open for you.
You can use your pre-existing details (student number/User ID and password) to login to your Student Information portal and complete your enrolment.
If you are not a UK national, you will also need to complete your Right to Study checks to be fully enrolled.
You can complete your checks either before or after online enrolment.
Start online enrolment
Complete your right to study checks (if you are not a UK national)
If you are having any difficulties with your enrolment or have a question that isn't answered here, please contact enrolment@brookes.ac.uk .
It takes a few days after you've been confirmed as unconditional for us to create your records in all the University systems.
If you are new to Oxford Brookes, the University will send you two emails about your enrolment.
If you need to update your personal email address, you can do this by emailing the enrolment team.
Please give your full name and date of birth in the email.
Retrieve your Brookes User ID by entering your personal email address that is linked to your Oxford Brookes account.
Each link to create a password only lasts 48 hours.
If you weren't able to use yours in time, you can request a new password link .
Enter your User ID (student number) or the personal email address that is linked to your Oxford Brookes account.
An email to reset your password will be sent to your personal email linked to your Oxford Brookes account.
You can reset your password by entering your User ID (student number) or the personal email address that is linked to your Oxford Brookes account.
We recommend you complete enrolment on a laptop or desktop computer.
You will not have to show photo ID to anyone.
However, all new students must upload a recent passport-style photo as part of the online enrolment process.
We can only accept passport-style ID photos that are used for ID purposes.
The uploaded photo will appear on your student profile.
Photo upload works best if you are using:
Please email us if you are having issues with uploading your photo.
When you enrol, you will be asked to enter a 'preferred name'.
This is the first name you would like people to use when they refer to you.
It does not have to be your full first name - it can be a nickname or shortened version.
We only record UK qualifications which students have achieved between the ages of 16-18 (Level 3) and so any other qualifications will not appear in the drop-down list.
You need to untick the box for 'more qualifications' and then you will be able to proceed with your enrolment.
Once you have finished all the sections of the online enrolment process, you will see the following message in your Student Information: 'Online enrolment is complete'.
This confirms you are fully enrolled.
If you are not a UK national, you will also need to complete your Right to Study checks in order to be fully enrolled.
You can request an attendance letter in your Student Information portal .
Please note you must have completed your enrolment first, including Right to Study checks if applicable.
If you have any queries about your tuition fees, please contact the finance team:
It covers fees for the academic year ahead.
If you will be paying your tuition fees yourself, you can pay once you have completed your enrolment.
Please go to your ‘My Accounts’ area in your Student Information portal where you can pay by credit/debit card.
The deadline for paying your fees is Monday 22 September 2025.
Yes, you can pay for your tuition fees in two instalments, one each semester.
If you are in receipt of a Masters Loan or on a PhD course you can pay in three instalments.
For confirmation about the instalment options available to you, please see your Account Summary page when you enrol online.
We can't hold your details but we will remind you when your payment is due.
You can log onto 'My Accounts' in Student Information to make your payment.
Check the left-hand box to see the course and mode of study you are registered on.
If any of this information is incorrect, please email studentrecords@brookes.ac.uk .
If the course and mode of study information is correct but the fee is not correct, please contact the finance team at financefees@brookes.ac.uk .
You will be able to see the information we have already about your funding on the relevant page of your online enrolment.
If this is correct, you don’t need to provide any further information.
If you are concerned the information we hold about your funding is incorrect, please contact the finance team.
If your parents or a family member is paying, you are still considered to be self financing.
Only organisations (such as employers, charities, embassies etc.) are classified as sponsors.
We will send these sponsors an official invoice to pay the full fee.
After you have completed enrolment, your parents or family member can pay your fees in instalments online .
Please make sure that they quote your name and student number (your username) so that we can recognise the payment is for your fees.
We raise invoices to sponsors for tuition fees by:
If you think you should be paying a fee and it does not appear, please contact the finance team.
Please note that finance details will not show at all if you study a zero fees programme.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/new-students/student-checklist/right-to-study:
Alert If you are not a UK national, please read the information on this page carefully.
Any students who are not British citizens will need to send us a copy of their immigration permission or visa which allows them to study in the UK.
This check is solely based on nationality, not on whether you pay home or international fees.
You will not be fully enrolled until you have done this.
It can be done before or after your online enrolment.
The information on this page will tell you how to do this.
All Right to Study checks must be completed by Friday 3 October 2025.
You can only complete your Right to Study checks once you have your Student visa and have arrived in the UK.
If you use CAS Shield, please update your arrival date there as soon as you know it.
We need you to send us the following documents:
Ways to send the documents required:
You can only do your right to study checks once you arrive in the UK so please do not email us your passport and travel documentation before you travel.
Please send a copy of your passport and travel documents (flight ticket or boarding pass) to isct@brookes.ac.uk once you arrive in the UK.
If you have a vignette visa in your passport because you got your Visitor visa in your home country before you travelled, please also send us a stamped copy of this.
Please make sure that the subject heading of your email is in the following format: 'Enrolment Sept 2025 visitor visa student number 19XXXXXX'.
If you are on any other visa type, please send a copy of your passport and your share code to isct@brookes.ac.uk .
This could include Indefinite Leave to Remain, Dependent visa, Skilled Worker visa, EU Settlement, Ancestry visa, British National Overseas (BNO) visa, Refugee or Asylum Seeker.
You should be able to generate a share code to show Right to Study at view and prove your immigration status .
Please note, you will need to choose a reason for the share code from a drop down box.
Please choose “Something else” as your reason, not “Right to Work”.
Please make sure that the title of your email is in the following format: 'Enrolment Sept 2025 other visa student number 19XXXXXX'.
Please send a copy of your passport to isct@brookes.ac.uk .
Please make sure that the title of your email is in the following format: ‘Enrolment Sep 2024 Irish passport student number 19XXXXXX’.
If you have any questions about completing the Right to Study checks, get in touch with the International Student Compliance Team (ISCT) via the following contact details:
Further information can be found on the webpage your e-visas and correcting any e-visa errors .
If you have questions about this our International Student Advice Team (ISAT) will be able to help.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/new-students/student-checklist/email-and-calendar:
At Oxford Brookes, our email, calendar, document storage and sharing (Google Drive), video (Google Meet) and instant chat are provided by Google Workspace
You can set up and access your email, calendar and other online University systems from Monday 8 September onwards.
Please note you must have completed online enrolment before you can access your email and calendar.
You will need to set up your Oxford Brookes email account before you can access the other Google Workspace tools.
You are advised to use a Chrome browser when using these applications.
Setting up your email account
Setting up your calendar
Troubleshooting
You will need your User ID (student number) and the password you used for online enrolment.
It is important to activate the two-step verification feature which adds an extra layer of security to your account by sending you an extra code to access your account.
You will find this feature in your Google Account settings.
More information is available from Google Workspace support .
We recommend installing the Gmail app for easy access to your emails.
You'll be able to use the same login information to access other important online platforms like Moodle and your Student Information.
Learn about other online platforms
Once you have set up your Oxford Brookes email, you can then access your Oxford Brookes calendar.
Your Google calendar will have the most up-to-date information about your teaching timetable, including rooms and any online events.
You will only find your teaching timetable in your Google calendar once you are fully enrolled.
If you have optional modules to register, these will appear in your calendar 24 hours after you complete your module registration.
We recommend also installing the Google Drive app.
If you are an international student studying in the UK and you download the Google Calendar App on your personal devices, you need to update the primary time zone.
Go to the Google calendar settings, click on Time Zone and select (GMT+00:00) United Kingdom Time.
You can retrieve your User ID by entering your personal email address that is linked to your Oxford Brookes account.
If you need to update your personal email address you can do this via UCAS or by emailing enrolment@brookes.ac.uk .
You can reset your Oxford Brookes account password by entering your User ID (student number) or the personal email address that is linked to your Brookes account.
Have you already logged in on your devices with a personal Gmail account?
If so, when you go to the sign-in page to create your Oxford Brookes email account, it will automatically take you to your personal Gmail instead.
If this happens, click on the top right corner of your Gmail account page and select 'Add another account'.
You'll then be able to follow the instructions above to add your Oxford Brookes account too.
Please check you have done all the following:
If the answer to all the above is yes, please try doing a password reset using this link .
If this does not resolve your problem, please report the issue via the Oxford Brookes IT services online portal .
You'll need to sign into the portal using your student number and password.
If you can't sign in, please click ' Problems logging in?
' to report the issue as a guest user instead.
Please note your teaching timetable will only appear on Google calendar, not the default calendar already on your device.
Some devices may use Google calendar as the default - if so, make sure you are logged in with your Oxford Brookes email credentials.
If you are logged in to Google calendar with your personal email, you won't be able to see your Oxford Brookes timetable.
Your teaching timetable will be on your calendar and will normally be updated within a couple of working days of you enrolling.
If you need help with this, please check the bottom of your course induction schedule for contact details for your Student Support Coordinator.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/new-students/student-checklist/student-bus-passes:
Students can apply for a discounted CityZone annual bus pass for the 2025/26 academic year, reduced from the full price of £700.
This will allow access to a wide range of Oxford Bus Company, Thames Travel and Pulhams routes covering the city centre and the majority of greater Oxford.
You can view the CityZone network map here .
You must be enrolled and be able to access your student email account before applying for a bus pass.
Please check below which bus pass to apply for.
I am an Oxford Brookes student bursary holder and I will be living more than one mile from Headington Campus during the academic year
Apply for a free CityZone annual pass - apply here from Monday 8 September
I am an Oxford Brookes student bursary holder and I will live less than one mile from Headington Campus during the academic year
Apply for a subsidised annual CityZone pass costing £125 - apply here from Monday 8 September
I will be living more than two miles from Headington Campus during the academic year
None of the above eligibility criteria apply to me
Apply for a subsidised annual CityZone pass costing £220
You do not have to establish the exact the distance yourself, the form will check it for you.
See FAQs for further details.
Please note that all passes are subject to an additional non-refundable £10 admin fee.
When you go to purchase your pass the price will initially appear as the standard price of £700.
After logging in or registering for an account using your Oxford Brookes student email address, the price will reduce to the subsidised price plus the £10 admin fee.
The Bursary is based on household income and is applied automatically to anyone who is eligible.
Check the eligibility criteria for the Brookes Bursary .
You don't need to know this for certain as the application process will check it for you.
You only need to know what your postcode will be.
Enter it into the application form and you will receive a reply confirming which pass applies to you.
If you don't know your postcode you can check it using the following resources:
If you have purchased the standard discounted pass at £220* you will receive an email from the Oxford Bus Company confirming the purchase and informing you how to download the app.
If you have applied for the £125 pass or free pass*, you should receive an automated email within 30 minutes of submitting your application.
This email will confirm your ticket price based on the information you have given.
The email will also contain a link to the correct product on the Oxford Bus Company website which you can then buy online.
You will then receive an email from the Oxford Bus Company confirming the purchase and informing you how to download the app.
*Please note that all passes are subject to an additional non-refundable £10 admin fee.
Yes - you can also use your student ID card to travel on Oxford Bus Company buses at the discounted price of £1.80 per trip.
Simply show your card to the driver to obtain the discount.
If you think you have applied for the wrong pass please contact the Student Induction Team for advice.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/new-students/student-checklist/get-connected:
Once you are on campus we recommend connecting your devices to our WiFi networks.
There are a number of different networks in use on Oxford Brookes sites.
See below for information about the options and how to get connected.
If you have any issues connecting to any of the below networks, please refer to the Wireless Networking guide for full instructions and troubleshooting.
Eduroam
Guest WiFi
Halls of residence
Eduroam is the main WiFI network for both staff and student use.
It provides simple, easy and secure connectivity from thousands of hotspots across more than 100 countries.
It means you will be connected to WiFi whenever you are in range of any institution that uses it, not just Brookes.
Please use the guest Wi-Fi network 'OBU_Guest WiFi'.
To connect to this network:
Once registered for this network your device should automatically connect after a few seconds.
Remember that your guest access is temporary and you'll need to re-register every 24 hours.
Please use the guest Wi-Fi network 'BrookesWifi'.
Wifinity is the WiFi network in place at the following halls of residence:
If you live in any other hall of residence, please speak to the reception team for advice on how to connect to WiFi.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/new-students/student-checklist/choosing-modules-for-your-course:
During Induction Week, you will meet academic staff and your Student Support Coordinators (SSCs) who will explain more about module registration.
In order to register your modules, you must complete your enrolment first.
You will register your modules using your Student Information portal - this cannot be done through Moodle.
As part of module registration, you will need to register your choice of optional elective modules as applicable.
This registration will be discussed during your course induction.
Learn more about your Student Information portal
Your calendar
You will be studying on a modular degree programme.
Some of the modules for your subject(s) are compulsory and cannot be changed; some of your modules may be optional and can be changed.
Please note that in your first year, you can only study Level 4 modules.
You will study Level 5 and 6 modules in your second and third years.
Once you are fully enrolled, you will be able to access your programme of study through your Student Information.
You may need to register up to two optional modules for Semester 2.
Undergraduate students must register their modules by 5:00pm on Friday 19 September.
Depending on the programme, some of your modules will be compulsory and have already been added for you and some may be optional.
You will need to register your choice of optional modules as applicable .
Your programme administrator will advise you which modules are required.
Postgraduate students must register their modules by 5:00pm on Thursday 18 September.
In order to have full-time student status, you need to study 4 single modules worth 7.5 ECTS credits per semester (or 30 ECTS in total per semester).
You can additionally register for a language module without extra cost.
You can find the modules you have chosen in your Student Information.
If you need to review your modules, please contact the Global Mobility and Engagement Team .
You can find out about academic language modules on the Centre for Academic Development website, which also details other opportunities to develop your skills.
To add one of the modules, email academicdev@brookes.ac.
uk or if you would like to discuss possibilities please visit the Centre for Academic Development on the ground floor of the Buckley building.
The deadline for free language modules is 4:00pm on Friday 26 September.
Any other changes (set changes or deletion) will need to be done by 4:00pm on Friday 3 October.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/new-students/student-checklist/online-platforms:
As a student of Oxford Brookes you'll be expected to become familiar with a few different online platforms and systems.
Here we will introduce the two you are likely to use the most over Induction Week and the beginning of semester: your Student Information portal and Moodle.
To log in to either of these platforms, please use your User ID (student number) and the password you created when you were invited to enrol.
Read more about online enrolment
You will encounter the Student Information portal first as it's where you log in to enrol.
It holds some key information about you and your studies and is where you will complete some important administrative tasks.
You will use it to:
If relevant, you can also use it to:
Log in to your Student Information
Moodle is the Oxford Brookes University Virtual Learning Environment (VLE).
You'll be able to access it once you have enrolled.
You will use Moodle to:
You will find out more about Moodle during your course induction , plus you will find optional Moodle induction sessions on the events calendar .
Alternatively you can watch the following introductory videos:
Your semester timetable isn't hosted on either of the above platforms.
You will find it by logging into calendar.google.com or the Google Calendar app using your Oxford Brookes email and password.
Read more about this on the Oxford Brookes email and calendar page .

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/new-students/student-checklist/student-cards:
Your student ID card proves that you are a student at Oxford Brookes University.
You will need this card to get books out of the library and access the campuses outside of normal service hours.
As part of your enrolment process you have the option to provide your preferred pronouns which will be printed on your student card.
You can read more about pronouns in the FAQ section below.
You will be emailed when your card is ready for collection but this will only be once you have completed online enrolment and uploaded a photo .
If you enrolled very recently, please note that it takes approximately a week for your card to be produced and sent to campus ready for collection.
You won't need to use your student card for much in the first couple of weeks of semester so don't worry if there is a wait to receive yours.
Please do not come to collect your card until you have received the email confirming that it is ready.
Collection points
Getting your student card
Saturday 13 September and Sunday 14 September:
You need your student ID card to confirm your identity for your exams.
The card can also be used to access some buildings out of hours, to borrow items from the library, and to identify yourself if requested by University staff while on campus.
You can use your student ID card to travel on Oxford Bus Company buses at the discounted price of £1.80 per trip.
You can still study in the library, read books and journals online before you receive your card.
If you would like to borrow books, please go to the library help desk.
Provided you have enrolled, you can request an attendance letter .
It takes one working day to be produced and then can be downloaded as a PDF.
You can use this as proof of your status as a student.
It is entirely optional as to whether you have your pronouns displayed on your student card or not.
If you do not wish to have your pronouns displayed, then please chose the option 'Prefer not to say' from the drop-down menu when you are completing your online enrolment.
If you wish to update your preferred pronouns this can be done at any time via the Student Details section of your Student Information portal .
If you have any queries about this, please contact the Student Central Advice Team at studentcentral@brookes.ac.uk .
If you need to correct errors before your card is printed
If you don’t upload a suitable ID photo or you incorrectly entered your preferred name during enrolment, this will delay the printing of your student card.
You need to correct these before the card can be printed.
Remember:
Photo ID must be clearly of your face - if you have uploaded an unclear photo or one taken from too far away, a photo of multiple people, or a photo of something or someone else, that cannot be used as ID for you.
Your preferred name should be either your first name or any alternative first name you chose to use while you are at university.
Do not also enter your surname in the preferred name field or it will appear twice.
Your preferred name will be used on your Google and Moodle accounts and for any informal documentation (e.g.
registers).
If you've already fully completed online enrolment and need to change your name or photo, please follow the below steps:
If you have received your student ID card and find that details on it need changing, please contact studentcentral@brookes.ac.uk .
Please note that depending on the reason, this may incur a cost.
The Student Central Advice Team can advise you about this.
You only need to collect your student card if you are:
Otherwise you have full access to the online materials without a student card.
If you are a distance-learning student and would like to have your student card, please contact studentcentral@brookes.ac.uk with your request.
If your student ID card is lost or damaged, you will need to order a replacement from the online shop .

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/new-students/student-checklist/sexual-consent-course:
Sexual consent education
At Oxford Brookes University, we are committed to building an inclusive, safe and respectful culture both on and off campus, and we expect everyone in our community to play their part.
Consent matters.
Consent is a topic that affects everyone.
It's important to understand consent and feel confident applying it, so we can keep ourselves and other people safe.
That’s why, as a student at Oxford Brookes, you’ll need to complete the sexual consent education course as part of your induction.
We understand that this can be a sensitive topic.
If you are likely to be distressed by the content or are worried about completing the modules, you can access specialist support or opt out of taking the course.
For more information about consent at Oxford Brookes and to get started on the course, go to our dedicated sexual consent education webpage for students.
If you have any questions or concerns about taking the consent course, or you want to know more about available support, email the Consent team at consent@brookes.ac.uk .
The Consent team will also be present at the Fair in the Forum in the John Henry Brookes Building on Headington Campus, 1:00pm - 5:00pm on Saturday 13 September.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/new-students/student-checklist/medical-centre:
If you have moved to Oxford to study at Oxford Brookes University it is important to register with a doctor (GP).
You can do this once you know what your semester-time address will be.
As long as you are living in Oxfordshire you can register with the Oxford Brookes Medical Centre, part of St Bartholomew & Hollow Way Medical Practice .
You will need to travel to one of the surgery sites to receive medical care:
St Bartholomew & Hollow Way Medical Centre Ivy Close Site, Ivy Close, Oxford, OX4 2NB (all year round)
If you are an international student, please see information about health insurance .
You can register online before you arrive using the 'online medical registration' link below.
The page will show you the specific information you'll need to have ready so make sure you have this to hand before you begin the online registration form.
If you have any problems with registration please contact the Oxford Brookes Medical Centre directly and they can advise.
If there is a specific reason you cannot register online please contact Oxford Brookes Medical Centre for advice.
You can also visit the centre on the Headington Campus.
If you don't wish to register with the Oxford Brookes Medical Centre you can use the 'Find a GP' button below to search NHS Choices for other doctors' surgeries near you.
Online medical registration
Contact the Medical Centre
Find a GP with NHS Choices
We also have a dentist on Headington Campus.
Visit the Damira Dental website to find out how to register for their services.
Contact Damira Dental
Please read important information on the Meningitis ACWY vaccine recommended for all new students.
Please read important information on the measles, mumps and rubella vaccine recommended for all new students.
The Oxford Brookes Medical Centre offers the course of HPV vaccines if you are eligible and have not yet had it.
Please bring a record of the dates that you had your Covid-19 vaccinations with you to Oxford, especially if you believe you are entitled to a booster or are an international student.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/study/parents-and-carers/preparing-your-child-for-university/releasing-information-to-parents-and-third-parties:
Parents, relatives and third parties often contact the University to ask for personal information about students.
For example, they may ask how they are settling in, particularly if the student has not been in touch, or how they are progressing academically.
The University is unable to disclose this information due to the Data Protection Act 2018, and we always encourage parents to contact students directly rather than trying to make contact via the University.
The Data Protection Act protects a person’s right to privacy in relation to their personal information, and controls how the information is used.
This means that the University is unable to pass on information about a student, even to their parents, unless the student has given consent for that specific information to be released to a specific person.
We do understand that parents may be concerned about their child and are happy to discuss general procedures at the University, for example, what happens if they fail a module, or support that’s on hand for personal or practical issues.
The Data Protection Act only permits the University to disclose information to parents without the student’s consent in certain exceptional circumstances, for example, where there is immediate, obvious or urgent risk to the student.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/outreach/pre-16:
The GCSE decision workshop is designed to coincide with students making their option choices for GCSEs, delivered at a convenient time to schools.
Find out more about the Year  8 / Year 9 GCSE Decision Workshop
Made for curious minds in Year 5 and 6, The Big Exploration is a 6-week project exploring the research skills that are a really big part of studying at university.
Along the way, participants will find out what it’s like to go to university and learn more about some of the different subjects and topics they can learn about.
There will also be the chance to do an original piece of research!
Find out more about The Big Exploration

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/outreach/pre-16/gcse-decisions-workshop:
This activity is only open to our link widening participation schools.
In this informative and interactive session, we will help your students to decide on their options for GCSE.
By encouraging students to think about who they are as a person, we will discuss how to plan for their future career and how GCSE choices could impact the future.
Students will then be able to use this information to help plan their own path to their ideal career.
One-off workshop
Please reach out to the Schools and Colleges Liaison team to discuss a date and time for your workshop
Year 8 / 9
1 hour workshop
In-person, virtual, or pre-recorded
Suitable for small groups up to whole year groups
Free
We'll help students to understand the importance of making the appropriate GCSE options for them.
Year 8 and 9 students who are coming up to making their GCSE choices.
This activity support Gatsby benchmarks 3,4 and 7.
See how we have broken down which Gatsby Benchmarks our offerings can support with.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/outreach/pre-16/the-big-exploration:
A series of online resources designed to introduce Year 5 and 6 students to 
Higher Education.
Welcome to The Big Exploration 2024!
The Big Exploration is a programme of activities for students in Year 5 and 6, and is suitable to be used with whole year groups, class groups, selected students, or as independent homework tasks.
Over 6 weeks, your students will discover what it’s like to go to university, and will explore some of the different subjects and topics that are taught there.
In the final two weeks of The Big Exploration, your students will have the opportunity to plan, carry out and present their own piece of research in an area of their choosing.
After signing up to participate in The Big Exploration, you will be given access to our online hub.
Here, you will find all of the resources you will need to participate in The Big Exploration.
Each week, we will provide you with an instructional video, accompanying worksheets, and a suggested lesson plan for you to integrate into your timetable.
Sign up
Find out more by watching the video, or download the video transcript .
Online videos with accompanying worksheets and lesson plans.
Primary school pupils in Year 5 and Year 6.
The Big Exploration is designed to be delivered across 6 weeks.
The activities in the first 4 weeks will take approximately 1 hour to complete.
In the final 2 weeks, you may want to allow up to 2 hours to complete the activities.
Your school.
Any!
The Big Exploration can be delivered to whole year groups, class groups, selected pupils, or set as independent homework tasks.
Free.
This activity supports Gatsby Benchmarks 3, 4 and 7.
Download our document to see how we have broken down which Gatsby Benchmarks our offerings can support with.
“I would very much recommend the project to other schools … children have an innate fascination with the world, are curious and ask very thought provoking questions.
This was a real eye opener for them as many of them had no idea of the variety of possible jobs within science.
All of the activities as part of the workshop were thought provoking, challenging and fun.”
Philippa Ben-Aldjia, Science Coordinator at John Henry Newman Academy
If you have any questions about The Big Exploration, please email schools.liaison@brookes.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/outreach/post-16:
Our presentations for Year 11-13 students last between 20 and 60 minutes and cover a range of topics.
We can deliver each one of these presentations pre-recorded, live via a virtual platform or in-person following covid-secure measures.
Find out more about Talks in Schools and Colleges
Subject workshops are delivered in school by current Oxford Brookes University students.
Each workshop is roughly 1 hour long and covers one area of potential university study that will build upon students’ existing curriculum knowledge.
Find out what subjects we are currently offering by clicking the button below.
Find out more about Subject workshops
Do you want to explore your degree options at university?
We've got some fantastic Virtual Subject Taster Sessions aimed at first year sixth form and college students, to give you an interactive experience of a broad range of different subjects.
They are accessible on a smartphone as well as a laptop or tablet.
You can have a go at filming a stop motion animation, explore dystopian themes in literature, and use a virtual lab to explore the human anatomy, to name a few - or you can try them all!
The subjects on offer are:
Click on the subject names above to see more information about the activities that are available for each taster session.
Then, if you'd like to try any or all of these exciting resources, click ‘Apply Now’ and complete the short form to gain access to the platform.
If there are any other subjects you'd be interested in trying, please email brookesengage@brookes.ac.uk and we'll see if we can help you!
Apply now to access our Virtual Subject Taster Sessions
Are you currently studying at sixth form or college, or generally investigating your undergraduate degree options at university for the first time?
Check out our series of virtual subject taster lectures.
These free 30 minute evening lectures will enable you to explore a subject area of your choice, and help you to make a decision on your future study options.
Watch our Virtual Lectures
"Do you have any students interested in Law?
If so, you can direct them to the Oxford Brookes University Law Subject Spotlight, with Chris Lloyd.
This is a great way for your students to boost their subject area knowledge and level up their personal statements.
They can get started by visiting the University Experience Hub below.
Sign up to the University Experience hub
Our Subject Taster Days give you first-hand experience of learning at a university level and a chance to explore our courses and facilities at Oxford Brookes.
By meeting our ambassadors, you will gain an insight into student life.
Each Subject Taster Day is free to attend and covers a range of topics related to the courses we offer.
Our Subject Taster Days will give you valuable knowledge and skills to help you decide what you want to study at university.
Apply now for Subject Taster Days
The Oxford Brookes Summer Schools will give you the opportunity to discover what being a university student is all about, and delve into a subject area of your choice.
Don’t worry if you’re not sure whether university is for you - summer schools provide the perfect opportunity to help you decide.
All Summer Schools take place in July and will start with your arrival at the university on Tuesday afternoon.
Then you’ll stay overnight in student halls until departure on either Friday afternoon.
You’ll have the opportunity to take part in a range of sessions including subject tasters and work on an individual or group project.
Where relevant you will also use university facilities such as labs and technical equipment.
Find out more about our Summer Schools
Brookes Engage is an exciting programme of free activities and events designed to help you learn more about university, and prepare for your future career.
Besides having lots of fun and making some new friends, you'll gain a lot of skills which will really help to give you the leading edge when it comes to applying for university and for jobs.
Find out more about Brookes Engage

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/outreach/post-16/brookes-engage:
Coming Soon
A national outreach programme for students in Year 12 or the first year of college.
A free subject based programme designed to support you in making decisions about your next steps after school or college through the following activities.
Visit the campus to take part in an exciting range of activities and make use of our state of the art facilities.
You’ll get to engage in your choice of subject sessions as well as benefiting from information, advice and guidance related to university applications and beyond.
You can choose what content to complete and complete it in your own time so that you can tailor your experience to what you are interested in or need more support with.
This includes further subject content as well as support with UCAS and careers information.
Mentors will help you navigate the challenges of applying to university, and will tell you all about student life and what it is like to be a student at Oxford Brookes.
Your mentor is also able to support you with subject related questions, and you can meet your mentor when you visit Oxford Brookes.
Gain a deeper understanding of what being a student at Brookes is like by joining our summer school.
Alongside further subject content, you will have the opportunity to stay in Halls, use our facilities, and get to know the city better.
Masterclasses will give you the chance to learn more about studying your chosen subject and get to know new people with similar interests to you from across the country, including current students.
Much of the programme, including mentoring, personal statement and interview support sessions will take place online so you can access them from anywhere!
There will also be ‘pick and mix’ website content you can access in your own time and at your own pace.
Conference Days and Summer School will take place on campus so you can experience our incredible facilities and work with academics in person!
As a Brookes Engage student, you’ll also receive a special invite to the Open Day and Applicant Days.
If you decide to apply to university, Brookes Engage will be a great thing to write about in your personal statement, as it shows your commitment to learn more beyond sixth form or college.
As part of the programme you’ll receive support in completing your UCAS application.
Successful completion of the programme will give you access to a contextual offer to study at Oxford Brookes.
This means we’ll offer you a place on reduced tariff points as long as any other conditions of the offer are met.
This is usually around two grades lower, but can vary per course.
“The programme has given me an insight into what university is like.
I am more confident about going to uni in the future.”
Brookes Engage graduate, 2023
The programme will start in January of Year 12 with conference days taking place throughout the rest of the year:
Online mentoring platform
All travel and meals for in-person activities will be provided at no cost to you.
Get an in-depth understanding of university life by participating in summer school.
Continue subject taster sessions and get more familiar with our campus and the city of Oxford.
You have the option to stay in university accommodation or commute if you wish.
Depending on your subject, you will attend 1 of the following dates:
You will attend one of the following based on your subject stream:
Once you return for Year 13, the programme will begin again in September with a range of support available for your UCAS application.
In October or November you can visit campus again, with a special invite to the university open day.
In the spring, celebrate completing the programme at our 'mini graduation'.
Subjects for 2025-26 will be released in October
To be eligible to apply for Brookes Engage, you must meet all of the following criteria:
To be eligible to apply for Brookes Engage, you also need to meet at least one of the following criteria.
Applications will also be considered from those who meet any of these other criteria:
have a disability, mental health condition, or specific learning difficulty
Parents and Carers are invited to attend Masterclass Day 1 on 17th January.
This day will include an introduction to the programme, information on supporting your student with their UCAS application and student finance, and insights into the benefits of higher education.
A travel bursary, breakfast on arrival and lunch will be provided.
Complete the Brookes Engage Application Form
“The programme has helped me understand more about higher education and the 'best' ways to continue my path in education.”
“I was able to speak with a student to find out more about life at a university and help with decisions regarding where I want to go to a university and what I am looking for.”
brookesengage@brookes.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/outreach/post-16/talks-in-schools-and-colleges:
An informative talk discussing the different options available at the end of Year 11.
(30 mins)
An adaptable series of workshops that can be made bespoke to the needs of your group.
The Study Skills series can be run as a one-off workshop, or as a suite of workshops.
Topics covered included: visual revision techniques, time management, organisation, goal making, motivation and independent learning.
The one off workshop would cover just one or two of these topics for 1hr, the suite of workshops would be five 1hr workshops.
Informative talk giving students useful advice on how to approach their EPQ and project process.
Benefits of going to university, courses on offer, and how it differs to school and college.
(45 mins)
This talk offers students an insight into what to expect at a UCAS or Higher Education fair and how to get the most out of it.
Including top tips and key questions to ask to each Higher Education provider.
Introducing students to the alternative routes into Higher Education, including providing information, advice and guidance on apprenticeship schemes and how they work to help students to make informed decisions.
(20 mins)
How to narrow down the choices to a manageable number and how university courses differ.
An insight into what it is like to study at Oxford Brookes University and information about the courses, support services and facilities available to students.
A general overview of how to navigate the UCAS system, usually linked with writing personal statements.
How to prepare for and write personal statements.
Including dos and don'ts, advice on structure and tips from admissions tutors.
Can be delivered as a talk or as an interactive workshop.
Highlights the support available to students from loans, scholarships and bursaries, as well as providing advice on the student finance process for the academic year 2023/24.
An insight into student life from the perspective of a current student.
Covers topics such as accommodation, social life, societies, sports and studies.
(30-45 mins)
Our drop-in sessions give students the opportunity to seek personalised 1:1 advice and guidance on their personal statement from our trained members of staff.
These can be delivered online following safeguarding procedures.
(15 min appointments)
This valuable opportunity gives students the chance to participate in a mock interview, providing them with advice and guidance to develop both their confidence and skills in order to undertake successful interviews.
We can also deliver a presentation to prepare students for the mock interviews.
All talks can be adapted and delivered in combination to meet your requirements.
Our talks are particularly useful for school or college students considering going on to higher education.
We are also happy to give talks to parents and guardians.
If you would like to arrange for us to do a presentation or attend an event at your school or college please get in touch.
All of our talks activity support Gatsby benchmarks.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/outreach/post-16/virtual-evening-lectures:
Oxford Brookes have recorded a series of free online subject taster lectures which aim to help you make decisions about your next steps!
This series of seven 30 minute lectures covers a broad range of possible degrees, each exploring an interesting theme within that area, and include a question and answer session covering what it is like to study that subject.
Please see all the subjects below.
This activity support Gatsby benchmarks 2, 4 and 7.
The following videos and playlists have been prepared especially for A Level students .
They are available without needing a sign-in, on our Panopto video sharing site.
Enjoy!
English Playlist (Novels)
Frankenstein, Mary Shelley (1:04)
In the Ditch, Buchi Emecheta (44:33)
High Rise, J.G.
Ballard (59:58)
The Hungry Tide, Amitav Ghosh (58:05)
Devil in the Blue Dress, Walter Mosley (1:36:57)
The Outsider, Albert Camus (Playlist)
English Playlist (Shakespeare)
The Winter's Tale (Friends) (54:53)
The Winter's Tale (Faith) (52:05)
Measure for Measure (Chastity) (1:20:28)
discover@brookes.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/outreach/post-16/virtual-subject-taster-sessions:
If there are any other subjects you'd be interested in trying, please email brookesengage@brookes.ac.uk and we'll see if we can help you!
This activity support Gatsby benchmarks 2, 4 and7.
Our virtual Art, Film, Digital Media and Photography taster session will give you an insight into some of the topics you may cover on a related degree course.
It aims to build on the knowledge and skills you have gained already, through A Level Art & Design, Film, or Media, or BTEC Level 3 Extended Certificate/Diploma in Creative Digital Media or Art & Design.
Through a series of interactive activities, you will learn:
This course content will take about 2 hours to complete in total, though you may need to dedicate a bit of extra time for the activities, if you wish to complete them all.
However, you don’t need to do this all in one go - you can stop and return to the session whenever suits you best!
If you’d like to try this session, sign up now to gain access to the platform.
If you have any questions or need help with accessing these activities, please contact us on brookesengage@brookes.ac.uk.
Our virtual Built Environment taster session will give you an insight into some of the topics you may cover on a related degree course.
It aims to build on the knowledge and skills you have gained already, through A Level Geography, or BTEC Level 3 Extended Certificate/Diploma in Construction & the Built Environment.
It can also be used as an introduction that you can jump straight into if you are new to Built Environment, and are just curious to see what it involves!
Through a series of interactive activities, you will:
Our virtual Business taster session will give you an insight into some of the topics you may cover on a related degree course.
It aims to build on the knowledge and skills you have gained already, through A Level Business Studies or Economics, or BTEC Level 3 Extended Certificate/Diploma in Business or Travel & Tourism.
It can also be used as an introduction that you can jump straight into if you are new to Business, and are just curious to see what it involves!
The session will give you a taster of four key areas of Business:
Our virtual English taster session will give you an insight into some of the topics you may cover on a related degree course.
It aims to build on the knowledge and skills you have gained already, through A Level English Language, English Literature, Film, or another related course.
It can also be used as an introduction that you can jump straight into if you are new to English, and are just curious to see what it involves!
Through a series of interactive activities, you will be able to critically engage with content which will hopefully provide a great point from which you can read further.
In particular, you will look at one genre and one critical theory:
Our virtual Healthcare taster session will give you an insight into some of the topics you may cover on a related degree course.
It aims to build on the knowledge and skills you have gained already, through A Level Biological or Human Sciences, or BTEC Level 3 Extended Certificate/Diploma in Health & Social Care.
The session includes a series of activities relating to both the theory and practical skills required for the following courses:
Excitingly, you will get to use a virtual healthcare lab to learn more about the anatomy and physiology of the human body!
This course content will take about 2.5 hours to complete in total, though you may need to dedicate a bit of extra time for the activities, if you wish to complete them all.
Our virtual History and Criminology taster session will give you an insight into some of the topics you may cover on a related degree course.
It aims to build on the knowledge and skills you may have gained already, through A Level History, Law, Government & Politics, Philosophy & Ethics, or another related course.
It can also be used as an introduction that you can jump straight into if you are new to History or Criminology, and are just curious to see what they involve!
Through a series of interactive activities, you will learn more about the history of crime and punishment in the UK, and think deeply about the reasons and intentions of legal systems and criminal punishment.
You'll find details about:

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/outreach/post-16/summer-schools:
Announcement Our Year 12 Summer Schools are on pause during 2025.
We’ll share more information about our future plans later this year.
We have a busy programme of events to support you in making a decision about university.
Applications are now open for our Subject Taster Days which give you first-hand experience of studying at university level and student life.
You may also be interested in signing up for one of our Virtual Subject Taster Sessions or in watching our Virtual Lectures .

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/outreach/post-16/year-12-subject-workshops:
These students can provide your class with insight into what it’s like to study at Oxford Brookes, along with engaging subject content that provides a sneak peak of university level study.
Each workshop is roughly 1 hour long and covers one area of potential university study that will build upon students’ existing curriculum knowledge while also generating interest and excitement about what it would be like to study this subject at degree level.
Workshops have been designed in conjunction with academics from Oxford Brookes and specially adapted so that they are accessible to year 12 students thinking about higher education.
We’ll also provide you with some follow on and extension material to keep students engaged beyond our time with your class.
University students that deliver these workshops are DBS cleared and trained in safeguarding and workshop delivery.
We ask that class teachers are always present during workshops.
Our current subject workshops are listed below.
New workshops are being developed all the time so keep checking back to see new options for your class.
You can also email us if you have a workshop idea in mind and we can let you know if we can offer anything similar to your required topic.
The Stop Motion Challenge
In this interactive workshop, students will have the opportunity to explore the world of stop motion animation.
Understanding and following the processes in which film companies go through to create a short stop motion video clip.
What a Failure!
Failure.
Something as humans we try to avoid, however, failure is essential for Engineers to be able to understand and develop the world around us.
In this workshop students will understand the importance of 'failure' in Engineering, reframing the concept into something positive and will participate in a range of interactive team activities learning to effectively reflect on how they could improve their builds, skills which not only will help them in the field of Engineering but also skills they can apply to their current course and general life.
Urban Myths
What is the Built Environment?
Through myth busting, exploring the Built Environment life cycle and taking part in creating their own sustainable development, students will learn what the Built Environment industry is with a particular focus on Urban, Design and Planning.
Exploring Healthcare Course
Discover a variety of healthcare courses and explore the NHS values and how they relate to different healthcare professions.
This workshop also provides an opportunity to learn about the interview process for healthcare courses and the key qualities that interviewers are looking for.
What is a Nurse?
This workshop explores the various Nursing pathways available to students and provides insight into what a Nursing career entails.
Participants will also have the opportunity to learn about the interview process for Nursing courses and the key skills that interviewers look for.
What Drives Animal Biology and Conservation?
This workshop focuses on Animal Biology and Conservation, exploring topics such as Rewilding, Ecosystem Engineers, and Evolution to examine key conceptual theories.
Participants will also have the opportunity to explore example modules and learn about the legal frameworks that underpin some of the core concepts discussed.
Exploring Sport, Coaching, and Physical Education
This workshop explores the fields of Sport, Coaching, and Physical Education, while also highlighting other sports-related courses that can be studied at Oxford Brookes.
Participants will examine key sports concepts and gain insight into the four domains of development as they relate to the course.
Introduction to Psychology
This workshop provides an introduction to Psychology, exploring what the field is and how it is studied at the university level.
We will also discuss potential career paths with a Psychology degree and examine key topics presented by professionals in the field that are central to the subject.
Become a Hospitality Manager
In this interactive workshop students will explore some of the similarities and differences between hospitality and tourism and how we can use the 4 P's of marketing to market a hospitality business.
Using case study examples, the students can become the hospitality manager and consider challenges, problem solve and troubleshooting, and complete group activities developing skills such as confidence, team work, and presenting.
Unlock your Marketing Potential
In this workshop you will learn how important it is to market your business right.
We will look at major brand logos with a fun guessing game, followed by the theory that underpins marketing, including digital marketing with interactive case studies and real life examples.
What Makes an Event Successful?
In this interactive workshop students will become the events manager and will consider the steps to plan a successful event, equipping them with the theoretical and practical skills to plan, organise, and execute successful events.
The Entrepreneur
Ever thought about becoming your own boss?
Unlock your entrepreneurial potential and join us for the Brookes Business and Management subject workshop.
This workshop will equip students with the skills and knowledge to turn ideas into reality, covering everything from business planning to marketing strategies.
Challenging Complex Societal Issues
In this workshop; students will explore and discuss their thoughts on real-world Sociological questions.
This will help them envision how the subject tries to solve and influence complex societal issues.
Additionally they will be introduced to some career paths that Brookes Sociology students have taken.
‘Black Messages in White Envelopes'-The African American Slave Narrative
In this workshop; students will read and analyse a passage from one of the most famous African slave narratives.
They will practice the skill of close reading by focusing on individual words, repetition and the voice of the narrator.
They will apply this analysis to complex concepts such as sense of self and personal identity.
Human and Physical Geography in the world
In this workshop, students will learn about the different areas of Geography from Human to Physical.
They will also be shown the structure of the course including the divide between the modules and fieldwork.
What's your verdict?
Guilty or not Guilty?
In this workshop, students will be focusing on a case in criminal law; in particular theft.
A scenario will be presented; giving students an opportunity to decide whether they think the person is guilty or not.
They will learn how to justify their decision using legal definitions and terminology.
How Limited is Your Freedom?
In this workshop, students will think about the history of liberty, freedom and its limitations.
They will be introduced to perspectives from some influential philosophers.
The session activities are designed to relate the concepts to their own experiences as well as developing good research strategies.
How Accurate is the Eyewitness Testimony?
In this workshop, students will get a chance to learn and practice the skill of image analysis and how to look for signs and clues in images in order to better understand people, places and situations.
They will think about ways of seeing; how you see yourself and how you see others and will question the accuracy of eyewitness accounts which are one of the key pieces of evidence in police investigations.
Culture and Experience
In this workshop, students will understand the concept of culture and its limitations.
They will think about how culture may be present in their own experiences.
This activity support Gatsby Benchmarks 2, 4 and 7.
Download our Gatsby Benchmarks document to see how we have broken down which Gatsby Benchmarks our offerings can support with.
You can book workshops for delivery in school or for an inbound visit to Oxford Brookes University throughout the year at a time that works best for you.
Enquire by emailing the team at with your preferred date(s), number of students and their current course/subject, and which workshop you would like us to deliver.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/outreach/post-16/subject-taster-days:
Applications have now closed
Join our Subject Taster Days to gain first-hand experience of studying at university level and student life.
You will have the opportunity to:
Each Subject Taster Day is free to attend and will give insight into a range of courses within a subject area.
You can find a list of which courses are included during each Subject Taster Day below.
You can apply for a Subject Taster Day place as an individual or, if you are a teacher or adviser, you can apply for your school or college group below.
For any enquiries please contact our team at schools.liaison@brookes.ac.uk .
Students at UK schools or colleges in the first year (or repeating the first year) of a two-year Level 3 qualification (e.g.
A Levels, BTEC, or equivalent).
Below we have provided some FAQs to support you in the booking process.
If you have any further enquiries, please let us know by emailing our team at schools.liaison@brookes.ac.uk .
On each day you can bring up to 20 students.
Some events may have increased capacity but please check back when the programme of events is released.
Yes, we would expect a member of your staff to attend the day to support your students.
In the past we have offered a mini CPD session as a chance to network with our academics and other teachers attending the day, although this is not yet confirmed for this years Taster Days.
Our Subject Taster Days are very popular and we receive a large volume of bookings for each day.
Once you have filled in the booking form, a member of our team will be in contact within 5 working days to confirm if we can accommodate your booking.
Unfortunately we are unable to provide lunch during this event and would encourage staff and students to bring a packed lunch on the day.
If this is not possible there are a number of food outlets where lunch can be purchased and our staff will be able to help you locate these.
Yes, if you are a student in your first year (or repeating your first year) of sixth form or college and you know your school/college is not bringing a group of students, you can fill in the form as an individual student.
No; if your school or college is already attending the day you would need to contact the teacher who is leading the event to state your interest.
We can let you know who that teacher is if you are not sure.
Once we have confirmed you have a place you will be required to have a parent/carer and teacher to fill in permission forms.
You will need to book your own travel to and from the event and our team of Student Ambassadors will be available to meet you at the nearest bus stop to our campus.
Our campuses are well connected by public transport.
Unfortunately we are unable to provide lunch during this event and would encourage you to bring a packed lunch on the day.
If this is not possible, there are a number of food outlets where lunch can be purchased and our staff will be able to help you locate these.
This activity supports Gatsby benchmarks 2, 3, 4 and 7 (Subject Taster Days are a combination of Subject tasters, academic sessions and open days).
Can't make the dates above?
Visit us on an Open Day instead

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/outreach/webinars:
The OBU Teacher Fellowship provides teachers in state schools and colleges in the UK with the opportunity to apply to become a teacher research fellow for the duration of the academic year 2025-2026.
The fellowship is designed to aid teachers in maintaining and developing their intellectual wellbeing through continuing professional development which supports them in undertaking action research in a topic which is mutually beneficial to their school or college and Oxford Brookes University.
Successful fellowship applicants will be supported with professional development from Oxford Brookes academics through a series of seminars, conferences, and resources.
Oxford Brookes University teaching fellows will also be given funding of £500 (paid to the school/college) to be used to support their action research project.
Fellowships will be awarded in the summer term to be undertaken by successful fellows in the following academic year.
Fellows will then present their research at an end of year celebration event.
Interested applicants should discuss their proposal and the details of the fellowship at a senior level within their school or college before submitting an application for the Oxford Brookes University fellowship.
You should complete the application form by 30 June 2025.
The proposal will need to include the following key details:
Fellowship places are limited, so all applications will be considered by a panel of Oxford Brookes staff, and fellowships will be awarded based on the extent to which they meet the criteria outlined above.
For any further questions about the teaching fellowship, please contact schools.liaison@brookes.ac.uk
You may also be interested in our teacher and advisor webinar series.
This activity support Gatsby benchmarks 7.
View how our activities support the Gatsy Benchmarks .
A conversation with Barry Carpenter, Professor of Mental Health
How do children cope with loss?
How can anxiety impact their ability to learn?
And how can we reignite children’s motivation to learn, in a world that is dramatically changing?
Join experts from Oxford Brookes' MA Education programme to explore the Recovery Curriculum, a relationships-based approach to developing mental wellbeing in children.
We'll examine how a curriculum can respond to children's emotional needs - and make sense of their experiences.
And in a world where our students - and indeed ourselves - are coping with untold stress, we'll look at how we can prioritise emotional wellbeing across whole school communities.
With Jonathan Reid, MA Education SEND Strand Leader and Senior Lecturer in Child Development, SEND and Inclusion at Oxford Brookes University.
Barry Carpenter, Professor of Mental Health, Oxford Brookes University.
Learn more about the Recovery Curriculum
Learn more about the importance of compassion in Education
How can children and teens manage anxiety in uncertain times?
How can we proactively support student mental health?
And how can we change the future of teaching, to put wellbeing front and centre?
Join Keith Brymer-Jones from the Great Pottery Throwdown to explore art as a means to combat stress and anxiety.
In a world where students are encountering untold stress, we’ll look at the restorative effects of practising art - and the evidence base behind this.
We’ll also look at how you can easily integrate art into your teaching - and how this can immediately benefit your students’ wellbeing.
We’ll be joined by experts from the Oxford Brookes MA Education programme and students from Bexhill College.
After a year like no other, we’re asking ourselves:
How will school change post-pandemic, and what should teaching and learning look like?
How can we harness this moment to imagine an education system that is equitable, innovative, and that truly supports all children?
In this online discussion, we’ll explore a better new normal for education.
We’ll explore issues like:
Join us to shape the debate on the future of learning - and how to build the education system we want.
This webinar ran on Thursday 24 June 2021.
To get more information on this webinar, please contact schools.liaison@brookes.ac.uk
Note: All information in these webinars were correct at the time of recording.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/students/academic-development/online-resources:
Explore new learning strategies that will help you towards success.
Whatever your level of study, your academic journey will require you to explore new learning strategies that will help you towards success.
Whether you are wondering how to change your reading habits to meet the demands of a 20-page reading list, wanting to be more critical, or questioning how to organise your time, good advice is always available here.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/prospective-students:
We offer accommodation to full-time Oxford Brookes University students studying in Oxford.
Unfortunately, part-time students are not eligible to live in university-managed or partnership accommodation.
Our hall options, contract lengths and prices are the same for all of our students, including International students.
All students are mixed within our halls so we do not have any specific areas dedicated to home/international students.
Applicants can request single gender accommodation.
Accommodation contracts will often not cover the full duration of your course.
You will likely have to book further accommodation and/or change halls during the duration of your studies.
Halls for prospective students
Oxford Brookes University's Halls of Residence and Accommodation Services comply with the Student Accommodation Code of Practice .
Help and support from our Residence Life Team
We recognise that each student will have a unique set of needs and preferences.
We have a number of different accommodation types and application processes to ensure as many of our students as possible feel supported and comfortable in halls at Oxford Brookes University.
Find out more about Inclusive Accommodation
We have separate accommodation options for undergraduate and postgraduate students.
When exploring our halls, make sure you view the halls available to you.
Students on the following courses require specific types of accommodation:
Find out more about courses with specific accommodation
The accommodation application process is the same for all students.
We advise applying for accommodation when we contact you to do so even if you hold a conditional offer .
You must submit your accommodation application by the deadline.
The deadline is often whilst your offer is still conditional.
How to Apply for Accommodation
Accommodation contracts are legally binding.
University-managed accommodation contracts are accepted online via the accommodation portal.
A contract does not need to be signed physically or in person to be legally binding.
Many services are now contracted online.
Student accommodation contracts are fixed term.
This means they are for a specific period of time which will be provided to you on the license before signing.
Once accepted, contracts cannot be cancelled, shortened or extended.
In normal circumstances, university-managed contracts may only be terminated early if:
For more information, take a look at our policies and contracts
Each year there are short periods where we may not have any accommodation contracts available.
Students will need to return home, or find alternative private temporary accommodation for this time.
Policies and Contracts
All other sections of this webpage apply to both home and international students, please ensure you have read this all carefully.
In addition to the guidance already given, specific advice for international students is available from our International Student Advice Team (ISAT) who are there to help to you with a range of services.
They are the only team trained and regulated to give immigration advice under the Office of the Immigration Services Commissioner guidelines.
They also provide events and workshops to help you understand UK culture and make the most of your time in the UK.
International Student Advice Team (ISAT)
You do not need a visa to apply for accommodation or to sign a university-managed hall contract.
Please read terms and conditions carefully before signing any private or partnership agreements.
Private contract terms can vary to those in university-managed contracts.
If you sign a university-managed accommodation, it can still be cancelled if you do not receive your CAS/Visa.
To do this without charge, email accomm@brookes.ac.uk with proof of your rejected CAS/Visa.
If you have applied for University accommodation you do not need a  specific address for your Student Visa application.
Please see the Student Visa webpages and contact the International Student Advice Team (ISAT) if you still need further help.
Student Visas
We understand that some students may wish to return home between contracts without all of their belongings.
There are private storage companies for students to help with this.
They often have storage solutions that include collection and delivery services.
Here are some companies that you may wish to consider:
Note : The university does not have any affiliations with these companies.
We advise students to research third party companies well before proceeding with their services.
We have summer accommodation options each year for our students who wish to stay in Oxford for the summer.
Summer options can vary each year.
We contact students in March/April with the available options and booking information.
Note: Each year there are short periods where we may not have any accommodation available .
Options for summer accommodation
Find out how to pay your accommodation fees, and view the rent instalment options available to you.
Payment instalment options will be the same for international students living in university-managed halls.
Instalment plans for partnership halls may vary but the total cost is the same for all students
Accommodation fees
How to prepare, what to bring, and when to arrive.
Here's what you need to know about moving into halls.
Find out more about moving into your accommodation
Going to University is a stressful time for a student's family as well as the student.
We know that some parents assist with the accommodation process and wish to continue being involved.
See our parents' guide to accommodation

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/residence-life:
We know many students feel anxious and apprehensive about moving away from home.
Resi Life and the wider university are here to help you ease into university life and provide useful resources for you whilst you are here.
The Residences Life Team are here to support you through your time here in our halls of residence.
We aim to create a positive sense of community and belonging as a student at Oxford Brookes University.
Some of the things we do:
rlt@brookes.ac.uk
@BrookesResidences
Wi-Fi and wired* connectivity is available at all Oxford Brookes-managed halls.
If you live in one of our partnership halls they will be able to provide you information about the Wi-Fi and wired connections they offer.
*Residents can connect to wired internet on their own devices using an ethernet cable - some newer devices and apple products may require an adaptor (cables and adaptors are not included).
The complimentary internet connections in the halls is provided by WiFinity and whilst every effort will be made to ensure the connection is stable, the University does not accept liability for any loss of connection due to technical problems.
Wifinity Service Overview
All halls have laundry rooms on site for students to use and are accessible 24/7.
Machines in university-managed halls (excluding Cheney Student Village and Friar Court) are operated by Circuit Laundry.
To use them you will need to download the Circuit Laundry app, create an account and add funds - or use the tap and go feature.
Circuit Laundry charge £1.75 for a wash and £0.75 for a dry*.
* Prices are correct as of September 2024 and are subject to change
For partnership halls and Cheney Student Village please contact your hall for information on the laundry services available.
Friar Court please contact Brookes Lettings.
Living in university accommodation is a great way to meet new people and make new friends.
The events and activities run by our Resi Life Team help students to do this.
Students are randomly allocated based on their accommodation preferences which allows you to meet lots of new people studying different courses across the university.
Our halls of residence are a supportive and safe environment.
Our hall staff are experienced in making people feel welcome and at home.
All of our halls have an on-site halls team to help and advise during the day.
There is support available on-site throughout the night too.
The University is situated in one of the safest student areas in the country according to research conducted by the Complete University Guide.
Your belongings are insured while you’re staying with us!
To access your cover, you can register through their website or app.
It’s easy to underestimate the value of your possessions.
We’re not just talking about your laptop and phone, but items such as your clothes, hairdryers, and other gadgets, like Fitbits, and smart watches can all add up.
The great news is, through our insurance partner, Howden, we provide contents insurance for all the students who live with us, so your belongings are covered while they’re in your accommodation.
Once you’ve registered with Howden’s student app, you can instantly access your cover details and policy documents, as well as contact the claims team at any time.
Howden for Students is packed with loads of useful products and information to help you through your time at university, including:
Please note: This information is not applicable to Parade Green, Dorset House, Beech House, Slade Park, Sinnet Court, Canterbury House or the Windmill Road halls (Edna Rose and Champneys Court).
If you are in one of these halls of residence, please contact the hall office directly with any queries.
All Oxford Brookes University buildings, including Halls of Residence, are designated as non-smoking (vapes and e-cigarettes are also not permitted) in order to provide the legally required protection against the dangers of passive smoking as required by the Health Act 2006.
Smoking, including the use of vapes and e-cigarettes, is prohibited inside any building or hall of residence operated by the University (including, but not limited to, corridors, foyers, toilets, entrances and within 5 metres of buildings).
You should make sure that you do not smoke or vape near doors and outside areas where it is clearly designated as no smoking.
You and your guests must smoke/vape only in specifically designated areas.
Students and others who may like to get help in giving up smoking, may find the following support links useful:
Advice and Support
Events and Activities
Sustainability

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/policies-and-contracts:
When you accept a tenancy agreement for our accommodation you will be agreeing to a legally binding contract, as would be the case with any lettings agent.
Some of our halls of residence are owned or operated by third parties.
Tenancies for these halls are subject to specific terms and conditions which differ from those of our university-managed residences.
Once you have digitally signed your accommodation contract with us, please note that you will have entered into a fixed-term legally binding financial agreement.
If you do not wish to commit to the contract and its associated terms and conditions including the dates the contract covers, please do not confirm your acceptance of the agreement.
It is not possible to cancel your accommodation contract or the dates it covers if you change your mind later even if you choose not to move in.
Contracts and regulations
Allocation policy
Complaints
We support new and continuing students in applying for their university accommodation.
We offer accommodation in our halls of residences and manage a head lease scheme of student houses.
We also provide support to residents in university accommodation who encounter problems or difficulties, and can provide advice on most accommodation issues.
We adhere to the following customer promise:
"We are committed to providing a professional and friendly service that invests in your future."
We do this by:
Oxford Brookes University recognises the importance of providing a good and consistent level of customer service.
For this reason, the following set of Customer Service Standards have been adopted and implemented by the residences team.
All personal callers/visitors will be greeted in a welcoming and courteous manner.
If the receptionist has stepped away, another member of staff will come to assist.
Accommodation and Hall staff will not accept offensive, threatening or inappropriate behaviour or comments from in-person callers.
Anyone who conducts themselves in an inappropriate manner will be required to leave.
Emails will be responded to within 2 working days where appropriate (working days are Monday to Friday excluding public holidays and university concessionary periods).
An auto-response will be turned-on during breaks, unexpected closures and busy periods to inform of any longer waiting times.
Staff will activate an email auto-response prior to taking leave which states when they will return to work.
If it is necessary to forward an email to another team within the university or externally for further action, the original sender will be notified.
If a full investigation into a reported issue is required, an acknowledgement or holding email will be sent.
In the event we are contacted by anyone who is not the applicant or student in question, we will not disclose or discuss any personal information without prior consent from the individual concerned and will treat all personal data in accordance with wider University Information Security policies.
If the team is busy with in-person callers, your call will be answered as soon as someone is available.
Outside of working hours and during any unexpected closures, there will be a recorded message advising when the lines will reopen.
If abusive, threatening or offensive calls are received, the caller will be informed that the call will be terminated.
Consistently abusive calls will result in investigation.
There is out of hours support available on site to assist you.
The quickest way to contact them is by telephone.
This information is made clearly available at the hall reception.
If you need urgent help and/or support outside of published office hours, please contact Security for assistance via telephone (telephone numbers will be clearly available).
Duty Wardens are available on a rota basis and are not always individually available all through the week.
If there is a particular warden you want to speak with, please email them directly using the site-specific warden email address.
The warden team will respond to your email at the earliest opportunity.
On most sites there is additional security available out of office hours for lock-outs, noise issues etc.
This information will be clearly available with the warden details.
Oxford Brookes University's Halls of Residence and Accommodation Services comply with the UUK Code of Practice.
The full Student Accommodation Code can be found on the SAC website .
Oxford Brookes University and our third party residence providers, Unite Students Ltd and A2Dominion, will process data in order to arrange accommodation contracts.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/brookes-lettings:
Landlord's Guidance and Obligations
Contact Form
Do you have property to rent in Oxford?
If so then get in touch with us.
We are currently looking for landlords to join our housing list for the academic year starting in September.
For more information, visit the links below.
Brookes Lettings aims to lease quality properties to let to our students.
When you lease your property to us, we become your tenant, taking on all the associated responsibilities.
This means you don’t have to worry about finding tenants, your rent is guaranteed, tenancy issues are managed, damages are sorted out and we help keep you compliant with legislation.
You can either keep control of the maintenance of the property, or we have our own staff and contractors who can do it for you.
Our interest is in providing our students with safe housing for them to undertake their studies, not turning a profit.
We won’t charge you any extra fees or administration costs.
Our full-managed scheme is aimed at busy property owners who may not be resident in Oxford, but have a property they want to let, without the hassle of managing it themselves.
If you live more locally and have access to your own maintenance personnel you may prefer to go part-managed.
Please get in touch with us to discuss the different options and costs.
Brookes Lettings aims to lease quality properties to sublet to our students.
When you lease a property to us, we become your tenant, taking on all the associated responsibilities.
This means you don’t have to worry about finding tenants, your rent is guaranteed, tenancy issues are managed, any damages are sorted out and we help keep you compliant with legislation.
Leases are renewed annually, with rent paid in 12 monthly instalments.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/student-life/support-and-wellbeing/managing-your-money:
If you have questions about University funding or need advice on how to take control of your money, talk to our Student Money Advice Team.
The Student Money Advice Team offers specialist, impartial and confidential information, and advice about all aspects of student finance.
We have specialist advisers who have expertise in UK Student Funding provided by the Student Loans Company as well as expertise in entitlement to welfare benefits for students.
Whether you are already studying at Oxford Brookes University or you are thinking about applying to Oxford Brookes, you can talk to us about a range of matters including:
If you should experience financial difficulties whilst at university, don't worry, we're here to help you.
We have dedicated, friendly teams to advise you on financial support.
For enrolled undergraduate and postgraduate students encountering severe financial difficulties.
Search for the course you are interested in and find all the funding that is available.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/student-life/support-and-wellbeing/support-for-care-experienced-students:
At Oxford Brookes University, we want to ensure that all students with the potential to succeed have equality of access.
If you have lived in local authority care, you will be eligible for our contextual offer which is a grade reduction of up to three grades below the standard entry requirements.
More about contextual admissions
You may be eligible for the Transition from Care Bursary of £2,000 a year if you are:
There are a number of other bursaries and scholarships that care experienced students can access depending on personal circumstances, including the Oxford Brookes Bursary Scheme .
About the Transition from Care Bursary
All care experienced students are entitled to guaranteed accommodation in our halls of residence for 52 weeks as long as you meet the criteria , including application deadlines.
We will endeavour to support those students who enter via clearing but cannot guarantee availability.
We will help you to choose the most appropriate accommodation for your needs, including length of contract and early access to accommodation if required.
We will also support you to move halls at the end of your contract, this will be for a minimum of 2 weeks (depending on contract length) for essential cleaning and maintenance.
Halls managed by the University do not require a deposit but partner accommodation requires a £200 damage deposit, eg Cheney Student Village and Parade Green.
We will provide additional funds for those in receipt of the Bursary to pay the deposit where required.
In addition, for those eligible for the Transition from Care Bursary, we will also:
We have a number of different accommodation types such as quiet, alcohol free accommodation and family accommodation to ensure as many of our students as possible feel supported and comfortable in halls at Oxford Brookes University.
More about halls of residence and other accommodation
We will provide a named contact for all care experienced students from the point of offer and will be available for advice until graduation.
They will contact all offer holders who declare themselves as care experienced to:
There is an excellent support system available to students that have been in care and your named contact will continue to support you throughout your studies.
The Centre for Academic Development will provide a ‘study strategy meeting' for all care experienced students to help them plan for the demands of Semester 1.
During this meeting, they would agree when they would meet you again, in line with your level of need and course demands.
More information on support can be found at:
Strategy to support care experienced students at Oxford Brookes
We will guarantee an interview for a paid Student Ambassador role and offer application and interview support.
All care experienced students will receive personalised contact from the named Careers Consultant to highlight central careers provision as well as offering ongoing support throughout your student journey, including bespoke sessions.
For all those in receipt of the Transition from Care Bursary, the named Careers Consultant will also provide specific welcome appointments during Semester 1.
Those in receipt of the Bursary will receive a graduation pack which includes two free guest tickets (ceremony hall), complimentary full gown hire, and a complimentary basic photo package.
Any extra tickets will be charged at £10 per ticket (3 further tickets available during registration period).
26 March 2025
Inspiring students share their stories as Oxford Brookes celebrates Quality Mark renewal
Oxford Brookes University has once again been recognised for its commitment to supporting care experienced and estranged students, with the re-approval of the National Network for the Education of Care Leavers (NNECL) Quality Mark.
NNECL Quality Mark is an accreditation awarded to educational institutions that demonstrate effective support for students who have been in care or are estranged from their families throughout their academic journey.
careexperienced@brookes.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/student-life/support-and-wellbeing/royal-literary-fund-fellows:
The School of Education, Humanities and Languages at Oxford Brookes University hosts Writing Fellows from the Royal Literary Fund (RLF) in London.
The RLF is a charity which supports professional writers through a variety of schemes, and Oxford Brookes University was one of the pioneer hosts for the RLF Fellowship scheme.
The RLF scheme places experienced writers into higher education institutions to offer confidential one-to-one tutorials to undergraduate and postgraduate students on any aspect of writing and presentation, whether academic assessed and non-assessed work, exam writing, or seminar presentation.
Tutorial sessions normally last about 50 minutes and they are free to attend.
The meetings are usually held in person, but online appointments are possible.
The Fellows’ office is T4.14 (Tonge Building) on the Gipsy Lane site .
Students can make appointments by contacting the Fellows directly by email (their addresses are available below).
The RLF is an organisation external to Brookes and students can check their data privacy policy .
In this video, Royal Literary Fellows Elizabeth Lewis and Jeremy Treglown talk about their work and how they can help you with your writing.
Students can make appointments by contacting the Fellows directly by email.
Royal Literary Fund Fellow
Elizabeth is available to meet on Thursdays and Fridays.
Elizabeth Lewis is a dramatist.
She has written a dozen radio plays which have been broadcast on BBC Radio 4.
Her first radio play, The Brief Chronicles of Annie Rose, produced by Alison Hindell and starring Tamsin Greig, drew on Elizabeth’s earlier career as a struggling actress.
She was delighted that the years of rejection provided material for her play, which earned multiple Critic’s Choice awards.
Her work ranges from comedy, to magical realism and biodramas of powerful women such as the Magnum photographer Eve Arnold.
Her work is largely produced by BBC Wales, drawing on her Welsh heritage of which she is most proud.
Elizabeth has also written extensively for theatre, and her first play, The Glass House, was shortlisted for the International Playwriting Festival run by the Warehouse Theatre Croydon.
For TV, she was privileged to be mentored by Matthew Graham (Life on Mars) to whom she submitted her final draft between contractions with her first child - the ultimate deadline!
Another earlier mentor was the playwright Bernard Kops who she worked for in his writing workshops for many years.
Elizabeth has also been a journalist and copywriter, which taught her everything she knows about editing, the use of semicolons and making every word count.
She is currently writing a play for Jane Austen’s House in Chawton, inspired by the writer’s juvenilia.
It includes a host of irreverent and headstrong characters of whom Elizabeth hopes Jane would approve.
Elizabeth lives in a Hampshire village, much like the one Austen favoured, with her family and dog Scout.
Elizabeth Lewis on X
Jeremy is available to meet on Wednesdays.
As a writer, critic, editor, teacher, literary trustee and prize-judge Jeremy Treglown has spent much of his career trying to promulgate clear, jargon-free writing.
His time has been divided roughly equally between the professional literary world and that of university teaching.
His books include the first biography of Roald Dahl (1994), an edition of the letters of the Restoration poet Rochester, and lives of the novelist Henry Green, the short-story writer and critic V.
S.
Pritchett and the American journalist John Hersey.
He also wrote an acclaimed cultural history of mid-twentieth-century Spain, Franco’s Crypt (2013).
Work by him has been published in the New Yorker, Granta and many other magazines, and translated into Albanian, German, Norwegian, Spanish and Swedish.
After teaching at Oxford and UCL he joined the staff of the Times Literary Supplement, first as arts editor, then for nine years as Editor.
Subsequently, after a period at Princeton, he was a professor of English and Comparative Literary Studies at Warwick, where, with the poet David Morley, he began the university’s celebrated writing programme.
Most recently he has been Chair of the Trustees of the Arvon Foundation, which has run writing courses since the late 1960s.
He is currently researching Arvon’s history.
Professor Treglown has chaired the judges of the Booker prize and other literary awards, been a member of Council of the Royal Society of Literature and held fellowships at All Souls, the Rockefeller Foundation Bellagio Center and the New York Public Library’s Cullman Center for Scholars and Writers.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/prospective-students/halls:
Hall options for 2025/2026
Accommodation portal
Announcement Accommodation allocations have now passed.
Where Will I Live Virtual Leaflet
The contract lengths and yearly prices are based on the contracts starting in September 2025 - please see the individual hall pages for each halls' contract dates.
For contracts lengths and yearly prices starting at any other time, please contact accomm@brookes.ac.uk for more information.
Students looking for accommodation later in the year are welcome to contact us for details and availability - contracts starting later will be shorter in length than those advertised as contract end dates are fixed.
The following subjects have more specific accommodation options:
Check the information on courses with specific accommodation to learn more about your options.
A2Dominion
On Cowley Road, 1.5 miles to Headington campus.
1.5 miles from Headington Campus.
887 study bedrooms.
0.5 miles from Headington Campus.
348 study bedrooms.
Next to Headington Campus.
750 study bedrooms.
178 study bedrooms.
614 study bedrooms.
121 study bedrooms.
364 study bedrooms.
1.75 miles from Headington Campus.
306 study bedrooms.
0.4 miles from from our Marston Road site.
30 study bedrooms.
242 study bedrooms.
17 large study bedrooms.
Next to Headington campus.
249 study bedrooms.
Harcourt Hill Campus.
46 studio flats.
Off Cowley road, under 1 mile to Headington campus.
100 study bedrooms.
167 study bedrooms.
2.5 miles from Headington Campus.
shared apartments and studios
259 study bedrooms.
350 study bedrooms.
1.3 miles from Headington Campus - shared apartments
Announcement Prices shown are correct at the time of publishing and are subject to change.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/prospective-students/how-to-apply:
Starting in September Starting in January International and exchange students About Inclusive Accommodation Initial fees
Clearing applicants joining in September 2025 will be guaranteed accommodation in university-managed or approved accommodation as long as they submit their accommodation application by 20 August 2025.
We will continue to take applications from 22 August 2025 - these will be allocated on a first come, first served basis.
*this will apply to the majority of A Level students, don't worry if your results are delayed as you will be allocated on 22 August instead.
Please note: there is a possibility that these dates could be revised.
If so, we will update the information available to students in advance of the new deadlines.
We will start contacting new students starting in September 2025 from mid- March to invite them to apply online for their accommodation.
Please do not be concerned if you do not receive your email straight away.
The process is not first-come first-served so you do not need to rush to apply quickly.
You will be given plenty of time to submit your application.
If you will be studying Paramedic Science, Nursing, Midwifery, Art Foundation, PGCE, BA Primary or courses based in Swindon or at Partner Colleges, then please look at the information about accommodation for courses with specific requirements .
Your deadline for applying will depend on what kind of offer you have from us - please see the table above for details.
We will also tell you in your invitation email the earliest deadline which applies to you.
Our process is not first-come first-served so you do not have to apply quickly.
You just need to apply before your deadline.
Choose your top three halls and rank them in order of preference.
Firm and insurance choice applicants will be offered accommodation as long as they apply by the deadline and meet the academic requirements of their offer by the allocation date.
Where possible this will be one of their three choices however we cannot guarantee this as this will not always be possible due to demand.
Our allocation policy outlines how we assign our rooms in halls and which groups of students get priority or are guaranteed accommodation.
At Oxford Brookes we give students the opportunity to express their interest in the most suitable type of accommodation for them.
Options include single-sex flats, quiet flats and alcohol/free flats for those who are interested.
For more information on all of our halls, please visit our Halls for Prospective Students webpage.
You will receive an email from us when you have been allocated a hall.
You'll be asked to either accept your offer through your portal or decline your offer by emailing us.
We won't be able to allocate you a place if your offer is still conditional, e.g.
because you are still waiting for exam results.
If you don't think your offer will become unconditional on or before the day we allocate you accommodation then please contact us and we can advise.
In your allocation email, you will also be given information on arrivals and accommodation payments .
News Students looking for accommodation later in the year can contact us for availability - contracts starting later will be shorter than those advertised as end dates are fixed.
Accommodation for students starting in January is dependent on availability.
Whilst we always have rooms available, it is not possible for us to guarantee accommodation to students starting in January.
We will do our best to assist as many applicants as possible.
You will receive an email from us inviting you to apply online.
You will receive this email from us in early-November, or shortly after you have made us your firm or insurance choice.
We will offer you a selection of halls and ask you to rank them in order of preference.
Your contract will start in late January and end on the normal contract end date for that hall.
Most hall contracts end on 5 June 2026, but some halls offer longer stays (i.e.
28 August 2026).
We also have some 50-week options which run from January 2026 to January 2027.
These are offered to postgraduates on one-year courses.
We don’t allocate on a first-come, first-served basis but will allocate to all students who have applied by the deadline and met the conditions of their offer.
However, if you miss the deadline to apply, you are welcome to contact us after the allocation date to ask about vacancies.
We will continue allocating rooms weekly as long as we continue to have vacancies.
You will receive an email from us when you have been allocated a room.
You will then be asked to either accept or decline your offer.
We also offer rooms in shared housing through Brookes Lettings.
The majority of contract end in July or August, but some rooms are offered as January to January contracts.
If you would be interested in living in a Brookes house, please contact lettings@brookes.ac.uk once you have received your invitation and hold an unconditional offer.
Please note availability for Brookes Lettings is very limited - up to date availability can be found on their Housing List .
R ooms in Brookes Lettings housing may not always be available in January.
All exchange and study abroad students need to apply for accommodation whether they are in Oxford for one or two semesters.
After students have been accepted to Oxford Brookes, they will be sent an email by the Accommodation Bureau with details of how to apply online and the deadline for doing so.
If you are starting a course in September , we will send you your invitation after you have accepted your offer to study at Oxford Brookes.
You will need to apply by late July.
If you are starting in January , we will send you your invitation to apply in November.
You will need to apply by mid December.
Students who will be in Oxford for one semester will be able to apply for standard accommodation with shared bathrooms in our halls of residence.
Students who will be in Oxford for two semesters will have a full range of halls available to choose from, and will be allocated to accommodation based on their application.
Most students will be asked to choose three halls and rank them in order.
If you are currently overseas, please look at the virtual tours and information on our halls pages to help you choose which halls to apply for.
If you need any further information then please contact us.
You do not need to have a visa in order to apply for your accommodation.
Please see the Policies and Contracts page for our full contract and allocation terms and conditions.
Choosing to live in university halls is often a much easier process for international students than living in private accommodation in the city.
This is because international students in private accommodation may be subject to Right to Rent checks.
To assist you, we guarantee that all full-time first-year students starting in September will be offered accommodation as long as you apply by the deadline and meet the academic criteria for your offer.
To find out more about the benefits of our halls, please visit our Living in Halls webpage.
Please make sure you look out for emails from us and contact your representative or us if you think that you have missed an email from us.
We have asked international representatives to ensure they pass accommodation emails on to applicants quickly.
If you have used an agent or agency email address when applying to the university, we encourage you change this as soon as you can to your personal so you do not miss any important contract and arrival information.
If you are coming to study a pathways course that starts in June or July, we will contact you in April so that you can apply for your accommodation.
As you will be staying with us over the summer, there are specific types of accommodation that are available to you, usually in the halls close to our Headington Campus.
We will let you know the options for that year when we contact you to apply.
For more information on the following accommodation types, please see our Inclusive Accommodation page.
For University-managed and A2Dominion halls, your first payment will be your first rent charge.
For University managed halls this will be in early October; for A2Dominion Halls this will be 1 September.
Cheney Student Village requires a separate £200 damage deposit and Parade Green requires a £250 advance payment.
Please check the terms and conditions page for further details.
More information on accommodation payments is available on our Accommodation Fees webpage.
If you have difficulty making a payment please contact us as soon as possible.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/prospective-students/inclusive-accommodation:
When you apply for your accommodation you will have the option to select whether you would prefer female-only, male-only or a mixed flat.
We will do our best to accommodate these requests wherever possible.
Please contact us if you require any further information.
Following the success of our pilot scheme, we will continue to set aside some accommodation that will be offered as “quiet accommodation” and some accommodation that will be offered as “alcohol free”.
This will be in dedicated flats in Paul Kent Hall and Warneford Hall for undergraduates and Crescent Hall for postgraduates.
Please note, the quiet/alcohol regulations will only apply within the dedicated flats and does not apply to the surrounding flats or external spaces of these halls.
After reading the information provided, applicants will be able to indicate on their online application if they wish to apply to live in this type of accommodation.
Quiet/Alcohol-free Accommodation - Information Document
We have a number of different accommodation types to meet the needs of disabled students and those with medical conditions.
We have over 40 accessible rooms across the halls - accessible rooms are available in Cheney Student Village , Clive Booth A/B , Clive Booth N-X , Clive Booth Postgraduate , New Clive Booth , Parade Green , Paul Kent Hall , Sinnet Hall and Warneford Hall .
Details of accommodation needs will need to be provided when applying for accommodation.
As part of the application you will be asked for supporting documentation.
This must be provided  for your request to be considered 'a reasonable adjustment' under the Equality Act.
You do not need to let us know about other medical conditions, such as dyslexia, which do not require a specific type of accommodation.
Your supporting documents should explain your condition and be from a suitably qualified practitioner.
It is essential that you provide this information with your initial application so that we can find you a suitable room.
Please seek advice on which accommodation may be best for you before confirming a booking.
This can include a discussion with an Adviser about what living in university accommodation would be like and how it might impact you.
You can contact the Accommodation Team or the Inclusive Support Service for help .
We may need to liaise with colleagues in our Inclusive Support Service to ensure we offer appropriate accommodation.
Please be aware that this means we will need to share your data with them.
Please be aware that there is no automatic right to leave an accommodation contract once it has been confirmed online.
We strongly recommend getting advice if you are unsure.
You could still be allocated to your requested accommodation even if the information does not assess that your needs fall under the Equality Act.
In this case your allocation may not be considered a 'reasonable adjustment'.
Reasonable Adjustments are made by the university when students are considered to 'have a physical or mental impairment and the impairment has a substantial and long-term adverse effect on his or her ability to carry out normal day-to-day activities'.
If there are any costs, these are met by the university.
To calculate additional accommodation costs we use as a baseline, the average room rate, which in 2025/26 is £188.32/week.
If both occupants of the flat are going to be full-time Brookes students, either one can email us.
The contract will be in one student's name.
If one of the occupants is not going to be a full-time student (either part-time or not a student at all), they will be eligible to pay council tax.
The full-time student will need to complete a council tax exemption form.
Your household may be charged a higher amount of council tax if you do not declare your status as a student.
Studio flats are for two adults only (no under 18s permitted).
Please be aware that any partner who lives with a student will not be able to keep a car with them while living in university accommodation.
Family Flats - Fully booked for 2025/26
This type of accommodation is not guaranteed and is booked on a first come, first served basis once students have an unconditional offer.
Starting in September 2025 we are intending to run a pilot scheme in which we will aim to have some dedicated "gluten free" flats for Coeliac/Gluten Intolerant students.
Initially this will be a trial based on demand.
We cannot guarantee that everyone who wishes to take part will be offered one of the available rooms but we will try to offer as many as possible depending on the level of interest.
The trial could also be limited to certain halls depending on the halls with the highest interest level.
Students who wish to be considered for this pilot scheme will be able to indicate their interest on their accommodation application.
Those living within this accommodation will agree to maintain a gluten free kitchen environment at all times.
Any guests invited into the accommodation will also need to comply with the same considerations.
Students who are under 18 who apply for accommodation will be asked to apply for the following two halls in order of preference:
This is because staff in these halls are appropriately trained to look after students aged under 18.
A student will be classified as under 18 if they are still aged under 18 by 30 September in the year in which they enroll at Oxford Brookes.
This does not apply to Art Foundation students who have specific hall options based on their course length.
We have extra support available for students who are care experienced or are estranged from their family.
This includes a bursary (subject to eligibility criteria) and a 52-week guarantee of accommodation.
You are considered to be a 'care-leaver/care-experienced student' if you are BOTH of the following:
Learn more about support for care-experienced students
You are considered to be an 'estranged student' if you are ALL of the following:
Learn more about support for estranged students
Undergraduate students who are aged 21+ will be classified as mature students.
When applying for accommodation, you will have the standard undergraduate hall options with the addition of also being able to apply for the Clive Booth Postgraduate Centre (38 weeks) if you wish to do so.
Where possible, mature undergraduate students will be allocated with Postgraduate students if you select CBPG, Crescent and Westminster in your application (please be aware that this is not guaranteed).
If you would prefer to be allocated with other first year undergraduates instead then please let us know by email once you have applied or include it in the 'medical' section of the application where it allows you to add notes.
Learn more about support for mature students
To help ensure we can provide a safe and accommodating environment for assistance dogs, that meets the need of the student, we have developed some guidance.
Only registered guide and assistance dogs notified to the University in advance of arrivals are permitted in the Hall.
For the avoidance of doubt, therapy pets are not permitted.
Oxford Brookes Assistance Animals Guidance
Studios for Individuals
Direct-Let Accommodation
Brookes Lettings
Halls for Prospective Students
Parents Guide to Accommodation

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/prospective-students/courses-with-specific-accommodation:
Some students on certain courses will require specific types of accommodation.
Please check below for information relating to these courses.
If you are studying a full-time course not mentioned below, please return to the prospective student halls page.
Nursing and Midwifery Paramedic Science BA Primary and PGCE Courses Art Foundation Courses at Partner Colleges Courses based in Swindon
The following healthcare courses have different semester dates to other courses:
For students on these courses we offer a specific selection of recommended halls with longer contract lengths.
This means that if you’re a healthcare student on a course above, you will be living with other students on similar courses.
All healthcare contracts will start on 13 September 2025 however the end dates will vary.
As with other courses, you will need to await your invitation email from us, and apply online using the Accommodation Portal.
Please see the main how to apply page for more details.
The halls that are put aside for healthcare students can change but usually include:
Crescent Hall - 47 weeks nursing and 48 week midwifery contracts
Cheney Student Village - 50 week contracts
Friar Court - 50 week contracts
Paul Kent Hall - 47 week nursing and 48 week midwifery contracts
Paramedic Science students are required to have use of a car for placements.
As cars are not permitted in halls, these students usually live in shared houses.
Brookes Lettings offer university-managed housing specifically for Paramedic Science Students.
We have selected properties in suitable areas located around our campuses (Marston, Cowley and Headington).
Contracts will be between 46 and 50 week with rent depending on the property On average , rent for a room in shared housing is approximately £140 per week, excluding bills.
Once applications open and you have a confirmed place on the course, you will be advised to email us at lettings@brookes.ac.uk in order to be added to our waiting list.
The process follows a first-come, first-served basis.
Once we have enough paramedic students to fill a house we will arrange a viewing, usually in June.
The group viewing will allow you to meet the other students who you will be living with, assuming they accept the house offered.
Unfortunately, due to the limited accommodation available, if you decline the house we cannot always offer an alternative.
BA Primary Teacher Education students who require a car for their placements can apply to live in Crescent Hall and Paul Kent Hall on standard 38 week contracts.
These students will then be able to apply for a parking permit to park their cars in the Crescent Hall car park.
Any BA Primary Teacher Education students who choose to come to Oxford Brookes without a car, can contact the accommodation team and request to apply for the standard undergraduate halls instead.
These students will then not be permitted to keep a car in Oxford.
PGCE Primary 5-11 (with QTS) students who require a car for their placements can apply to live in Paul Kent Hall for the period 6 September 2025 to 11 July 2026.
These students will then be able to apply for a parking permit to park their cars in the Paul Kent Hall car park.
Relevant halls for BA Primary and PGCE:
Our Art and Design Foundation course has different semester dates to other courses and therefore require specific contract lengths.
Art Foundation students can apply to in Crescent Hall and Paul Kent Hall on 41 week contracts.
These contracts will be from 30 August 2025 to 12 June 2026 and you will be living with others on your course.
Please see the main how to apply page for more details
Note: Contract lengths and dates are based on course requirements.
Relevant halls for Art Foundation:
Students studying at a partnership college in or around Oxford will be invited to apply for halls accommodation.
Depending on the location and length of your course, halls may not be suitable for you.
Students living in halls are also not permitted to have car in Oxford which may impact your decision if you require a car to reach to your college.
If you are unsure if halls accommodation will work for you, please check the practical arrangements with your college and then contact us to discuss your options.
If you would prefer to look into shared housing then we advise looking at options via Brookes Lettings .
We do not currently offer any accommodation suitable for students based on the Swindon Campus.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/prospective-students/moving-in:
Welcome weekend for hall arrivals is 13-14 September 2025.
For partnership, direct-let halls and students on earlier starting courses, please check your contract or with your accommodation provider for start dates and arrival information.
Log in to the Accommodation Portal
Join the Brookes Union Facebook group for your hall
Find further information about starting at Brookes
Purchasing Optional Extras Collecting Keys Hall Contacts Arrivals What to Bring Restricted Items
We understand that there are lots of things to think about when moving to university.
Our students have the opportunity to purchase optional extras to help them get prepared for their move.
Students can do this through the accommodation portal after signing their contract.
See below for the extras that we have available:
We understand that packing for university can be tough therefore we have introduced some student starter packs that can be ordered through the accommodation portal ready to collect on your arrival!
These include bedding, kitchen/dining and cleaning packs.
We have various Brookes Sport membership options at a discounted rate for our students.
Depending on the membership type, this can include access to the gyms and fitness classes at Headington and Harcourt Hill and the climbing wall at Headington.
After accepting your accommodation contract, you will be able to sign up to these memberships through the accommodation portal before you even arrive!
See our Student Memberships for Brookes Sport
Your bedroom and communal spaces must be clean and clear at that end of your contract.
You can pre-book to have your room cleaned at the end of contract through the accommodation portal.
This will cost £39 for en suite rooms and £25 for those with shared bathrooms.
If you choose not to pre-book this service there will be a higher penalty for not returning your room in the condition it was when you arrived.
For halls of residence, you'll collect your keys from the hall office on site.
Please ensure you bring some ID with you such as a passport or similar.
You can find the address under the 'location' tab on the hall's webpage.
The majority of contracts for our September 2025 starters will begin on Saturday 13 September 2025.
We do not advise reaching Oxford before before this date unless you have secured temporary accommodation or have an earlier starting contract for your course.
The University-managed halls are Cheney Student Village, Clive Booth Student Village (A/B, N-X, New and Non Ensuite), Clive Booth Postgraduate Centre, Crescent Hall, Friar Court, Harcourt Hill Hall, Paul Kent Hall (inc.
Rowan House), Warneford Hall and Westminster Hall.
These halls can be contacted regarding specific arrival, maintenance and room enquiries.
For any booking, payment and general enquiries, please continue to contact the Accommodation Team.
Don't forget to also refer to the Prospective Students webpage for lots of useful information.
Students who have confirmed contracts in university-managed accommodation will be contacted directly towards the end of August to book an arrival time for their accommodation.
Arrival slots must be booked so students can be allocated a specific room within their hall - room information can then be provided to students closer to the arrival date.
If you will be living in a partnership or private hall, they will provide you with their own arrivals information.
Please contact them directly with any questions.
The Lettings team will contact you directly to arrange key collection - p lease feel free to contact them at lettings@brookes.ac.uk with any questions.
Students moving into Friar Court will still be contacted by email towards the end of August to book an arrival slot.
The university has directions and maps available on the website if you unsure on how to reach our campuses.
They also have information on travelling to Oxford from UK airports and other UK cities.
Find out more about Getting to Oxford Brookes .
Please see the specific hall pages or your license to occupy for exact hall addresses.
The University is committed to delivering sustainable travel for its students, staff and wider community.
For local travel, we encourage the use of public transport options.
Cycling is also very popular and a common way to get around the city.
We are looking forward to you joining us.
There will be a wide range of welcome events and support services available at the Headington Campus for all our new students.
Information about Arrivals Weekend on campus can be found on the New Students arrivals page .
University Events Calendar
Follow @BrookesResidences for hall events and trips
If you are coming from overseas it may be that you cannot arrive during arrivals weekend.
If you need to arrive at a different time please contact us or your hall directly so they know when to expect you.
Our International Student Advice Team provide useful information and support for students arriving from overseas.
Please feel free to contact them if needed.
Check the hall webpage to find out what’s provided in your room and in the flat.
Below is a guide to help you pack.
Bedding, cleaning and kitchen/dining packs for university-managed halls can be pre-ordered through the accommodation portal after accepting your accommodation contract.
More information on starter packs can be found on our Living in Halls webpage.
All the flats have basic cleaning equipment, ie mop and vacuum cleaner.
Although the communal areas will get a clean by us once a week, it’s your responsibility to do keep things tidy, do your washing up, and take the bins out.
* Note: Please be aware that Paul Kent Hall (all flats), New Clive Booth (all flats) and Westminster Hall (flats J1, L1,E1,E3,H1 and H3) have induction hobs so make sure you bring or buy suitable pots and pans.
You are not allowed to bring into halls items which we consider to present a health and safety risk, disturb the peaceful living of another occupant or are liable to cause damage.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/prospective-students/parents-guide:
This page explains how you can help with the transition to university.
We encourage students to take the responsibility of applying for accommodation themselves however, we understand for many it is important that their parents are also involved.
How to help students apply for their accommodation:
To help students prepare for their first year at university there are some things that you can do before they leave home:
It is normal for students to feel a little unsettled for the first few days or weeks as they get used to their new environment and routine.
If they continue to have problems they can talk to hall staff or the university Student Support and Wellbeing Teams for help and support.
We understand that you want the best for your child while they are away at University.
If you have concerns about their living conditions or experiences there are some things that you can do that would be helpful.
Sometimes what upsets you might not upset them (and vice versa).
Make sure that you fully understand their point of view.
If they are unhappy or upset about something, what it is that has made them unhappy or upset?
Also if something isn’t a problem for them, try to understand why it isn’t concerning them and respect their views.
Remember that it is the student who lives in halls and who needs to feel safe and comfortable.
They may find it embarrassing if you make a fuss about something that they aren’t concerned about.
We have a contractual agreement with the student.
The money used to pay hall fees may not be theirs, but the agreement is with them.
We cannot discuss their contract with anybody else.
The student can contact us by email to give permission for someone else to us on their behalf.
This is standard practice across all industries.
If a member of staff tells you they cannot talk to you, it is because they are adhering to Data Protection legislation.
This legislation exists for the benefit of the student.
Always encourage the student to speak to us first.
The first step is always contacting the Hall Office to discuss the specific issue.
If this doesn’t resolve the issue, or for any reason they don’t want to discuss it with hall staff, they can come to the Accommodation Bureau instead.
It is the student’s responsibility to raise issues through the appropriate channel.
They are the resident and you cannot do it for them.
Contact numbers for all our halls can be found on the student's Moving In page.
Hall addresses can be found on the individual hall pages .

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/current-students/halls:
Announcement Available rooms can be found and booked via the Accommodation Portal whilst rooms last.
Pairs or groups of friends are welcome to live together in halls for their second, third or fourth year.
You’ll all need to book your rooms individually but you can choose the same flat.
The first person who books a room will need to share the flat number with their friends.
For example, if you book Westminster A1A, they can ensure they also book into flat A1 (A1B, A1C and so on).
Please note this is subject to availability and not guaranteed.
Got any problems?
Contact us on +44 (0) 1865 521094 or email accomm@brookes.ac.uk .
Missed out on your favourite hall?
Keep checking back - any unsigned contracts in partnerships halls will be re-released on the accommodation portal.
If you are still looking for 2024-25 rooms, please email accomm@brookes.ac.uk for available options.
We have availability in selected halls and university-managed houses for second, third and fourth-year students returning in September.
The prices below are for the 2025/26 academic year.
1 mile from Headington Campus.
30 large study bedrooms.
20 study bedrooms
500 yards from our Marston Road site.
21 study bedrooms.
262 study bedrooms.
University-managed shared houses located near to our campuses.
2.5 miles from Headington Campus - shared apartments
1.5 miles from Headington Campus - shared apartments

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/current-students/shared-houses:
Looking for a house next year?
View our housing list 
and booking forms
Students will receive a copy of their full contract and tenancy agreement by email.
You can find the terms and conditions for the Brookes Lettings standard contracts and Brookes Lettings bills inclusive contracts on the Contracts and Regulations webpage .
Contracts and Regulations
Get a quote for your household bills through The Student Energy Group
View properties available to book for the 2025/26 academic year.
Find out more about living in our houses.
Advice and guides for students living in a Brookes Lettings house.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/current-students/options-for-swapping-or-leaving:
The majority of students who move into halls of residence settle in well, and come to feel at home in their new room.
However, we understand that there are situations in which a student may want to change their accommodation.
We have two room swap opportunities in each academic year.
These will be in October and February once empty rooms become available.
Students will be contacted via email as soon as more information becomes available.
Most issues such as maintenance problems or friction between housemates can be solved without anyone needing to move.
Please ensure you have spoken with your hall team or the Brookes Lettings team to see how they can help you.
Students can also contact the wellbeing team at Oxford Brookes for advice and support.
It is important to remember that contracts with both halls of residence and Brookes Lettings properties are legally binding.
We do not recommend accepting one if you think you may shortly change your mind.
However, we understand that students’ circumstances can change and we aim to help if possible.
Please check our advice below if you no longer wish to live in our accommodation.
This information refers to Cheney Student Village, Clive Booth Hall, Clive Booth Postgraduate Centre, Crescent Hall, Friar Court, Harcourt Hill Hall, Paul Kent Hall, Warneford Hall, Westminster Hall and all Brookes Lettings houses.
If you no longer want your room but you will be continuing with your course:
Once you have accepted the contract it belongs to you - it does not matter whether or not you have picked up the keys and moved in.
However, you are welcome to advertise for another full-time Brookes student to take over the contract from you.
The student must not already have a room contracted to them.
When you find someone, contact us to arrange transferring the contract.
There will be an admin fee of £32.50 charged for the transfer.
You may wish to begin by advertising your room on Facebook via the Brookes Union's Housing Group .
If you are withdrawing from the university or deferring your place:
As part of the academic withdrawal, you will be asked to give details of your accommodation and notify us of your leaving date.
Your contract will end 28 days after the date of your official withdrawal from the University.
Please ensure your keys are returned to your hall.
If you retain your keys, you will continue to be charged.
You will owe rent for the period of time that the room was contracted to you.
If you have overpaid rent, the extra will be refunded.
When you sign up to your tenancy agreement you are signing for the whole contract period.
This is known as a fixed term contract and you are responsible for paying the rent for the full contract.
There are limited scenarios where where you can exit your contract early explained in our guidance Early Termination in Exceptional Circumstances Guidance document.
As well as Brookes housing and halls of residence, we also offer halls managed by the companies Unite Students and A2Dominion.
These partnership halls have their own contracts, and their own terms for ending these contracts.
Please check your contract, or contact the relevant company directly to find out the terms of cancellation, before accepting your room.
Would you like to stay in Oxford after your current hall contract has finished?
If so, we offer a number of summer hall options.
We will contact all eligible students in April with more information.
Please note that the summer halls can vary between years.
If you are looking for summer accommodation for 2 weeks or more, please wait for the Accommodation Bureau to contact you with your options.
If you wish to take over, or leave a contract in Cheney Student Village or Clive Booth Postgraduate Centre, rooms can be found and advertised via the Brookes Union Housing Group .
For more information please contact accomm@brookes.ac.uk who will be happy to advise.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/current-students/finding-other-accommodation:
Many of our students choose to live in private accommodation for some or all of their time in Oxford.
There is plenty of private accommodation in the local area for students to rent.
There are lots of resources available to help you find the right property for you.
We recommend that you read the Brookes Union House Hunting guide before you sign any tenancy agreement, and in particular you should be aware of the points listed below.
You can find further information on the Brookes Union advice webpage.
Most students at Oxford Brookes choose to live in certain popular areas of Oxford.
These areas are close to our campuses or within easy reach of them, well-connected by the Brookes bus services and have good availability for finding student housing.
The most popular areas for students based at the Headington Campus are Headington, Cowley, Marston and Wood Farm.
These are all in East Oxford.
If you are studying at our Harcourt Campus you may prefer to live in Botley or Osney, west of the city centre.
This will give you easy access to the campus and the city centre.
The areas to the north and south of the city centre, such as Summertown, Jericho and New Hinksey, may also have student housing availability but they won't be connected directly to our campuses by the Brookes buses.
You may need to check other transport options if you wanted to live there.
Most Oxford Brookes University students are entitled to free travel on the Brookes bus services and discounted travel on other bus services in Oxford.
You can check your eligibility here.
Another option for convenient local accommodation is student lodgings.
'Lodgings' refers to local homeowners with rooms available in their homes for others to rent.
You may be living with an individual, a couple or a family.
Lodgings can be particularly convenient for students who need a flexible accommodation option, or to stay for less than a year.
Lodgings are private and the contract length is settled between you and the landlord, so you can stay for any length of time provided the landlord agrees.
For more information on the legal position of a lodger, please see the Citizen's Advice Bureau website.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/residence-life/advice:
We know that it can be very challenging moving away from home for the first time and moving into University halls, so we have lots of resources for you to help you along the way!
Whether it is general advice you need, someone to talk to, to meet new people who may be going through the same thing, or counselling services, we are here to help with any struggle you may be facing.
Browse our useful resources and teams who are here to support you while living at university.
Need to report an issue with your university-managed hall room or flat?
Students can access support 24 hours a day, 365 days a year.
You can join a supportive online community where interactions are anonymous, take part in courses and use other wellbeing tools.
Support through Endsleigh
See more Emergency and 24-hour support
If you or someone is in danger, please phone 999 for emergency services.
If you are on or around campus and need immediate assistance, contact Oxford Brookes Security Services on +44 (0) 1865 603060 .
If emergency services have been called to Oxford Brookes premises, contact Security Services on 01865 603060 and explain your location so they can direct the emergency services team when they arrive.
You can visit your hall manager and team at the hall reception or contact them by phone and email.
They can assist with:
Your hall wardens are available to assist you out of normal hall reception hours.
Your hall reception can give you the names of your hall wardens and they can be contacted out of hours by calling through to security (01865 603060) and asking for the hall warden (make sure you let them know which hall you are in so they can transfer you to the correct warden).
Residences Information Portal - you will need to be logged into your Brookes email account to access this site.
The Residences Life Team are here to support you through your time here in residences!
Find out more about all the things they do on the Residence Life webpage.
The Accommodation Team can help with university-managed accommodation contracts, room swaps and booking enquires.
Brookes Union Advice Service offers advice on university processes such as Exceptional Circumstances, Appeals, Complaints and Misconduct.
Student networks allowing students to come together, build communities and connections.
The finance teams at Brookes can help students will a number of different queries:
Please visit our finance help pages to ensure you contact the correct team for your enquiry
The primary purpose of University Financial Aid is to relieve financial difficulties which might impact on a student's participation in higher education at Oxford Brookes and to help them remain at the University.
The International Student Advice Team (ISAT) is here to help with a range of services and friendly advice if you're an international student studying at Oxford Brookes
Their services include:
Visit our web pages to see the ways in which you can contact ISAT .
We have an extensive support network for our students at Oxford Brookes University.
Some of the main services are listed below however you can visit for further links and information on .
The Counselling Service is here to support you at times of any emotional, psychological or mental health difficulties.
We welcome students of any age, class, ethnicity, faith, belief, culture, disability, sexual orientation and gender identity.
We recognise that life at university can bring its own challenges and the Student Welfare and Support Advice Team is available to support you if you are going through a particularly difficult time.
Oxford Brookes Medical Centre is an integral part of St Bartholomew’s Medical Centre designed especially to care for the students registered at Oxford Brookes University.
The Student Central Advice Team (SCAT) can help with a wide range of course and programme queries as well as information about attendance certificates, council tax exemption, award verification and transcripts.
Across Oxford Brookes University, a network of Student Support Coordinators (known as SSCs) are here to support you and can help with any problem or issue you may face during your time at university.
Oxford benefits from fantastic public transport networks, increasing sustainability and lowering traffic congestion and pollution.
Brookes transport and travel can help with travel offers, advice on getting around and general travel information.
Citizens Advice is an independent organisation specialising in confidential information and advice to assist people with legal, debt, consumer, housing, immigration, family, health and other problems in the UK.
UKCISA are a charity and membership organisation supporting international students and all who work with them.
They can provide up-to-date information about Brexit, immigration, fees, student support, working and living in the UK for current and prospective international students.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/residence-life/events:
We understand that on top of your studies, it is important to take part in extra activities to relax, enjoy yourself and meet new people.
The Resi Life team runs events and activities for students in halls to take part in.
This calendar will continue to be updated with more events and details throughout the year - please note, some events may be subject to change.
Join our Q&A session over on our Instagram story from 9.00am to submit your questions!
1 week left until you join us!
Do you have any last-minute questions we can answer?
Crescent Hall: 9.30am to 10.30am
Paul Kent Hall: 10.30am to 11.30am
Warneford Hall: 12 noon to 1.00pm
Cheney Student Village: 2.00pm to 3.00pm
Clive Booth Student Village: 3.00pm to 4.00pm
Spaces are limited so make sure you sign up !
Our Welcome Breakfast is a relaxed and friendly way to meet fellow students and settle into hall life.
Time: 7.30am to 9.30am
Location: Clive Booth Student Village
Location: Crescent Hall
Join us for a fun-filled evening of music, games, and (most importantly) pizza at our Hall Meet & Eat!
Whether you’re new to halls or just looking to meet more people, this is the perfect chance to hang out, make new friends, and enjoy some delicious pizza.
Time: 6.00pm onwards
Locations:
Gluten-free and vegan pizza options will be available.
Location: Paul Kent Hall
Location: Warneford Hall
Join us for Halls Board Game Night, where you can relax, meet fellow residents, and battle it out over classic and modern games!
Whether you’re into Monopoly, Uno, Scrabble, Cluedo, or card games, there’s something for everyone - and no experience needed.
Come solo or bring your flatmates along for a chill evening of games, laughter and friendly competition.
Time: 5.00pm to 8.00pm
Date & Location:
We’re kicking off our Waste Competition to encourage recycling, reduce waste, and spark some friendly rivalry between halls!
From now until the end of the semester, halls will go head-to-head to see who can recycle the most - and win some prizes along the way.
How does it work?
How to take part
Updates
We’ll be posting monthly leaderboards and competition updates on Instagram - follow us @brookesresidences to stay in the loop and see how your hall is doing!
Use the hashtag #BinItToWinIt and tag us to show off your recycling efforts.
We’ll be handing out some sustainable goodies to help you start your eco-journey in style!
Let your loved ones know how you are settling into life in Oxford with a postcard home!
Time: 12 noon to 4.00pm
Location: TBC
Come and meet the team at our Security Roadshow in halls!
Learn how to keep yourself and your belongings safe at university, get top tips on personal and property security, and find out how our Security Team supports you on campus.
Plus, there’ll be freebies up for grabs!
Dates, Times & Locations:
Dare to be scared?
Join us for a thrilling day at Thorpe Park’s famous Fright Night!
Experience the park with live actors, terrifying attractions, and your favourite rides running later into the night.
Date: Thursday 16 October, 10.00am
Price: TBC - includes park entry and return coach travel from Headington Campus
Booking: Tickets will be available on the Oxford Brookes Online Shop (release date TBC).
This is one of our most popular trips of the year - limited spaces available, so grab your ticket early!
Unwind and get creative with our relaxing Pebble Painting sessions in halls!
Whether you're a seasoned artist or just want to try something new, drop by to design and decorate your own unique pebbles.
All materials are provided for FREE - just bring your imagination!
Time: 5.00pm to 7.00pm
Sign up today!
Get creative and design your very own custom tote bag at our Block Printing Workshop !
Using hand-carved stamps and fabric paints, you’ll learn the basics of block printing and create a reusable bag that’s totally unique to you.
All materials are provided FREE - just bring your imagination.
Brookes Residences and ISAT are excited to join forces once again, for Christmas at Blenheim !
The price includes entry into the Illuminated Light trail, Christmas Market, Blenheim Palace gift shop as well as return travel from Headington Campus.
Date: Thursday 27 November, 5.00pm
Location: Blenheim Palace, Oxford
Price: TBC
We are running this seasonal trip to the famous Winter Wonderland in Hyde Park again this year with ISAT.
Enjoy the Christmas wonderland, filled with festive gifts, food, rides and amusements!
Date: Tuesday 9 December
Location: Hyde Park, London
Christmas has come early to Brookes Residences!
Join us for Santa’s Scavenger Hunt - hidden presents are scattered throughout the halls, just waiting for you to find them.
If you find a hidden present, you can redeem for a chocolatey treat at your Hall Office!
Participating Halls of Residence:
Stay up to date by following @BrookesResidences on Instagram
More information about these events will be updated on this page and on our Instagram.
Bingo Night - fun and prizes with your Resi Life Team.
The Big Night is one of our most popular events.
Resi Life, Brookes Sport, Brookes Student Union and ISAT join for a night of fun, socialising, games and activities.
The event is a great way to meet up with friends old and new and have a bit of fun!
Activities include:
Enjoy a relaxed evening of fun and friendly competition at a Board Games Night!
Brookes Fiesta End of Year Party to see out the end of the year with a bang!
Bug hotels, Stained glass lanterns, Flowerpots, Positivity Pebbles and more.
Free Easter eggs available and for those feeling adventurous, hunt to find one of 10 special eggs hidden around your hall of residence.
A competition run by The Residences and Sustainability teams to make the most creative sculpture out of your clean dry recyclable materials.
The winning sculpture was displayed and its creator won an a £50 John Lewis voucher.
Fantastic free themed on campus film viewings.
Entry is free and film titles are emailed to students in advance.
Resi Life, Brookes Sport, Brookes Union and ISAT collaborate to host a Colour Run at Harcourt Hill.
Whether you run, jog or walk, it's a great opportunity to get outside and be active as a social event with your friends or to celebrate Holi.
Powdered paint will be provided for the event - all we ask is for you to bring and wear a plain a white t-shirt to get the full colour run experience!
Join in on our annual Instagram pancake competition!
For a chance to win a heavenly hamper of goodies, all you need to do is tag @brookesresidences in your pancake creation on Instagram.
Competition dates for each year will be released here on our website and on Instagram.
Enjoy a fun-filled Pizza Night and indulge in a variety of delicious pizzas while enjoying an evening packed with exciting games and activities.
To support and raise awareness for University Mental Health Day, Positivi-Trees were delivered to Clive Booth, Crescent, Paul Kent, Warneford and Westminster Hall.
This allowed residents to write something positive, encouraging and uplifting to place on the tree for others to take when they need a little pick-me-up.
Puppy yoga returns by very popular demand!
20 minute session of yoga with puppies and a trained yoga instructor, followed by 20 minutes of play and cuddle time.
Your Resi Life Team are ready to test your knowledge!
Join in for a brain-teasing quiz, food, prizes and a chance to meet new people.
Your Resi team and Security team up at each hall for freebies and information.
An exciting evening of music and dancing at our Silent Discos.
A day of exhilarating rides with your Resi Life Team.
Join your Resi Life team for a fantastic trip to Warwick Castle.
With over 1000 years of history, you are sure to have a historical experience.
The trip cost £20* per person, including the castle ticket and travel.
*prices are subject to change each year
Welcome Breakfast events at our Halls of Residence, a perfect opportunity to kickstart your university journey!
Resi Life, Brookes Sport, Brookes Student Union and ISAT teaming up for a night of fun, socialising, games and activities.
This free event is a great way to meet up with friends old and new and have a bit of fun!
Activities included:
A fun day out at the zoo - with everything from hippos and elephants to crocodiles!

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/residence-life/sustainability:
In our halls of residence, we try to do our best to be the most sustainable we can.
We will be running sustainability campaigns on our @BrookesResidences Instagram with useful tips to reduce energy, waste and water consumption.
We run a wide range of sustainability-focused events across our halls throughout the year - including monthly clothes swaps, sustainable pop-up food stalls where you can buy food without packaging, cooking workshops, and regular eco-themed pop-ups and giveaways.
Whether you’re looking to live more sustainably or just try something new, there’s something for everyone to get involved in!
Throughout the year, we organise an interhall waste competition.
This helps students to educate and improve their waste management habits (and you get a chance to win a pizza party for the most improved hall!).
Oxford Brookes is proudly part of the SOS-UK Green Impact scheme.
We achieved the Bronze award for 2022/23, our Silver and Gold award for 2023/24 and Platinum for 2024/25!
We will be continuing to grow and develop the scheme across our Halls of Residences for 2025/26!
In 2023 we created two more rewilding projects in the halls!
These projects are an excellent opportunity to increase the biodiversity and transform spaces.
They encourage a positive environmental hub for local flowers and wildlife across our halls of residence.
The projects also positively impact the physical and mental wellbeing of our residents.
Following on from our rewilding project, as part of the Green Impact Scheme, we have introduced bee hotels across our Brookes Halls.
If you are passing by, feel free to visit our hotels:
Find out more about Biodiversity at Oxford Brookes
Find out more about Sustainability at Oxford Brookes
In Semester 2 of 2024/25, we increased our average recycling and food rate by 11% across our halls by introducing the Hall Waste Competition!
Our winners, Crescent Hall, won an evening of pizza and garden games to celebrate!
We’re kicking off our Waste Competition for 2025/26 to encourage recycling, reduce waste, and spark some friendly rivalry between halls!
From September, halls will go head-to-head to see who can recycle the most - and win some prizes along the way.
Can you recycle enough to make your hall top of the leaderboard this year?
We’ll be posting monthly leaderboards and competition updates.
Follow us on Intstagram at @brookesresidences to stay in the loop and see how your hall is doing!

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/policies-and-contracts/contracts-and-regulations:
It is important that you read and understand the terms you are agreeing to before you accept your rental agreement.
You will be entering into a legally binding contract for the period stated on your agreement and as advertised on the relevant hall webpage or housing listing.
All accommodation contracts for halls are made between the accommodation provider and the student occupier.
While we understand that parents or other representatives of the student will be concerned for their wellbeing, dealings need to be primarily with the residents.
Past experience strongly suggests this is the most efficient way of resolving any problems that may arise.
Your hall contract Your housing contract Early termination Privacy policy
The halls owned or leased by Oxford Brookes University are:
Only full-time students are eligible to live in these halls.
If you are offered a place in one of our university-owned or leased halls then you will need to agree to the following when you accept your rental agreement:
Residents are admitted to the hall and may continue to reside only if they give and abide by an undertaking not to keep a car in Oxford whilst resident in the hall.
Cheney Student Village is jointly managed with UPP Ltd.
If you are offered a place at Cheney Student Village you will need to agree to the above and, in addition, the specific terms and conditions for this hall.
We have a number of partnership halls which are owned or operated by a third party.
Like our university-managed halls, only full-time students are eligible to live in these halls.
Our third-party halls are:
If you are offered a place in one of our partnership halls then you will need to agree to the operator’s terms and conditions when you accept your licence to occupy, as detailed below.
Students in our partnership halls will also need to abide by the University's Student Conduct Regulations .
If a student in a partnership hall leaves the university they may still be financially liable for the costs associated with the tenancy.
For A2Dominion contracts, rent is paid in 3 instalments with the first payment due at the start of the contract.
Alternative payment plans are available on a case-by-case basis.
Please contact A2Dominion at payments@a2dominion.co.uk to discuss your options.
More information about your Brookes Lettings tenancy agreement can be found on the Tenant's Information Site .
Below you can find the terms and conditions for the Brookes Lettings Standard Contracts and Brookes Lettings Bills Inclusive contracts:
There are limited scenarios where where you can exit your contract early explained in our guidance document below:
Parade Green is operated by Unite Students .
Tenancies for this accommodation are subject to their terms and conditions .
There is no provision made for student parking at the Unite Students sites in Oxford with the exception of disabled spaces.
As a result of this no motor bike or car belonging to a tenant at Unite Students Halls or their visitors is permitted on site nor should tenants bring any car to the city.
You will need to pay an initial rent advance of £250 when you make your booking.
This will be deducted from the first rent payment.
These halls are all operated by A2Dominion .
Any tenancy for this accommodation is subject to their terms and conditions .
There is no deposit or reservation fee required to secure your booking.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/policies-and-contracts/allocation-policy:
Our allocation policy (PDF) explains how we allocate rooms in halls and which groups of students get priority or are guaranteed accommodation.
The key information is summarised below.
*All the application deadlines and allocation dates can be found on our How to Apply webpage .
We can only allocate accommodation to applicants after their place at Oxford Brookes has been confirmed by our admissions team, i.e.
once they are holding an unconditional course offer.
Firm choice applicants joining in September will be guaranteed accommodation as long as they apply and meet the academic requirements by their deadlines*.
Where possible the allocation will be one of the applicant's three choices however we cannot guarantee this as it is subject to availability.
Firm choice applicants who apply/meet the requirements by the final allocation deadlines* will still be guaranteed accommodation however there is then a lesser chance it will be one of their three choices.
Firm choice applicants who already hold an unconditional offer can apply for the first two rounds of allocations*.
Insurance choice applicants are guaranteed accommodation as long as they apply and meet the academic requirements of their offer by their deadlines*.
Where possible, we will offer insurance choice students a room in one of their chosen options however this cannot be guaranteed and they may be offered a room in another hall.
The following applicants will be given priority and guaranteed accommodation.
*If you need adapted accommodation due to a physical or mobility condition it is vital that you contact the Inclusive Support Team to ensure we are able to meet your specific needs.
Certain types of accessible/adapted accommodation are limited in availability so it is important that you speak to us early.
More information about students who need special consideration due to a physical or mobility condition can be found in the Allocation Policy here under paragraph 5.5.
Students over the age of 21 are classes as mature students and have the opportunity to live with postgraduate students or with other undergraduate students.
Find our more about How to Apply and our Inclusive Accommodation .

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/policies-and-contracts/complaints:
The objective of Oxford Brookes University is to provide the highest quality services and facilities to applicants and students.
We use any comments you make to help us to improve our service.
However, if there are areas of our provision that concern you or about which you wish to make a formal complaint our procedure is as follows:
If you wish to make a complaint about your accommodation or the services provided in your accommodation after you have enrolled at the University, you should first contact either the halls team (at your respective hall), the Brookes Lettings team if you are in Brookes Lettings shared housing or the Halls Accommodation Office (previously Accommodation Bureau) to report the problem and gain advice/resolution.
If you feel that you were not treated fairly after contacting these teams, you can get independent advice from the Brookes Union Advice Centre (BUAC) and if appropriate submit a complaint using the University Complaints Process:
Brookes Union Advice Centre
Student Complaints
This process should only be used if you have not yet arrived and enrolled at the University.
If you are dissatisfied with the outcome of your application for halls of residence, in the first instance you should contact our Halls Accommodation Office.
The Halls Accommodation Team will try to address your concerns in line with our accommodation allocation policy (PDF) .
Our staff will aim to resolve your problem as promptly as possible but please be aware that the start of the academic year is always a time of peak demand.
If you are dissatisfied with the way your situation has been handled, you may make a formal complaint.
All complaints received from applicants/students regarding applying for halls accommodation will be considered individually.
Please include supporting details, such as previous correspondence or documentation.
Complaints can be submitted by email to accomm@brookes.ac.uk or by letter, and should be addressed to/for the attention of:
Pete Toomer - Head of Accommodation (halls) AB.1.01b Abercrombie Building Oxford Brookes University Headington Campus (Gipsy Lane) Oxford OX3 0BP
The Head of Accommodation will conduct an investigation into your complaint and respond accordingly.
Where an applicant/student is not satisfied with the outcomes of this investigation, the complaint will be referred to the Residential Operations Manager.
Please note: The complaints process is a separate and formal mechanism for reviewing the University’s actions.
While your complaint will be considered as soon as possible, you need to continue to deal with the Accommodation staff who will aim to resolve your initial concern.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/about-brookes/contacts-maps-and-campuses/headington-campus:
Announcement All teaching and library services will move from Harcourt Hill to our Headington Campus for the start of the 2025/26 academic year.
Accommodation, sport and catering facilities at Harcourt Hill will continue to be provided during the 2025/26 academic year.
Latest updates on Estates Developments
Headington Campus sits one mile east of Oxford city centre and is made up of three sites:
It's home to a thriving student community living and learning in a modern, uplifting environment.
Our courses and campuses are always developing - make sure you check the online course descriptions to find out all the details, including where each course is based.
Opening hours for our Oxford campuses are:
For other specific opening hours, view our Library opening hours , and open day events .
We strongly advise you not to come by car unless absolutely necessary, since parking is very restricted in the city and on the campuses.
If you wish to come by car, we recommend you use the Park & Ride bus services .
The park and ride car parks are clearly signposted as you approach the city and the service is frequent all day and through the evening.
Access information on public transport travel routes to and from the campus, by selecting the coloured pin from the Headington Campus Google Map .
Alternatively, see further information about traveling to our sites below.
Travel to Marston Road Site
Travel to Gipsy Lane Site and Headington Hill
Headington Campus - all sites map (PDF)
Gipsy Lane and Headington Hill are only a few minutes' walk apart from each other, along the Headington Road.
Engineering and Motorsport
Gipsy Lane and Headington Hill sites Oxford Brookes University Headington Oxford OX3 0BP
Gipsy Lane site map (PDF)
Headington Hill site map (PDF)
Car travel is strongly discouraged due to limited parking on campus and in the city.
When possible, use public transport options.
Find out more about peak and off peak visitor parking .
Accessible car parking spaces cannot be booked but are offered on a first come, first served basis.
Council Blue Badge permits will need to be clearly displayed at all times.
For Open Day guests only , Blue Badge holders can pre-book a space by emailing uniopenday@brookes.ac.uk
Oxford has an extensive rail travel network with a number of providers using the city's central Oxford station and Oxford Parkway station (located north of the ring road).
Find information on our travel by train pages .
Oxford benefits from an extensive public transport network with some local services stopping near/ outside certain campuses.
Find out more on our travelling by bus and coach page .
Open Day guests should use the Gloucester Green Bus Station and take the bus from Park End Street (3 minute walk) or Frideswide Square (5 minute walk).
Coach services: Use the National Express or Megabus websites for your journey information.
London journeys: The Oxford Tube runs between Victoria Coach Station and Headington Campus.
Direct coach services from London run every 15 minutes during the day.
The journey is approximately 90 minutes.
Oxford Bus Company and Stagecoach run public bus services with routes which will help University students and staff reach our sites.
The Marston Road site is approximately 20 minutes walk from the main Headington Campus, on Jack Straws Lane.
The subject areas based at Marston Road Site are:
Marston Road Site Faculty of Health and Life Sciences Oxford Brookes University Jack Straws Lane Marston Oxford OX3 0FL
Marston Road site map (PDF)
Marston Road by foot (PDF)
For Open Day guests only , Blue Badge holders can pre-book a space by emailing uniopenday@brookes.ac.uk .
When travelling by foot from Gipsy Lane to the Marston Road site (on Jack Straws Lane, Oxford, OX3 0FL), the following recommended route is an approximately 20 minute walk.
Oxford is a vibrant city, steeped in history and with plenty of places to visit and good quality accommodation for all budgets.
Visit England, the official tourist board for England, has a comprehensive guide to Oxford and the wider county.
You can also find out about accommodation on Visit England website .
For visitors who would like to stay closer to campus, we are able to offer self catered, en suite accommodation , subject to availability.
The buildings on campus house first-rate academic and leisure facilities including collaborative work spaces.
The library
Brookes Sport
Catering outlets
IT services
Medical Centre
Damira Dental Studios
Oxford Brookes University Nursery

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/about-brookes/contacts-maps-and-campuses/harcourt-hill-campus:
Harcourt Hill is located three miles from Oxford city centre and is connected to the Headington Campus by local bus networks.
All remaining teaching and library services will move from Harcourt Hill to our Headington Campus for the start of the 2025/26 academic year.
Accommodation, sport and catering facilities will continue to be provided during the 2025/26 academic year.
For information on Library opening hours, please refer to the library webpages.
Oxford Brookes University Harcourt Hill Campus Oxford OX2 9AT
From the city centre drive out of Oxford on the Botley Road, continue past Harcourt Tower, under the A34 flyover.
At the traffic lights, just beyond bridge turn left, into Westminster Way.
Continue for half a mile, bearing right (up Harcourt Hill) just before the road rejoins the A34 northbound slip road.
Motorists coming from the A34 southbound should come off at the Botley Interchange; take first exit (to Botley and Oxford).
Turn right at the first set of traffic lights, left at the next, into Westminster Way.
Motorists travelling northbound on the A34 should leave at the junction signposted Harcourt Hill Campus (just after you enter the 50mph section at Oxford).
This junction should be exited with care as the slip road is short.
Immediately after leaving the A34 you will take a sharp turn left signposted Harcourt Hill, Westminster College.
The campus is at the top of the hill on your right.
(If you miss the exit off the A34 you should leave at the next junction, the Botley Interchange roundabout, and follow the signs for Oxford and then Westminster College.)
From Swindon, A420 drive towards Oxford until the Botley Interchange roundabout, take second exit (to Botley and Oxford).
If you are using satellite navigation to find this campus the post code required is OX2 9AT.
Access information on public transport travel routes to and from the campus, by selecting the coloured pin from the map below.
There are direct train services to Oxford from many UK towns and cities, many at least hourly and sometimes half-hourly.
For other places, there is usually a simple change en route at Birmingham or Reading, or in London.
For details of train services and timetable information, please visit the national rail enquiries website or telephone: 08457 484950
Trains for Oxford from London depart from Paddington Station, and are run by First Great Western Link.
During the daytime the trains depart from Paddington approximately every 15 minutes, and depart approximately every 30 minutes during the late evening.
The journey time is about one hour.
See also our Useful links for train travel page .
The Oxford Tube is an inter-city, direct motorway coach service from London.
The service runs as often as every 10-15 minutes most of the day, every 20-30 minutes late evenings and hourly right through the night.
Travel time is 70-110 minutes depending on traffic.
Pay the driver - you don't have to book ahead.
The Oxford Tube stops right outside Oxford Brookes Headington Campus as well as in Oxford city centre.
For more information please visit the Stagecoach: Oxford Tube webpage .
Coaches from the airport and London stop near Oxford Brookes Headington campus (PDF) on Headington Road.
You will have to walk about 300 metres from the stop to Oxford Brookes' main entrance, which is on Gipsy Lane.
If you have lots of luggage with you and need a taxi to your accommodation, stay on the coach until the last stop, which is Gloucester Green coach station in the centre of Oxford.
It is much easier to find a taxi from there.
Direct coach services to Oxford also run from:
For more information and timetable information, please visit the National Express website telephone: 01234 567890.
You can also find out about accommodation on the Visit England website .

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/about-brookes/contacts-maps-and-campuses/swindon-campus:
Our Swindon Campus is located in West Swindon, in the Delta Business Park.
It was officially opened in February 2017 and features brand new facilities to enhance student learning, collaboration and research.
The Joel Joffe building is named after Lord Joel Joffe, a long-time Swindon resident and former human rights lawyer.
Swindon Campus is home to state-of-the-art academic facilities including a subject library, clinical skills lab and up-to-date simulation training equipment.
Our Swindon campus opening hours are:
Faculty of Health and Life Sciences Oxford Brookes University Delta 900 Welton Road Westlea Swindon SN5 7XQ
Swindon Campus map (PDF)
Oxford Brookes University’s Swindon Campus is based in the Joel Joffe Building on the Delta Business Park, to the west of the town centre.
Parking is limited and chargeable.
If you are attending an Open Day event, please pre-book by emailing uniopenday@brookes.ac.uk .
Please do not park in other business car parks within the Delta 900 business park.
If you are using a Satnav, please be aware that due to the location of the campus, the postcode of SN5 7XQ may take you past the entrance road.
The nearest railway station to the site is Swindon located 3.3 km away.
It is managed by First Great Western and provides frequent services to Bristol, Cardiff, Swansea, Bath, Didcot, Reading, London and Cheltenham Spa.
The railway station is located 200 meters from the bus station, which means that Delta 900 has an excellent connection to the railway station.
Oxford Brookes Swindon Campus is approximately a 50 minute walk, 30 minute bus ride and about a 10 minute taxi ride away from Swindon station.
There are bus services that get you to our Swindon Campus.
These services are operated by Swindon's Bus Company .
For information on wider bus services operating to Swindon please use the following websites to get relevant travel information:
Covered cycle parking is available at the Swindon Campus.
The support services team also ensures that Swindon students have access to a full range of support and advice services on campus.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/brookes-sport/opening-times-and-contacts:
Opening Times
Find us & Parking
Meet the Team
Policies & Terms
Sustainability in Sport

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/brookes-sport/opening-times-and-contacts/opening-times:
Last entry is one hour before closing time.
Please note: The gym is shared with Activate Learning Rugby Academy from 9.00am to 4.00pm on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays.
During these hours, music may be louder and the weights area busier.
Term time only: On Wednesday afternoons, student sports clubs host BUCS fixtures.
Changing rooms may be in use and in wet weather, muddier than usual.
We kindly ask you to use the single-use facilities at these times.
*Please note that this does not include our Learn to Lift fitness class due to the small class format.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/brookes-sport/opening-times-and-contacts/contact-us:
To find the best way to get in touch, please select an option below.
For casual bookings, general membership enquiries, or questions about our facilities, please contact the relevant centre below:
For more information on our membership offer, please take a look at our membership page .
If you have any further membership or payment enquiries, please email sportsmembership@brookes.ac.uk .
If you'd like to know more about climbing, please take a look at our climbing pages , or get in touch with us by email climb@brookes.ac.uk .
If you'd like to know more about our student sport programme, including the range of Student Sports Clubs we have on offer, please take a look at our student sport pages .
You can also find out more information on our scholarships and how we support performance here too.
For more information, you can get in touch with the Student Sport Team via sport@brookes.ac.uk
If you'd like to know more about our Brookes Active programme, please visit the Brookes Active webpages , or get in touch with us by email brookesactive@brookes.ac.uk
If you would like to learn more about our fitness services, including gym facilities, Fitness Classes , or if you would like to book a Personal Training session, gym induction, or Wellness Check , please reach out to our fitness team.
Email: brookesactive@brookes.ac.uk
To find out more about making block bookings at our facilities, please contact, sportsbookings@brookes.ac.uk
You can find a full list of our facilities available for booking .
To take a look at what we're up to, follow us on our social media channels below:
Instagram:
Facebook:

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/brookes-sport/opening-times-and-contacts/find-us-and-parking:
Address: Oxford Brookes University Centre for Sport, Cheney Lane, Headington, Oxford, OX3 0GB
There is no on-site parking at Brookes Sport, Headington, except for one disabled parking space.
However, thanks to our Brookes Active Ambassadors , individuals with a Blue Badge may park in the minibus area, provided their badge is displayed.
If your vehicle is blocking a minibus, please inform reception upon arrival in case it needs to be moved.
Our facilities are well served by public transport and bike racks are also available.
Parking at Headington Hill Hall is subject to restrictions, please see below.
For more information please see below, check out the Oxford Brookes Parking Policy FAQ or email sportsmembership@brookes.ac.uk
No parking is allowed during these hours.
Important: Do not arrive before 5:01pm on weekdays, as the ANPR system will issue a £40 penalty charge.
Important: Do not arrive before 5:01 on weekdays, as the ANPR system will issue a £40 penalty charge.
The permit is active only from the day payment is made.
For off-peak tariff details and payment options, please visit the University Parking page To request a permit, please email sportsmembership@brookes.ac.uk
Address: Brookes Sport, Oxford, OX2 9AT
Our facilities are well served by public transport with bike racks are also available.
You can park at Harcourt Hill all day, free of charge, until further notice.
For more information please check out the Oxford Brookes Parking Policy FAQ or email sportsmembership@brookes.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/brookes-sport/opening-times-and-contacts/meet-the-team:
squeralt@brookes.ac.uk
Joining Brookes in 2007, Sarah is now in the position of Deputy Director of Sport and ECS Strategic Projects.
After covering a multitude of roles across the student sports programme, operations and commercial portfolio, Sarah became Deputy Director of Sport in 2016.
Sarah covers a split role and also sits within the Directorate's Senior Leadership Team and oversees strategic projects aligned with the business objectives of ECS, primarily around people, culture and business improvement.
Sarah also sits on the University's LGBTQ+ staff forum and is one of the Directorate's Equality, Diversity and Inclusion champions.
mboswell@brookes.ac.uk
Marcus arrived at Oxford Brookes in November 2019 and is responsible for the Student Sport programme and other externally funded high-performance Sport schemes.
He oversees the wide range of opportunities for students to take part in local, regional and international competitions for the university, having represented Great Britain in two sports himself through Youth and Student pathways [Taekwondo & American Football].
Marcus manages a cohort of 50+ staff, support practitioners and technical coaches with the same enthusiasm he displayed as an athlete himself.
Previously Marcus was a member on the university's Academic Board from 2021-2024, a co-opted member of the International University Sports Federation (FISU) Education Committee (2023-24) and held the position of University Commissioner for the British American Football Association (BAFA) between 2019-2022.
Marcus is Oxford Brookes' Staff Representative for British Universities & Colleges Sport (BUCS), a member of  BUCS' Advisory Group for American Football, and is the department's acting Safeguarding Officer.
Student Sport Team
jbuxton@brookes.ac.uk
Jamie joined Brookes Sport in October 2014 as a Duty Manager.
He has worked in the leisure industry for over 20 years having previously worked across a number of West Oxfordshire sites.
Jamie took up the role of Senior Sports Manager in May 2019 and more recently moved into his Operations & Compliance role with responsibility for managing compliance across all of our Sports sites - this includes producing and updating risk assessments, COSHH assessments, A&I Investigations, site audits,training records and budget holder responsibilities to name a few.
Jamie is also responsible for the line management of the Sports Manager team and the Customer Services Manager.
Operations Team
rmlcole@brookes.ac.uk
Richard joined Brookes Sport in 1997, having previously worked in the outdoor industry as a climbing and mountaineering instructor.
Richard is responsible for the University’s Climbing Centre and commercial sports delivery and leads a large team of instructors and coaches who deliver a wide range of indoor and outdoor climbing and mountaineering courses.
Richard has also led expeditions to the European Alps and the greater ranges of Nepal.
eohara@brookes.ac.uk
Emma first joined Oxford Brookes in October 2019 as the Sports Coordinator within the Student Sport Team.
After a brief role as Community and Inclusion Officer at the Berks & Bucks FA in 2022, she returned to Oxford Brookes later that year as Marketing and Engagement Manager.
In her current role, Emma leads the Brookes Active programme and oversees events, as well as all communications, marketing and social media for Brookes Sport.
Drawing on her experience as a former Irish international hammer thrower and sports scholar at the University of Maryland in the United States, Emma is dedicated to creating an accessible, engaging and impactful sporting experience for the entire Brookes Sport community.
rormiston-rees@brookes.ac.uk
Richard joined Brookes Sport in January 2020 and brings over 13 years of experience in higher education sport.
He currently leads the Brookes Applied strategic area of the sports strategy, helping students gain real-world experience in the fitness industry, while also overseeing the campus fitness and wellness spaces.
Before joining Oxford Brookes, he spent six years at Oxford University Sport.
Richard's main sporting interest is Muay Thai, which he has been involved in for 20 years as both a competitor and coach.
He has also worked as a personal trainer for 13 years.
efox@brookes.ac.uk
Emma started working for Oxford Brookes University in 2016 with her initial role working for the Estates & Campus Services finance team.
In 2017 Emma moved to predominantly support the Centre for Sport.
As part of Emma's role, she manages the financial budgets for the department with ongoing support to budget holders.
Emma is also responsible for the management of the leisure software and its associated systems with ongoing improvements made on a regular basis.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/brookes-sport/opening-times-and-contacts/policies-and-terms:
Below are our full list of policies and terms:
Our environmental-related policies, including the policies listed below, can be found on the Environmental management and governance page.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/brookes-sport/opening-times-and-contacts/sustainability-in-sport:
At Brookes Sport, we believe that sustainability and sport go hand in hand.
As athletes, gym users and active individuals, we rely on the natural world for clean air, fresh water and the resources that support our health and performance.
But with climate change and environmental challenges impacting our planet, we must all play a part in protecting the world around us.
Sport has the power to inspire change and athletes can be role models for sustainable living.
The choices we make, from what we eat to how we travel, can significantly impact our carbon footprint.
Major sporting events like the Olympics , the FIFA World Cup and Wimbledon have taken significant steps towards sustainability by reducing waste, improving energy efficiency and promoting eco-friendly transport options.
For example, the Paris 2024 Olympics was the most sustainable Games yet, with a focus on carbon neutrality, renewable energy and responsible resource use.
These global efforts highlight the crucial role sport plays in driving positive environmental change and we can all contribute at an individual level.
At Brookes Sport, we are committed to promoting sustainable practices that align with Oxford Brookes University’s 2035 University Strategy .
We encourage all members, whether you’re a student-athlete, Brookes Sport member, casual climber or gym user, or event attendee, to take simple steps towards sustainability.
Every small action adds up.
By making thoughtful choices, we can help protect the environment while maintaining top athletic performance.
At Brookes Sport, we are committed to supporting our community in adopting more sustainable practices.
Stay tuned for more initiatives and let’s work together to build a greener, healthier future for sport!

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/brookes-sport/memberships:
No joining fee.
No minimum contract.
Flexible memberships that fit around you.
Join Now
Membership FAQs
At Brookes Sport, we offer a range of membership options to suit your needs.
These can be paid upfront, annually, or by monthly direct debit, with no minimum contract length or joining fee.
Enjoy our gym and fitness classes at both Brookes Sport Headington and Harcourt Hill with any membership.
Stay active and make the most of our facilities across both locations!
All Direct Debit memberships are subject to an upfront pro-rata payment of up to 2 calendar months.
Junior memberships can only be purchased at reception.
We also offer 1-month memberships, ideal for those visiting Oxford short-term or without a UK bank account.
Payment is made upfront, with no long-term commitment required.
Brookes Students
Brookes Staff
Community
Concessions
Junior Memberships
Pay As You Go
By using Brookes Sport facilities, you agree to our terms and conditions and cancellation policy .

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/brookes-sport/memberships/community-memberships:
Our sports centres are open to all.
Enjoy flexible memberships with no joining fees or contracts.
Looking for a flexible and convenient membership?
Our community memberships offer great benefits to help you make the most of your time with us.
Please bring a valid photo ID to reception on your first visit for identity verification.
Summit members enjoy (not Summit Off-Peak):
Due to limited availability during term time, badminton and squash are no longer included in memberships.
Instead, you can purchase a Racket Hopper for just £60, which gives you 12 sessions, that's only £5 per session!
Valid for 6 months, Racket Hoppers can be used at both sites.
Alert If you are purchasing a Summit or Summit Off-Peak membership you must also complete the Climbing Participation Agreement.
Climbing Participation Agreement

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/brookes-sport/memberships/concession-memberships:
No joining fees.
Just flexible, discounted concession memberships.
We offer concession rates across all our membership options, making it easier for eligible individuals to access our facilities at a reduced cost.
To activate your concession membership, please bring appropriate proof of eligibility on your first visit.
ID checks are required annually to maintain your concession status.
To qualify for a Concession Membership, you must meet one of the following criteria:
You may qualify for a Concession Membership if you are:
We also accept GP Exercise Referrals.
If this applies to you, simply email sportsmembership@brookes.ac.uk with a copy of your referral and we’ll be happy to help.
To qualify for a Corporate Concession Membership, you must be employed by one of the following organisations:
If your organisation would like to be considered for Corporate Concession Memberships, please contact sportsmembership@brookes.ac.uk
We are pleased to offer exclusive Partner Club concessionary rates.
Currently, this applies to Oxford Hockey Club members and their families:
Proof of membership will need to be shown.
As a concession member, you’ll enjoy all the same great perks as standard members, including:
Summit members enjoy (not Summit Off-Peak members):

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/brookes-sport/memberships/oxford-brookes-staff-memberships:
Prioritise your wellbeing with flexible, discounted memberships.
To qualify for an Oxford Brookes University staff membership, a valid Oxford Brookes ID must be shown during your first visit and will be activated to become your Brookes Sport membership card.
Staff members enjoy the same great discounted rates as students, along with full access to a range of benefits:
Prefer more flexibility?
Staff can also access heavily discounted Hoppers (Gym and Fitness Classes) as an alternative to traditional membership.
Staff Hoppers offer a flexible fitness solution in the era of hybrid working.
Helping staff get more active, more often, through events, activities and campaigns.
Start strong: New staff get a free month of Fitness Membership at Brookes Sport.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/brookes-sport/memberships/oxford-brookes-student-and-staff-memberships:
Stay active on campus with flexible, affordable memberships.
We offer flexible student memberships to suit all budgets and activity levels.
All memberships include access to Brookes Active activities , bookable via the BrookesSport app ( Android or iOS ) or our Book Online portal .
Annual and 123 memberships include BUCS UNIversal access (use other participating university gyms during academic breaks, starting October 2025).
Not sure which option is right for you?
Our reception team is happy to help.
Please bring your Oxford Brookes student ID on your first visit.
Oxford Brookes students enjoy highly discounted rates, with full access to a wide range of benefits:
We offer Semester Fitness and Summit Memberships.
Get a membership for 3 years for the price of 2, in 1 easy payment.
Helping students get more active, more often, through events, activities and campaigns.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/brookes-sport/memberships/partner-and-child-add-ons:
No joining fees and no minimum contract length!
To register for a Junior Climb Membership, the parent or guardian responsible for payment must visit reception.
We will register the junior member, take payment and activate the membership during the visit.
Junior Climb Memberships are for children aged 5 - 17 years.
If you have any questions, please contact: sportsmembership@brookes.ac.uk
All gym users must be at least 16 years old.
A parent or guardian is required to submit the U18 Liability Disclaimer for Gym Facilities Usage Consent Form before access is granted.
Users aged 16-17 must complete a mandatory gym induction before using the facilities.
Inductions are led by trained staff and may not be available on your first visit.
Please speak to reception or email brookesactive@brookes.ac.uk to arrange your induction.
Users under 18 are limited to using weights of up to 15kg only.
Pay As You Go options for gym access

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/brookes-sport/memberships/pay-as-you-go:
No membership?
No problem!
You don’t need to be a Brookes Sport member to enjoy our facilities as most are available on a Pay As You Go (PAYG) basis.
Using the gym or climbing wall without a membership:
Booking other activities:
Book Online
Hopper s : these are a brilliant, affordable way to buy multiple sessions, without the commitment of an annual or monthly membership.
Hoppers are valid for 6 months and can be purchased at reception.
To book a Gym Induction, Wellness Check , or to enquire about Gym Programmes, please talk to reception or email brookesactive@brookes.ac.uk .
Those aged 16-17 must complete a mandatory gym induction before using the facilities.
A parent or guardian must also submit the U18 Liability Disclaimer for Gym Facilities Usage Consent Form .
Inductions require a trained staff member and may not be available on your first visit.
Please talk to reception or email brookesactive@brookes.ac.uk to book.
Users under 18 can use weights up to 15kg only.
To book a Personal Training (PT) session please look at our Personal Training webpage and reach out directly to one of our PTs.
For fitness classes, bookings can be made on the BrookesSport app on Android or iOS , or via our web Book Online portal .
Current PAYG users can book up to 7 days in advance, whilst Direct Debit, Annual and Monthly paid members are entitled to priority booking of up to 10 days in advance.
Off-Peak Fitness Classes are classes at Headington and Harcourt Hill before 3.00pm on weekdays only.
Please note that this does not include our Learn to Lift fitness class due to the small class format.
All users of the Brookes Climb Centre must complete the Climbing Participation Agreement , prior to attending.
We no longer offer bookable sessions.
PAYG Day Passes are now available only from reception, subject to space availability.
The Day Pass grants you all-day access to our Climbing Centre during opening hours.
A registered adult climber can supervise a maximum of two under 18s.
Under 18s must also be registered and have completed the Climbing Participation Agreement , prior to attending.
*Includes room hire for space after climbing.
For more details on what we offer, please explore our Youth Courses and Adults Courses webpages.
Classes can be booked either on the BrookesSport app on Android or iOS , or via our web Book Online portal , however, courses can only be booked via the Book Online portal .
Private lessons, youth groups, school groups, and birthday parties can be booked by emailing climb@brookes.ac.uk
For more details on what we offer, please visit the Adults Courses webpage.
Sessions can be booked either on the BrookesSport app on Android or iOS , or via our web Book Online portal .
All climbers must have completed the Climbing Participation Agreement .
Hopper s : these are a brilliant, affordable way to buy multiple sessions and can be used cross-site and for Squash and/or Badminton.
Hoppers are valid for 6 months and can be purchased online or at reception.
Courts can be booked on the BrookesSport app on Android or iOS , or via our web Book Online portal .
All times are inclusive of anytime required for set up and take down.
*Off-peak only.
Otherwise, the rate is £175 for 5 pitches.
Off-peak hours are before 3pm on weekdays and all day on weekends.
The Headington Sports Hall is able to accommodate Basketball, Volleyball, Indoor Football, Netball, etc and bookings can only be made on the hour.
The Synthetic Turf Pitch is for outdoor activities such as Hockey, small-sided Football, Lacrosse training, etc.
Casual bookings for most of our facilities can be made via the BrookesSport app on Android or iOS , or via our web Book Online portal .
For advance bookings, to book regular sessions, or any other booking queries please email your request to sportsbookings@brookes.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/brookes-sport/memberships/faqs:
For any other queries, please contact the relevant person on our contact list.
Climbing FAQs
Welcome to Brookes Sport!
To get started, download the BrookesSport App on Android or iOS .
The app lets you book activities, view live timetables, check into spaces (Headington only) and stay updated.
To log in, select an activity, click "Book" and use the login button in the top right corner.
Enter your registered email and if needed, reset your password using your registered email.
For your first visit to our centres, please bring a photo ID and any relevant proof for Oxford Brookes Student/Staff or Concession memberships.
At Brookes Sport, Harcourt Hill: We'll activate your Oxford Brookes ID card or issue a Brookes Sport membership card for facility access.
At Brookes Sport, Headington: You'll check in by scanning QR codes at entrance points using the Brookes Sport App.
Don't forget to opt-in to communications for updates on offers and events
You're then all set to get active - we'll see you soon!
We've removed the need to pre-book for attending our climbing centre and gym, so you can just turn up and get active (subject to space availability).
For activities that still require booking, please use the BrookesSport app on Android or iOS , or our online Book Online portal .
You'll also need the app to access the climbing wall and gym at Brookes Sport, Headington by scanning the QR code at the entrance gate.
The Brookes Sport App is available only on the UK App Store ( iOS ) and Google Play ( Android ).
If you have an international phone, you can change your location by using the guides here, iOS: App Store and Android: Google Play .
To log in to the app, select any activity, click "Book" and then use the login button in the top right corner.
Enter your registered email and if you've forgotten your password, click "Reset Password" (you'll need your Member ID, which was emailed to you when you signed up).
Pay As You Go users can book activities up to 7 days in advance, whilst Direct Debit, Annual and Monthly members enjoy priority booking of up to 10 days in advance.
Full details on how to find us and parking arrangements.
Full opening hours.
Absolutely!
We are more than happy to provide you with a tour of either of our Sport Centres.
Simply visit us during our opening hours and our friendly reception team will be happy to assist you.
If you would like to book a tour then please email us via brookesactive@brookes.ac.uk
If you think you have lost something during your visit, please talk to our reception team and they can look through lost property for you.
Alternatively, you can call or email the centre where you misplaced your item and they can look through lost property ahead of your next visit.
We keep items for up to two months.
If you have forgotten your password, please visit the booking website to help you obtain a new password by clicking "Forgotten Password?"
You will need your email address linked to your account to complete this process.
If you would like to either upgrade or downgrade your membership, please email sportsmembership@brookes.ac.uk
If you have previously held a membership with us, you may be able to log into the Account website .
Don’t worry if you’ve forgotten your password as you can easily reset it.
Once you're logged into your old account, you can add a new membership.
Click on "My Account" at the top of the page, then select "Memberships" and choose "Add a membership now."
If you do not receive an email when you try to reset your password, please email sportsmembership@brookes.ac.uk and our membership team will be happy to help.
Once you’ve decided which membership type you’d like, please log into the Account website .
After logging into your account, you can add a new membership.
Click on "My Account" at the top of the page, then select "Memberships" and choose "Add a membership now." You’ll then be redirected to our Join platform, where you can complete your membership purchase.
If you need any help, our reception team will be happy to assist you.
Please complete the Update Bank Account Details Google Form to update your bank deails.
However, if you do this after the 15th of the month you may have to pay for the following month's membership by logging into your Account or at reception by card as your bank may not have been notified in time.
We cannot take Direct Debit payments from overseas bank accounts.
If you do not have a UK bank account we have 1 month memberships which you can pay for upfront by credit or debit card.
Please speak to reception for further details or read about our short-term memberships on the relevant membership pages .
If you don’t have a UK phone number it won’t let you progress through with the registration process.
To overcome this, please fill in the phone number section with 01865 534100 (our Headington Sport Centre’s number) and change it from mobile to home.
We will then know that you do not have a UK phone number and not try to contact you this way.
If at a later date, you get a UK phone number, please let us know and we can updated your account for you.
Please contact reception who will unlock your account for you after performing some security checks.
You can do this in person or email the relevant site.
Find the relevant contact information .
No, Brookes Sport is a separate commercial business and your membership information is not linked to student or staff records.
If you are leaving Oxford Brookes, please cancel your Direct Debit via your bank.
Membership cards are now only needed at Brookes Sport, Harcourt Hill as the BrookesSport App is now used for check-in.
For Harcourt members, if you have lost your Oxford Brookes student card please go to Student Central and apply for a new card and then activate your new card at the Brookes Sport, Harcourt Hill reception.
If you have lost your Brookes Sport membership card, please talk to reception on your next visit.
There is a £5 charge for a replacement card.
All memberships are subject to a 14-day cooling-off period from the purchase date and a full refund will be given if you have not used the facilities.
If you have used the facilities, you may still cancel within the 14-day cooling-off period but any refund will be less the days used.
Please email sportsmembership@brookes.ac.uk or contact reception.
You can cancel your membership for the following month by cancelling your direct debit instruction with your bank at least one working day before payment is due on the 1st of the next month.
Alternatively, memberships can be cancelled by emailing sportsmembership@brookes.ac.uk with your full name, membership number and instruction to cancel by the 15th of the month before you wish your membership to end.
No refunds will be offered for any payments that have already been made.
You may freeze your Direct Debit membership free of charge up to two times within each 12-month period.
To request a freeze, please complete this Google Form .
Freezes are for a minimum of one month and a maximum of four months.
You must provide at least 15 days' notice before the date you wish the freeze to be applied.
Please note that annual or upfront (e.g.
one month or semester) memberships cannot be frozen.
However, our memberships are priced for Oxford Brookes students and staff to provide access for 12 months at the price of 9 months, taking into account academic breaks.
Concession and community members pay for 10 months but receive 12 months of access.
Cancellation policy for activity bookings (excluding event hire and block booking):
Please note, this policy is applicable to regular activity bookings and does not cover event hire or block bookings.
If you have any questions or need further assistance, feel free to reach out to sportsmembership@brookes.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/brookes-sport/facilities:
From classes to climbing, and gyms to grass pitches we have a range of facilities across our two Brookes Sport centres for students, staff and community users to enjoy.
Find out more about our facilities and the associated prices.
With fully equipped gym facilities across our campuses, there is something for everyone at Brookes Sport.
Brookes Climb, based at Brookes Sport Headington, is Oxfordshire’s premier climbing wall offering both bouldering and roped routes.
With over 40 classes across both our Brookes Sport centres, there are plenty of fitness classes to explore.
We provide high-quality, well maintained outdoor grass and artificial pitches for training, competition and casual hire.
We have squash courts, badminton courts and indoor sports hall space for training, competition and casual hire.
The Brookes Rowing boathouse sits on a 10km stretch of the Thames that is one of the best non-tidal stretches of water in the country.
Our Oxford based teaching clinic offers physio services provided by our Oxford Brookes physio students.
We offer more than sporting facilities.
We are a social hub for students and the community, with the Sports Bar and Breton Café.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/brookes-sport/facilities/courts:
Up to five badminton courts are available in the Sports Hall at Brookes Sport, Headington.
There’s much more availability outside of term time, once the student sport programme has finished.
Bookings last 50 minutes and start on the hour.
Book via the BrookesSport app ( Android / iOS ) or the Book Online portal .
Please protect the courts: wear clean, non-marking trainers.
Dirty footwear can make them unsafe
Racket Hoppers can be used cross-site and can be used for Squash and/or Badminton and is valid for 6 months from the date of purchase.
We have two squash courts: one at Brookes Sport, Headington and one at Brookes Sport, Harcourt Hill.
Both are overlooked by a viewing area for spectators or officials.
Courts can be booked for 45-minute slots via the BrookesSport app ( Android / iOS ) or the Book Online portal .
Dirty footwear can make them unsaf
The Sports Hall at Brookes Sport, Headington caters for a wide range of activities, including: Badminton (5 courts), Basketball, Cricket (indoor nets), Futsal, Netball, Volleyball and more.
It can also be used for events, with all bookings starting on the hour.
Dirty footwear can make them unsafe.
*Only available for hire May - August.
Some court bookings, including badminton, squash, volleyball, basketball and indoor football, can be made via the BrookesSport app ( Android / iOS ) or the Book Online portal .
When making a booking, you’ll be able to register as a Brookes Sport user.
If you already have an account or a membership with us, you’ll be prompted to log in.
PAYG users can book up to 7 days in advance, while Direct Debit, Annual and Monthly members benefit from priority booking up to 10 days in advance.
For advance bookings, regular sessions, or any other booking enquiries, please email sportsbookings@brookes.ac.uk
Cancellation Policy

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/brookes-sport/facilities/fitness-classes:
Our group fitness classes offer a fun, friendly way to reach your goals while meeting new people or working out with friends.
Fitness classes are included in all Brookes Sport Memberships .
Climbers can check out the "Good for Climbers" section for classes to help you reach new heights, though all classes are open to climbers.
Off-Peak Fitness classes, included in Fitness Off-Peak and Summit Off-Peak Memberships , are a more affordable option for " Pay As You Go " (PAYG) users.
These classes take place on weekdays before 3.00pm.
Please note, "Learn to Lift" classes are not included, due to their small group format.
Everyone is welcome, regardless of fitness level.
Our expert instructors are here to ensure you feel comfortable.
However, if you prefer a slower pace, explore our "Perfect for Beginners" section.
Fitness class feedback
Body Conditioning
Circuits
Cycle
Full Body HIIT
MM Bag Bass Box
Power Pilates
Vibe Cycle
Zumba
Pilates
Yoga
Yoga Level 2 Dynamic Flow
Yoga - Gentle Flow
Gym Circuits
Learn to Lift
Fitness Pilates
Full Body Strength
Legs, Bums and Core
Most of our classes are open to everyone, but some smaller classes provide more personalised support from the instructor.
If you have any questions about a class please contact brookesactive@brookes.ac.uk and our Fitness Team will be in touch.
With Fitness Classes and Gym access included in both the Climb and Climb Basic Memberships, you can explore various training techniques to enhance your climbing.
Our diverse and busy Fitness Class timetable is available for you and our Brookes Climb instructors have recommended these classes as good starting points.
Combining cardio, muscular endurance, muscular strength, coordination and agility - this class will get you sweating.
( Tuesdays 19:00 & Thursdays 19:00 )
Full Body High Intensity Interval Training is designed to promote efficiency within the human body.
Short bursts of intervals followed by shorter bursts of rest enables you to achieve a great workout with maximum results in 45 minutes.
( Wednesdays 17:45 )
This is a full body toning workout that aims to work on areas of your thighs, bum and stomach.
Great for weight loss or for those who simply want to improve their level of conditioning and strength.
( Thursdays 18:15 )
A movement practice which connects mind and body.
Focused on strengthening, increasing flexibility and incorporating breathing techniques.
We run sessions designed for beginners and separate ones for those with more experience.
( Tuesdays 12:00 & Wednesdays 12:30 )
Headington Fitness Class Timetable
Harcourt Hill Fitness Class Timetable
Please note that these timetables are subject to change, so to view our most up to date Fitness Class timetables, please download the BrookesSport app, on Android or iOS .
Fitness Classes can be booked on the Brookes Sport app on Android or iOS , or via our Book Online portal .
PAYG users can book up to 7 days in advance, whilst Direct Debit, Annual and Monthly paid members are entitled to priority booking of up to 10 days in advance.
If you book into a class that you can no longer attend, please cancel your booking to free up the space for someone else.
Please also ensure that you check into your class, either at reception or by scanning one of our QR codes through the Brookes Sport app (Brookes Sport, Headington only).
Fitness Classes are included in all of our Brookes Sport memberships , but you are also able to attend as a PAYG user, you can find the prices below.
Hopper s are a brilliant, affordable way to buy multiple sessions, without the commitment of an annual or monthly membership.
Off-Peak Fitness Classes are classes at Headington and Harcourt Hill before 3.00pm on weekdays only and doesn't include Learn to Lift classes.
Are you a current Oxford Brookes student looking to work in sport or fitness?
Brookes Applied provides opportunities for students to make them more employable.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/brookes-sport/facilities/gyms-and-classes:
Both gyms offer a wide a variety of equipment to suit your training needs, including cardio machines, dumbbells, Olympic lifting platforms, squat rack and dedicated areas for functional movement and stretching.
QR code check-in is used at the entrance to our Brookes Sport, Headington gym.
Log in by selecting an activity, clicking "Book" and using the login button in the top right corner.
Enter your registered email and, if needed, reset your password.
The app lets you book activities, view timetables, check in and stay updated.
If you don't have a smartphone or need assistance, our friendly reception team is here to help.
At Brookes Sport, Harcourt Hill gym, we can activate your Oxford Brookes ID card or issue you with a Brookes Sport membership card, which you'll use to access the gym facilities.
We offer gym inductions, wellness checks and personal training services.
Our Learn to Lift fitness classes are also a great starting point.
Our fitness team can also create personalised gym programmes tailored to your goals.
To book or enquire, please speak to reception or email the Fitness Team at brookesactive@brookes.ac.uk .
Need a bit of help or guidance in reaching your fitness goals?
Our team of qualified and experienced Personal Trainers are ready to help.
Fitness classes are a very social way to enjoy getting active.
Some of our classes take place in the gym, aiming to increase confidence.
Wellness checks are a brilliant starting point for those at the beginning, restarting, or well into their health and wellness journey.
Gym access is included with all Brookes Sport memberships , or you can visit as a Pay As You Go (PAYG) user, see pricing details below.
For Gym Programmes, the price includes a 60-minute consultation and a digital and/or printed copy of your tailored programme.
The Gym Programme Review is a 45-minute follow-up session, complete with a digital and/or written programme.
Hoppers are a brilliant, affordable way to buy multiple sessions, without the commitment of an annual or monthly membership.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/brookes-sport/facilities/climbing:
Brookes Climb, based at Brookes Sport, Headington, is Oxfordshire's premier climbing centre.
Welcome to Brookes Climb, your community hub for climbing enthusiasts!
With over 900sqm of climbing space, we offer three bouldering zones, top-out boulder, and circuit board.
Tackle 22 lead lines, 12 top-roped lines and three auto belays.
Our 11m lead tower features a 2.5m overhang.
We offer courses for all levels, from beginners to advanced, including kids' National Indoor Climbing Award Schemes (NICAS), personal coaching and instructor training.
Perfect for group sessions, team-building and parties.
All Climb Memberships include access to our climbing centre, fitness classes and the gym.
We look forward to welcoming you soon!
Join now
Route Setting Dates
Announcement You must complete Climbing Participation Agreement before you climb.
Please complete the Climbing Participation Agreement.
Memberships
Prices
Opening times
Brookes Climb FAQs
Adult courses and group sessions
Youth courses and group sessions
Brookes Climb Academy
National Governing Body (NGB) and outdoor qualifications

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/brookes-sport/facilities/other-bookable-spaces:
Free WiFi is available throughout our facilities.
If you're unsure which space is best for your booking or event, our booking team is here to help.
Simply email your enquiry to sportsbookings@brookes.ac.uk
Our Harcourt Hill studio and training room are versatile spaces suitable for a wide range of sporting activities, comfortably accommodating up to 20 people for exercise sessions.
The training room is also perfect for workshops, training days and presentations, with flexible setups including tables, chairs, and an audio-visual (AV) system to suit your booking's needs.
To enquire about booking the studio or training room, please email sportsbookings@brookes.ac.uk
Please note: our facilities are significantly busier during term time.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/brookes-sport/facilities/pitches-and-courts:
The sand-based, floodlit STP at Brookes Sport, Headington can be booked as a full-pitch, half pitch, or quarter pitch, depending on your needs.
From mid-October to the end of March, the pitch is used for the TEAMBrookes Hockey Club's BUCS fixtures on Wednesday afternoons and for training by several TEAMBrookes Sports Clubs.
It is also the home of Oxford Hockey Club .
There’s significantly more availability outside of term time, once the student sport programme has finished.
Please protect the pitch: ensure footwear is clean and mud-free.
Studs are not permitted.
Our five 3G floodlit pitches are ideal for 5-a-side football.
Pitches can be booked individually or together for larger sessions.
Bookings are available in hourly slots and must start on the hour.
For block bookings, regular sessions or other booking enquiries, please email: sportsbookings@brookes.ac.uk
Alert - Our grass pitches are not bookable until further notice.
If you have any questions about a booking please contact our team.
Contact our team
Grass pitches are available to hire at Brookes Sport, Harcourt Hill, with the option to include changing facilities.
These pitches host TEAMBrookes Football , Lacrosse and Ultimate Frisbee fixtures on BUCS Wednesdays.
Thanks to their excellent drainage and quick-thaw location, they’re ideal for avoiding cancelled winter fixtures.
Pitches can be booked through the BrookesSport app ( Android / iOS ) or the Book Online portal .
The Harcourt Hill 3G and Headington Astro can be booked through the BrookesSport app ( Android / iOS ) or the Book Online portal .
"Pay As You Go" (PAYG) users can book up to 7 days in advance, while Direct Debit, Annual and Monthly members benefit from priority booking up to 10 days in advance.
For advance bookings, regular sessions, or any other booking enquiries, please email: sportsbookings@brookes.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/brookes-sport/facilities/boathouse-and-rowing-centre:
The boathouse, built in 2013, features land-based training areas, extra boat storage and large changing rooms for the growing elite crews.
It sits on a 10km stretch of the River Thames and is classed as one of the best non-tidal stretches of water in the country.
From head race-style distances to a 2km markered course, the length, width and quality of water have been a key factor in Brookes’ success over the years – allowing both the men’s and women’s squads to train together, in an enjoyable, yet highly-competitive environment.
When combining this style of training with our steadily growing, world-class fleet of boats, winning has become second nature.
Brookes has one of the finest rowing hull fleets in the world, consisting of Olympic-standard racing shells for every boat type – men and women, heavyweight and lightweight, sweep or sculling.
Constant maintenance and upgrading allows each athlete at Brookes Rowing a seat in an elite racing machine.
The shells are kept in immaculate condition and kitted out with top-of-the-range equipment and peripherals, allowing the potential of an athlete’s performance to be maximised.
The fleet is constantly added to and improved each year, increasing the number of athletes we can cater to from season to season.
The gym is at the heart of the Brookes Rowing machine, where top-end physiology and mental strength are forged in this fiercely competitive atmosphere.
The land program is structured perfectly to fit around the university’s academic lifestyle so as not to clash with any course’s lecture timetable.
As well as over 40 ergos and 30 static bikes to pick from, there is also a fully-kitted strength and conditioning facility in the room next door.
With an outstanding history of rowing success, Oxford Brookes University Boat Club’s High Performance Programme is recognised and supported by the GB Rowing Team and funded through the National Lottery.
Oxford Brookes University Boat Club has a track record of coaching rowers to challenge for a place in the GB Rowing national team and is committed to British Rowing’s World Class Performance Strategy.
Starting in 2022, the club now operates a Learn to Row programme which provides opportunities for students who are not in the performance squad to row while at Oxford Brookes.
Find out more about the Brookes Rowing programme.
Oxford Brookes University rower Frankie Allen won a Gold medal on day four of the Paralympic Games, marking a sensational 14-year unbeaten streak for the Great Britain PR3 Mixed coxed four crew.
Athletes from Oxford Brookes University Boat Club (OBUBC) powered to thrilling Gold and Bronze medals in two rowing events at the Paris Olympic Games.
Oxford Brookes University rowers excelled at the world famous Henley Royal Regatta earlier this month, claiming six trophies on finals day.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/brookes-sport/facilities/bar-and-cafe:
At both our Brookes Sport centres, we offer a range of facilities to unwind, meet with friends or grab some refreshments before getting on with your day.
The Brookes WiFi password is: HelloBrookes
The Sports Bar is a great place to relax with friends or start a night out.
With seating inside and outside, it's the perfect space regardless of the weather.
The fully licensed bar sells a variety of alcoholic and nonalcoholic drinks.
Check out their Instagram ( @brookes_bars ) to see what's going on.
Please note: these hours may vary outside of term time.
To enquire about booking the Sports Bar, please email bars@brookes.ac.uk
The home of the famous Brookes Sport baguettes...
would you like butter or mayo?
The café provides a wide range of quality food and drinks.
For all enquiries please text +44 (0) 7708 519867 and you will be called back.
Relax and recharge in our lounge area, equipped with vending machines, comfortable seating and ample work space.
It is a great place to relax before or after using Brookes' Sport facilities, or study prior to an afternoon of BUCS Wednesday fixtures or a training session.
Our pavilion is also brilliant place to meet and catch up with friends with a view over our grass pitches and the beautiful surrounding area.
Why not grab a hot drink, breakfast or lunch from the Harcourt Hill Café and enjoy it in under our pavilion.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/brookes-sport/team-brookes:
Whether you're dedicated to a sport or just looking to try something new, we offer opportunities for all Oxford Brookes students to get involved.
Find Your Club
With over 2,000 registered student-athletes across nearly 40 student sport clubs, Oxford Brookes has a proud sporting tradition, regularly ranked in the UK’s BUCS top 40 .
Whether you're chasing international honours or just want to stay active and meet new people, there's a place for you.
We work closely with the Brookes Active programme to make sure everyone, regardless of experience or ability, has access to sport.
To take part in student sport, all athletes are required to purchase a TEAMBrookes Membership, which contributes towards the associated costs of running the student sport programme.
TEAMBrookes Memberships
Brookes Sport Instagram
Welcome (or welcome back) to Oxford this September!
Discover everything you need to know and all the exciting events happening during this welcome period.
Explore all our student sports clubs.
Supporting your wellbeing and performance.
All the info you need as a TEAMBrookes athlete.
Resources to help you excel in your sport.
Meet the people behind student sport.
Find out about our discounted student memberships.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/brookes-sport/team-brookes/clubs:
American Football
Athletics
Badminton
Basketball
Boxing
Cheerleading
Clay Pigeon Shooting
Climbing & Mountaineering
Cricket
Equestrian
Fencing
Football
Futsal
Golf
Handball
Hockey
Judo
Lacrosse
Netball
Olympic Weightlifting
Padel
Polo
Powerlifting
Rowing
Rugby League
Rugby Union
Sailing
Softball
Swimming
Table Tennis
Taekwondo
Tennis
Touch Rugby
Ultimate Frisbee
Volleyball
Water Polo
Many local sports clubs have a history of welcoming Oxford Brookes students.
In fact, most Oxford University sports clubs welcome Oxford Brookes students as members.
These clubs are independent and set their own membership fees, but they’re a fantastic way to train, compete and stay active beyond the Brookes Sport programme.
If you’d like to compete in a BUCS (British Universities & Colleges Sport) competition in a sport we don’t currently have a club offer for, please contact the Student Sport Team well in advance, as BUCS entry deadlines apply.
Are you a local club?
If you welcome Oxford Brookes students and would like to be featured as an Affiliate Club, please get in touch at sport@brookes.ac.uk .
Canoe & Kayak - Oxford University
Cycling - Cowley Road Condors
Gymnastics - Oxford University
Ice Hockey - Oxford University
Kendo - Oxford City Kendo Club
Trampolining - Oxford University
Wheelchair Basketball - Oxford University
We always welcome conversations with students who are interested in establishing a new Student Sports Club.
If you want to discuss more, please email sport@brookes.ac.uk .
If you’re hoping to compete in a BUCS (British Universities & Colleges Sport) competition, please contact the Student Sport Team well in advance, as BUCS entry deadlines apply.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/brookes-sport/team-brookes/student-athlete-wellbeing:
Student-athletes often face unique pressures, including managing their time effectively, coping with stress and dealing with feelings of isolation due to demanding schedules.
Our mental wellbeing support offers the tools and resources needed to navigate these challenges, promote a healthy lifestyle and enable athletes to perform at their best, both on and off the field.
We’re committed to providing flexible, accessible support that suits individual needs, whether in person or through trusted external partners.
Our dedicated Sport Support Team is the first point of contact for student-athletes seeking assistance or needing to report a concern.
We encourage students to get in touch whenever support is needed.
The team provides 1-1 emotional and practical support for students in crisis or facing challenges that may affect their studies, sporting performance or overall wellbeing.
Coaches and students concerned about a fellow club member are also encouraged to reach out.
Email: sportsupport@brookes.ac.uk Phone: 07389706841
Availability: Monday - Friday, during office hours
For urgent support outside of office hours, please consult the University's Emergency and 24-hour support services.
If you or someone else is in immediate danger, call 999.
If you are on or around campus and require assistance, please contact the Security Team at 01865 60 3060
Student Support Services provide help with practical, academic and emotional matters.
You can contact the team using the details below or explore more on their website .
While support is available to all students, we recommend that student-athletes contact the Sport Support Team as their first point of contact.
Email: studentsupportservices@brookes.ac.uk Phone: 01865 535222
Availability:
Our TEAMBrookes Sports Clubs are student-led, with students volunteering to manage their teams and activities.
Each club elects a Wellbeing Officer as part of its committee.
If you have questions about joining a club or need support, the Wellbeing Officer is a helpful first point of contact.
As fellow students, they’re there to listen and guide you towards appropriate support if needed.
However, if you're struggling with your wellbeing or wish to raise a concern, please don’t hesitate to contact the Sport Support Team directly.
Through our partnership with Sporting Wellness, all representative TEAMBrookes student-athletes have access to free, external, and confidential mental health and emotional wellbeing support.
Support includes:
You don’t need to be experiencing a diagnosed mental health condition to access this support.
Looking after your mental wellbeing is just as important as caring for your physical health.
Remember, you're never alone, there is always someone to talk to.
To access support, visit the Sporting Wellness website , click on 'Get Support' and use the stakeholder code: SW001
Below are trusted organisations that offer free, confidential support services.
Samaritans : Someone to listen, 24 hours a day, 365 days a year.
CALM (Campaign Against Living Miserably) : Free and confidential helpline for anyone who needs to talk through life's problems.
SHOUT : Free, confidential, anonymous text support service.
Papyrus : Confidential support and advice for young people struggling with thoughts of suicide, available 24/7
Oxfordshire Safe Haven : A non-clinical service offering listening support for those experiencing a mental health crisis.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/brookes-sport/team-brookes/supporting-performance:
We provide a collaborative approach to support our student-athletes, bringing together a team of experienced professionals , including:
Our dedicated team works closely to help student-athletes thrive both academically and athletically, while maintaining a healthy balance in all aspects of life.
Through our comprehensive support package, we aim to enable peak performance on and off the field.
In addition to our core provision, we also deliver external performance support for TASS athletes pursuing international success, as well as for members of Professional Game Match Officials Limited (PGMOL), the body responsible for officiating at the highest levels of football in England and Wales.
Through the Oxford Brookes clinic, students can access affordable and accessible physiotherapy, while supporting the development of future healthcare professionals.
Oxford Brookes' highest achieving sports teams receive enhanced performance and high-performance support.
We provide high-performing student-athletes with the resources they need to achieve excellence in both sports and academics.
TASS is an athlete support programme to help talented athletes with balancing the demands of their sport and studies to be the best in both.
We support Oxford Brookes TASS students as well as local TASS athletes.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/brookes-sport/team-brookes/student-sport-team:
sport@brookes.ac.uk
sportsupport@brookes.ac.uk
Find out more about our support services.
Marcus O'Dowda-Boswell MBoswell@brookes.ac.uk
Dan Tibbitt D.Tibbitt@brookes.ac.uk
Becky Pink B.Pink@brookes.ac.uk
Susie Dear S.Dear@brookes.ac.uk
Oliver Spensley-Corfield O.Spensley-Corfield@brookes.ac.uk
Immy Porter IPorter@brookes.ac.uk
Ali Sampson ASampson@brookes.ac.uk
Ella Sissons E.Sissons@brookes.ac.uk Oxford Brookes Physiotherapy Clinic
Warren Beattie WBeattie@brookes.ac.uk
John Jakeman JJakeman@brookes.ac.uk
Rachel Harper RHarper@brookes.ac.uk
Josh Ho J.Ho@Brookes.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/brookes-sport/team-brookes/committees-and-regulations:
All TEAMBrookes student-athletes must purchase the TEAMBrookes Membership.
This membership fee contributes towards the running costs of the sports clubs.
Behaviour contract
Report an issue

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/brookes-sport/team-brookes/welcome-to-brookes-sport:
Welcome Events
Moving to a new city, or even country, can be a daunting experience and we truly believe that staying physically active is a great way to help you settle into your new environment and meet new people.
Stay in the loop with all things Brookes Sport & Active Wellness – follow us on Instagram!
We have nearly 40 different Student Sports Clubs for you to explore.
Joining a club is a great way to find a supportive community, your home away from home at university.
We offer a range of discounted memberships for students, including our popular 123 and semester memberships, providing access to all our sports facilities.
Staying active at university is key for both body and mind.
Our Brookes Active programme offers fun, accessible ways to move more, more often.
A few key events throughout the academic year are highlights of the Brookes Sport calendar, outlined below.
We've also planned an action-packed welcome period for your arrival in Oxford this September, featuring Sports Club taster sessions and trials.
Learn more below.
Welcome Events – including sports clubs' tasters and trials!
The annual Sports Fair returns during Freshers’ Week, giving new and returning Oxford Brookes students the chance to meet our Student Sports Clubs and learn everything about Brookes Sport and Brookes Active.
The 2025 event will take place in the JHB Forum on Thursday 18 September from 10.00am to 4.00 pm.
If you can’t make the Sports Fair, you can still find out more about the Sports Clubs by contacting them directly via the details on their specific club webpages .
Every March, our student Sports Teams take on the University of Reading in an action-packed day of competition.
With an impressive track record, we’ve come out on top in 10 out of the last 12 years.
The Varsity event returns to Reading in 2026 on Saturday 28 March.
Mark your calendars!
2025 Varsity Results
At the end of the season, we come together to celebrate the incredible sporting achievements at the TEAMBrookes Sports Awards.
2025 Sports Awards Round-Up

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/brookes-sport/brookes-active:
Brookes Active is a collection of activities, events and campaigns to help Oxford Brookes University students and staff enjoy an active and healthy lifestyle.
Whatever your interest, motivation, or goal, we want to make getting active easy and accessible.
We provide a broad range of activities including exercise classes and social sport.
There are opportunities to get a sweat on, learn something new, or simply have fun with friends.
Initiatives and opportunities aimed at getting students more active, more often.
Helping to get Oxford Brookes staff more physically active, more of the time.
Get active outdoors on your commute or during your day.
Our ambassadors connect us with you, ensuring everyone can take part in physical activity in a welcoming and accessible way.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/brookes-sport/brookes-active/student-active:
At Oxford Brookes University, staying active isn't just about exercise - it's about enhancing your overall wellness, expanding your social circles and even boosting academic performance.
We're here to help you make the most of these benefits during your university journey.
Brookes Active is dedicated to creating opportunities for you to be more active, more often.
Do you have any suggestions, feedback or want to collaborate on organising activities?
Please share your thoughts by completing the Brookes Active feedback form.
Let's work together to make your time at Oxford Brookes University as active and enjoyable as possible.
Brookes Active Feedback
There are lots of Brookes Active opportunities for students.
Explore our full weekly schedule.
Oxford Brookes students can use our gyms for free, all day on Wednesdays, all year round.
Wellness Checks are a brilliant starting point for those at the beginning, restarting or well into their health and wellness journey.
We are passionate about encouraging the Oxford Brookes community to use Active Routes to get to and from the Oxford Brookes campuses.
We now have showers and lockers at the Headington Campus to make the transition from commute to study more comfortable.
Active Routes
Join our Brookes Active running and cycling clubs on Strava - see how you measure up against others up Headington Hill, or see who has the longest run into university!
Brookes Active - Running Club
Brookes Active - Cycling Club
Time spent studying often means sitting still for long periods, which can lower energy levels and increase health risks like cardiovascular disease.
Breaking up study sessions with movement boosts concentration, reduces stress and improves productivity.
Here are some tips:

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/brookes-sport/brookes-active/active-routes:
Brookes Active is here to help the entire Oxford Brookes University community embrace active travel options like walking, cycling, scooting, or any other form of active transport.
Our aim is to help you avoid public transport, leave your car at home and get fitter in the process.
Our user-generated Active Routes are submitted by people who’ve actually travelled them, offering personal recommendations from your colleagues and peers.
We’re keen to expand our collection of Active Routes and appreciate any contributions.
If you use active travel to get to campus, please share your routes through the Active Routes Google Form .
We also welcome shorter walking routes that start and end at any of our campuses - perfect for a walking meeting, lunchtime stroll, or a quick nature break.
For any questions, email us at brookesactive@brookes.ac.uk .
Your input helps build a healthier, more active community!
Whether you are heading to the bus stop, or from the car park to your office, everyone is a pedestrian until they get into a vehicle, so why not extend that time spent moving where possible to make your trip more active?
Please note, some walking routes unfortunately may not be wheelchair or disability accessible depending on the public infrastructure - please take a look at the route descriptions below for further details.
Walking gives you an opportunity to take in your surroundings like no other method of transport, so why not start taking photos along the way.
Maybe start a photo competition within your office or with a group of friends?
Plan your route in advance - Google Maps is great to give you an approximate time of arrival, but will generally send you along main routes - feel free to play about on their platform to adjust the route to your preferences.
Sensible shoes - You can always leave smart shoes at the office and throw on a pair of comfortable trainers or boots for the walk to avoid any blisters, particularly if you haven’t walked that far for a while.
Carrying your things - for anything more than ten minutes, a backpack is far more comfortable than a briefcase!
Most car journeys cover less than 5 miles, and with Oxfordshire being a relatively flat county (perhaps with the exception of our Headington and Harcourt Hill campuses!), there is huge opportunity for cycling to take the place of many of these journeys.
Particularly if your route takes you through the middle of the city, cycling can be a quicker way to get from A to B, and many new infrastructure projects in the county are focused on getting people onto two wheels.
Safety is a relative term when it comes to cycling on the road, and all of the precautions and safety equipment cannot mitigate the behaviour of some other road users, but we do have tips to help make your commute a more enjoyable experience.
You don’t have to do it all at once - If you haven’t cycled for a long time, consider starting once a week and then increasing the frequency as you get more comfortable.
Or use a park and ride, but using your bike instead of the bus.
Smile or wave a hand to other cyclists - this is already commonplace with those who ride for exercise or sport, but is also a great way to show other cyclists who may not be as experienced on the road that they are welcome.
Try not to ride in the gutter - regular cyclists will already know about the wide and diverse variety of potholes available across Oxfordshire, but if you find yourself needing to avoid a particularly large chasm, riding out from the kerb or verge gives you options to avoid it.
Riding more centrally in your lane can also help to discourage impatient drivers from overtaking too closely.
Explore - While some routes are listed on this webpage, there are plenty more options which you might find more enjoyable.
They might have more/fewer hills, there might be a better view of the countryside, or they might offer better protection from the wind.
Wear suitable clothing - wear whatever you feel most comfortable to cycle in, whether that’s a full lycra aero suit, or a summer dress.
Of course, for longer rides, a pair of padded shorts can make a world of difference - and remember to take a peek at the weather forecast in case you might want to bring something a little warmer with you!
Pack tools/spares - Not quite so essential when on shorter rides, but for longer journeys, make sure to pack a few things in case you need to stop to make a quick repair.
For more complex mechanical tasks, almost anything can be fixed with a mobile phone (with location services turned on!)
You can find more tips on the Cycling UK website.
Join our Brookes Active running and cycling clubs on Strava to join the active community.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/brookes-sport/brookes-active/staff-active:
At Oxford Brookes University, we believe staying active boosts wellbeing, productivity and work-life balance.
Brookes Active helps you make movement a regular and enjoyable part of your workday.
Our initiatives fit into your busy schedule, whether you're relieving stress, connecting with colleagues, or improving your health.
Got ideas, feedback, or want to collaborate on wellness initiatives?
You can get in touch via the Brookes Active feedback form below or by emailing brookesactive@brookes.ac.uk .
Let’s create a more active and connected workplace!
Allows staff to use our gym facilities for free, all day, every Tuesday.
A brilliant resource, regardless of where you are in your health and wellness journey.
All new Oxford Brookes staff get a free month of Fitness Membership.
Free, weekly Yoga sessions for Oxford Brookes' staff members.
Small sided matches every Thursday, 12.00 - 1.00pm in the Brookes Sport, Sports Hall.
We're passionate about encouraging the Oxford Brookes community to use Active Routes for commuting to and from our campuses.
Showers and lockers are available at our Headington campus to make the journey to work more comfortable.
We have showers and lockers at the Headington Campus to make the transition from commute to work more comfortable.
Active routes
Join our Brookes Active running and cycling clubs on Strava - see how you measure up to your colleagues times up Headington Hill, or see who has the longest run into work!
Sitting for long periods at work can decrease energy levels and increase the risk of cardiovascular disease and other health issues.
While focus is important, breaking up work with activity improves concentration, reduces stress and boosts productivity.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/brookes-sport/brookes-active/ambassadors:
Our ambassadors are here to bridge the gap between us and you, ensuring everyone can engage in physical activity in an inclusive and supportive way.
They help to identify and resolve barriers to participation, making your experience as smooth and enjoyable as possible.
Whether you’re a student, staff member, or part of the wider community, our ambassadors provide support, answer your questions, listen to your feedback and guide us on how we can improve.
If you need assistance, have questions, or want to share your thoughts, email us at brookesactive@brookes.ac.uk and we’ll connect you with one of our friendly ambassadors.
Together, we’re committed to making physical activity accessible, enjoyable and rewarding for everyone in our community.
Join us for our ambassador coffee mornings and meet our passionate Brookes Active ambassadors.
They are dedicated to making physical activity accessible to everyone.
Whether you’re looking for advice, support, or just a friendly chat about getting active, we’d love to see you there!
Enjoy a FREE hot drink and activity pass , plus some fun crafts to get involved with.
This event is open to the entire Oxford Brookes community – staff, students and our local community are all welcome.
Let’s make getting active easier, together!
Georg Herdt is an accomplished athlete and advocate for resilience, living with the rare genetic condition Friedreich's Ataxia (FRDA).
Born in 1980 into a rowing family, Georg excelled as a national rowing champion and even served as a paratrooper in Germany before FRDA began impacting his mobility in his 30s.
Believing in the power of exercise to maintain his mobility and health, Georg credits his athletic background with helping him defy the challenges of FRDA.
Now, as a Brookes Active Ambassador, he continues to inspire others by embracing high-intensity, supervised training to combat physical degeneration.
Georg’s story is a testament to the transformative impact of fitness and perseverance.
Georg's Story
Simon Mace is a passionate advocate for health, fitness, and social integration, proudly serving as a Brookes Sport Ambassador.
At 55 years old, Simon is in remission after a 13-year battle with an aggressive cancer that deeply impacted his mobility.
Despite these challenges, Simon’s resilience has brought him back to the activities he loves.
Before his diagnosis, Simon led an active life as a member of British Airways’ cabin crew, enjoying sports, fitness and swimming.
While his journey has changed dramatically, Simon remains committed to promoting health and fitness for people of all abilities, ages and mobility levels.
After years in a wheelchair, Simon is proud to be walking again and inspiring others to embrace health.
movement and community.
As a Brookes Active Ambassador, he’s committed to raising awareness of fitness and social integration for all, regardless of age or ability.
If you spot him in the sports centre or at the gym, don’t hesitate to say hello!

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/brookes-sport/brookes-applied:
Brookes Applied aims to create a well-rounded educational environment where students gain hands-on, practical experiences in real-world settings that complement their academic learning.
It enhances students' skills, enriches their university experience and improves their readiness for employment.
Students participating in Brookes Applied apply their course learning to real-world situations, providing employers with concrete examples of their experience.
These opportunities offer valuable insights and practical knowledge, making our graduates highly competitive and well-prepared for their careers.
While some experiences are paid, we also explore voluntary roles, internships and other unpaid work that contribute to students' learning and growth.
Explore the stories of students who have participated in Brookes Applied opportunities to see firsthand the impact of this innovative approach on their personal and professional development.
Duty Manager
UCCE Sports Nutritionist
Coaching and Student Sport Team
Fitness Team
Operations and Fitness Team
Through Brookes Applied, we are keen to support our students to help them prepare for life beyond university.
If exploring opportunities in your field interests you, please reach out to our team via, brookesapplied@brookes.ac.uk to find out more.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/brookes-sport/news:
On Friday 2 May, we celebrated an incredible year of sport at the 2025 TEAMBrookes Sports Awards.
Brookes Sport 123 Memberships are exclusive to Oxford Brookes University students and offer fantastic value, especially for first-year students.
Our Student Summer Semester Memberships are back again this summer and will be available to purchase from 1 May 2025.
To keep our climbing centre exciting for users, the below dates are booked for route setting.
TEAMBrookes triumph at 12th annual Varsity over the University of Reading.
With warmer days on the horizon, spring is the perfect time to get active!

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/brookes-sport/news/2025/05/celebrate-pride-month-with-brookes-sport-events:
Wednesday 28 May 2025
Whether you're keen to get active, enjoy a coffee and chat, test your trivia knowledge, or meet like-minded people, our events programme has something for everyone.
Best of all, all events are completely free to attend.
Rainbow laces are available to purchase for just £1 at the Brookes Sport Headington reception.
A small gesture with a big impact, they’re a simple way to show your support.
You can also explore our LGBTQ+ Resources List and LGBTQ+ Reading List for further learning and inspiration throughout the month.
Celebrate Pride Month with us at Brookes Sport as we honour diversity, inclusion and unity through activity, creativity and connection.
Everyone is welcome.
If you have any questions, please email brookesactive@brookes.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/brookes-sport/news/2025/05/summer-of-movement:
Monday 19 May 2025
From 1 June until 31 August, you can purchase the Summer Ticket, which gives you access to a wide range of activities at either of our Brookes Sport centres (Headington and Harcourt Hill) for 14 consecutive days, all for just £20 .
So, if you want to spend the day in the gym and end your evening in a yoga class, this is for you!
The Summer Ticket includes access to our gyms, climbing centre and full fitness class timetable.
There is no joining fee, minimum contract or commitment to sign up for a membership once the fortnight finishes.
You’re also flexible to have as many Summer Tickets as you’d like over the summer, meaning you can fit in movement around your other summer plans.
The Summer Ticket is only available to purchase in person and is only available for over 18s, so please drop into one of our receptions and speak to our friendly team to find out more.
Terms and conditions apply .
Call us in the morning at 01865 534100 to secure your spot for that day.
Walk-ins are also welcome, subject to availability.
Payment is at reception only, so if you book over the phone, you must check in at reception and make payment upon arrival.
Please note we are cashless, so accept card payments only.
Bookings are available between 9am and 5pm, with each session lasting 1 hour.
It is £15 for ¼ of the STP (usually £45).
The surface is sand-based so please no studs and ensure shoes are clean to keep the space safe for activities.
These pitch bookings are open to all ages.
Our pitches are the perfect place for family fun, friendly football matches or a fun kickaround with friends.
Please note, that those under 12 must be accompanied by a responsible over 16.
Please bring your own equipment if you can, or hire what you need from reception.
Balls are available to hire for £2 each (deposit required).
We want you to get the most out of your session, so arrive ready to play!
sportsmembership@brookes.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/student-life/support-and-wellbeing/managing-your-money/university-financial-aid:
The primary purpose of University Financial Aid is to relieve financial difficulties which might impact on a student's participation in higher education at Oxford Brookes University and to help them remain at the University.
Essential information
Application deadlines
Further information
Applicants to Financial Aid requesting support for the next academic year (September 2025 - 2026) will not be considered until 1 September 2025.
Between 1 August and 1 September 2025, applications to Financial Aid will be limited only to enrolled students who meet at least one of the following criteria, where you:
have run out of food;
are at risk or have become homeless;
are a student in Health Care undertaking a placement during the summer term.
If you are a final year student finishing your course in August or September 2025, please ensure you submit your application by the graduating student deadline .
You can only apply for Financial Aid if you are a fully enrolled student and have applied to all the funding available to you (Student Finance, NHS Learning Support Fund, etc.).
Global Banking School (GBS) students are not eligible to apply for Financial Aid at Oxford Brookes.
Please email welfare@globalbanking.ac.uk for advice and support.
If you need advice on student finance, welfare benefits or money management, please contact our Student Money Advisers .
Alert If you are currently experiencing a significant financial emergency (e.g.
being made homeless, no food, etc) or have any questions, please contact us at finaid@brookes.ac.uk.
Complete the following steps and don't forget to submit your supporting evidence.
The purpose of financial aid is to help students reach the end of their course.
If you are graduating, then you need to apply in time for your application to be considered by your completion date.
Deadlines are usually at least 4 weeks before your completion date.
If you are unsure of your completion date or of the application deadline, please email finaid@brookes.ac.uk .
Students should be aware that Financial Aid is intended to act as a safety net for those in financial difficulty rather than their main source of income.
The National Association of Student Money Advisers (NASMA) provide universities across the UK with hardship funding guidelines.
Oxford Brookes uses this as guidance to help ensure an equitable assessment process.
Financial Aid Application Form
Application guidance for financial aid

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/student-life/support-and-wellbeing/managing-your-money/united-states-student-loans:
The first step for all students, new and continuing, is to submit your FAFSA for 2025/26.
It can take up to five weeks to complete the process but any complications with your application may mean your application takes longer than this.
It is your responsibility to ensure that you submit accurate and complete information in a timely manner.
For September starters; applications received after 22 August 2025 may be too late to receive the first available disbursement in September 2025.
If you are a January or September starter and you are making a late application, please email us so we are aware of your application.
Deadlines for applications are noted under Question 2 of the Frequently Asked Questions.
The School Code for FAFSA application: G20879 .
Full information about this and the other information the Federal Student Aid department will need can be found in section “5.
How do I apply?” below.
We will contact you for any additional information we need.
Please respond to these emails in a timely manner and check with us if you are unsure what we require.
How to apply for a US Federal Loan (Direct Loan)
How to apply for a US loan (Sallie MaeSM)
us-federal-loan@brookes.ac.uk
Federal Direct Loans are low-interest loans to help undergraduate and graduate students pay for their education.
Direct Loans are provided by the US government and are available to US citizens who have firmly accepted an unconditional offer to study at Oxford Brookes.
The University's International Students Compliance team administers Direct Loans to eligible students from the US studying at Oxford Brookes and has been approved by the US Department of Education for the origination and disbursal of Federal Direct Loans.
In order to be eligible to apply for Federal Student Aid for 2025/26 you must have completed a FAFSA for the 2025/26 academic year.
New students must have an unconditional offer from Oxford Brookes University.
Continuing students, you must have met SAP for the 2024/25 academic year.
Applications for funding made later in the year may take additional time to process.
Please be aware that you may not be able to receive funding for the academic year 2025/26 if you apply after the following dates:
If your enrolment status changes, e.g.
if you drop to below half-time or take temporary withdrawal, or, if you are considering exchange study or returning to the US, you must inform the International Students Compliance Team immediately at us-federal-loan@brookes.ac.uk , as this may affect your eligibility for US Federal Aid.
All students are offered a resit opportunity on a failed module.
Your US Federal Loan is not affected if you pass the resit and complete the correct number of credits (120 for UG and 180 for PG) in the same academic year.
However, if you have not completed the full year of credit and you need to retake a module, you can only borrow PLUS loans, not subsidised or unsubsidised loans, until the year of credits have been completed.
For example:
For 1 year Masters courses, you are expected to complete 180 credits per year (this is also the total number of credits for the course).
If you need extra time to complete the course because you have to retake one module, you would only be eligible for PLUS loan for this time.
For a 3 year UG course, you are expected to complete 120 credits per year.
If you fail one module during your first year and you are permitted to retake the module alongside your second year modules, you would only be eligible for PLUS loan from the start of the second year until you have passed the a total of 120 credits to complete from your first year.
This would normally be 1 semester.
The federal school code for Oxford Brookes University is: G20879
You may borrow up to the cost of attendance which is set by the School.
Please note that you should borrow only what you need.
The maximum loans you can receive cannot exceed the yearly cost of attendance less any financial aid you may be receiving which includes:
The Cost of Attendance covers:
*Nota bene: the yearly cost of attendance is calculated based on a different number of weeks and it depends on whether the student is a September or January starter, UG or PG:
The exchange rate we are using for this academic year is £1 = $1.35.
This rate is used for calculation purposes only.
The true exchange rate is not known until the loans are processed during the year.
However, a static exchange rate guarantees that all students receive equal treatment throughout the year.
You can also see detailed information about Living costs on the Studying at Brookes - Finance webpages.
Full details about how to apply for US Federal Aid can be found in our How to Apply Guidelines - May 2024 .
You will need to open and follow this guide carefully to ensure you complete each of the following 10 steps fully:
If you are only applying for a loan from Sallie Mae SM , please see the relevant section below, and email to let us know ( us-federal-loan@brookes.ac.uk ).
From when you return our completed Loan Information Request form it can take approximately ten working days for us to prepare your Cost of Attendance document.
During our peak application time (June/July/August), the process can take longer and we would recommend applying at least five weeks prior to any deadline you have to meet.
Prior to your loan being disbursed, we will email you a copy of the signed and stamped loan award letter to confirm that your loan has been originated on the US Education Department systems.
Low risk nationals, including US nationals, are not required to send their financial evidence with their Student visa (previously Tier 4) application.
It is possible, however, that after receiving your application, the case worker will ask you to provide the original documents.
Therefore we recommend that you do not apply for your visa until you have received confirmation that your loan has been approved and that your loan award letter has been sent to you.
Disbursements of Federal Loans will be made in at least two equal instalments by direct bank transfer to Oxford Brookes University.
The actual £Stg proceeds that we receive for each instalment may vary, as it is dependent upon the US$ / £Stg exchange rate on the date the funds are received in the UK.
Once the funds are received by Oxford Brookes, we will deduct any tuition fees and/or accommodation charges that may be due for the relevant semester.
Any remaining balance of funds from each disbursement will then be paid directly to you, within 10 days.
Please visit the Payment of US Student Loans page to submit your bank details to the Student Finance Office.
You can find helpful resources on managing your finances and opening a bank account in the UK on the International Student Advice Team’s Money and Banks webpage .
*Subject to change
Please note that the disbursement date is the date when Oxford Brookes will receive the funds, not the date when students will receive the funds.
Please see ‘Receiving my loan’ above for further details.
Undergraduates need to complete their FAFSA and relevant documents prior to 31 March 2026.
Postgraduate students must complete their FAFSA and relevant documents prior to 31 May 2026.
If you wish to make a change to your loan amount or cancel the loan during the year, please note that we require a minimum of two weeks’ notice prior to the next disbursement date to action the change with effect from that disbursement.
It is important that you understand your rights and obligations as you prepare to repay your Federal Loans following graduation.
Exit counselling is compulsory and is designed to inform you about loan repayment and money management, and will help you make the necessary arrangements before and during repayment.
Please see the 'Exit Counselling' section on the Department of Education's Student Loans website for details.
if you withdraw or drop below half-time enrolment, this may affect your eligibility for Federal Aid and you may need to repay your loan.
You must ensure that you inform the International Students Compliance Team immediately if your enrolment status is going to change and refer to the Return of Title IV Federal Aid Funds (R2T4) policy .
Oxford Brookes will no longer be processing Veterans Affairs Benefits for students.
The only private loan available to students at Oxford Brookes University is the Smart Loan from Sallie Mae SM Student Loans .
Eligibility for Sallie Mae SM loans is determined solely by the lender, and Oxford Brookes is not involved in any decision to approve or reject a loan application.
Please review the Federal Aid Direct Lending programme before you progress with a private loan as this may be a more favourable option.
If you’re applying for both a Federal Direct Loan and a Sallie Mae SM private loan, please follow the instructions at FAQ 5 above ‘How do I apply’ for the Direct Loan, then go to Sallie Mae SM step 3 below.
Please note that the combined total of your loans cannot exceed the maximum you are eligible to borrow as determined by your Cost of Attendance.
Full details about how to apply for Sallie Mae private loans can be found in our How to Apply  for Sallie Mae SM Guidelines .
You will need to open and follow this guide carefully to ensure you complete each of the steps fully.
Complete the Oxford Brookes University US Loans Information Google form
We may need you to send further details so please do this in a timely manner.
If you don’t understand our request, please contact us.
We will complete your cost of attendance and maximum loan amounts.
Respond to this email to confirm the sum you wish to borrow.
Apply for your loan with Sallie Mae SM Student Loans if you have not already done so.
Once all steps have been successfully completed, we will finalise your Sallie Mae SM Loan and will email you an award letter with the confirmation of your loan type, values and disbursement dates.
Most lenders are registered to use NSLDS and, if you are taking out a Federal Aid loan whilst you’re studying at Oxford Brookes, we report your enrolment.
If you need a paper deferment form completed, e.g.
for a private lender or one who does not access NSLDS, please email a copy of the form to us at us-federal-loan@brookes.ac.uk so we can advise you further.
As a foreign institution, Oxford Brookes University does not complete the 1098T tax form for students, but students can request a Certificate of Fees Paid.
Please email us-federal-loan@brookes.ac.uk in order to request your Certificate of Fees Paid.
International Students’ Compliance Team Student Central Oxford Brookes University Headington Road Oxford OX3 0BP
Email: us-federal-loan@brookes.ac.uk
Free Application for Federal Student Aid
Accommodation Office

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/research/networks/children-and-young-people:
Join the network
The members of the Children and Young People Network share a common aspiration: to contribute to research and knowledge-building that will ultimately lead to improving children's and young people’s opportunities, experiences and outcomes.
Rooted in a recognition of the immense diversity in the lives of children and young people, our research responds to an urgent need to better understand those lives from multiple perspectives, and to explore and identify ways of supporting children and young people as they negotiate the challenges, transitions and opportunities of these vital phases of their development.
Children, young people, parents and families
Young people as researchers
Vulnerable groups
Migrants
Travellers
Teen parents
Children with disabilities
Looked-after children
Children from families with low incomes
Children with parents in UK armed forces
Health and education practitioners
Charities
Social care practitioners
The police
Commercial partners
Our people
Watch our videos
We conduct research locally, nationally and internationally, and examine how the contexts, cultures and spaces in which children and young people live, learn, play and work impact on their health, development and identity.
This includes the opportunities and risks afforded by the digital and physical environments, the effects of discourses about children and young people, and the impact of broader social, economic, educational and health inequalities.
Schooling
Schools in UK and internationally
Higher education
Early Years education
Inclusive education
Professional learning in schools
Informal education and learning outside school
Home-school learning
Pedagogy, learning and development
Cognition
Motivation
Physical education
Social learning
Arts and creativity
Motor development
Neurology
Language development
Attachment
Literacy
Literacy skills development
Literacy difficulties
Educational wellbeing
Educational psychology
SEND
Assessment
Mental health/wellbeing
Reproductive/sexual health
Visual health
Auditory health
Sleep
Health in schools
Children with specific health conditions
Interventions
Safeguarding and child protection
Risk
Injury prevention
Substance misuse
Adolescent drinking
Violence
Intimate partner violence
Health assessment
Lifestyle
Parenting
Care of new-borns
Pregnancy
Family feeding practices
Sleep practices
Children’s use of technology
Diet
Exercise
Sport
Exercise psychology
Employment
Education
Citizenship
Independent mobility
Activism
Childhood and its history
The law
Youth subcultures
Gender
Religion
Friendships
Identities
The environment and sustainability
Futures
To read about our wide-ranging research agenda, our values and aims, please see our strategy.
Download our strategy (pdf)
Help with movement and handwriting difficulties
Making science fun
Gender, parenting and work: getting a healthier balance
Dr Ellie Beaman - Engaging schools in biodiversity conservation
Compassionate support is needed in schools to alleviate teachers’ mental health
Dr Catherine Dilnot - Unequal access to elite occupations
More Members' Activities
In the face of childhood cancer, an innovative research initiative is harnessing the power of physical activity and digital health technology to support young patients.
An academic from Oxford Brookes University has secured nearly €400,000 in European Union (EU) funding to help children and young people at risk of poverty or social exclusion gain access to arts-based education through co-creative research.
As Remembrance Day approaches, schools are preparing to engage students with one of the most solemn events in our national calendar.
Supporting young people in Oxford through nutrition and equality
Become a member of the Children and Young People network.
Discover more - for Brookes staff/students only
Sign up here to become a member of the CYP network .
If partners outside of Oxford Brookes University are interested to work with the Children and Young People network, please contact us via the email cypnetwork@brookes.ac.uk
cypnetwork@brookes.ac.uk
@BrookesCYP

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/research/networks/artificial-intelligence-and-data:
Artificial intelligence and Data Analytics Network (AIDAN) is a platform designed to foster networking and education for AI experts and enthusiasts, bringing together researchers from across the university and beyond, who are developing and applying new AI technologies in a number of different areas, including –but not limited to– computing, robotics, business, healthcare, surgery, law, engineering, refugee studies, psychology, philosophy and bioinformatics.
AIDAN acts as a vital triage link that connects and integrates Artificial Intelligence, Data Analysis and Systems (AIDAS) and Institute and Centre for AI, Culture and Society (CAICS) serving as a bridge, connecting projects with the right expertise and guiding them toward successful completion.
Through this triage link AIDAN offers hands-on, practical advice and support to organisations seeking to maximise the benefits of AI and data analysis to organisations, their employees and customers, and to society as a whole.
To foster a collaborative and interdisciplinary community of researchers and practitioners, dedicated to identifying and seizing opportunities for knowledge creation and exchange in the fields of AI and advanced data analysis.
To become a pioneering and leading hub at the forefront of AI and data analytics, actively developing a conceptual and practical interface for diverse fields, disciplines, and applications for transformative impact, and to contribute to democratisation of AI.
AIDAN primarily focuses on building collaborations with both local and national partners.
While our current focus is on local and national partnerships, we remain open to exploring opportunities for international collaborations in the future to further enrich our network and promote global knowledge exchange.
In the world of ongoing digital transformation, a digital business uses technology to create, deliver, and capture value.
It leverages on data and technology to streamline operations, enhance customer experiences, and create value for all its stakeholders.
Some of the ongoing projects at Oxford Brookes University in digital business domain are:
The integration of artificial intelligence in humanities, arts enhance the creative process, offering fresh perspectives and possibilities for both scholars and creators.
Some of the work at Oxford Brookes University in humanities and social science domain includes:
The fields of biology and biomechanics are also being transformed by AI by giving the tools to researchers to analyse intricate biological systems, optimise experimental designs, and enhance predictive modelling for diverse applications.
Specific projects that are underway at Oxford Brookes University in the domain of health and life sciences include:
In the rapidly evolving landscape of digital transformation, engineering harnesses the power of technology and data to solve complex problems, optimise designs, and create sustainable solutions.
Leveraging artificial intelligence, engineers are advancing fields such as solid mechanics by enabling predictive modeling and failure analysis.
At Oxford Brookes University, ongoing projects in the engineering domain explore these cutting-edge intersections of AI, sustainability, and digital innovation to deliver impactful solutions for the future.
Some of the projects are:
Computing leverages advancements in artificial intelligence, big data, and simulation to enhance efficiency, foster innovation, and address critical issues across various domains.
Some of the projects that are underway at Oxford Brookes University in the domain of computing include:
Further research on smart buildings and sustainable design is in progress.
Explore the potential of applying for a Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP) to drive innovation in your business with our KTP manager at Oxford Brookes University and KT advisor from Innovate UK.
Join us to learn  about deep learning and its implications for power systems and security.
Learn how open databases & analytics are revolutionising engineering and management standards at our event on 11/14/2024!
Discover AI, machine learning, and robotics at the Festival of AI by Oxford Brookes University's AIDAN network.
The Festival of AI showcases developments in artificial intelligence, machine learning and robotics.
It’s free and involves both in-person and online events.
‘Work together, create impact’ is a new all-Research Network in-person event.
EDIN - AIDAN workshop and potential collaborations.
Oxford Brookes and Blenheim Palace collaborate to boost sustainability and operations with innovative tech and data analytics.
Network chair
Network lead
Research Fellow
Institutes, Centres and Groups
Become a member of the Artificial Intelligence and Data network.
Discover more (requires an Oxford Brookes staff/students login).
Sign up to become a member of the AIDAN network
If partners outside of Oxford Brookes University are interested to work with the Artificial Intelligence and Data network, please contact us via the email aidan@brookes.ac.uk
aidan@brookes.ac.uk
Follow on LinkedIn

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/research/networks/healthy-ageing-and-care:
Demographic trends in global ageing are changing rapidly.
In 2018, for the first time in history, people aged 65 years or above outnumbered children aged under five.
There are huge opportunities and challenges which, as a society, we are only just beginning to understand and explore.
Our researchers are working across disciplines and with our partners from communities, business and the public sector.
Our work includes:
Our mission is to build a collaborative, interdisciplinary research and knowledge exchange hub to better understand the challenges and opportunities for healthy ageing and care, and to support people as they age.
Our vision is to enhance lives through innovative research on healthy ageing and care.
Subscribe to our YouTube channel
Network Lead
Steering Group Member
Steering Group Chair
Older adults in Japan are increasingly caught in a cycle of poverty, crime, and incarceration.
Dr Jason Danely explores why.
View all news
View all upcoming and past events
Dr Shelly Coe’s work on ageing populations focuses on Multiple Sclerosis (MS), a neurological condition which usually has an onset after 45 years.
The research of Levent Altinay (Professor of Strategy and Entrepreneurship, Oxford Brookes Business School) is tackling the loneliness of elderly and enhancing their social wellbeing.
Who can join?
Benefits for staff and students:
Join the Staff and Student Network
Work with us and join the HAC external partner network.
Sign up to our network of external partners and receive updates on the Healthy Ageing and Care network.
If you are based outside Oxford Brookes University and are interested to work with the Healthy Ageing and Care network on a specific project, or would like to talk through any proposals or questions, please contact us via the email healthyageing@brookes.ac.uk .
Subscribe to our newsletter
Institutes, centres and groups
Are you interested in collaborating with us?
Are you seeking an expert to consult?
Or looking for a guest speaker on an aspect of healthy ageing and care?
Would you like to find out more about the network or any of our projects?
If so please get in touch with us using healthyageing@brookes.ac.uk .
We have expertise in the following broad areas:
We also work closely with the Institute of Public Care (IPC) who provide applied research and evaluation, consultancy, and training to help NHS trusts, government bodies, councils, charities and commercial organisations make a positive impact on people’s health and wellbeing.
healthyageing@brookes.ac.uk
@BrookesHAC

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/research/networks/equality-diversity-and-inclusion-rike-network:
Overcoming inequality and promoting diversity is a significant and enduring societal challenge.
This Network aims to identify and prioritise key areas and challenges of Equality, Diversity and Inclusion  to advance our understanding about how individuals and societies experience, respond to and are affected by intersecting identities and/or sociocultural factors.
This builds on Oxford Brookes University’s well-established research history in Equality, Diversity and Inclusion, especially through our Centre for Diversity Policy Research and Practice.
As a cross-disciplinary and collaborative Network, we are exploring critical issues and key themes for progress to a more inclusive society, including social class and mobility, gender inequalities, sexuality, disabilities, parenthood, national identity and race.
An ongoing initiative to support students and staff at Oxford Brookes University who are  experiencing the pain, discomfort and financial cost of periods is being showcased nationally.
Explore this year's theme of 'Wellness and Mental Health' through a programme of dynamic, challenging and insightful events.
All colleagues are invited to register their interest in a one-day networking event to explore how we can work together to make a greater impact on society.
View past events
As part of the Continuous Professional Development and Short Courses offered at Oxford Brookes, a new course on Resilience, Wellbeing and Mental Health Support in Crisis Settings has now become available.
Dr Adam Bibbey, Senior Lecturer in Sport and Exercise Psychology, spoke on a BBC World Service CrowdScience podcast on 8 March 2024.
The podcast investigated the question of how we see colour.
Dr Fabian Frenzel (Reader in Mobility and Organisations, Oxford Brookes Business School) is working with Bernardo de la Vega Vinola (PhD student) on a research project and collaboration with Brazilian community activists.
Oxford Brookes University is one of the six UK universities funded by the British Council to work in partnership with Brazilian universities to mentor them in advancing gender equality for women in STEM (part of the Women in Science: UK-Brazil Gender Equality Partnerships Call.
There has been little or no attention focused on the Nigerian women researchers’ progression from research to spinout leadership.
This study builds on the current UK research on university women spinouts and complements it by providing a more international perspective.
Dr Michele Paule (Principal Investigator) and Dr Hannah Yelin (Co-Investigator) recently completed a national pilot study investigating girls' attitudes to leadership and high-profile women.
More network members' activities
Videos, podcasts and blogs
Related institutes, centres and groups
Network Lead, Senior Lecturer in Business and Management
Steering Group Chair, Senior Lecturer in Film Studies, Subject Co-ordinator MA in Popular Cinema
Become a member of the Equality, Diversity and Inclusion network.
If partners outside of Oxford Brookes University are interested to work with the Equality, Diversity and Inclusion network, please contact us via the email edin@brookes.ac.uk
edin@brookes.ac.uk
@Brookes_EDI

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/research/networks/creative-industries-research-and-innovation:
Engage with us on LinkedIn
10 - 13 February 2025
Find out more about the Creative Industries Festival 2025
The Creative Industries , the UK's fastest growing economic sector includes areas as diverse as advertising, architecture, arts, design, fashion, film, music, performing arts, publishing, R&D, software, toys and games, TV and radio, digital media and video games.
Our Network at Oxford Brookes brings together researchers, professionals, and local communities to share their expertise on this diverse sector.
The network builds on the well established research history in various aspects of the Creative Industries, especially through the intersections of different disciplinary perspectives, including subjects such as psychology, built environment, geography, and business.
As a cross-disciplinary and collaborative Network, we explore critical issues and key themes around both local and global dimensions of the Creative Industries.
Innovative Creation and Engagement
Performance and creativity in all forms, digital and immersive experiences, and creative technologies
Cultural and Social Dynamics
Culture, language, communication, identity, diversity, intersectionality, power and trauma, inequality, social contribution, gender, and the politics of production
Creative Community and Collaboration
Authors and audiences, collaboration, community engagement, outreach, and co-creation
Leadership and Management in the Creative Industries
Management and leadership, entrepreneurship, industry-academia knowledge transfers, strategic planning and vision, and mentoring
From grand orchestral scores in epic fight sequences to restrained, subtle video game soundtracks, the fourth annual Sound on Screen conference returns to Oxford Brookes University this week from 24 to 26 June.
The action-packed world of big-screen stunt performance and what it takes to stage convincing fight scenes will be revealed in a free workshop next week as part of this year’s Creative Industries Festival at Oxford Brookes University.
Anna Ilsley's Underbelly: Contemporary Art Explores Motherhood – A Conversation with Simon Foxall and Helena Haimes.
Recorded on November 29, 2023, at Benjamin Parsons x Hannah Payne Gallery, Oxford.
CIRIN represented at the Effecting Change symposium at Solent University.
James Dunlop - Next Generation Medicines documentary PhD candidate James Dunlop recently worked with the Brookes Research Degrees Team and fellow Mario Simo on a collaborative video , highlighting a Research Degree placement opportunity at Sensible Biotech , a laboratory specialising in developing new mRNA molecules for medicines.
The short documentary video features a tour of Sensible Biotechn who are using  techniques similar to Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna COVID-19 vaccines, the work aims to make vaccines and therapeutics more cost-effective and scalable.
On 1st December 2023, Paolo Russo teamed up with Brookes Creative for a fabulous masterclass on “Showrunning in the US and the UK” by Hollywood giant Jeff Melvoin .
Jeff is a renowned and celebrated producer and showrunner of era-defining TV series such as Killing Eve , Alias , Northern Exposure , Hill Street Blues and many more.
As part of the Cinematic Precarity Research Network , Francesco Sticchi is co-hosting a three-day online conference on "The Many Faces and Spaces of Precarity in the Moving Image" featuring keynote speakers Prof Guy Standing and Prof Saskia Sassen between 14th and 16th December 2023.
Register for the conference
View all members' activities
CIRIN on YouTube
Join the staff and student networks
If partners outside of Oxford Brookes University are interested to work with the Creative Industries Research and Innovation network, please contact us via the email creativeindustries@brookes.ac.uk .
Sign up to the Creative Industries Research Network's newsletter
View the newsletter archive
cirin@brookes.ac.uk
@CreativeIndsOBU on Facebook
@CreativeIndsOBU on X

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/research/networks/migration-and-refugees-research-network:
Today more people than ever before are on the move: within countries, over borders, across continents.
In 2019 the UN estimated, globally, there were over 270 million migrants and those figures rise, year on year.
Dealing with the challenges and transformations caused by this shift pose major problems and some opportunities for governments at every level, from the broadly international to the intensely local.
Our Network engages directly with these issues.
It embraces an enriching interdisciplinarity, with researchers and practitioners from social anthropology, refugee studies, sociology, political science, computer science, media studies, psychology, legal scholars, business studies, among other disciplines.
From whatever disciplines we come, whatever research partnerships we form, our work centres on the predicament and opportunities of migrants and refugees today, globally.
Our research includes, for example, studies into refugee entrepreneurship and their integration into the labour market, migrants as political agents, housing for forced migrants, migrant children in education, and computing models for managing migrants’ data.
We will work together with both colleagues in other universities and research centres, both in Europe and beyond.
Above all, we will seek to collaborate with institutions, government agents, and practitioners in charitable and public policy sectors, on projects of mutual interest.
Oxford Brookes University has taken a significant step forward in its commitment to supporting refugees and asylum seekers by applying for University of Sanctuary status.
In October 2023, the Migration and Refugee Network partnered with the Centre for Development and Emergency Practice (CENDEP) and the ShelterBox Book Club to co-organize an event titled "The Power of Literature for Peace and Equality."
Three RIKE Networks have been awarded the Brookes Research Excellence Award (22/23) for research titled:  Ageing in Displacement: Improving older refugees’ experiences of migration and ageing in the UK.
Events
Our People
Related Research Institutes, Centres and Groups
Become a member of the Migration and Refugees network.
Join our network
External partners: Work with us
If partners outside of Oxford Brookes University are interested to work with the Migration and Refugees network, please contact us via the email mrncontact@brookes.ac.uk
@OBU_MRN
mrncontact@brookes.ac.uk
Banner image: Syrian refugee by FreedomHouse is marked with CC PDM 1.0 About image: Portrait of a Refugee by babasteve is licensed under CC BY-NC 2.0

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/research/networks/sustainable-and-resilient-futures:
Members of the Sustainable & Resilient Futures Network share a common aspiration: to address pressing global challenges through research and innovation that contribute to sustainable and resilient societies and environments.
Sustainability, in all its forms, is fundamental for societies to thrive.
Concerns regarding humanity’s increasing destabilisation of the Earth and its resources, and of growing societal inequalities at local and global scales, remain central in current debates.
Climate change, socio-economic inequality, rights to resources and their distribution between human and non-human species, are major global issues that lie at the heart of the Sustainable & Resilient Futures agenda, aligning with and addressing the UN’s 17 Sustainable Development Goals.
Most specifically, the COP26 conference in Glasgow fostered intra and international commitments to achieving net zero emissions targets and protecting communities and habitats from the worst effects of climate change.
These are key areas of research among Network members.
More broadly, the Network draws on expertise from across the University that seek to contribute to a more sustainable and resilient world.
The Sustainable and Resilient Futures (SRF) Network Lead, Dr Mel Nowicki , has co-written a new report with Professor Katherine Brickell of King’s College London.
"As the housing crisis in England deepens and the number of private rental evictions rise, family homelessness has become an urgent national challenge.
In England, almost 100,000 households, including over 125,000 children, reside in temporary accommodation (Shelter 2023a).
Described as the ‘hidden homeless’ in England’s housing crisis (Maciver 2018), it is mainly single women raising children who live in these typically insecure, and substandard forms of accommodation."
"The report aims to amplify the stories of single women with children who have experienced homelessness, living in temporary accommodation, and navigating rent-arrears and other forms of private debt".
"The report builds from original research conducted working in partnership with the Shared Health Foundation in Oldham, Greater Manchester".
Source: Brickell, K., and Nowicki, M.
(2023) Debt Trap: Women’s Stories of Navigating Family Homelessness and Temporary Accommodation in Greater  Manchester.
King’s College London.
https://doi.org/10.18742/pub01-150
Download report
When Dr Mina Samangooei and Dr Sangeetha Thondre met during an online networking event hosted by Brookes, they discovered a shared curiosity in bringing sustainable food production to urban areas.
This would increase biodiversity and help combat climate change.
They undertook a 3-month project, funded by Brookes, to test the feasibility of creating Edible Streets in Oxford, leading to the start of a fascinating interdisciplinary project.
Find out more
Why the future of architecture could be rooted in the past.
How Education Must Evolve to Meet Industry Demands.
The UK faces the challenge of retrofitting its 29 million homes to reduce carbon emissions and meet its legally binding net zero target by 2050.
This is a series of related projects, funded by the British Academy, Leverhulme Foundation, and Urban Studies Foundation, that examines the rise of reduced domestic space, from Tiny Housing to co-living, in a range of global contexts.
The Oxford Brookes Environmental Information Exchange (EiE) project is collaborating with partners to support carbon reduction in Oxfordshire schools.
Discover the ACES project
Funded by Innovate UK, Project LEO is running trials in Oxfordshire to build a broad range of reliable evidence of the technological, market and social conditions needed for a greener, more flexible, and fair electricity system.
Professor Rajat Gupta has been involved in two panel discussions at COP26, considering the key issues for ensuring proper integration of climate adaptation in buildings and how communities can work together to play a more active role in the future energy system.
Hear about the experience of putting the principles of Education for Sustainable Development (ESD) into practice.
Can we transform our built environment to a nature positive one?
Join our discussion, in collaboration with the Sustainable and Resilient Futures Network.
A changing climate poses significant risks to societies, non-human species and their habitats, the environment, and the economy.
Recent events are a stark reminder that these systems should adapt to become more resilient to cope with climate risks.
Understanding climate risks, evaluating the resilience of vulnerable systems and devising adaptation and mitigation strategies are research and consultancy areas covered under this theme.
Using resources responsibly to ensure they are available in the future is a critical aspect of sustainability and resilience.
However, scarce resources and biodiversity have been depleted faster than they can be replaced or replenished.
Alternative models for equitable sharing and effective use of finite resources; and reversing biodiversity loss are needed to reverse this situation.
This theme also covers human and non-human access to resources; understanding the complex interactions between humans and wildlife; environmental and social impact assessment; biodiversity and resource use.
Cities & infrastructure are part of both the solution and the problem in building sustainable & resilient futures.
For example, cities generate 60% of the Global GDP and 70% of the GHG emissions.
Infrastructure either directly or indirectly influences the achievement of the SGDs.
The way cities develop influences biodiversity.
Our research aims to utilise the potential cities & infrastructure offer in reducing the impact of climate change, reversing biodiversity loss and enhancing health and well-being.
Finding alternative, sustainable and resilient solutions to developing, operating, maintaining, reusing and disposing of these assets, is a key area of activity.
Societies across the Globe will need to transform their means of production and consumption for a sustainable and resilient future, in which every member is justly treated in economic, environmental, social and cultural terms.
Sustainability goals cannot be fully realised without addressing the deep inequalities embedded within the global systems.
This transformation relies heavily on substantial behavioural change at individual, organisational & institutional levels.
Research and knowledge exchange under this theme includes theories of behavioural change, the role of institutions, e.g.
religious,  on their adherents’ behavioral commitments to protecting the environment, environmental and social justice, and conflict and climate change.
Good governance is a necessary pillar of sustainable development.
It ensures appropriate structures of decision making are present and that decision-makers are accountable for the outcomes of their decisions.
Our members are concerned with facilitating decision making across multiple sectors and scales; the trade-offs between equity, justice and fairness in decision-making, and ensuring that mechanisms exist to hold actors to account regarding decision-making, investment, action, and outcomes.
Learners of all ages need to develop knowledge, skills, values and attitudes to develop and implement solutions to complex and interconnected global challenges, including climate change, environmental degradation, loss of biodiversity, poverty and inequality.
Research and practice in this area follows the principles of UN’s Futures Literacy capability.
They focus on empowering individuals, communities and societies to transform their current realities such that their futures are sustainable and resilient through education and skills development.
Become a member of the Sustainable and Resilient Futures network.
Could you contribute to reaching the UN Sustainable Development Goals?
If you could, join Oxford Brookes staff addressing pressing global challenges and contributing to the Sustainable & Resilient Futures agenda.
ECRs, professional staff, research students, academic staff- all welcome!
The purpose of our network is to:
Sign up to the network here
If partners outside of Oxford Brookes University are interested to work with the Sustainable and Resilient Futures network, please contact us via the email srfutures@brookes.ac.uk
srfutures@brookes.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/research/research-news/beyond-the-bollards-real-stories-from-oxford-s-low:
Monday 14 July 2025
These initiatives, designed to reduce through-traffic in residential areas, have sparked considerable debate, sparking all sorts of views on city life, how easy it is to get around, and what the future of transport looks like.
The different experiences and strong feelings of people living there really show that there's a lively discussion happening about the best way to shape the city's streets for everyone.
Right in the middle of all this buzz, a key research project got started.
It wanted to dig into what LTNs actually mean for the people living in Oxford.
Backed by the Rees Jeffreys Road Fund , the project, officially called "Understanding Mobility and Activity in the Low Traffic Neighbourhood," aimed to look past the news headlines and dive deep into the everyday experiences of those affected by these changes.
The main goal was to figure out how residents feel about LTNs and how these schemes have changed how they get around and what they do day-to-day.
The research suggests that while LTNs can be good at cutting down local traffic and encouraging walking and cycling in certain spots, they're not a magic fix for everything.
The study really highlights the strong need for a more all-around approach to city transport.
This means tackling bigger system-wide issues and keeping in mind the different needs and situations of all residents.
The East Oxford LTN is a great example showing that there's no 'one-size-fits-all' solution.
For these schemes to work well, they need careful planning, real involvement from the community, and a clear grasp of how they might affect areas beyond the immediate changes.
The compelling findings of this research were presented at the Annual Transport Practitioners’ Meeting, held at Manchester Metropolitan University, UK, from July 9-10, 2025, and at the AESOP Annual Congress in Istanbul, Turkey, from July 7-11, 2025.
Find out more about the perceptions and lived experience of the East Oxford Low Traffic Neighbourhood in the full published report.
Postdoctoral Researcher & Associate Lecturer
View Nurgul's profile
Professor of Sustainable Urban Mobility
View Tim's profile

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/research/units/hls/institutes/oxinmahr/news/2025/oxford-brookes-university-celebrates-success-at-nm:
The conference was hosted and supported by the Oxford Academic Health Partners, bringing together 225 delegates from across the region.
Oxford Brookes University delivered an impressive contribution to this landmark event, with 18 our of staff sharing their groundbreaking research through 10 oral presentations and 8 poster presentations.
We're delighted to celebrate Jenny Dod's recognition for her oral presentation "Exploring student paramedics' experiences of sexual harassment from colleagues whilst on practice placement in UK ambulance services."
Oxford Brookes University's mission to drive positive change in healthcare through rigorous research and meaningful collaboration is perfectly aligned with what the symposium aimed to achieve.
Our researchers and academics demonstrated how university-based inquiry directly impacts clinical practice and patient outcomes.
The networking and engagement that took place at this event will undoubtedly strengthen partnerships across institutions and spark new collaborative research initiatives.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/about-brookes/news/news-from-2025/07/expert-comment-pulses-each-day-could-keep-ill-heal:
Wednesday 2 July 2025
There’s plenty of research showing people in the UK would benefit from eating more of them.
Dr Sangeetha Thondre, Senior Lecturer in Nutrition, Subject Co-ordinator for BSc Nutrition and the Research Lead for the Oxford Brookes Centre for Nutrition and Health , explains the benefits of incorporating pulses into our diets.
1: What are the most commonly known health benefits of consuming pulses?
Pulses are a rich source of soluble and insoluble fibre – which are both necessary for maintaining gastrointestinal and metabolic health.
Eating fibre every day is known to reduce the risk of bowel cancer, heart disease and type 2 diabetes.
Fibre and protein in pulses help with weight management by helping us feel fuller for longer.
Some oligosaccharides (medium-chain carbohydrates) in pulses support the growth of beneficial gut bacteria that play an important role in strengthening our immune systems.
The slowly digestible starch in pulses make it a low glycaemic index food, suitable for managing blood glucose and insulin levels.
On top of that, they’re rich in essential nutrients like folate, other B vitamins, iron, zinc and magnesium.
Folate is especially important during pregnancy to prevent neural tube defects – a concern the UK government is addressing by planning to fortify flour with folic acid.
Pulses are also full of antioxidants and polyphenols, which help protect the body from oxidative stress.
2: Do people in the UK recognise pulses as a sustainable and affordable food source?
Awareness is growing, thanks to public health campaigns and academic research.
But the variety of pulses eaten in the UK is still surprisingly limited.
A recent study conducted by Tracey Boyd Hall (BSc Nutrition graduate) at the Oxford Brookes Centre for Nutrition and Health found that the majority of the participants had high levels of familiarity with pulses and a high frequency of pulse consumption.
However, they consumed a low variety of pulses - mainly red kidney beans and chickpeas.
The research has been accepted for publication in the Nutrition Society journal and was presented by Tracey at the British Conference for Undergraduate Research.
3: How do people perceive pulses compared to meat and dairy?
With plant-based diets on the rise, more people are turning to pulses as a protein source.
Health was the main reason why participants in the Oxford Brookes study ate them – especially people over 40.
Even meat-eaters said they were using pulses as a swap in classic British dishes.
But pulses still don’t enjoy the same status as meat.
Raising awareness about their lower saturated fat and salt content could help change that.
4: Are there cultural or generational differences in attitudes to eating pulses?
Yes – big ones.
Younger people are more open to pulses, driven by concerns for the planet and animal welfare.
But they tend to go for processed or meat-style options – like lentil crisps or bean burgers.
Older generations, however, often associate pulses with tinned baked beans – and are less keen to try new dishes.
Many report taste or digestion concerns, or simply aren’t sure how to cook them.
Some even associated pulses with poverty.
Worldwide, there are cultures that have incorporated pulses in their everyday meals.
For example, African, Middle Eastern, Mediterranean and South Asian cultures use dried pulses in a variety of dishes for breakfast, lunch, dinner, pudding and snacks.
5: Has there been a shift in attitudes toward plant-based proteins, and where do pulses fit in?
Absolutely.
Plant-based eating is gaining momentum – and pulses tick all the boxes: they’re high in protein, low in cost, and environmentally friendly.
They even help the soil by fixing nitrogen, meaning they need less fertiliser than other crops and far less resources than are needed to farm livestock.
As sustainable foods go, they’re hard to beat.
6: What are the most common ways people prepare and consume pulses?
In the UK, pulses mostly appear in familiar forms – baked beans on toast, chickpeas in curries, kidney beans in chilli.
Hummus is a popular dip, and lentils often go into soups.
Ready meals, vegan burgers and sausages are increasingly including pulses too.
Most people choose tinned pulses for ease, though dried ones are often cheaper and tastier with the right recipe.
7: How have food trends like veganism, vegetarianism and flexitarianism impacted pulse consumption?
Massively.
Cutting back on meat and dairy has led more people to pulses as a key protein source.
They also deliver minerals like iron and zinc, which are often associated with meat.
8: Are UK food brands and restaurants offering more pulse-based options?
Yes – particularly those catering to vegan and vegetarian diets.
Supermarkets like Tesco and Sainsbury’s stock a growing range of pulse-based products, but budget retailers like Lidl and Aldi still lag behind.
International cuisines – where pulses are central – are becoming more common in both restaurants and ready meals.
But overall, the selection and diversity of pulses on offer is still quite narrow.
9: What could be done to encourage more UK adults to eat pulses?
The Oxford Brookes study found that barriers include unfamiliarity, concerns about taste and digestion, and not knowing how to prepare them.
Health is a powerful motivator – especially for middle-aged adults – so clearer messaging on the benefits of pulses, alongside sustainability credentials, could make a difference.
More guidance is needed on easy preparation and ideas for using pulse flours in place of white flour.
They are great as an alternative to flours containing gluten, especially as more and more people go for gluten-free diets.
10.
Do you eat pulses and do you have any favourite meals or recipes containing pulses?
Always!
I include pulses in a variety of dishes in flour, split (commonly called 'dal' in Indian cuisine) and whole forms.
Butter beans are one of my favourites - they go well in pasta, soup, salad, dips, stir fries or curry.
A creamy, spicy butter bean or mixed bean curry wins my vote!

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/about-brookes/news/news-from-2025/06/a-new-study-reveals-how-to-communicate-the-link-be:
Thursday 26 June 2025
Published in the journal Health Promotion International, the research involved 260 women aged 40 to 65 across the UK, many with personal experience of breast cancer.
Through surveys, focus groups and a collaborative workshop, the team uncovered why current messaging often falls flat, and what can be done instead.
Dr Emma Davies, lead author and Reader in Psychology at Oxford Brookes, said: “We’ve known for many years that alcohol raises the risk of breast cancer, but the message isn’t getting through.
When women do hear it, they often reject it outright, because it sounds like they are being blamed.
“It’s not enough to ask individuals to drink less.
We need to rethink how alcohol is framed in society, in our culture, in our messaging, and in our policies.” Key findings:
What works better:
Dr Davies added: “Telling people to ‘drink less or else’ doesn’t work.
But showing how cutting back can improve everyday life, and sharing that message through the voices of real women does.
“To reduce the cancer burden across society, we also need a joined-up, evidence-based alcohol policy that addresses the reasons people drink in the first place.
This study gives policymakers, charities and health professionals a clearer way forward.” Eva Hughes, Research Officer at Prevent Breast Cancer, said: "Talking about alcohol and breast cancer can be challenging, but it’s a vital conversation.
This study highlights how we can share important information in a way that empowers rather than blames.
At Prevent Breast Cancer, we’re committed to helping women make informed choices through supportive, relatable messaging rather than fear or guilt and we welcome these valuable findings.
For more information and advice on alcohol and cancer, visit the World Cancer Research Fund’s Cancer Prevention Action Week page.

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/research/hr-excellence-in-research:
In recognition of our commitment to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers , Oxford Brookes University has held the European Commission’s HR Excellence in Research Award since 2012.
In order to achieve the award, we undertook a careful gap analysis, mapped against the principles of the Concordat, and developed a detailed action plan going forward.
This has been carefully reviewed, revised and ratified every 2 years, and our researchers’ views have been taken into consideration at every stage.
Our original 2012 submission, and our subsequent supporting statements and action plans, which were subject to external evaluation and benchmarking, can be viewed below.
Achievement of the HR Excellence in Research Award recognises the University’s commitment to supporting the personal, professional and career development of its researchers and acknowledges its alignment with the principles of the European Charter for Researchers and Code of Conduct for their Recruitment .
2022 - 2025 Gap Analysis and Action Plan (PDF)
2022 Update on 2020 Action Plan (PDF)
2020 Gap Analysis and Action Plan (PDF)
2018 Gap Analysis and Action Plan (PDF)
2016 Gap Analysis and Action Plan (PDF)
2014 Revised Gap Analysis and Action Plan (PDF)
Original 2012 Gap Analysis and Action Plan (PDF)
2022 Supporting Statement (PDF)
2020 Supporting Statement (PDF)
2018 Supporting Statement (PDF)
2016 Supporting Statement (PDF)
2014 Revised Supporting Statement (PDF)
Original 2012 Supporting Statement (PDF)

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/research/concordat-to-support-researchers:
The Concordat sets out the expectations and responsibilities of researchers, their managers, employers and funders.
It aims to increase the attractiveness and sustainability of research careers in the UK and to improve the quantity, quality and impact of research for the benefit of UK society and the economy.
The Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers was first published in 2008.
Following sector-wide consultation, the revised Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers (PDF) was released in September 2019.
Oxford Brookes University became a signatory to the new Concordat in May 2020.
You can read our Vice Chancellor’s letter of commitment .
The Researcher Development Concordat is an agreement between stakeholders to improve the employment and support for researchers and researcher careers in higher education in the UK.
Researchers are primarily defined as contract staff who are employed solely or largely to conduct research.
The new Concordat has three defining principles :
For each of these principles, the revised Concordat outlines the key responsibilities of the four main stakeholder groups :
Since becoming a signatory, the University has carried out a gap analysis against each of the Institutional Commitments laid out in the Concordat and produced an action plan to address these gaps, which was approved by University Research and Knowledge Exchange Committee (RKEC) in February 2021.
You can read the full gap analysis here .
The Concordat Working Group brings together individuals from the Career Centre, EDI, the People Directorate, Researcher Development and a Research-Only Staff representative from each Faculty.
The Working Group reviewed and approved the institutional Concordat action plan before it was submitted to RKEC.
The Group takes ongoing responsibility for reviewing the institution's progress towards meeting its Concordat commitments, through annual progress reports.
For further information on the September 2019 Concordat, please visit the Concordat web pages.
The University's "Code of Practice for the Career Management of Contract Research Staff" has been in circulation since 2012.
It was revised in 2021 in line with our commitment to our Researchers and to the 2019 Concordat.
It outlines provision for professional development and career development of Research-only staff, as well as conditions of employment, internal funding opportunities, resources and support.
You can read the Code of Practice for the Career Management of Contract Research Staff here.
Concordat Annual Report 24/25
Concordat Annual Report 23/24
Concordat Annual Report 22/23
Concordat Annual Report 21/22
Concordat Annual Report 20/21
Concordat Institutional Action Plan - Feb 2021

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/rie:
World leading research and cutting edge innovation
Follow us on LinkedIn
Follow us on X
The Directorate of Research Innovation and Enterprise provides support to facilitate world leading research, cutting edge innovation and promote engagement with research end-users and beneficiaries.
We accelerate collaborations between industry, business, the public sector, NGOs and academia.
We support the commercialisation of research through licencing and the creation of spinout companies.
Furthermore, we provide training for staff and students to develop their entrepreneurial skills and ideas.
The Directorate of Research, Innovation and Enterprise provides lab and office spaces and access to academic and technical expertise to spinouts and start-ups in the biotech and digital sectors.
Established in August 2022, the Directorate for Research, Innovation and Enterprise (RIE) is a pivotal force supporting research, innovation, and enterprise at our University.
Having evolved from the former Research and Business Development Office, RIE has successfully completed its first year, actively engaging with the local community and earning recognition as a central hub for stakeholders.
Now well-established with 3 focused teams, RIE looks forward to its second year, committed to realising its mission of supporting the University's ambitions, connecting stakeholders, engaging external partners, innovating for impact, and celebrating achievements.
This report provides a concise overview of RIE's functions and highlights key activities from its inaugural year.
Join us in shaping the future of research and innovation at Oxford Brookes.
Download our 2023-2024 Annual Report
Download our 2022-2023 Annual Report
At Oxford Brookes University, our vibrant research centres are dedicated to addressing the urgent challenges of our time.
In this special edition, we shine a light on the groundbreaking efforts of our researchers, who are tackling issues from environmental sustainability to healthcare advancements.
Through collaboration and creativity, they are driving meaningful change and making a tangible impact in our communities and beyond.
Join us as we explore their inspiring stories, reflecting our commitment to not just observe the world but to actively improve it.
Welcome to a celebration of innovation and progress at Oxford Brookes.
View our previous publications
Download the Shaping the Future 2024-2025 Issue
Knowledge Exchange
Innovation and Enterprise
Meet our staff

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/research/ref:
REF 2021
REF 2014

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/research/ref/2021/code-of-practice-and-eia:
A WLP equality training session was held in February 2019.
The aims of the session were to develop a shared understanding of the legal context for HEIs to give 'due regard' to equality consideration in the practices and policies and equality issues which may affect research careers.
The presentation for the training, along with a copy of the case study can be downloaded below.
WLP equality training presentation
WLP equality case study

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/research/ref/2014:
Oxford Brookes’ well-established and growing international reputation for research has been confirmed with the publication of the Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2014 results.
The results of the exercise show that 94%* of research is internationally recognised which compares to 78% in 2008.
REF 2014 also found that 59% was judged to be of ‘world leading’ quality or ‘internationally excellent’, compared with 36% in 2008.
Research from across Oxford Brookes was shown to have been of significant quality with the results indicating particular strength in the Units of Assessment covering:
Professor Alistair Fitt, Pro Vice-Chancellor for Research and Knowledge Exchange, commented: “The REF 2014 results are a reflection of the expertise and confidence of researchers from across Oxford Brookes.
We are justly proud of our thriving research community and these results are testament to the hard work of world-leading experts at the University.”
* All stated figures FTE weighted.
FTE = Full Time Equivalent GPA = Grade Point Average 4* = Quality that is world leading 3* = Quality that is internationally excellent 2* = Quality that is recognised internationally 1* = Quality that is recognised nationally
The Research Excellence Framework (REF) is the new system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions (HEIs).
The REF2014 results were announced in December 2014.
REF2014 introduced an assessment of the ‘impact’ arising from excellent research, alongside the ‘outputs’ and environment elements.
Examples of how Oxford Brookes research is having an impact can be read on our Research Impact Showcase pages.
Research Impact Showcase
Contact the Research Support Office

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/research/research-impact-showcase/uk-trade-policy-with-africa:
A major consequence of Brexit has been the need to strike new trade deals with countries beyond Europe.
For Dr Stephen Hurt, it’s an opportunity for the UK government to rethink the trade relationship with African countries, giving them more scope to choose their own paths to development.
Stephen’s longstanding research into the EU’s trading relationship with Africa equipped him with the expertise to challenge the status quo.
Working with policymakers and thinkers in the field, he has contributed directly to contemporary debates on the UK’s future trade policy with Africa, at government and international levels.
About Dr Stephen Hurt
Shaping debates on UK trade policy and Brexit
Stephen’s research goes back many years before the 2016 EU Referendum.
In 2003, he challenged the EU’s claim that its relationship with African states was a genuine ‘partnership’.
His research instead highlighted the dominance of the EU and how its existing ‘free trade’ approach hampers Africa’s ability to pursue its own development.
Following the Referendum, he challenged orthodox thinking that the UK’s approach might simply replicate the existing agreements between the EU and African partners; or be an opportunity for ‘Global Britain’ to access untapped export markets.
Stephen worked closely with key policymakers, bringing his research expertise to the All-Party Parliamentary Group for Africa.
His essay ‘UK Africa Trade within and outside the EU’, was key to their 2017 report, which was cited in parliamentary debates.
Also in 2017, after providing written evidence for a White Paper on future trade policies, Stephen was invited to take part in a policy roundtable discussion at the Department for International Trade.
Thanking him for his input, organisers declared that his focus on the EU’s trade and development policy to African countries, ‘helped us gain a better understanding of the issues and will inform our future policy’.
As part of a House of Commons Select Committee inquiry in December 2017, Stephen argued for a unilateral trade arrangement offering preferences for African exports to the UK .
As well as spurring economic development in African countries, this would align with the UK’s obligation to deliver on its commitments to the UN Sustainable Development Goals.
Stephen also challenged thinking at an EU-level.
In July 2018, he was invited to the European Parliament in Brussels, to speak as the only academic expert at a Commonwealth Forum roundtable meeting.
A number of African diplomats attended the discussion and many were supportive of Stephen’s analysis and in particular, the critique of the assumed benefits of free trade for African development.
Increasing public understanding of UK-Africa trade relations is another driver for Stephen’s work, borne out by his written analysis on public media platforms and media appearances.
They include a live interview on Sky News in January 2020 ahead of Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s opening address to the UK-Africa Investment Summit in London.
Stephen’s collaboration with the Trade Justice Movement (TJM), which campaigns for more progressive trade policies, has also fuelled public awareness.
His input on a podcast in 2017, designed to publicise TJM’s work, led to Senior Advisor Ruth Bergan commenting, ‘your extensive knowledge, based on your published research, provided some insightful reflections on EPAs [economic partnership agreements] and UK policy post-Brexit’.
Stephen played a significant role in bringing together two All-Party Parliamentary Groups (APPGs) - for Trade Justice and for Africa, resulting in a parliamentary symposium in January 2020 at Westminster.
As well as presenting on his research findings to participants including leading UK and African policy makers, Stephen led a roundtable discussion.
Its conclusion was that Brexit provides an opportunity to rethink UK Africa trade relations to ensure that future agreements are mutually beneficial.
Following the symposium, a policy briefing with Stephen as lead author was published by the APPG for Africa.
This set out a number of key recommendations for the UK government and trade policymakers.
A co-authored article with Chi Onwurah MP, chair of the APPG for Africa, summarising the findings was subsequently published in African Arguments .
Stephen’s painstaking work underpins the contemporary policy debate on the importance of fairer trade policies with African countries.
Calling policymakers to account, his research shines a light on how future trade arrangements could empower African countries to develop, building their own more sustainable economic futures.
Globe photo by Kyle Glenn on Unsplash Container ship photo by Ian Taylor on Unsplash

New sentences found on https://brookes.ac.uk/research/research-impact-showcase/accelerating-progress-on-electric-powered-transpor:
Through its work with one high-performance electric motor manufacturer, the Joining Technology Lab (formerly Joining Technology Research Centre) at Oxford Brookes University has helped the automotive industry make significant progress in the development of electric motors for mass production.
Led by Professor James Broughton, the team has helped YASA Motors to produce more efficient, more reliable, more powerful electric motors that use less material and take less time to make, leading to significant cost reductions for the business and its high-profile clients.
By providing crucial research and development over a more than a decade, James’s team has accelerated progress towards sustainable mass production of next generation electric vehicles, contributing significantly to the UK automotive industry’s progress towards Government targets for the total electrification of transport by 2050.
About Professor James Broughton
With their narrow, compact design, YASA electric motors were typically half the size and a third of the weight of conventional electric motors, simpler to manufacture and easier to integrate with existing automotive technology.
However, early prototypes proved slow and expensive to build, and had a high rate of failure.
Part of the problem was that the novel design of the YASA motor relied heavily on adhesive bonding.
Experts in the JTL identified an improved bonding process and suggested refinements to the company’s manufacturing process rules to reduce assembly errors.
Further detailed design modifications suggested by the team eliminated time-consuming and expensive rework, significantly reducing the cost of producing the motor.
To further improve the performance and power demand potential of the motor, the team advised YASA on the introduction of lightweight, injection-moulded composite materials into its design, patenting new joining processes, investigating novel cooling mechanisms, and helping to overcome issues with noise, vibration, and poor heat extraction caused as a result.
This lightweighting will have ongoing benefits for YASA’s customers, including reduced component wear and maintenance, and an extension of service life.
YASA’s P400 R Series motor is now manufactured using advanced materials and proprietary construction techniques that enable high-volume production with significant customer cost benefits, paving the way towards its inclusion in lower cost electric-driven production vehicles.
Since the JTL's first involvement with YASA in 2011, the company has grown from 12 employees producing less than 50 motors per year, to more than 150 capable of delivering 100,000 units a year, thanks in a large part to the efficiencies and cost savings gained as a result of this ongoing partnership.
The manufacturing process for one of the company’s P400 motors  reduced from 7 to 2 days, resulting in a saving of around £16.7 million per year.
Defect rates fell by a factor of 100, saving YASA almost £100,000 per year, whilst the introduction of new technologies reduced part costs, saving a further £1.14 million for every 3,000 motors produced.
“The combination of expertise and equipment [at the JTL] attracted us… but everyone here has been blown away by the results.”
Dr Tim Woolmer, Founder and CTO, YASA Motors
The improved robustness of the YASA motor led to it being adopted by Jaguar and incorporated into its C-X75 supercar, dubbed ‘the most technologically-advanced road car ever conceived’.
As a result, YASA Motors was shortlisted for the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders’ Award for Automotive Innovation.
YASA’s technology has since been adopted in other high-end sports cars, and its motors supplied to mainstream manufacturers for use in production electric vehicles as well as to reduce engine noise and reliance on diesel fuel in hovercraft design and build.
YASA Motors has also become a key partner in the Accelerating the Electrification of Flight (ACCEL) project, where the company’s experts are involved in developing and testing ground-breaking technology that it is hoped will eventually power the world’s fastest all-electric aeroplane.
Image credit:
Electric car charger - photo by Markus Spiske on Unsplash