# Site: https://www.brunel.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 492
# --------

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk:
As one of the UK’s foremost technical universities, Brunel has a rich history of world-leading research, innovation and teaching excellence, providing our students with an outstanding, research-led education that sets them up to excel in their future careers.
1st most international university in the UK Times Higher Education World University Rankings 2025
38th in the United Kingdom QS World University Rankings 2025
Top 10% for social and environmental impact in research Times Higher Education Impact Rankings 2024
Undergraduate Campus Open Day
9.30am to 4pm
Saturday 25 October
Postgraduate Campus Open Day
12pm to 4pm
There is still time to apply to study at Brunel in 2025.
Discover your future course today.
Our online postgraduate courses can help you reach your career goals alongside your existing commitments
We are a proud member of the University of London federation.
Find out how this benefits our students.
Our work drives progress and we're renowned for our world-class research with global impact.
Brunel student satisfaction increases in national survey
New university collaborative 'ResearchPlus' announced to give leading research universities a voice and help boost UK research and innovation
Brunel climbs 12 places in Complete University Guide

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/clearing:
Please note, our Medicine MBBS is not available in Clearing for UK students.
Limited places remain for international students - apply online .
Call us Monday - Friday 9am - 5pm (BST) | UK students: 01895 272273 | International students: +44(0)1895 268352
If you'd like to learn more about what it's like to study at Brunel, ask our current students
Take a guided tour of our campus in Uxbridge with our student ambassadors
Check out our commonly asked questions to get all the Clearing information you need
Secure your room in one of our campus halls by applying before Sunday, 31 August
If your child is considering university through Clearing, this guide will help you support them every step of the way
After securing your place, make sure your student finance is in order for a smooth Clearing journey
Save time and money: your guide to planning your commute
Here are a few things to consider

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses:
328 courses found
3 years full-time ,
4 years full-time with placement
1  year full-time ,
2 years full-time with placement ,
16 months full-time with placement ,
15 months full-time ,
27 months full-time with placement ,
19 months full-time with placement
1 year full-time ,
1 year full-time
3 years part-time ,
1 year (staged study) part-time

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/news-and-events/news/articles/Brunel-THE-WUR-2025:
Brunel University of London is the UK’s most international university for the second year in a row, according to the Times Higher Education World University Rankings 2025, released today.
The rankings also place Brunel the 6th most international university in the world, based on its ‘International Outlook’: its proportions of international staff and students and its international research collaboration.
Brunel again shares these spots with Queen’s University Belfast, with Imperial College London joining them for a three-way tie.
The annual THE World University Rankings rate research-intensive universities from around the globe across five measures – International Outlook, Citations, Teaching, Research and Industry Income – together with an overall score that combines all the measures.
Brunel’s overall score means it’s ranked equal 39th in the UK and in the 351–400 bracket globally.
Prof Trevor Hoey, Brunel’s Pro Vice-Chancellor International and Sustainability, commented: “I’m thrilled that Brunel has been recognised as the country’s most international university for the second year running.
We are such a diverse, international community in which to work and study, and are proud of being a world-class research university – so the rankings do not come as a surprise.
“Our international partnerships, networks and research collaborations go from strength to strength, with our west London base a hub for our international activity.
“We remain passionate about attracting global talent, developing the next generation of international leaders and ‘change-makers’, and delivering impact that’s closely aligned with the needs of equitable and inclusive, environmentally-sustainable global societies and economies.”
Explore the THE World University Rankings 2025 in full

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/news-and-events/news/articles/QS-2025:
Brunel University London has risen to 38th in the United Kingdom and 342nd in the world in the 2025 QS World University Rankings – a new record high placing in the table.
In these latest yearly rankings, Brunel rose by one place in the world, following on from last year’s remarkable 69-place leap, and by two places in the UK.
One of three major league tables in the academic calendar, the QS rankings compare an increasing number of institutions each year: now more than 1,500 across 106 locations, making Brunel’s rise all the more impressive.
Brunel is now ranked more highly than 77.2% of other institutions, a big increase from the figure of 63.1% back in 2017, meaning that the University now sits comfortably in the top quarter of universities worldwide.
Among the 90 UK universities, Brunel is in the top 10 when it comes to the number of international students compares with those from the UK.
It is also 11th for the proportion of teaching and research staff from overseas.
Published by British marketing company Quacquarelli Symonds, the QS ranks institutions on research, employment, learning, sustainability and ‘global engagement’, which looks at ratios of international students, staff and collaboration.
Brunel’s most significant category improvement is in sustainability, for which it rose 21 places among universities worldwide.
Find a full breakdown of how Brunel fared in each QS category .
Because it is the only international ranking that has International Ranking Expert Group (IREG) approval, the QS is viewed as one of the most widely read university league tables.
Indeed, it is the table potential students, academics and employers overseas look to most.
The good news follows on from last month’s remarkable rise in the Complete University Guide, another of the major league tables.
Brunel was spotlighted as among the nation’s 10 ‘major climbers’ , having risen 16 places to 79th out of 130 in the UK.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/news-and-events/news/articles/Brunel-research-rides-high-in-rankings-that-measure-social-and-environmental-impact:
Brunel University London's research has been rated highly by the Times Higher Education (THE) Impact Rankings 2024 , the global league table that measures the social and environmental impact of universities.
The annual rankings measure how well a research institution is progressing towards delivering on each of the United Nations' 17 Sustainable Development Goals.
These SDGs are a 'universal call to action' adopted by member states in 2015 to improve health and education, reduce inequality, spur economic growth, and tackle climate change and the destruction of the environment.
Brunel appears in the 101–200 band out of 1,963 universities worldwide, meaning that, in broad terms, it's in the top 5–10%.
When the THE Impact Rankings first launched in 2019, Brunel came in the top 10%, placing 40th out of 450 universities.
The rankings have become ever more popular across the global higher education sector since then, with more than four times as many universities seeking to demonstrate their commitment to delivering the SDGs by submitting evidence.
Despite this rapid expansion, Brunel has consistently ranked among the world's most impactful research institutions.
The THE combines each university's three highest-scoring SDGs with a score for its overall 'partnership for the goals' .
So Brunel's high ranking demonstrates its efforts in fostering robust international partnerships and its cooperation for achieving all SDGs, together with its strengths in:
Find out more about how Brunel's research delivers against the UN's Sustainable Development Goals

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/open-days/campus-tours:
Explore our teaching spaces in the Lecture Centre, the award-winning Brunel Library, our fantastic sports facilities, vibrant social spaces and student accommodation — all nestled in our leafy location in Uxbridge.
Brunel is a single-site campus in Uxbridge, west London, and well connected to the rest of the UK.
Our address is Kingston Lane, Uxbridge, UB8 3PH .
Sat Nav users, please enter the road address (Kingston Lane) and the postcode (UB8 3PN) for the main entrance.
We are just for a short drive from the M25, M4 and M40 motorways.
Once you have booked your campus tour, you will receive a confirmation email which includes details of how to register your vehicle to allow you to park on campus for the day.
Please be aware a vehicle that has not been registered is at risk of receiving a Parking Charge Notice.
Please note that ULEZ charge is now in place.
Uxbridge (Metropolitan and Piccadilly lines), West Ruislip (Central Line) and West Drayton (Elizabeth Line) are the nearest underground stations.
TfL buses U1, U2, U4, U7 ( Brunel University BJ and Brunel University BH bus stops) stop at the University's main entrance.
The nearest train stations are West Drayton (Great Western Railway) and West Ruislip (Chiltern Railways).
Our tip: If you arrive early, get a cup of coffee from our on-campus Costa or Starbucks.
Check-in will start just before your tour's scheduled start time.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/open-days/undergraduate-open-days:
We want to make sure that all students have the opportunity to visit Brunel and take part in key events on campus.
Our Widening Access Travel Fund helps eligible students cover travel costs for Open Days, Applicant Days, and Interview/Selection Days.
If you are a home student from a state school, live outside the M25, and meet at least one of our widening access criteria, you may be able to claim reimbursement for your travel expenses.
Find out if you're eligible and apply online:
If you have any questions about the Open Day, please get in touch via email .

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study:
At Brunel you'll learn from academics who are leaders in their field and explore areas that interest you in your subject of choice.
You'll have every opportunity to grow and we'll support and encourage you to be inspired, develop your ideas and successfully shape your future career.
Find out more about your area of study and discover what life is really like on our London campus.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/about/uol/benefits/students/home:
The University of London (UoL) is a unique federation of 17 independent higher education institutions, delivering world-leading education and research.
It represents one of the largest and most diverse student bodies in the world, with more than 250,000 students from 190 countries.
Brunel officially joined the UoL federation on October 1, 2024.
This membership was granted after a rigorous selection process that recognised Brunel's key role in west London’s economy and communities, as well as its global reputation for technical and professional education and research.
Joining this federation opens up new opportunities for collaboration with other member institutions on research, teaching, and distance learning programmes.
Enjoy free membership to Senate House Library , one of the UK's largest academic libraries.
Access thousands of books, journals, and digital resources, and borrow materials from other UoL libraries.
You're not limited to just one library's resources, giving you a broader range of materials to support your studies.
↑ Top of the page
Connect with peers, alumni, and professionals from various fields, and expand your network through engaging events and activities.
You'll have the opportunity for mentorship, internships, and collaborations that can boost your career prospects .
Dive into a diverse range of clubs and societies to meet like-minded individuals, develop new skills, and enhance your university experience.
Engage in activities that enrich your social life and help you build a strong network.
As a University of London alumnus , enjoy exclusive event invitations, lifelong learning opportunities, and access to a wide range of free online courses.
Stay connected and discover new opportunities that keep you engaged and inspired long after graduation.
Benefit from a range of accommodation options, including Intercollegiate Halls and private housing support .
If you need temporary living arrangements in London for a few weeks or days, you'll have access to safe, convenient, and affordable options, making your short-term stay smoother and more comfortable.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/research:
At Brunel, we’ve been at the forefront of research since our founding.
We seek to bring meaningful change to society; and empower our students to lead that charge.
Our journey is one of innovation and excellence, constantly pushing the boundaries of knowledge.
Top 40 UK research-intensive university REF 2021
Top 20% for our contributions to collaborative research Knowledge Exchange Framework 2024
72.7% of our research is world leading or internationally excellent REF 2021
From breaking down traditional barriers in the literary world to leading major initiatives in British poetry, Professor Daljit Nagra is shaping the future of literature for the next generation of writers.
Effectiveness of the iStep-MS intervention
Move Together Buckinghamshire
AI Adoption and Governance
Nuclear Pore Complex: the entry gate into the nucleus for molecules and viruses
View all projects

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/research/Research-directory:
Browse the showcase below to find out what research we do in your area of interest.
Total number of results: 139
Entrepreneurship and Sustainability
AI Social and Digital Innovation
Inclusive Design
Flood Risk and Resilience
Media, Culture and Politics research group
Design for Sustainability
Intellectual Property and Innovation research group
Digital Design Lab
Culture and Evolution
Brunel Interdisciplinary Power Systems
Statistics and Applied Probability
Human rights, society and arts

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/research/Projects/list:
Total number of results: 617
Centring Families in Iceland’s Just Transition
Preclinical efficacy of targeting enzymes for Friedreich’s ataxia treatment
ProGYS+: GYS Pilot Testing and Integration to Engage Stakeholders
Co-design of Very Brief Advice for pulmonary rehabilitation
Examining Net Zero policy and regulation in energy markets across Europe
Digitalisation of Electrical Power and Energy Systems Operation (DEEPS)
A cross-sector expert review of inclusive and ethical qualitative research
‘Grown up’ children from armed forces families

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/research/Our-research/REF-2021:
Overall, 72.7% of the research we submitted to the REF, an independent assessment of the quality of research at universities across the country, was assessed as being world-leading or internationally excellent, and increase from the previous score of 61% in 2014.
Our submission involved 659 researchers across the University, together with a dedicated team of support staff.
View full results here.
The Brunel team’s new tools allowed policy makers to gain a better understanding of what measures would give them a better Return on Investment  - Example of REF 2021 Case Study Read more on Helping policymakers stub out smoking
An uber-style phone app that helps motorbike taxi riders find careful drivers and makes the streets safer transforms transport across Africa.
- Example of REF 2021 Case Study Read more on Rwanda’s ‘Uber for motorbike taxis’ triumph
AI Adoption and Governance: Implications for Labour Market Reform, Ethical Frameworks, and Global Innovation Dynamics - Example of REF 2021 Case Study Read more on AI Adoption and Governance
Waste-saving ideas borrowed from Japanese car makers are the magic formula helping Uganda’s dairy farmers - Example of REF 2021 Case Study Read more on Business brains helping Uganda dairy farmers milk it
The Brunel team set about working with groups in a number of African countries to share the research and knowledge that underpinned the European system.
- Example of REF 2021 Case Study Read more on Connecting Africa: New Networks for Open Science
Our food, our water and the things we use everyday are constantly contaminated by hundreds of harmful chemicals that build up in bodies and the environment.
- Example of REF 2021 Case Study Read more on New safety laws for chemicals
An outstanding example of how effective pension reforms can have a fundamental impact on both regulators and at-risk people in several countries.
- Example of REF 2021 Case Study Read more on Caribbean pensions on a better financial footing
Dr Wainwright drew on geographies and sociologies of education, training and welfare to help housing associations design smarter services for their residents - Example of REF 2021 Case Study Read more on Helping housing associations offer better services, training and support
Prof Fan’s helped the company develop the technology needed to produce a consistent and reliable product from a wood and plastic composite - Example of REF 2021 Case Study Read more on Wrexham firm decked out with Brunel research
Brunel English academics had collectively changed their industry, making it more inclusive, more diverse and more reflective of 21st century Britain.
- Example of REF 2021 Case Study Read more on Transforming the literary landscape
Dr Barnett has changed public opinion, shaped the political agenda and changed laws and legal practice to help domestic abuse survivors and their children.
- Example of REF 2021 Case Study Read more on Problems with family courts exposed
Prof Yu’s disseminated modelling approaches have been used by TWI in Japan and the United Arab Emirates, to reduce risk of catastrophic incidents.
- Example of REF 2021 Case Study Read more on Extreme modelling: statistical research fix for difficult-to-predict situations
Award-winning documentary The Acting Class spotlights the class divide in the creative industries focussing on the barriers for young working class actors.
- Example of REF 2021 Case Study Read more on Putting working class actors centre stage
Intelligence-led approach helps parks reduce their poaching incidents and increase poaching arrests.
- Example of REF 2021 Case Study Read more on 21st century poachers: How intelligence experts are helping save the rhino
Facebook rolled the See Less button out to 2.7 billion users, with hundreds of millions of people using the feature to control whose life interacts with theirs.
- Example of REF 2021 Case Study Read more on See Less: How to help a billion breakups
Research shaping new ways of thinking and informing new working practices for museum curators, educators, architects and urban planners - Example of REF 2021 Case Study Read more on Sensing our need for authentic experiences of cities
Sports sociologist, Dr Laura Hills’ research into mixed gender football directly set up five far-reaching changes in national policy - Example of REF 2021 Case Study Read more on Making the beautiful game fair play
The quality of the research we submitted was assessed by four expert panels made up of academics (including from Higher Education institutions in the UK and overseas), research users and experts in interdisciplinary research.
View all

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/news-and-events:
Take a guided tour of our campus with one of our friendly student ambassadors.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/news-and-events/news/articles/Brunel-student-satisfaction-increases-in-national-survey-2025:
The National Student Survey (NSS) 2025 results show continued year-on-year growth in positivity ratings given by final year students at Brunel University of London.
The NSS , run by the Office for Students (OfS), is an independent survey that gathers students' opinions on the quality of their course and their experience during their studies.
In 2025, over 357,000 students took part from 307 different institutions, including 131 mainstream universities across the UK.
At Brunel University of London, our students’ positivity scores increased year-on-year for 24 out of the 27 core questions asked.
OfS categorise these questions into themes, which likewise show some great results for Brunel.
Highlights include Academic Support, with 88% of students giving positive feedback about the support they’ve had from teaching staff; Assessment & Feedback, which our students rate better than the benchmarks set by the OfS; and Organisation & Management, for which we continue to score higher than the national average.
Our ratings have also improved year-on-year for Teaching, Learning Opportunities and Learning Resources.
Many individual departments and courses at Brunel have achieved particularly high ratings.
Based on combined scores across UK-wide NSS questions, Brunel ranks in the top 10 UK universities for:
Journalism and Politics also rank in the top quartile; while our courses across Business, Business Computing, Computer Science, Education, Finance, Games Design, Media Studies and Physiotherapy are all notably rated in the top half of UK universities.
Brunel’s relatively new Nursing Associate Higher Apprenticeship programme also achieved 91% average positivity across all core NSS questions, substantially higher than national averages for Nursing apprenticeships.
Taken together, the results show that Brunel remains firmly among the top 40 pre-92 research-intensive universities in the UK.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/news-and-events/news/articles/ResearchPlus-announced:
Brunel University of London is one of ten leading research-focused universities forming a new strategic partnership.
‘ResearchPlus’ will give a collective voice to universities that constitute a critical element of the UK’s research and innovation system, and that deliver vital research-informed education and advanced skills.
ResearchPlus has the primary aim of enhancing the strength of the UK’s research and innovation base.
Through strategic collaboration and proactive engagement, this new partnership will seek to support economic growth, prosperity, and societal wellbeing across the whole of the UK, working with government, business, and civil society, and complementing rather than competing with other sector bodies.
The foundations of most ResearchPlus universities were laid by successive government and industry initiatives to invest in economic growth and social development, through fundamental research, the advancement of technology, and the expansion of educational opportunity and the provision of advanced skills.
ResearchPlus universities remain true to those missions and are essential partners for government, businesses, and communities in the expansion and re-imagining of universities’ contribution to the public good.
They will play a vital role in delivering the ambitions of the Industrial Strategy across all eight high-growth sectors.
Over the next few months, the ResearchPlus partners will develop a programme of collective and collaborative work and engagement, with a formal parliamentary launch planned for the autumn.
Professor Andrew Jones, Brunel’s Vice-Chancellor and President, said: “Currently, a significant number of research-focused universities are not aligned to any university mission group.
This is a particular problem for the research and innovation challenges the UK faces.
We cannot afford not to make the most of the UK’s research and innovation capabilities and capacities.
“Through the creation of a new collaborative, ResearchPlus, leading research-focused universities can make a stronger collective contribution to public and policy debates on research and innovation, research-informed higher education, and advanced skills, supporting policymakers and public goals.
“Each ResearchPlus partner has outstanding research teams and specialist areas that are recognised as being amongst the very best in the world, attracting global talent in staff and students.
Each is essential to the success of the industrial and business ecosystems, public services, and community and cultural life in their places.
Together, they – and other similar universities – play the same role UK-wide.
“Today we are announcing our initial group of ten partners.
Our intention is to grow the partnership with other leading research-focused universities and to develop a programme of work and activities to support our goals.”
ResearchPlus Vice-Chancellors set out their manifesto in a blog published by the Higher Education Policy Institute (HEPI) .
Welcoming the formation of ResearchPlus, Secretary of State for Science, Innovation and Technology, the Rt Hon Peter Kyle MP said: “The UK is home to some of the best universities in the world, making ResearchPlus an exciting opportunity to bring that top talent together to solve challenges and unlock new innovations that improve lives across our country.
“By strengthening collaboration between universities, industry and government we can break down barriers to opportunity and work together to drive the economic growth that is central to the Government’s Plan for Change.”
The initial ResearchPlus partners are:

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/news-and-events/news/articles/Brunel-climbs-12-places-in-Complete-University-Guide:
Brunel University of London is among the nation’s ‘top 15’ climbers for the second consecutive year in the Complete University Guide’s annual University League Tables .
Over the last two years, Brunel has risen a remarkable 28 places to rank 67 th out of 130 this year.
Designed to help prospective students, the main league table looks at ten measures including post-graduation job prospects, ratio of staff to students and student satisfaction.
Professor Andrew Jones, Vice-Chancellor and President, said: "this significant climb in such a nationally renowned league table is a great achievement.
This demonstrates the dedication and commitment of our staff to provide the very best for our students.
Our climb in the ranking over these two years reflects our ongoing commitment to providing our students with the highest quality experience at Brunel."

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-study:
Chat to our students and staff, ask all your questions, tour our leafy campus.
Book your place
Take a guided tour of our campus with one of our student ambassadors

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-study:
Every year we offer over 600 scholarships, bursaries and discounts to UK, EU and international students.
Check your eligibility
We offer a range of campus accommodation to suit different budgets.
If you’d prefer to live off-campus, we can help with that too
Find out about tuition fees, financial advice, scholarships, working as a student and more
Brunel has a lively, multicultural atmosphere and a strong sense of community.
Learn more
Check out our guide about the application process
Search our doctoral research opportunities to find the right fit for you
Choose one of our online courses to maximise your potential without compromising your schedule
Combine your postgraduate studies with on-the-job training, enhancing both your career prospects and earning potential

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/research/Research-degrees:
As a research-intensive university in the UK, we provide a range of funded, part-funded, and self-funded PhD degrees across various disciplines.
Whether you want to join one of our research projects or bring your own ideas to life, you'll have our supportive academics and research community by your side, and access to excellent facilities .
As a doctoral researcher at Brunel, you'll tackle the scientific, economic, societal and social challenges that matter most to you.
Our commitment to technically focused, high-quality, and interdisciplinary research ensures your work will be meaningful and valued.
Our PhD programmes, typically lasting three years full-time or up to six years part-time, will help you make a significant contribution to your field and earn the prestigious title of Doctor of Philosophy.
Choose your PhD route: I am interested in joining a Brunel research project I have an idea for my own research project
At Brunel, you'll find comprehensive support and resources to help you succeed in your PhD studies.
From advising on funding to assisting with your research proposal, you'll have the guidance you need throughout your application process.
Once you join our research community, you'll work alongside academics who are experts in their fields.
You'll also benefit from a range of personal, professional, and career development opportunities designed specifically for doctoral researchers .
Find out about how much a PhD costs and how to fund your studies at Brunel
Understand the structure and milestones of your research degree
Explore the support and resources, and find your community at The Graduate School
Not ready for a PhD yet?
Apply for on MPhil.
You'll conduct an independent piece of research but in less depth than with a PhD.
You graduate with the degree title Master of Philosophy.
Choosing Brunel for your PhD means joining a top-tier research community with impressive credentials.
Benefit from being part of a leading research institution, as recognised by REF 2021
Engage with high-quality research that stands out globally, ensuring you receive top-notch mentorship and resources (REF 2021)
Contribute to research that makes a real difference in the world, as highlighted by the THE Impact Rankings 2024
Collaborate with experts and peers in a dynamic environment, supported by the Knowledge Exchange Framework 2024

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/open-days:
Join us at our Open Day and discover what Brunel has to offer you as a postgraduate student.
Explore our undergraduate courses, take a campus tour and talk to our academics to find our more about life on our vibrant campus
A new webinar series for future postgraduate students that brings together Brunel’s academic experts, industry partners, alumni, and students to share ideas
Explore our campus with our student ambassadors.
See what makes our campus the perfect place for your studies
Explore Brunel: meet students, talk to academics, tour campus life
We are running a range of online events including webinars and taster sessions

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/studentchat:
Want to chat on the go?
Download the app from Google Play or App Store .

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/international:
Find out what scholarships, bursaries and discounts we offer for EU and international students
Be prepared for the costs of living in greater London and plan ahead using our guide to typical monthly spend
Attend one of our open days or explore our on-demand content to discover more about Brunel
Find out more about specific entry requirements for the country you're from
Meet our staff at one of the many events we attend throughout the world
Explore our range of foundation and pre-master's programmes
We guarantee accommodation for International students for the duration of your studies
Start your London adventure at Brunel.
With central London just a tube ride away, the hustle and bustle of city life is right on your doorstep

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/life/library:
Contact your Academic Liaison Librarian, book an appointment, access subject guides, referencing guidance and our digital and information literacy programme, LibSmart
Find out more about the uses and benefits of open textbooks
Helping Brunel researchers to share, publish and preserve their research outputs
Including students with mental health and learning differences

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/pdc:
Gain real-world experience while you study
Enhance your future career prospects
Earn money and gain valuable work experience alongside your studies
Our services are available remotely, book an online appointment here
Supporting the next generation entrepreneurs, we'll help turn your business ideas into reality
Gain a competitive advantage in the global market by learning one of nine languages for free
Biomedical Sciences
From UK
Computer Science
Sociology (BSc)
From Slovakia
Develop your skills and make a real difference by volunteering alongside your studies
Explore the opportunities, resources and events available to graduating students
We'll help you develop the skills that go beyond your degree
Find out how you can work with our students and graduates
Contact our friendly team with any queries you have about the Professional Development Centre
See our latest career events and workshops
Follow us for the latest updates, opportunities and events

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/work-for-us:
We believe our vibrant and attractive campus environment, excellent benefits, development opportunities, and campus activities, provide a great place to work and nurture a desired work/life balance.
We are located in Uxbridge, West London which is easily commutable from London, Heathrow and the surrounding areas with tube, train and bus links as well as being easily accessed by car via the M4, M40, and M25.
Find out about our extensive range of staff benefits, provided as part of our reward package
How Brunel will continue to meet the needs of a changing world
Be part of our community

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/life/study-support/computer-services:
Digital Services are a core part of your experience at Brunel, offering a wide range of tools and support to help you succeed in your studies.
Our dedicated teams work behind the scenes to maintain and enhance the University’s IT service—ensuring everything runs smoothly, securely, and reliably.
Here’s some of what we provide:
Need IT help?
Our IT Service is your first point of contact for any University IT queries.
Whether it’s a technical issue or a general question, we’re here to help:
Bannerman Centre - Access Guide
You can explore our IT policies to learn more about how we protect data, manage software, and ensure responsible and secure use of technology across the University.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/news-and-events/contact-us:
Our key areas are:
For media enquiries, email press-office@brunel.ac.uk or contact one of the team directly using the links below.
Union of Brunel Students Helpdesk Tel: +44 (0)1895 269269 Email: ubs.helpdesk@brunel.ac.uk Web: www.brunelstudents.com
We should be referred to as Brunel University of London in any captions or references to the institution.
Vice-Chancellor and President Professor Andrew Jones runs the university.
If you are a journalist and/or film crew and visiting the campus by car, please contact us on press-office@brunel.ac.uk to discuss your visit, including any parking permit requirements.
For a campus map and to plan your journey, please visit How to find Brunel .
The Staff and Student Communications teams manage key university communications, from major announcements to our latest achievements.
This includes the staff and student newsletters and the University intranets, IntraBrunel (for staff) and BruNet (for students).
Email: communications@brunel.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/about/administration/information-access/freedom-of-information:
View Freedom of Information statistics
The Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) and Environmental Information Regulations (EIR) provide public access to recorded information held by public bodies, where it is suitable for general disclosure.
The main principle behind the legislation is that everybody has a right to know about the activities of public authorities, unless there is a good reason for them not to.
Brunel University London is classed as a public body for the purpose of this legislation, which means:
The University handles all FOIA and EIR requisitions in accordance with our Freedom of Information Policy, and the requirements of the Code of Practice issued under Section 45 of FOIA.
Firstly, please check our website to see if the information you want is already available.
Freedom of information legislation does not give people access to their own data.
If you require a copy of your own personal data, we will handle your request under the data protection legislation.
Please contact data-protection@brunel.ac.uk to make this type of request.
If you require confirmation of you degree or other awards, you should email your request to the Awards Team .
If you wish to apply for admission to the University, you should contact Admissions .
For general information on your rights to access University records and advice on writing an effective request, see the Information Commissioner's website .
When you are ready to submit your request, please send it to foirequests@brunel.ac.uk .
EIR requests do not have to be made in writing, but it is easier for us to handle your request if we have a written copy of your exact requirements.
If you would like to discuss your information needs before submitting a request, you can contact us at foirequests@brunel.ac.uk and we will be happy to help.
We have up to 20 working days to comply with valid requests for information and we will start working on your request without delay.
We will review your request and if we are unsure what you need, we will contact you as soon as possible to clarify your requirements.
The 20-working day period for responding to a request will only start once we have a valid request and understand what information you need.
If we have already published the information, or it is available elsewhere, we will send you details of how to find it.
Information may be held by several University departments, and the Freedom of Information team will contact relevant departments to obtain information and their views on disclosure.
We will try to provide as much information as we can in response to your request, but some records may be exempt from disclosure - for example if they contain personal data or commercially sensitive information.
Occasionally we will be unable to comply with requests for other reasons, usually because the time it would take to fulfil the request will exceed 18 working hours.
If this is the case, we will explain why we cannot comply, or why the exempted information has not been released.
If you work for Brunel and want to know more abot what Freedom of Information means for your work, see our intranet pages .

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/About-this-website/the-student-contract:
(formerly Terms and Conditions) Date updated: 13 February 2025
This Contract sets out the terms and conditions between Brunel University London (the “University”; “we”; “our”; or “us”) and students on our programmes of study.
When you accept an offer of a place on a programme at the University, a legal contract is formed between you and the University on the basis of the terms and conditions of our offer (set out in the offer letter) and the terms and conditions set out here.
This Contract contains important information which you need to read carefully prior to accepting our offer to ensure that you understand its contents.
If you have any questions about this Contract, please contact the Registrar mailto:Registrar .
The University will provide a challenging learning experience to help you reach your full potential.
The University will provide excellence in teaching and research and to enhance the student experience by focusing on the needs of our students, seeking to instil a shared sense of inclusiveness, collegiality and community.
It will equip versatile graduates with the confidence to apply what they have learned for the benefit of society.
The creation and management of an environment that is conducive to learning and research and to the enjoyment of a positive student experience requires all members of the University, staff and students alike, to treat each other with mutual dignity and respect.
The University requires all its students to behave responsibly and to maintain standards of good conduct at all times.
Anti-social behaviour or any other form of student misconduct, however minor, can negatively affect the good order of the University and disrupt the positive learning and wider experience of others.
Students are required to comply with the Student Code of Conduct , a copy of which can be found on the Student Complaints, Conduct and Appeals webpages .
Breach of the Code which constitutes Student Misconduct, as defined in Senate Regulation 6 , may result in disciplinary action being taken by the University.
Penalties may include exclusion from the whole University for a defined period, suspension of your studies for a defined period or permanent expulsion.
Should you pose a potential or actual threat to the University, its staff or students, then precautionary action may also be taken to temporarily suspend your studies and/or exclude you from the University campus for a defined period of time.
As a student you will be provided with the tuition and academic support associated with your programme.
In addition, the University offers extensive pastoral support such as support for learning and for your health and welfare.
Your place with the University will be conditional upon you registering at the start of your programme and enrolling at the start of each subsequent academic year.
Your place will be subject to the terms and conditions stated in our offer letter to you, the information contained in the University prospectus for the year of your entry, information on our web pages and the contractual information published at the end of this document together with (as from time to time in force and /or updated):
These documents contain the University’s requirements in relation to:
These documents may be accessed on the Policies and Documents webpage , and in the Undergraduate prospectus / Postgraduate prospectus.
Alternatively, copies can be obtained upon request from the University’s Quality Assurance Team .
Please make sure that you familiarise yourself with these documents and their relevant requirements.
Failure to comply with these requirements could result in the University taking action against you under relevant University procedures (for example those relating to academic conduct or progression, student misconduct, fitness to practise, extraordinary support of study or fees) which could lead to the University terminating your registration or revoking your award.
From time to time, the University will send information to registered students.
This may commonly, but not exclusively, be by way of secured communication to a student's Brunel email account.
It is the responsibility of all students to review and respond, where necessary, to emails received in their Brunel email account in a timely manner.
We welcome comments on your experience of being a student at the University and look to make improvements where we can.
If there is something that you are unhappy about, please tell us straightaway so that, if possible, we can put it right.
If you wish to complain about an action or lack of action by the University, or any aspect of our service, you may do so using the Complaints Procedure .
If a student is not satisfied with the outcome of their complaint, they may take it to the Office of the Independent Adjudicator: www.oiahe.org.uk
The University policies and procedures are in addition to the protections students have under consumer protection law, and do not impinge on their consumer rights.
Your place will be subject to you meeting any offer conditions we tell you of in writing such as obtaining particular qualifications and/or satisfying all necessary legal and other requirements to study here on your chosen programme (for example in relation to criminal record checks and disclosure, health checks and immigration clearance).
The offer letter will identify whether our offer is subject to you meeting specific conditions and the dates by when you will need to have met them.
It will also direct you to any specific programme requirements.
The University will consider applicants with criminal records (conviction, warning, reprimand or bind over) if they are applying to one of Brunel's professional programmes of study.
As part of the Admissions process and on a continuing basis, all applicants applying to professional programmes are required to complete a Criminal Conviction Disclaimer prior to offer.
You are required to disclose any relevant, unspent criminal convictions, or convictions that have not been 'filtered' in line with Government guidelines.
If an offence is declared, the University will consider whether criminal conviction declarations or related information has an impact on an offer of a place or with you continuing on your programme.
More information about the process can be found in the Admissions Policy .
Prior to registration, you must also undergo an Enhanced Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) application, previously known as a Criminal Records Bureau (CRB) check, along with other registration checks.
The University will contact you when the DBS is required and provide full instructions.
Applicants should note the University may be under a duty to disclose information about you to professional, regulatory or statutory bodies upon completion of your studies.
If you are applying to one of our professional programmes (Teaching, Social Work, Physiotherapy, Occupational Therapy, Medicine, Nursing, Art Psychotherapy, and Physician Associate courses) you will be required to disclose certain information about your health conditions or any disabilities that could be relevant to your proposed course.
After you have completed the health assessment, the occupational health service will review your submission and contact you if further assessment or investigation is required.
You will also have to produce evidence of immunisation against certain diseases in order to take up your place and/or continue with your studies.
Our offer letter will outline some information and follow-up instructions will be sent to you prior to registration.
Further information about these health requirements can be found on our website .
The University will consider whether the information resulting from any disclosure, health checks and/or immunisation history is compatible with you taking up your place or continuing on your programme.
For further information in relation to health requirements please contact your College or the Admissions Office.
The University is committed to creating an inclusive and supporting community, which promotes wellbeing and enables all students to achieve their full potential.
Our commitment to prioritising and delivering a university-wide approach to wellbeing is embedded in our Mental Health and Wellbeing Strategy .
Student Services provide an extensive variety of support services to all students, to help ensure you have a supportive and productive experience whilst studying.
The Student Centre can help you throughout your student journey, from registration to graduation, and is comprised of three teams:
The Student Centre should be the first point of enquiry for all queries and support needs.
All the information is available through the Brunel Help service .
The Student Wellbeing Team provides ongoing support to help students overcome certain challenges to ensure they can achieve their goals.
The Team is comprised of Counselling and Mental Wellbeing; and the Disability and Dyslexia Service, who can undertake assessments for those who have successfully applied for Disabled Students Allowance.
If you have a disability or other support need, you are strongly advised to tell the University on application, so that the University can best support you with your needs throughout your studies.
The University values inclusiveness and supports the development of a culture where all may live, study and work without encountering prejudice or discrimination.
This commitment to equality and diversity underpins the core values outlined in our strategic plan.
The Equality and Diversity Team provide support and guidance on a range of equality and diversity issues, and advance inclusive practice and policies throughout the University.
Information on our commitment to quality and our objectives can be found on the Equality and Diversity pages.
Further information about the student support services the University provides can be obtained from Student Services .
The University is a registered Student Visa sponsor with UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI).
The UK operates a points-based immigration system underpinned by the principle of visa sponsorship.
A Student visa is issued to study in the UK, and the sponsor is the educational institution where the student will study.
The visa is issued for a specific full-time course at the institution.
In line with the University’s obligations as a student sponsor, all students registered at the University must have the required immigration permission to be allowed to study in the UK for the entire duration of their course.
Registration may be refused or subsequently terminated if this is not the case.
The University will sponsor students from outside of the UK or Republic of Ireland who require a Student visa to study in the UK on a full-time basis.
At the outset of the University’s registration process, and as part of the University’s record keeping obligations, if you are a student from outside of the UK or Republic of Ireland, you will need to provide the University with your passport and Biometric Residence Permit (BRP) or digital visa, or any other evidence of your immigration status, as required.
You will also be required to supply your UK contact details (including UK address, telephone number and/or mobile telephone number, and email address) and to keep these up to date for the duration of your registration.
Please note that the University is obligated to report to UKVI any sponsored student who (amongst other matters):
Non-compliance with your student visa responsibilities and/or other immigration-related obligations could result in action being taken against you by the University under Senate Regulation 6 or Senate Regulation 15.
This may lead to the termination of your registration and/or visa sponsorship.
Your responsibilities as a sponsored student are set out below.
Brunel University is required to monitor the engagement of sponsored students, and withdraw visa sponsorship of those found not to be adequately doing so.
All students are expected to attend all scheduled academic events on their programme and notify their academic department if this is not possible for any reason in line with Brunel's Engagement Policy.
Once in the UK you must also take responsibility for ensuring that you comply with the conditions of your visa whilst studying in the UK.
In particular, you must ensure that you abide by the work conditions that apply to you, in relation to the number of hours you can work per week, and the types of employment you are allowed to undertake.
This can differ depending on your programme of study.
Rights to Work guidance is available on the Student Centre’s website (for current students) and on the University’s external website.
Please note that if you choose to withdraw from your studies, or if your registration is terminated by the University, this could affect the validity of your visa and your ability to work or remain in the UK.
If your permission to stay in the UK expires or is curtailed by the UKVI, the University may be required to re-evaluate your registration status as you will no longer be able to study in the UK.
Further information in relation to immigration issues which could affect you are listed below:
Student Visa Information Visa Regulations Home Office Information on UK Visas and Immigration Brunel University Engagement: Tier4/Sponsored Student Policy or please contact immigration@brunel.ac.uk
It is your responsibility to ensure that all deposits, tuition and other fees and charges payable to the University are payable when due.
For international students, tuition fees are paid at the point of registration, and for Home/EU students, when requested after enrolment.
The offer letter will confirm the amount of tuition fees and any other mandatory charges that you will be required to pay.
(Please refer to Section 11 of this document, which refers to Accommodation charges).
Where a third party (such as a sponsor or employer) is responsible for payment on your behalf, you will need to make sure that they make payment when due, as you will remain personally liable for payment.
If you cease to be a student of the University, because for example you withdraw or the University terminates your registration, you may still be liable for any outstanding fees and charges.
It is important that you read Council Ordinance 11 and the Student Financial Policy carefully as these set out the University’s and your respective rights and obligations including but not limited to circumstances in which sums paid to the University will be refunded and circumstances when compensation may be considered.
They also set out the potential consequences if you fail to make payment such as the University’s ability to terminate your registration and/or to withhold awards.
In addition, non-payment of fees and/or charges could result in the University taking legal action against you to recover outstanding amounts.
In particular, please note that Council Ordinance 11 permits the University to raise the tuition fees confirmed in the offer letter by no more than 5% or in accordance with RPI (Retail Price Index), whichever is the greater, on a yearly basis.
The University uses your personal data in line with the Data Protection Act 2018.
We explain in detail how we use your data in line with our privacy notices which can be found on brunel.ac.uk .
We have provided a summary of how we use your data below:
As part of the Registration (at the start of your course) and Enrolment Task (at the start of every subsequent academic year), the University collects the following personal data about you:
Personal data about students is collected by the University for a number of purposes, both internal to the University and for external education-related agencies.
Our main purposes are:
Data stored in the University Student Records System is shared with a number of internally managed systems.
This data transfer is mandatory and allows you, and the University staff to undertake administrative and academic related tasks.
The systems receiving your data are:
Virtual Learning Environment Student, module and assessment-related data to provide access to course learning materials;
Digital Examinations and Assessments Student, module and assessment-related data to enable students to undertake online examinations and assessments, and to receive feedback electronically;
ID and Access Management Student photo, details and course-related information to provide access to facilities across campus;
Digital Transcripts and Certification Student details, module, course and assessment-related information to produce secure digital academic transcripts and award certificates;
Security Incident Database Student photo, details and course-related information for security-related checks and the provision of emergency contact information;
University Residences and Maintenance Systems Student details to assist with allocation and management of accommodation data and maintenance requests;
University Finance Systems Student, course and financial transaction information for debt management and student payment purposes;
University Library System Student and course and information for access to and allocation of library resources;
Union of Brunel Students Student and course information to enable the Union of Brunel Students to communicate with its members;
Active Directory Student and course details to allow access to the University network in line with the University’s Acceptable Computer Use Policy and Network Account Policy ;
University Timetabling System Student, module and assessment-related data to allow for effective scheduling and timetabling of events;
University Attendance Monitoring System Student data to allow the University to provide support, understand and report on attendance at events and timetabled activities;
Student Services Specialist Satellite Systems Student and course-related data to manage local activities, such as disability & dyslexia assessments and mental health advice;
Student contact system Student and course-related data to manage communications with students to deal with queries and provide support.
As well as internal systems, we will share your personal data with third party recipients.
A summary of the main recipients to whom we share your data is set out below:
Higher Education Statistics Agency (HESA) The University is required to share the data we hold about you with the Higher Education Statistics Agency (HESA), who will use it in an anonymous form for statistical analysis and may share it with other central government departments, agencies and administrations.
For further information regarding how HESA uses your information, please see: https://www.hesa.ac.uk/about/regulation/data-protection/notices#Student
National Student Survey (NSS) Full details of the data shared with Ipsos MORI can be found at: https://www.thestudentsurvey.com/privacy-policy/
UKNARIC If applicants’ qualifications require further investigation regarding equivalence to UK qualifications, certificates and transcripts may be shared with UK NARIC qualification advisors.
For further information please see: https://www.naric.org.uk/naric/
UCAS If applicants apply to the University via a Record of Prior Acceptance (RPA) form, information will be shared with UCAS, including personal and contact information and qualification history.
If an applicant provides fraudulent qualifications and information, those details, including certificates and transcripts, will be sent to the UCAS Verification team.
For further information please see: https://www.ucas.com/undergraduate/applying-university/filling-your-application/fraud-and-similarity
NHS For funding purposes on certain professional courses, certain details (forename, surname and contact email address) will be shared with the NHS Bursary team, relating to successful NHS bursary holders.
For further information, please see: https://www.nhsbsa.nhs.uk/student-services
Brunel will share student data with GP practices and NHS Trusts who are providing clinical placements for medcal students and physician associate students.
General Medical Council (GMC) In Year 5, Brunel will share details of graduates who are staying in the UK for their foundation year (F1), in order that the student can obtain a provisional registration with the GMC, and allocation of F1 places in the UK.
Medical Schools Council (MSC) Details of a student who has been excluded from Brunel Medical School on 'Fitness to Practice' concerns.
OH Works Brunel will share data for applicants and students on health professional courses, in order that OH Works can gather medical and vaccination history of the applicant/student.
UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) The University is required to share course, registration, attendance and location of study information with UKVI in order to ensure we comply with our obligations as a Tier 4 sponsor.
For more information, please see: https://www.gov.uk/government/organisations/uk-visas-and-immigration
Student Loans Company (SLC) The University is required to share course, fee, registration and attendance information with the SLC in order to ensure that a student’s funding package is correct.
For more information, please see: https://www.slc.co.uk/about-us.aspx
US Department of Education The University is required to share, course, fee, registration and attendance information with the US Department of Education for the purpose of processing US Federal Student Aid for students from the United States of America.
For more information, please see: https://studentaid.ed.gov/sa/types/loans
Sallie Mae The University is required to share, course, fee, registration and attendance information with Sallie Mae for the purpose of processing private student loans for students from the United States of America.
For more information, please see: https://www.salliemae.com/
STA International The University will share contact details (name, address, contact telephone number, contact email and date of birth) with STA International, should it be required to engage the services of STA International to recover outstanding fees and associated charges.
For more information, please see: https://www.stainternational.com/
Education and Skills Funding Agency (ESFA) If you are studying at the University as an apprentice, we are required to share the data we hold about you with the ESFA, who will use it for the delivery of its work in the context of funding education and skills in England for children, young people and adults, and delivery of key services in the education and skills sector in England including the apprenticeship service, the provision of information, advice and guidance through the National Careers Service, and the Learning Records Service.
For more information, please see: https://guidance.submit-learner-data.service.gov.uk/ilrprivacynotice
FutureLearn If you are studying an online programme with the University, we are required to share the data we hold about you with FutureLearn, who will use it in the context of supporting the delivery of our online courses.
For more information, please see: Privacy policy - FutureLearn
Zengenti As a current student accessing our Personalised Student Portal, we are required to share the data we hold about you with Zengenti (data processor).
Zengenti will use it to support the delivery of our Personalised Student Portal.
DfE (Department for Education), Ofsted, teaching placement schools and Bath Spa University If you are studying on the PGCE courses (primary or secondary), we are required to share the data we hold about you with the schools you will be attending placements at during your course; Bath Spa University (for the purposes of recommendation for Qualified Teacher Status (QTS)); the Department for Education (DfE) (for the purposes of confirming your QTS); and Ofsted (for the purposes of inspecting and reporting on providers of programmes leading to QTS).
They will use this data in the context of supporting the delivery and assessment of your programme.
For further information please see the respective Privacy Notices for the DfE, Ofsted, and Bath Spa University.
Please note, if you are studying with an academic partner, are a degree apprentice, or are being funded or sponsored by an employer or other third party agency, the University may be obliged to disclose information about your studies and progression to such agencies.
Where this is applicable, this will be made known to you, and the information shared will be limited to only that required by the agency, and will only be made known to relevant individuals.
Your address and contact details can be updated within the eVision portal.
Any other personal data updates can be made by the Student Centre.
You can contact them through Brunel Help .
The support we offer our students includes an Emergency Contact ‘Opt-in’ Scheme, which you can elect to join at registration or enrolment.
If you join the Scheme, you nominate someone to act as a point of contact in emergencies, such as a parent, guardian or friend.
If staff are worried about you, they can contact this named individual.
You can change your nominated emergency contact or opt out of the Scheme within the eVision portal.
We will not contact your Emergency Contact for routine matters including how you are progressing on your course or finance matters.
Everyone has rights in relation to how their personal data is used.
Your rights are:
If you want to exercise your rights, you can do so at any time by contacting data-protection@brunel.ac.uk .
The University has an Intellectual Property (IP) Policy dealing with intellectual property created whilst you are a student at the University.
Such IP will normally be owned by you.
In certain limited circumstances such IP will be owned by the University, for instance to allow the University to protect and commercialise the IP from a project as a whole or to protect its charitable status.
By accepting a place at the University, you are formally accepting the University’s rights of ownership and rights to use and copy, as well as its policy on commercialisation and revenue sharing, as set out in its IP Policy.
The University may amend or withdraw our offer of a place or terminate your registration if it determines that you have made any fraudulent, false or misleading application or statement to the University, or if you have failed to disclose relevant information to the University (including in respect of criminal convictions) or have produced falsified documents, whether on your application or whilst on your programme.
In such cases the University may take action against you under its Admissions Policy , Student Misconduct and Professional Suitability procedures , or other relevant policy or procedure.
The terms of any offer by the University (or any other party) to provide you with accommodation during your studies will be the subject of a separate accommodation contract and payment of accommodation fees and charges under that separate contract.
Please see the Accommodation pages for general information and guidance regarding the provision of University accommodation.
The University will not insure your personal possessions and you should consider making arrangements to do so yourself if you wish to have insurance in place.
The University is highly committed to inclusion and equality of opportunity for all.
We aim to provide an environment where you can live, work and study freely, happily, safely and respectfully.
No student should be treated unfairly because of a social or cultural characteristic such as sex/gender or gender reassignment, ethnicity, secual orientation, relilgion or belief, pregnancy or maternity/paternity, disabiity or age.
The University will fulfil its legal obligations to:
You agree not to do anything that may be detrimental to the University fulfilling these obligations, or that would be deterimental to other students.
You agree that if you do so, the University may take action against you under its proceedings for dealing with misconduct.
When you accept an offer of a place on a programme at the University, a legal contract is formed with the University on the basis of the terms and conditions set out in the offer letter and those set out in this document.
This contract may be ended by the University if the relevant conditions are not met or our terms not complied with.
You have the right to cancel the contract under the Consumer Contract (Information, Cancellation and Additional Payments) Regulations 2013 within 14 days of the contract being formed as described above, without giving any reason.
The cancellation period will expire after 14 days from the day of the conclusion of this contract (i.e.
when you accept the offer of a place on a programme at the University).
To exercise the right to cancel, you must inform the University of your decision to cancel the contract by a clear statement (e.g.
a letter or message sent by e-mail).
You should exercise your right to cancel by contacting us at: Admissions Department, Brunel University London, Kingston Lane, Uxbridge, Middlesex UB8 3PH ( admissions@brunel.ac.uk ).
To meet the cancellation deadline, it is sufficient for you to send your communication concerning your exercise of the right to cancel before the cancellation period has expired.
Students wishing to withdraw from Brunel after the 14 days should do so through the eVision portal.
You may be liable for Tuition Fees after the right to cancel period.
If you cancel the contract within the 14 day cancellation period, the University will reimburse to you all payments received from you.
If you requested the University to begin the performance of services during the cancellation period, you shall pay us an amount which is in proportion to what has been performed until you have communicated to us your cancellation of the contract, in comparison with the full coverage of the contract.
If you have any queries regarding this Contract, please contact the Registrar .
The University makes all reasonable efforts to deliver the programmes of study, research opportunities and other services and facilities described in its published material.
Whilst the University will always try and minimise making changes to the contract (including changes to the services and/or course), there may be times where changes are needed.
This section describes the circumstances when we can make changes, as well as providing you with further information about what we will do where we look to make such changes.
If any information that we may have given to you at the time you were researching the University and making an application for the course changes by the time we send out our offer, we will update our website as soon as we can and highlight details of those changes in the offer letter.
By accepting our offer, you will be confirming that you are accepting our offer on the basis of the changes documented in the offer letter and shown on our website.
Examples of changes that we may make at this stage could include the following:
Where we need to make changes to the contract and services after our contract has been formed, we will, in each case, assess the potential impact of such change on the contract and our students, and will follow the principles set out in this section.
The University is always looking to improve and enhance students’ experience with us and we will engage in dialogue with our students throughout their studies, as well as with our teaching staff, and will actively seek feedback from these groups about how we can improve our service delivery to our students.
In the instance that changes need to be made, we will endeavour to consult with students, staff and the Union of Brunel Students to provide information about any changes that may be made, and seek agreement with you for these to be implemented.
The circumstances that we describe in this section are not the only ones that may arise during your studies with us, but will give you some context as to when we may need to amend the contract (including the services and course).
The section below provides you with illustrative examples of the type of changes that may arise as a result of the reasons set out in this section.
We can make changes to our contract (including to the services and/or course and/or our Student Handbook):
The circumstances presented in the section above may result in a number of different changes being made by the University.
We have set out in this section some examples of these changes and, to help you understand what they may mean for you in practice, we have done this by referring to those examples using the headings “major changes” and “minor changes”.
The provisions of this section will apply depending on the type of change that is anticipated at the time.
(i) Minor Changes (non-exhaustive list of examples)
(ii) Major Changes (non-exhaustive list of examples)
In the cases of both minor and major changes, the University will write to you and explain the actions ir proposed to take and the impact they are anticipated to have on you.
In the case of minor changes, you will be deemed to have accepted these if you subsequently proceed to enrol on the course.
In the case of major changes, the University will seek your express agreement to the changes.
There may be times where we need to discontinue the course or decide not to provide the course, or to merge or combine the course with other courses of study, if such action is reasonably considered to be necessary by the University.
If the University decides to take such action prior to the course commencing, then it will use reasonable endeavours to notify you in advance and you shall be entitled to cancel this contract by written notice to the University.
In these circumstances you will be entitled to a refund of any deposit/fees which you have paid to the University.
For minor changes, the Taught Programme Office (TPO) or Programme Lead will notify you of these changes normally through the Virtual Learning Environment - Brightspace or via email, by providing you with as much notice as is in our view appropriate in the circumstances.
For major changes, the Taught Programme Office (TPO) or Programme Lead will notify you of these changes normally through the Virtual Learning Environment - Brightspace or via email, and in some instances this may also be formally in writing by providing you with as much notice as is in our view as soon as possible, and in any event, generally no later than one term's notice before we are due to make the relevant change.
We will seek your express agreement to the changes.
If the University makes changes in accordance with the above, it shall take all reasonable steps to notify the affected students and minimise any disruption to their studies.
The University has a Student Protection Plan which outlines the risks to the continuation of student’s study, the mitigation measures in order to protect students, and the measures it will enact should these outcomes evolve.
The University will provide students with educational services with reasonable care and skill.
The University will also provide students with a range of pastoral and support services in addition to the services being provided under this contract.
Please note that the availability and scope of these pastoral and support services may be subject to change during your programme of study for a variety of reasons including, but not limited to, in response to funding arrangements and the needs of students.
The University therefore maintains a discretion to vary and/or amend the availability and scope of pastoral and support services at any time.
Nothing in this contract excludes any liability which it would be unlawful to exclude.
(a)  What we are responsible to you for:
If we fail to comply with our obligations under this contract, we are responsible for loss or damage you suffer that is a foreseeable result of our breach of this contract or our negligence, but we are not responsible for any loss or damage that is not foreseeable.
Loss or damage is foreseeable if they were an obvious consequence of our breach or if they were contemplated by you and us at the time we entered into this contract.
(b) What we are not responsible to you for:
We will not be responsible to you for any of the following, (unless we have been negligent):
(c) We do not exclude or limit in any way our liability for:
(d) Events outside our control
The University will not be liable to you in any manner whatsoever for any failure or delay, or for the consequences of any failure or delay, in performance of any contract with you if it is due to any event beyond our reasonable control including, but not limited to:
The contract between you and us is governed by English Law.
You and we both agree that the English and Welsh courts have jurisdiction over any disputes that may arise under this contract.
However, if you are a resident of Northern Ireland you may also bring proceedings in Northern Ireland, and if you are a resident of Scotland, you may also bring proceedings in Scotland.
This contract is between you and us, and no other third party shall be entitled to make any claim in connection with it by virtue of the Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act 1999.
Each of the provisions above is separate and severable.
Accordingly, if any court or body or authority of competent jurisdiction finds any such provision to be illegal, unlawful, void or unenforceable this will not affect the remainder of those provisions which will continue in full force and effect.
In the event that you need to contact the University, but are unsure who to send your communication to, please send it to the Registrar .
If the University needs to contact you in writing, such communication will be sent to the last contact address provided by you through eVision.
It is your responsibility to ensure that the contact address that the University holds for you on eVision is a current one.
If you require this document in an alternative format, please contact the Registrar .
Student Police Officer Contract
Model Cancellation Form
Terms and Conditions 2018 (PDF)
Terms and Conditions 2016 (PDF)
Terms and Conditions 2015

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/About-this-website/Accessibility:
This statement applies to content published on www.brunel.ac.uk, https://staff.brunel.ac.uk and https://students.brunel.ac.uk , run by Brunel University London.
It does not apply to content on other brunel.ac.uk subdomains.
Where a website or web application has additional accessibility statements, these will be linked from those individual locations.
We want as many people as possible to be able to use this website.
For example, that means you should be able to:
We've also made the website text as simple as possible to understand.
AbilityNet has advice on making your device easier to use if you have a disability.
We know some parts of this website aren’t fully accessible:
If you need information on this website in a different format like accessible PDF, large print, easy read, audio recording or braille, please email support .
We will get back to you as soon as we can.
We’re always looking to improve the accessibility of this website.
If you find any problems that aren’t listed on this page or think we’re not meeting accessibility requirements, email support .
The Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) is responsible for enforcing the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 (the ‘accessibility regulations’).
If you’re not happy with how we respond to your complaint, contact the Equality Advisory and Support Service (EASS) .
Fixed and portable induction loops are available in many of our lecture halls and at many reception areas in the University.
Body worn portable induction loops are available from Student Wellbeing (email wellbeing or telephone 01895267045), for use by Brunel students.
For all general enquiries you can contact us by phone on the following number: +44 (0)1895 274000.
Brunel University London is committed to making its website accessible, in accordance with the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018.
This website is partially compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) version 2.1 AA standard due to the non-compliances and exemptions listed below.
The content listed below is non-accessible for the following reasons.
The following items are currently not compliant with WCAG 2.1 AA criteria.
Many of our PDFs and other documents don’t meet accessibility standards – for example, they may not be accessible to screen reader software.
Some of our PDFs and other attached documents are essential to providing our services.
We will review and replace PDFs and documents with HTML page where possible.
Images on some pages don’t have meaningful alternative text.
We plan to add meaningful alt text to all images.
Most of the videos on the University website are hosted on YouTube; some of these may be incorrectly captioned and may not include audio description.
This doesn’t meet WCAG 2.1 success criterions 1.2.2 Captions (Pre-recorded) and 1.2.5 Audio Description (Pre-recorded).
We do not plan to add captions or transcripts to all pre-recorded audio and video media as this is exempt if published before 23 September 2020, but we will add these to selected media when possible.
Any media published after this date will include captions.
Some link text doesn’t make sense when read on its own (for example, ‘click here’), and there are instances where text is difficult to read (Success criterion 2.4.4 Link Purpose - In Context).
We will correct link text over time as we review each page.
When we publish new content, we’ll make sure link text meets accessibility standards and follows plain English guidelines.
There are forms and interactive elements such as carousels and virtual tours which do not meet multiple AA success criteria.
Some of these may be provided by third-parties.
We aim to improve forms and interactive elements as we review each page.
The accessibility regulations don’t require us to fix PDFs or other documents published before 23 September 2018 if they’re not essential to providing our services.
We do not plan to add captions or transcripts to all pre-recorded audio and video media as this is exempt if published before 23 September 2020.
We do not plan to add captions to live video streams because live video is exempt from meeting the accessibility regulations.
Online maps are included in a number of web pages.
Where there is a map with one single point of interest, the information being displayed is provided in an alternative format on the same web page.
Where there is more than one point of interest on the map, we are working towards an accessible solution.
We recognise that there is content published on the www.brunel.ac.uk, https://staff.brunel.ac.uk and https://students.brunel.ac.uk domains that is not fully accessible, but the University is committed to improving this:
This statement was prepared on 23 September 2019.
It was last updated on 02 October 2024.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/About-this-website/Privacy-Policy-and-Copyright-Statement:
Like all universities, Brunel University London collects and uses data about people.
The use of this data is governed by data protection laws.
In the UK these laws are the UK General Data Protection Regulation (UK-GDPR) and the Data Protection Act 2018.
This page sets out how Brunel University London complies with the legislation, your rights about how your data is managed and how you can contact us if you have questions.
Brunel University London is the Data Controller of your personal data.
This means we make decisions about what data we collect from you and how we use it in line with the law.
What data we collect about you and how we use the data depends on your relationship with us e.g., whether you are an applicant, a student or former student, a research participant, or a member of staff.
We have dedicated privacy notices for each of these areas.
Please visit the pages of each section to access the corresponding privacy notice which provides detailed information on how we use your data for that area.
The following information provides an overview of key points that all individuals who provide personal data to us need to know.
If you have questions relating to data protection at the university you can contact our data protection team on data-protection@brunel.ac.uk .
When we process your personal data, we need to have a lawful basis to do so.
A lawful basis is a reason in law that permits us to use your data for a specific purpose.
The lawful basis we use depends on what we are doing with your data (our purpose for having it).
We have summarised our key lawful basis and our purpose for having your data below.
More information can be found in the relevant areas of our website.
You can find out more information about our data protection work by clicking here .
Lawful Basis
Purpose
Public Task
1) Any activity related to awarding a degree including:
- Managing the student record
- Administering processes that affect progression and retention
- Examinations & assessments
2) Activities involved in participating in scientific research
3) The reporting of data to regulatory or statutory bodies including the Office for Students, OIA, HESA, NSS, etc.
4) The use of data for public health purposes including the monitoring of Covid-19 cases
5) The provision of occupational health and medical services
Contract
1) Any activity related to:
- Applying to study or work with us
- A contract of employment
- A contract to study including accepting our terms and conditions
- Payment of fees
- Assessing performance
- Providing you with services such as student support, access to accommodation or employee benefits
Legal Obligation
1) Any activity that is required by a law including:
- The collection and use of data to ensure we comply with the Equality Act 2010.
- The collection and use of data that is required to ensure compliance with Health & Safety legislation.
- The collection and use of data to ensure compliance with financial, taxation and pensions legislation.
- The collection and use of data to ensure compliance with immigration legislation and terms of our UKVI licencing conditions.
Legitimate Interest
Activities that have minimal impact on you however are important for us to ensure that we can operate effectively including:
1)    Recording our lectures.
2)    Administering our events and open days.
3)    Filming and photography at our events and open days.
4)    Managing our alumni service.
5)    Operating a secure computer and IT network.
6)    Promoting our university to the outside world and seeking donations.
Consent
We will only seek your consent to process personal data in limited circumstances where you have a genuine choice, and you can say no without detriment.
If we rely on consent, we will explain clearly what you are consenting to and how you can manage that consent.
You can withdraw that consent at any time.
Examples of when we will seek your consent:
1)    When we want to send direct marketing to your personal email address, and we haven’t heard from you before.
2)    When you want us to discuss your queries with someone else such as a relative or guardian
3)    When you want us to share your details with a 3 rd party so they can contact you.
If you share sensitive information with us, like data needed to check or ensure equal opportunities, we'll use specific legal rules to handle it.
These rules are from the UK GDPR and the Data Protection Act 2018, which allow us to process this data because it's important for public interest and equality.
In order to protect your data, we ensure that there are appropriate technical controls in place on all of our systems and continuously review these controls to ensure they are effective.
Examples of our controls include:
Technical measures such as encryption, password protection, antivirus and antimalware mechanisms and intrusion detection systems.
Organisational measures including robust policies, documented processes, staff training, and managing access to data.
Wherever possible, we will store personal data within UK or in data centre located within the European Union or European Economic Area.
In some cases, we may use suppliers who run their operations outside the European Economic Area (EEA).
Although they may not be subject to same data protection laws as companies based in the UK, we will take steps to make sure they provide an adequate level of protection in accordance with UK data protection law.
The steps we take will depend on the type of data and the location of the supplier however, some of our measures include a robust due diligence process, technical measures to protect your data and contractual measures that require our suppliers to treat your data securely and in way that maintains confidentiality.
Some of our legal and regulatory obligations require us to disclose data about you to third parties.
Each disclosure request will be considered carefully, and we will only disclose the minimum amount of personal data required to meet our obligations.
The following organisations will receive information about you if a valid request is received or if we are legally required to provide it.
How long we keep your data depends on what we have collected it for and whether there is a law or contractual obligation that sets a minimum legal retention period.
We have a dedicated retention schedule that sets out how long we keep personal data.
You can obtain a copy of our retention schedules by emailing recordsandarchives@brunel.ac.uk .
For applicants who decide not to study with us, we will keep your enquiry details on file one year after your specified year of entry expires.
You can update, cleanse or delete your own data via our enquiry platform , to ensure we have accurate contact details for you.
If and when you apply to Brunel University London, your enquiry details will be overwritten by your application details.
To understand who is applying to our courses we will segment the information we hold about student applicants based on demographics and interests.
Such data will be de-identified and used for statistical and analytical purposes only.
Analysis of this helps us understand our enquiries and ensure we tailor our courses to meet the latest needs and expectations of learners who want to study with us.
When you use our website, we will seek your consent to place analytics cookies on your computer.
These cookies will give us information about the parts of the website you visit and how you interact with our pages.
If you do not want us to place analytics cookies on your computer, please select “Use Necessary Cookies only” when prompted by the cookie banner at the bottom of a webpage.
For more information about how we use cookies, please read our cookies policy.
When we send prospective applicants, or alumni electronic direct marketing, we must comply with the legislation called the Privacy & Electronic Communications Regulations 2003.
This law sets rules that we have to follow to make sure that our electronic marketing is fair and respects peoples’ privacy.
It is always the choice of the individual as to whether they want to receive information about studying at Brunel, our events and the ways people can get involved.
We will always ask if you want to hear from us with these communications.
If you do not want us to use your personal information in these ways, please indicate your preferences on the form on which we collect your data.
You can also opt out of our marketing communications at any time by clicking the ‘unsubscribe’ link at the end of any of our marketing emails.
You can also change any of your contact preferences at any time or you can opt-out of your data being utilised via the enquiry platform after you log in .
Finally, you can withdraw your consent to receive direct marketing by emailing data-protection@brunel.ac.uk .
We will not use your personal information for marketing purposes if you have indicated that you do not wish to be contacted by us for such purposes when you enquire to study at Brunel.
However, once you apply to study at Brunel, we will contact you about your application and about life at Brunel.
This is not considered direct marketing and we need to send you this information as part of a contract between us.
In the UK everyone has rights about how their personal data is managed.
The rights are:
You can make an information rights request at any time by contacting our data protection team via email: data-protection@brunel.ac.uk
By telephone: +44 (0) 1895 265389
or by post: Data Protection Officer, Brunel University London, Kingston Lane, Uxbridge, UB8 3PH.
There is no charge to submit a rights request, but we may ask you to verify your identity.
We may also communicate with you to determine the scope of your request.
In most cases we have one calendar month to respond to your request when we have verified your identity.
Where a request is complex, we are permitted to extend that deadline by a further two months, but we will write to you and let you know ahead of the deadline if we need to do this.
If you are not satisfied with how we are processing your personal data, you should email data-protection@brunel.ac.uk in the first instance.
If you are not satisfied with our response, you have the right to make a complaint to the Information Commissioners Office.
You can find out more about your rights under data protection legislation from the Information Commissioner's Office website available at: www.ico.org.uk .
The University maintains a log of web server activity to make sure we manage our site effectively, to investigate broken links and to provide statistics.
These files contain your personal data including information such as your computer's IP address, what files you have requested and which browser you are using.
They do not identify your email address or any other personal data about you.
We may also use 'cookies' to monitor use of our website in order to see which pages you have visited and how long you have spent on them.
Cookies are text files that identify your computer to the University's server.
You have the option of setting your browser's preferences to refuse cookies, but this may limit the services you can access through our web pages.
See detailed information about cookies on the Brunel website .
Please note that the University has no control over, or responsibility for, the privacy policies of third-party websites which may be accessed from Brunel's own website.
Once you have left our website, Brunel's privacy policy no longer applies.
The copyright and intellectual property rights of all material held on the Brunel University London website belong to the University and its staff or students or have been licensed to the University.
With the exception of the logo and trademarks, the University allows the copying of material from its website solely for personal use or for reference under the Freedom of Information but the reproduction, publication, distribution or broadcast of material for any commercial purpose is strictly forbidden without prior permission from the University.
No content may be altered or adapted in any way and permission must be obtained for its inclusion in any papers or other publications.
If you wish to apply for copyright clearance to reproduce content, please contact the Open Research and Rights Team .
The reproduction, adaptation or manipulation of the University logo, crest or any trademarks is not allowed without prior consent.
Permission must be obtained from the University for the use of its logo on any documents, papers or reports, other than for official Brunel University London business.
If you wish to use the logo for any reasonable purpose, please contact Print Room for permission and instructions on how to download a high-resolution version.
You may link to the University home page without permission and other educational establishments may link to specific pages and documents on the University website without prior consent.
A link to the University from a third-party web page does not imply any endorsement from the University of that web site and no endorsement is implied by any links from Brunel's web pages to third party sites.
March 2025

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/about/admissions/admissions-transparency:
The information published on these pages shows:
The number of students who attained a particular degree or other academic award, or a particular level of such an award, on completion of their course with us.
It shows these numbers by reference to:
The information can be downloaded here (this also includes an explanation of the rounding and suppression that has been applied to the data).
Table 1a: Percentage of classified first degrees at grade 2:1 or above by characteristic for 2021-22 qualifiers.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/about/information:
The legal name of the university is “Brunel University London”.
The name “Brunel University of London” is a trading name which Brunel began using on 1 October 2024 upon joining the University of London federation.
The words ”Brunel University” and "Brunel University London" are registered trade-marks and “Brunel University London” is its brand identity.
The address for correspondence is:
Brunel University London Kingston Lane Uxbridge Middlesex UB8 3PH
The university’s casualty (employers’ liability and public liability) insurers are Zurich Municipal and our policy is number NHE-01CA29-0013.
Zurich’s portal ID is C00108, and postal address is Zurich Municipal, Education Team, 3rd Floor, PO Box 568, 1 East Parade, Leeds, LS1 2AA
Brunel University London exists by virtue of a Royal Charter first granted in 1966.
Its governing body is called the Council and comprises a mix of independent members, staff and students of our university.
The University is an exempt charity as defined by the Charities Act 2011.
The Council appoints the Vice-Chancellor and other senior officers .
Its powers, duties and functions are set out in full in the Charter .
Council has established a range of Committees to carry out its work.
The academic governing body of the University is the Senate, which is chaired by the Vice-Chancellor.
Senate's powers, duties and functions are set out in the Ordinances , and it has established a number of Committees to assist it in its work.
Information about our council members
Facility Time Report 2017-18
In May 2019, UKSCQA, QAA, UUK and Guild HE jointly published a Statement of Intent, which reaffirmed their commitment to protecting the value of UK degrees.
As part of the implementation of this Statement, these sector-representative bodies agreed that universities should, in 2019/20, publish evaluative Degree Outcomes Statement on their websites.
Such documents should set out the results of an internal institutional review, provide clear assurance on how the value of their awards is protected, and demonstrate the institutions are meeting the expectations of the Quality Code and the Office for Students’ ongoing conditions of registration (B4 and B5).
Our Degree Outcomes Statement sets out information on our degree classification profile for the past five years, and includes the distribution of outcomes across different student groups.
In addition, we have created an Assuring Standards diagram which demonstrates the rigour and robustness of our quality assurance mechanisms.
As part of our Statement, we have committed to reviewing our awarding data annually, to monitor the outcomes of our students, and to ensure the information published on our webpages is accurate.
You can find the yearly breakdown of our facts and figures in the PDF documents below.
This information includes:
Academic year 2024 - 25 Academic year 2023 - 24 Academic year 2022 - 23 Academic year 2021 - 22 Academic year 2020 - 21 Academic year 2019 - 20 Academic year 2018 - 19 Academic year 2017 - 18 Academic year 2016 - 17 Academic year 2015 - 16 Academic year 2014 - 15 Academic year 2013 - 14 Academic year 2012 - 13 Academic year 2011 - 12 Academic year 2010 - 11 Academic year 2009 - 10

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/medicine-mbbs:
Visit to apply
Course code
A100
Start date
September
Placement available
Mode of study
5 years  full-time
Fees
2025/26
UK £9,535
International £49,395
Entry requirements
AAA-AAB (A-level)
Not accepted  (BTEC)
36 (IB)
Medicine provides an exciting range of career opportunities.
As a Brunel MBBS student, you'll be equipped with the educational, clinical and professional skills you'll need as a new doctor, and you'll be well prepared for further training, such as specialist training, in the UK or overseas.
Applications for 2026 entry will open in September, all applications must be made through UCAS.
International students: Applications are now closed.
If you're still interested in a place for September 2025 entry and you're not eligible for home fees (if you're unsure, please check at find your fee status ), please complete our register your interest form to be considered for a place at the end of August.
UK and EU applicants with settled/pre-settled status: Applications have now closed.
We use online Multiple Mini Interview (MMI) format - designed so that candidates engage in a number of short interviews, using a range of different interviewers positioned at 6 stations.
More information can be found here
If you already have an undergraduate or master’s degree in a subject related to Medicine and your degree qualification meets our minimum entry criteria, then you can apply for Medicine MBBS.
Depending on your ranking, you'll also be invited to interview.
Contact
Email: BMS-Admissions@brunel.ac.uk
Telephone: +44(0)1895 268083
Watch our video to learn more.
Brunel University London, a university for a changing world , is a highly regarded multidisciplinary and research-intensive technology university, with vibrant, diverse  and dynamic staff and students from all over the world.
Brunel Medical School is part of the College of Health, Medicine and Life Sciences (CHMLS), which is a leading provider of undergraduate and postgraduate health professions education, including Physician Associate, Nursing, Physiotherapy, Occupational Therapy and Social Work programmes.
The College provides opportunities for interprofessional learning.
View our London campus.
As a Brunel medical student, you’ll be learning medicine in one of the most famous healthcare organisations in the world – The National Health Service (NHS).
The experience gained here will help prepare you for entry to the two-year UK Foundation Programme.
All Brunel Medical School graduates are eligible to apply to the UK Foundation Programme.
Entry onto this programme requires an applicant to have the right to work in the UK and places on the programme are not guaranteed for every UK graduate.
If successful and able to join the UK Foundation Programme, you will be a salaried junior doctor, of which the first year (FY1) is the starting point for pursuing a medical career in the UK and is also an excellent preparation for careers overseas.
We take an evidence-based innovative approach to learning and teaching.
The Medicine MBBS curriculum has been produced by leading academics and clinicians working in partnership to provide the latest insights into medical advances and clinical practice.
You will be well prepared to practise medicine in the modern world.
Changes in medical practice are accelerating, driven by molecular sciences, a greater understanding of the demographic variations in health and illness and of the specific needs of individual patients.
Our curriculum incorporates digital technologies to enhance the way you learn and the environment that you learn in and provides patient contact right from year 1
Learn more here
Brunel Medical School is among the few medical schools in the world to use TBL as the main method of classroom teaching instead of lectures.
Working in teams of six in our purpose-designed TBL classroom, you exchange ideas and refine your understanding of the topics through discussions.
With this active-learning approach, you solve problems and debate whilst developing life-long, transferable skills - highly relevant to medicine, under the guidance of clinicians and scientists.
Our programmatic approach to assessment with academic coaching means that you are kept informed of your progress all through the early years, and you receive regular feedback to help you improve your learning.
Watch our TBL video!
Learn more about TBL
You will learn and work with students from all over the world.
The Medical School student body already has over 50 countries represented, with a mix of undergraduates and graduates.
Emphasis on the development of communications skills and clinical skills from Year 1 is demonstrated by dedicated spaces, in particular a suite of 18 video-equipped consultations rooms and the use of trained simulated patients as well as skills laboratories and simulated wards.
Simulation technology, manikins, virtual reality and augmented reality will also feature in your educational journey, and your learning will be enhanced by frequent feedback from your peers and from our educators.
In parallel with the clinical and communication skills learned on campus, from early on in Year 1 you will also learn about patient care from supervised interactions with real patients, through regular placements in general practice (family medicine) clinics.
You will learn to appreciate healthcare and illness from the patient’s perspective and understand how teams of professionals work together and make a difference to people’s lives.
Studying medicine can at times be challenging and being far from home in an unfamiliar environment can make things more difficult.
At Brunel we provide an unrivalled support system to build your resilience and help you cope with any stress or concerns.
All students are supported by our dedicated Student Support and Wellbeing team who make sure that any issue is addressed rapidly and sympathetically.
Our School House system creates a home away from home where students are supported by their peers and expert tutors provide academic coaching to students.
Learn more here.
Clinical placements, which range from hospitals to primary care (family medicine) and community settings, account for a significant portion of the course.
Primary care placements start early in Year 1, and placements in hospitals start in Year 3.
Our west London location means that you have access to a hugely diverse patient population and will have the opportunity to work in major hospitals, some of which are globally renowned.
You will benefit from learning in new teaching facilities in Brunel’s newly refurbished Quad North building.
The building features our Anatomy Suite, Simulated Hospital Wards, Clinical Skills Laboratories and more.
Learn more and discover our virtual tour
Our curriculum will prepare you for the UK Medical Licensing Assessment (MLA).
Please note.
From 2024, all UK medical school students will be required to pass the MLA in order to practise as FY1 doctors.
International medical graduates will also need to pass the MLA in order to practise in the UK.
Some of you may wish to pursue your medical careers in Canada or the USA.
The Brunel MBBS course is aimed to train you for UK practice, but we will provide advice about USMLE and MCCQE assessments including approved preparatory resources, including review texts, practice question banks and online courses.
Please note that we expect access to USMLE and MCCQE examinations to be available at the time when the first cohort graduate in 2027.
For more information please contact BMS-Support@brunel.ac.uk
In Year 5, you will have the opportunity to choose and experience medical practice in a completely different environment.
For guaranteed campus accommodation details please visit the Accommodation web pages.
Learn about Multi Mini Interviews (MMI) here
All medical schools are periodically reviewed by the UK General Medical Council (GMC), the body responsible for ensuring that medical education and training is of a high standard and that all medical schools meet the requirements set out in Promoting excellence: standards for medical education and training .
In addition, as a new Medical School, Brunel Medical School is subject to scrutiny through stages of the GMC’s rigorous quality assurance process.
We have completed key stages of this process to date, and we will continue to be closely reviewed by the GMC until the programme has been successfully delivered and the final-stage approval for the award of the MBBS degrees is granted.
During the period of close review, the GMC requires all new medical schools to have a contingency school to partner with the new school and provide regular support.
The University of Buckingham Medical School is Brunel Medical School’s contingency school.
The list of new medical schools under GMC review can be found here.
The GMC's Medical Students web page will help new and returning students to understand:
Brunel Medical School is listed on the World Directory of Medical Schools (WDoMS).
The World Directory defines a ‘medical school’ as an educational institution that provides a complete or full programme of instruction leading to a basic medical qualification; that is, a qualification that permits the holder to obtain a license to practice as a medical doctor or physician.
Please note that the listing of a medical school in the World Directory of Medical Schools does not denote recognition, accreditation, or endorsement by the World Directory of Medical Schools
Please enable cookies to view this video.
You can explore our campus and facilities for yourself by taking our virtual tour .
Phase 1 is characterised by the acquisition of essential foundational knowledge, the development of skills and professional attitudes and the early introduction to patient contact, to prepare for the more clinically focused years.
Year 1
In Year 1, you will develop an understanding of basic scientific concepts that underpin health and disease in your patients.
You will study the main body systems in turn, examining the anatomy and the workings of the body, starting with the cardiovascular system, and then the respiratory system, integrating knowledge from molecules to organs.
You will study hormones and their regulation next, followed by the renal system and excretion, and lastly the limbs, joints, and movement.
Throughout the year, learning about body systems will be complemented by relevant clinical and communication skills, and teaching of medical ethics and professionalism.
You will investigate the use of technologies in healthcare and important principles of anatomy, biochemistry, physiology will be brought to life through practical experiences in the anatomy laboratory, and clinically focused application exercises in Team Based Learning (TBL).
Throughout Years 1 and 2, having gained confidence through your training in clinical communications, you will experience the first point of contact in the United Kingdom (UK) National Health Service (NHS) known as primary care (General Practice/Family Medicine).
You will interact with patients, under the supervision of experienced clinicians to hone your skills.
You will also learn from, and with, other healthcare team members, such as physiotherapists, physician associates, and nurses.
Year 2
In Year 2, you will continue to study body systems, starting with digestion and absorption, continuing with the nervous system and mental health, and finally learning about reproduction and ageing.
There will be greater focus on diseases, infections, drugs, and diagnosis.
You will continue to sharpen your clinical and communication skills and you will grow your understanding of digital health, ethics, and professionalism.
You will have clinical placements in primary care which will allow you to continue to hone the skills that you started to develop in year 1, as well as learn more about Population Health and other areas of clinical pratice.
The end of Year two is dedicated to student-selected course components (SSC) where you will get involved in a scholarly project.
Examples include scientific laboratory projects, projects to explore improvements in healthcare delivery or those which give you the opportunity to engage with the local community.
Years 3 and 4 make up Phase 2 of the programme, which is characterised by an intensive clinical experience in a range of high-quality hospitals and primary care clinics across Greater London and South-East England.
You will also have teaching on the Brunel Medical School campus every 6 weeks.
Year 3
In Year 3, you will rotate through a range of placements in hospitals, community mental health and primary care where you will apply your knowledge and clinical and communication skills.
In these patient-facing placements, you will learn to integrate clinical knowledge and patient care.
Your placements in primary care settings will continue.
You will receive feedback to improve your knowledge, professionalism, and skills from the clinical and academic teams.
Year 4
In Year 4, you will continue clinical rotations to include some more specialist areas such as paediatrics, obstetrics and gynaecology, dermatology, ENT, ophthalmology, as well as in primary care and others.
You will learn about holistic patient management and further extend your knowledge and expertise.
You will continue to receive feedback from the professionals with whom you will be interacting on a daily basis.
This will prepare for your final year of the programme.
Phase 3 is the final, 5th year of the programme.
Year 5
Year 5 is designed to help you to prepare for the transition from student to junior doctor.
This includes further placements in medicine, surgery, primary care, and emergency medicine, followed by the final MBBS Exams to include the Medical Licensing Assessment (MLA).
You will then undertake at least two Assistantship placements to prepare you for clinical practice as a Foundation Year 1 (FY1) doctor in the NHS, followed by an elective placement which may be overseas.
You will be formally taught about safe prescribing and expectations of professional behaviour.
Course structure
This course can be studied undefined undefined, starting in undefined.
This course has a placement option.
Find out more about work placements available.
Please note that all modules are subject to change.
Achieving an MBBS degree from Brunel Medical School will provide you with a primary medical qualification (PMQ).
Holding a PMQ allows you to apply for provisional registration with the General Medical Council (GMC) and license to practise in approved Foundation Year 1 posts in the UK.
As a UK medical graduate, following successful award of the MBBS degree, you will be eligible to apply to the UK Foundation Programme for Foundation Year (FY) Clinical Training (subject to Visa Regulations at the time).
Please note that Foundation training is remunerated by the NHS Trusts to which you are allocated.
International students will not be paying fees but will receive remuneration.
The Foundation School to which you are allocated will be dependent on your allocated FY1 post.
*
Entry onto the Foundation Programme requires an applicant to have the right to work in the UK and places on the programme are not guaranteed for every UK graduate.
*This information is correct as of January 2023 but please be aware that regulations in this area are subject to change.
Back to top
Applicants are advised that meeting the general criteria for admission, including the minimum academic criteria is not a guarantee of invitation to interview.
All applications will be ranked according to UCAT or GAMSAT performance (or other indicators if these are not available), and interview invitations will be sent out to top-ranking applicants until all interview slots are filled for each series of interviews.
Interviews will consist of six, on-line Multiple Mini Interviews (MMIs).
2025-26 entry applicants should normally have, or be expected to achieve, a minimum of grades  AAA-AAB at A-level, to include:
Or
Applicants should normally have, or be expected to achieve, a total score of 36 points with
We accept a wide range of international qualifications from countries around the world.
Applicants should normally have, or be expected to achieve, a pattern of grades equivalent to  AAA-AAB  at ‘A’ level, to include
Please see our International entry requirements
If your country is not listed, or you are unsure if you meet the requirements, please contact BMS-Admissions@brunel.ac.uk .
Upper second-class degree or equivalent in a subject relevant to Medicine.
Awarded with Merit or equivalent, in a subject relevant to Medicine.
The highest relevant academic qualification should normally be no older than 5 years.
Applicants presenting university degree qualifications will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
If you are unsure if you meet the requirements please email your qualifications, a transcript of your degree and evidence of High School qualifications to BMS-Admissions@brunel.ac.uk .
Brunel Biomedical Science students may wish to apply for Medicine MBBS at Brunel Medical School if they:
International students can apply directly to the University.
Home/UK students need to apply through UCAS.
Please note that Brunel graduates applying for MBBS at Brunel Medical School are unable to apply for a tuition fee loan from Student Finance England for the first 4 years of the course.
They will be eligible for the Brunel Alumni Discount and can apply for a Maintenance Loan.
From year five onwards, tuition fees for Home students will be paid by the NHS Student Bursary Scheme and they will be eligible to apply for a means-tested NHS bursary to cover maintenance costs and a reduced maintenance loan from Student Finance England.
Students will also have access to a non-means tested grant of £1,000 as part of their NHS Bursary award.
This information is correct at the time of publishing - September 2024.
You must sit either UCAT or GAMSAT before applying and submit you score on your application.
The UCAT score required to secure an interview will depend on how well every other applicant does in the year you apply, so there is no UCAT cut-off score, however, those scoring SJT (Situational Judgement Test) band 4 are rejected
UCAT should be taken in the year prior to planned entry.
The UCAT is a 2-hour test that must be taken at a Pearson Vue test centre.
It is made up of 5 separate sub-tests, each varying in length.
Before each sub-test applicants are given 1-minute reading time.
Australian and New Zealand students can either sit the UCAT ANZ or the UK UCAT exam at a Pearson test centre.
Please note that the UCAT ANZ test dates are not the same as UK test dates.
To find your closest test centre and costs please visit the UCAT website .
For information about the UCAT Bursary please visit the UCAT Bursary web page .
GAMSAT is valid for two years prior to entry and is for graduates only, i.e.
those with an undergraduate degree.
GAMSAT is a 4-hour and 45-minute test that includes 19 minutes of reading time.
It has 3 sections varying in length.
Depending on your location GAMSAT can be taken online.
To find your closest test centre and costs please visit the GAMSAT website .
Brunel Medical School requires all applicants to sit the UCAT/GAMSAT in the year that you apply, in order to be considered for interview.
Find out more on the UCAT website including how to register, key dates and preparing for the test.
An initial assessment of all the applications is made by the Brunel Admissions Team.
Personal statements and references are checked to make sure they meet the requirements.
Applicants who meet, or are predicted to meet, the general requirements and minimum academic requirements advance to Stage 2.
Information on the vMMI can be found on the Interviews web page .
Candidates are ranked according to the total score obtained at MMI (with no pre-determined requirement to pass a minimum number of stations).
Candidates’ MMI scores are presented to the Admissions Committee and a cut score is agreed, based on past and current cohort performance.
Applicants with a total score lower than the cut score are rejected.
Applicants reaching the cut score are offered a place or added to the Offer Waiting List, according to the number of available places.
We currently do not accept Foundation qualifications.
We will accept applications from candidates enrolled in Foundation Colleges who are taking, or have taken, A-levels or International Baccalaureate.
These applications will be considered alongside other applicants with A-level or International Baccalaureate qualifications.
With regard to the consideration of exceptional circumstances which may have affected exam performance and prevented applicants from meeting the requirements for selection and/or for an invitation to MMI, Brunel Medical School takes the view that adjustments are made by the schools and by grade-awarding authorities.
In consequence, Brunel Medical School will not normally consider exceptional circumstances.
We do, however, consider applicants who have retaken their A-Level and equivalent qualifications.
Applications for deferred entry will not normally be considered, and requests for deferrals after an offer is made are also not normally considered.
Applications in the following circumstances will not be normally considered:
All applicants are invited to take part in a pilot admissions test.
More details can be found here .
Participation does not affect the admissions criteria.
MBBS students will be in contact with children, patients and/or vulnerable adults as part of their programme of study on a regular and sustained basis.
All students must therefore undergo an extended criminal record check as a condition of acceptance of an offer.
This will include an enhanced Disclosure & Barring Service (DBS) record and (for applicants residing overseas) a Criminal Clearance Certificate which should be completed prior to arrival in the UK.
Further information about the process can be found here .
The School will assist the students to undertake the DBS checks.
For occupational health clearance & immunisation requirements please visit the Immunisation Information web page .
We encourage all students to check with their home country’s Medical Council that the MBBS degree awarded by Brunel University will be recognised in their country before applying if they intend to return to their home country to practise medicine.
For any advice and guidance please contact BMS-Admissions@brunel.ac.uk .
If you are planning to return to the US after graduating from Brunel Medical School, please email our Support & Well-Being team for specialist advice and guidance at BMS-Support@brunel.ac.uk .
The Medicine MBBS from Brunel Medical School is not currently recognised in Singapore or Malaysia.
please email our Support & Well-Being team for further information at BMS-Support@brunel.ac.uk.
Students will be expected to incur some course-related expenses, these include the cost of a stethoscope and the cost of travel to clinical placements.
Please see here for the course related expenses document.
Please see here information for UK students - Financial support for healthcare students.
Please visit the Making a student visa application web page.
Information on Excluded Students Database check, student visas, appeals and complaints, misconduct during the admissions process and feedback to unsuccessful applicants can be found in the Admissions Policy .
runel University London is committed to raising the aspirations of our applicants and students.
We will fully review your UCAS application and, where we’re able to offer a place, this will be personalised to you based on your application and education journey.
More information can be found on our MBBS FAQ document .
Please check our Admissions pages for more information on other factors we use to assess applicants.
This information is for guidance only and each application is assessed on a case-by-case basis.
Entry requirements are subject to review, and may change.
If you require a Tier 4 visa to study in the UK, you must prove knowledge of the English language so that we can issue you a Certificate of Acceptance for Study (CAS).
To do this, you will need an IELTS for UKVI or Trinity SELT test pass gained from a test centre approved by UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) and on the Secure English Language Testing (SELT) list .
This must have been taken and passed within two years from the date the CAS is made.
IELTS :7.0 overall (min 7.0 in all areas)
Pearson : 64 overall ( min 64 in all subscores)
BrunELT : 68% overall ( 68 in all subscores)
TOEFL : 98 overall (min 23 in all areas)
You can find out more about the qualifications we accept on our English Language Requirements page.
Should you wish to take a pre-sessional English course to improve your English prior to starting your degree course, you must sit the test at an approved SELT provider for the same reason.
We offer our own BrunELT English test and have pre-sessional English language courses for students who do not meet requirements or who wish to improve their English.
You can find out more information on English courses and test options through our Brunel Language Centre .
Please check our Admissions pages for more information on other factors we use to assess applicants.
£49,395 full-time
£9,535 full-time
Fees quoted are per year and may be subject to an annual increase.
International fees will increase annually, by no more than 5% or RPI (Retail Price Index), whichever is the greater.
It is important that your financing is organised before accepting an offer at Brunel Medical School.
If you are seeking a loan or sponsorship funds from your home country we advise that this is organised in good time prior to starting the course.
For all information regarding funding for home/UK students, please visit the following websites;
Brunel Medical School has embraced a range of active, collaborative learning approaches which are student centred and team-based.
Attendance at all timetabled learning activities is compulsory.
These include:
Team-Based Learning (TBL) will take place in purpose-built facilities designed for teamwork.
You will need to work on the preparatory materials (available online) ahead of the taught sessions.
Communication skills small group teaching will be in-person, on-campus in specially designed accessible rooms, enabling video recording and immediate in-person feedback from tutors and simulated patients.
Anatomy practical sessions will take place in a specially designed facility, the Clinical Anatomy Suite, in-person, on-campus.
You will learn anatomy with hands-on access to preserved human anatomical specimens (plastinated specimens).
These specimens, prosected and displayed to museum-quality standards, will help you develop an understanding of the three-dimensional arrangements of structures.
These will be used together with medical imaging, which is how doctors visualise body structures and organs.
You will also be guided in using ultrasound on models, to give you real-time images of internal structures, which will help you appreciate anatomy in the living.
Primary care placements will take place in General Practices.
Patient contact firstly is face-to-face, but later in the clinical course you may learn about telephone or video consulting in selected sessions.
Longitudinal case studies involve home visits to patients in pairs under the supervision of the clinical educators at your respective teaching sites.
Clinical skills training will take place on-campus in-person.
This type of training is hands-on with simulated patients or special equipment such as manikins.
Videos illustrating specific skills in clinical examination have been prepared to allow prior study and revision.
It will be possible to book the facility for practice sessions with staff available on-site during weekday working hours
Other small group teaching is in-person, on-campus, for example Medical Humanities.
You will need access to a laptop for session preparation, individual and group study, in-class teaching sessions, coursework, and many of your assessments throughout the entire 5-year MBBS.
A tablet alone will not be sufficient.
A minimum laptop specification for the MBBS course may be found here.
Brunel University London’s general device specification may be found here .
We have computers available across campus for your use and laptop loan schemes to support you through your studies.
You can find out more here .
Patient-first
We have developed a curriculum that puts people and patients first.
You will learn to deliver compassionate care, and this will start in the first weeks of Year 1 with communication skills sessions involving simulated patients – actors trained to role-play as patients.
You will learn how best to listen to patients, ask the right questions at the right time, show empathy, and overcome language and cultural barriers.
You will also learn clinical skills using simulation technology, including manikins, virtual reality, and augmented reality.
Assessment will take place throughout the year (programmatic assessment) and will be a mix of coursework submitted online, individual Single Best Answer (SBA) tests done on campus during the TBL sessions and during invigilated in-person exams, as well as Objective Structured Clinical Exams (OSCE) and Anatomy Spot Tests.
Read our guide on how to avoid plagiarism in your assessments at Brunel.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/clearing/courses:
If you have any questions or just want to chat, give our Admissions team a call on 01895 272 273 .
Our team is available to help you Monday to Friday, 9am - 5pm (BST) .

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/clearing/faqs:
You can apply online anytime - our application portal is open 24/7.
If you have any questions or would rather apply by phone, we’re here to help during our Clearing line opening hours.
Call us on 01895 272273 from the UK, or +441895 268352 if you're an international student.
Monday to Friday, 9am - 5pm (BST)
Many people believe that Clearing begins on A-Level results day.
However, it starts on Saturday, 5 July 2025 and continues until October.
We'll feature our Clearing vacancies on our website, giving you plenty of time to plan and research potential courses of interest.
Step 1: choose a course of your interest or go to UCAS.com (if you’re in Clearing your status on UCAS Account will reflect this).
Step 2: complete an online application form to get a provisional offer (remember that you’ll need your UCAS Personal ID number and all your exam results to hand).
Step 3: we’ll look at your qualifications and let you know if we are able to make you a provisional offer.
Step 4: if we are able to make you an offer you’ll need to add us your Clearing choice on UCAS to accept your offer (we’ll let you know how to do this).
Clearing isn't just for A level students.
It’s for BTEC, IB, Access, mature, international students, and other students too.
You can apply if you declined all your previous offers, you have an offer but changed your mind or you haven’t met the conditions of the offer you hold for another university.
You can also apply to Brunel through Clearing if you haven't made any applications for the 2025/26 academic year or you’ve achieved higher grades than you expected.
Once Clearing has opened you can add your Clearing offer by following these steps:
If you don’t have the option to add a Clearing choice on your UCAS account, this maybe because you aren’t in Clearing yet on UCAS.
This might be because you hold an offer at another university still or need to make a decision on another university offer.
If you want to add a Clearing choice on UCAS, you'll need to decline any offers you're still holding first.
We advise you to get some advice from your school or college advisors or from UCAS if you're unsure about declining your current offer.
It isn’t too late to change your mind, as long as the course that you’re interested in is available in Clearing.
After exploring, please contact the Admissions team to discuss your options.
Browse our Clearing courses on our website and choose one or more courses you're interested in.
After exploring, please contact the Admissions team and they'll be able to review and amend your current offer if you're eligible.
You won't need to apply to us again through Clearing.
Browse our Clearing courses on our website and choose one or more courses you're interested in.
If you’re not ready for degree-level study or you don’t have the required qualifications, there are foundation programmes in almost every degree subject.
First of all, take a deep breath and don’t panic!
Take a look for other courses you might be interested in.
Alternatively, you might be interested in one of our foundation year courses .
These have lower entry requirements and when you successfully pass your foundation year you can progress to study for your degree.
You can contact us to discuss your options.
Make sure you have your UCAS personal ID, your email address and details of your exam results to hand.
Launched by UCAS, this service allows unplaced students (those who don’t currently hold an offer) to see courses they could be ‘matched with’ on their UCAS account.
You’ll be matched based on courses you’ve applied for, your qualifications and grades and the universities that have taken your type of application.
You can review your list of matched courses on your UCAS account and select the ones you’re interested in.
Then the university will contact you directly.
Here at Brunel we'll contact any ‘matches’ by email or phone if the course you selected is open to Clearing applications.
Yes.
We welcome students to Brunel with BTEC qualifications.
To find out more about applying with BTEC qualifications please visit our BTEC information page.
It’s never too late to study.
Come to Brunel and you’ll be joining hundreds of other mature students who call Brunel their home.
If your application is successful we’re here to help you with the transition back into education.
We offer extra support to our mature students through a dedicated Widening Access Officer and dedicated teams at our student services.
You can find out more at our information page for mature students .
If you’ve successfully completed your first year at another university but feel that your current course or university is not the best for you, it's possible to request a transfer to a different course at the same or different university, subject to the availability of places.
Start by checking out our courses and choose one or more courses that you’re interested in.
Please also check our Accommodation and Student Finance pages to explore your options.
You’ll need to send in copies of your current university transcripts showing your first year results.
If possible, our Admissions team will issue an offer and provide advice about further steps about accepting your offer, registration and arriving to Brunel.
You can apply for second year entry through our online form.
Please provide details of your current university, course and first year grades as well as your previous qualifications such as BTECs, IB or A-Levels.
Application for entry to second year for most courses is open until the start of the 2025/26 academic year in October.
At Brunel, we understand that results day can be stressful for parents and guardians too.
That's why we'll be publishing our step-by-step Clearing 2025 guide for parents and guardians in late spring.
Clearing can be stressful for students.
As a teacher or adviser, you can support your students by encouraging them to explore all their options.
If you have any questions, please get in touch with our Schools & Colleges team .

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/life/accommodation/Clearing-students:
Accommodation availability for Clearing applicants is allocated on a first come first serve basis, provided you have submitted your room application and your unconditional offer is updated on the system by the deadline date
If you're starting your studies in September and are issued with a conditional offer, you'll be sent you an email with information on how to apply for accommodation on campus.
You can submit your application via the Student Living Hub .
All new students are guaranteed campus accommodation on campus provided you have met the application conditions.
Please note, we're unable to guarantee preferences but the information supplied will help our team to allocate your room.
New students who have applied for accommodation, met the conditions of their course offer, confirmed their place at Brunel and submitted an application by Sunday, 31 August 2025, will be offered a room on campus.
If you apply for accommodation from Monday, 1 September 2025, it may take longer for us to find you a room on campus.
But you're welcome to add your name to the waiting list for a campus room.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/information-for-parents-and-schools/clearing:
Clearing is how universities and colleges fill any places they still have on their courses.
Clearing is for students who missed or exceeded their predicted grades, have changed their plans or haven’t applied yet.
Although it can seem fast-paced and last minute, try not to worry.
Lots of students get a university place through Clearing every year .
They go on to have an amazing university experience, make lifelong friends and graduate with good quality degrees.
This year's results day will be on Thursday 14 August 2025.
Although it can be a little nerve-wracking, don't worry, there are lots of things you can do ahead of time to ensure you are prepared.
Make a Clearing shortlist of the courses your child is interested in.
This could be a different course from their original choice or a university that wasn’t on their main UCAS application.
Head to our course finder page to browse our Clearing courses and check the course content and our entry requirements.
Want to learn more about Brunel and our courses?
We're hosting campus tours , so why not come and see us?
Our student ambassadors will show you around and answer all your questions.
And if you can't visit in person, just head over to our student chat page and ask our students, staff and academic.
Things can move rapidly on results day and emotions can run high.
Once students have their results, they should log into their UCAS Account to see the status of their offers.
It’s important that they don’t just assume they’ve automatically lost their place if they haven’t achieved all conditions of their firm or insurance offer.
If your child doesn't get a place on either their firm or insurance choice, they can start going through the shortlist of their preferred courses.
On results day and the following few days, we have extended open hours so they can call us from early morning until the evening, or apply online .
When they call us they will need to have their UCAS personal ID, email address, exam results and the course(s) they want to apply for.
Please note that we will need to speak to the applicant directly and can’t discuss a student’s application with anyone else.
Though it may be a good idea for a family member to help students make calls or fill out the online application form.
Once they’ve made a decision and the offer is confirmed, sit back and celebrate.
The university will give you all the information you need.
They can book their campus accommodation , plan what they need to take with them, find out about part-time jobs , placements , volunteering and check what’s going on in Welcome Week.
There’s a brand new working world out there looking for fresh talent.
Let’s get them ready for it.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-fees-and-funding/fees-and-funding-for-clearing-students:
Even if you’ve already applied for finance, you still need to go through the application again to check details.
This applies if:
The funding you may be eligible for depends on where you reside.
Before term starts, it's important that you update your course / university to match your offer.
If term has started, you won't be able to confirm the changes yourself, please contact the Funding Team via the Brunel Help portal for assistance.
Please check the student finance website for your country for further details.
If you have already applied for funding from Student Finance England but have changed your course or your university since completing the form, you need to inform them about your change(s) via your online Student Finance England account.
Further details on how to do this can be found on the Student Finance England website .
If you have already applied for funding, but need to amend the amount of Tuition Fee Loan because your tuition fees for this year are different to the fees you entered when you applied, you'll need to inform Student Finance England about this via your online student finance account.
It's important that you complete this as soon as possible, as any delays may mean that your funding isn't in place in time for the start of your course at Brunel.
For additional support, check out the Guidance for students going through Clearing on the government website - it's a really useful guide that walks you through updating your student finance application or starting a new one.
If you have already applied for funding from Student Finance Wales but have changed your course or your university since completing the form, you need to notify them of this change.
This can be done online via your Student Finance Wales account.
If you have already applied for funding, but need to amend the amount of Tuition Fee Loan because your tuition fees for this year are different to the fees you entered when you applied, you need to notify Student Finance Wales of this change.
This can be done online via your student finance Wales account or you can download and complete a Tuition Fee Loan Request Form from the Student Finance Wales website
Once you have completed either or both of the above forms, you must send them to Student Finance Wales.
If any changes have occurred to either your course, university or fees since you completed your application you must inform Student Finance Northern Ireland.
This can be done online via your Student Finance Northern Ireland account .
Altenatively, you can download and complete a change of circumstances form from the Student Finance Northern Ireland website.
If any changes have occurred to either your course, university or fees since you applied to the Student Awards Agency for Scotland (SAAS) you should log into your SAAS Account to amend your course details.
Further details can be found on the Student Awards Agency for Scotland (SAAS) website .
It's important that you complete this as soon as possible, as any delays may mean that your funding is not in place in time for the start of your course at Brunel.
If you need to make changes to your student finance application you should contact your relevant education office:
If you live in:
It's important that you make these changes as soon as possible, as any delays may mean that your funding isn't in place in time for the start of your course at Brunel.
If you’re starting a course on or after 1 August 2021, you must have settled or pre-settled status under the EU Settlement Scheme to get student finance.
If you’re coming to the UK from 1 January 2021, you may need to apply for a visa to study here.
Please see Student finance: EU students - GOV.UK for details on how EU students can access Student Finance.
Irish citizens don't need to apply for a visa or to the EU Settlement Scheme.
If you're an International applicant, detailed information about finance can be found on the International Finance pages .

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/life/commuting-to-brunel:
With everything on one campus, you’ll spend less time on the road and more time being a student.
From study areas to social spots, sporting facilities to large green open spaces, all you might need is just a short walk away, including student support.
Brunel is located in Uxbridge, west London.
You can easily reach our campus by different modes of transportation.
We're surrounded by several nearby stations, making it a breeze to reach us via train or underground.
Don't forget to make the most of the discounts available for rail users!
Uxbridge (Zone 6) is the closest tube station to Brunel - just one mile from campus.
Hop on the Metropolitan Line or Piccadilly Line from central London (Baker Street) to Uxbridge in just 40 minutes.
From the tube station, take any of the U1 , U3 , U4 , U5 , U7 , or 222 buses and you’ll be on campus in 10 minutes.
Along Uxbridge High Street, where the tube  station is located, you can grab a coffee or do some shopping before boarding one of the U1 , U3 , U4 , or U7 buses at the Vine Street bus stop.
Alternatively, cycling takes under 10 minutes, while walking takes 20.
West Ruislip (Zone 6) is on the Central Line , which runs through the heart of London from Epping, Essex.
Take the U1 bus from outside the station for a 30-minute ride to campus.
West Drayton (Zone 6) is your closest station to Brunel on the Elizabeth Line , which stretches from Reading to Essex.
Catch one of the U1 , U3 , U5 or 222 buses from the station, and you'll be on campus in no time!
West Drayton (First Great Western Link) is the nearest mainline station, approx.
1.5 miles from campus.
Services operate from London Paddington or the West (Bristol).
The U1 , U3 , U5 , and 222 bus routes all stop at Brunel.
West Ruislip Station (Chiltern Railways) serves as the mainline service from London Marylebone and the North (Aylesbury, Banbury and Birmingham).
It’s located about 4 miles from campus.
From the station, take the U1 bus to Brunel.
Local bus routes U1 , U2 , U4 , and U7 all conveniently stop at the main entrance of Brunel on Kingston Lane.
If you're taking the U3 , it stops at Cleveland Road.
For buses 222 or U5 , you'll need to alight at Cowley Road and use the path through the accommodation complex.
Travelling from Heathrow or Stockley Park?
Take advantage of the A10 'Heathrow Fast' bus service.
Simply disembark at the Hillingdon Road stop called 'The Greenway,' where you'll find a footpath leading to campus.
Additionally, other popular routes stopping at 'The Greenway' include:
Commuting from further afield?
Lots of the big coach companies such as National Express and megabus travel directly to Heathrow , which can sometimes be easier and cheaper than train.
From here, you can catch one of the local buses straight to campus.
Should your time on campus run late, then you can catch the N207 night bus from The Greenway.
This service connects Uxbridge Station and Bloomsbury Square.
Alternatively, the 222 from Uxbridge Station to Hounslow Bus Station operates 24/7, with wait times ranging from 6-15 minutes on weekdays and 10-30 minutes on the weekend.
Our campus is conveniently located along a signposted cycle route that passes right through the heart of campus along Cleveland Road.
If you're bringing your own bike to campus, we've made sure there are plenty of cycle storage facilities scattered around, and some of our halls even offer enclosed storage areas.
Plus, if you're worried about freshening up after your ride, don't sweat it!
We've got showers and changing facilities available at the Sports Centre .
You can also take advantage of our Santander Cycles Brunel scheme.
Affectionately known as 'Brunel Bikes,' they're here to make your commuting life easier.
With six docking stations spread across Uxbridge town centre, Brunel, and Hillingdon Hospital, getting around has never been more convenient.
Many of our students opt to commute to campus by car, as we're easy to reach via M4 junction 4, M25 or A40/M40.
If you do choose to drive to campus, remember to check your vehicle's compliance on the ULEZ website .
Vehicle entry onto campus is via Kingston Lane.
If you're using a sat nav, use postcode UB8 3PH, or use the what3words app with the words ///legend.duty.impact .
If you're driving to Brunel and live outside a two-mile radius from campus, you can apply for an annual student parking permit (fees apply), via eVision once you're fully enrolled.
Alternatively, there are some Pay & Display spots on campus, priced from £1 per hour.
Blue badge holders and m otorcycle riders are entitled to park for free at various dedicated locations across our campus - just remember to regist er your vehicle after you've enrolled.
Learn more about parking on campus .
Electric car charging: We've various electric car charging points dotted around campus, so you can charge your vehicle while you study.
Cut-price commute: Travelling by public transport?
Get 30% off London travelcards with an 18+ Student Oyster photocard and 1/3 off other UK train fares with a 16-25 Railcard or 26-30 Railcard .
You can save on National Express coaches too with a National Express Student Card .
Whether you travel with a travel card or pay-as-you-go tickets, check peak and off-peak prices for additional possible savings.
Plan your journey: Travel apps like Citymapper or Google Maps can be really handy when it comes to figuring out the best route for your commute.
It's worth checking out different routes until you find the one that works for you – you might find that slightly longer routes are a little bit cheaper too.
Travel light: If you'd rather not lug your laptop or tablet around on your commute, we’ve got you covered.
Our laptop loan scheme allows you to borrow one of ours for up to five hours at a time.
Buddy up: If you drive to campus, why not team up with classmates who live nearby and car share?
It's a great way to cut down on transport expenses, split parking fees, and save some cash on petrol too!
Save £££’s on snacks: Bring your own meals and snacks, and save those pounds for the important stuff.
Warm up your food or brew yourself a nice hot drink in our well-equipped kitchens found in the Howell and Michael Sterling buildings.
Learn on the go: Use your commute to catch up on your learning.
It’ll make your journey feel shorter, and you’ll be getting your work done at the same time!
Access thousands of eBooks, eJournals, and online databases directly from our Library and download them to your personal devices.
This will not only save money on buying the physical copies, but it also means you won't need to carry around those heavy books when you're travelling.
A place to crash: If you're thinking about staying overnight for an early exam (or a late-night party), Uxbridge and the nearby Heathrow Airport offer hotels for every budget.
You can also consider our Lancaster Hotel which offers overnight accommodation right here on campus.
Explore the local area: You'll discover a variety of shops, cafes and restaurants just a short walk or bus ride from our campus.
So, whether you're meeting your friends, grabbing a bite to eat or browsing for the latest gadgets, Uxbridge High Street offers all this and more.
Need further inspiration?
Check out our guide to exploring London .
Our campus is designed to be walkable, so you can easily get around between classes.
And, if you find yourself with a bit of time to spare, there are plenty of places to go to pass the time.
Need a quiet place to study?
Head to the Library to access all the resources whenever you need them, as well for a peaceful spot to study when you need to hit the books.
Our laid-back social areas are ideal for chilling out with friends.
You'll find lots of spaces around campus to study or hang out, including our many coffee shops, restaurants and break-out areas.
And when the sun's out, why not explore the leafy green spaces on campus?
Take a stroll, enjoy a picnic by the River Pinn, or simply soak up some sunshine - there's plenty of room to relax and enjoy the outdoors.
And, if you ever need help or advice while you’re with us, you're just a short walk away from our health and wellbeing, study, and student support services.
Whether it’s access to our welfare and wellbeing services, disability support, or assistance with non-academic queries such as visa help or money and budgeting advice, the support you need is always close at hand.
You’ll have lots of opportunities to make friends during your time at Brunel.
You’ll meet people on your course, through our sports clubs and societies, at social events, during Welcome Week, and by just getting to know your other fellow commuters.
Our students' union will be at the heart of your social life at Brunel.
They organise your student nights out on campus at The Venue , as well as a number of social activities during the day - don't forget to pencil in big events like Varsity and Holi to your calendar.
But they're not just about throwing awesome parties, they also champion causes that matter to you, like One Brunel - a celebration of our diverse community.
From inspiring inclusion to tackling environmental impact, you'll have the chance to take part in something meaningful.
There's also a vibrant mix of 50+ societies to get involved in.
From cultural and subject specific-groups to arts and crafts, and dungeons and dragons, you're practically guaranteed to meet someone who shares your interests and becomes your new buddy in no time!
Sport more your thing?
You’ll find plenty of sporting facilities on campus, including a gym , various indoor and outdoor sports courts, as well as running tracks, playing fields and even a physiotherapy clinic.
Or, why not consider joining one of the Team Brunel sports clubs?
Choose from a range of activities such as football, rugby, archery, sailing, and many more.
For those of you who prefer a more laid-back approach to fitness, there's Active@Brunel - a programme of activities, including weekly drop-in sessions, where you can simply turn up and play your favourite sports.
From yoga and pilates to boxercise, and dance fitness, we've got something to help you stay active and healthy in between your lectures.
But, if you’d rather watch sports than play it, head to Loco's .
Here you can catch many of the live games like football and rugby and meet with other sports fans.
Interested in meeting new people and making a positive impact?
Consider joining Brunel Volunteers !
We provide opportunities to engage with the community, contribute to important initiatives, and create lasting friendships.
By getting involved, you'll play a part in making a difference and enriching your uni experience.
Lastly, if you’re feeling creative and have some free time between classes, check out Brunel Arts .
They run weekly classes, events, concerts and productions all year round, covering everything from singing and acting to creative writing, music theory, painting, drawing, pottery, and guitar groups.
It's a great way to unleash your creativity and meet like-minded people.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/accountancy-bsc:
L120
L121 with placement
3 years full-time
International £20,400
AAB - BBB (A-level)
DDM (BTEC)
30   (IB)
If you're thinking about a future in accounting or roles in controllership, auditing, taxation, or financial consulting, the Brunel Accountancy BSc is a great place to start.
This degree gives you the knowledge, practical skills, and real-world insights that reflect what’s happening in today’s accounting profession.
You’ll build a strong foundation in financial management and control, preparing you for a wide range of career paths in both the private and public sectors.
This ACCA, CIMA, and ICAEW accredited degree gives you a solid foundation in the core areas of accounting, including financial analysis, financial management, management control, taxation, and auditing.
You’ll also gain a clear understanding of the regulatory and social frameworks that shape these practices.
You’ll learn from experienced academics, many of whom are professionally qualified accountants or bring significant industry expertise into the classroom.
This ensures your learning is both academically rigorous and practically relevant.
You’ll also benefit from hands-on insights through our well-established Student Experience programme, which runs annually across two key themes: Job market preparation, and Contemporary issues in accounting, finance, and economics.
Our popular Finance and Accounting Uncovered events have recently featured professionals and industry experts from organisations such as PwC, KPMG, Grant Thornton, Goldman Sachs, Lloyds Banking Group, and the UK Civil Service.
Throughout the course, you’ll develop a comprehensive understanding of the conceptual, professional, and practical dimensions of accountancy - both nationally and globally.
You’ll build the skills to analyse and solve complex accounting problems across a variety of business scenarios.
You’ll also gain a strong grasp of the financial drivers behind business leadership, strategy, planning, governance, and ethics.
To prepare you for the modern workplace, you’ll be trained in industry-relevant accounting software and analytical tools widely used by financial institutions, including SAS, EViews, Bloomberg, Reuters, and STATA.
We offer two study options.
You can choose three years full-time or four years full-time with a one-year professional placement between years two and three that will give you hands-on experience in a real-life working environment.
You can tailor the final year of your course to specialise in an area of particular interest.
As this degree is accredited by the ACCA, CIMA and ICAEW, you'll receive exemptions from certain professional qualifying exams.
This will allow you to speed up your path towards professional qualification, should you so choose to do after graduating from Brunel.
As a proud member of the University of London federation, Brunel offers you a degree that's respected and recognised both nationally and internationally, enhancing your academic profile and boosting your career prospects worldwide.
As a Brunel student, you’ll gain access to Senate House Library - one of the UK’s premier academic libraries for the arts, humanities, and social sciences, along with a network of libraries across the University of London.
These exceptional resources support your learning and research throughout your studies.
The theoretical and practical expertise you’ll gain from your Brunel Accountancy BSc will make you a ‘business ready’ graduate preferred by employers in the accounting profession, industry, and the public sector.
This course is designed to give you a comprehensive grounding in the skills, theories and professional practices of the accounting profession.
Brunel’s accounting degree consists of compulsory and optional modules.
In the final year students can furthermore choose whether to write a dissertation or take additional modules instead.
The optional dissertation project is a year-long project students write under close supervision by a dedicated academic supervisor in one-on-one meetings.
This module aims to develop knowledge and understanding of the role and functions of accountancy and audit in a business context, with particular emphasis on reporting and assurance of financial information.
This module aims to provide students with a firm foundation in the principles of macroeconomics and microeconomics at the theoretical level.
It also aims to demonstrate the application of theory to current issues in macroeconomics and microeconomics.
This module is designed to provide students of all academic backgrounds with strong mathematical foundations necessary for further study in Economics, Finance and Accountancy.
Students will strengthen their understanding of basic algebra and differential calculus and the way they are applied in Economics, Finance and Accountancy.
This module aims to give students an understanding of the roles and functions of financial markets and an awareness of the financial system, in order to provide a necessary basis for further study.
This module is designed to build numerical and data analysis skills which are in high demand in industry.
It aims to provide an understanding of key statistical concepts and methods, such as descriptive statistics, probability theory, inference, testing and sampling.
Students will have the chance to develop hands-on expertise with analysing data sets and utilising software tools to draw meaningful insights from real-world data.
This module aims to develop knowledge and skills in the application of management accounting techniques to quantitative and qualitative information for purposes of planning, decision-making, performance evaluation, and control.
The module aims to enable students to examine the conceptual and computational principles of the UK taxation system as they affect businesses and individuals.
Develop skills of using a computerised accounting system to execute and manage typical accounting processes of business organisations and acquire a critical understanding of the role that modern technology plays in making accounting procedures and practices more effective and efficient.
This module aims to develop knowledge and skills in understanding and applying accounting standards and the theoretical framework in the preparation of financial statements of entities.
This module aims to explore the nature and scope of the general legal system in the UK and its major laws related to business and companies, to provide a critical understanding of the legal framework within which companies operate, to investigate legal obligations and the effects of the law on key factors in relation to company formation, day-to-day administration and failure, and to develop knowledge and analytical skills on evaluation of issues related to obligation of companies and their directors.
The aim of the course is to provide students with the theoretical and practical skills needed to understand and analyse main characteristics of financial and accounting data.
Develop an understanding of relevant knowledge and skills related to the exercise of professional judgement in carrying out the role of the accountant in the areas of governance, internal control, compliance and the management of risk in an organisation, within the context of an overall ethical framework.
The aim of the course is to provide students with a review of statistical methods applied in economic analysis, the theoretical skills needed to understand and analyse data and the practical skills needed to construct and estimate relevant models.
Students will learn about and practice techniques in performing and discussing data analysis.
This modules is recommended for students who wish to write a dissertation in Economics.
This module aims to develop knowledge and understanding of the process of carrying out the assurance engagement and its application in the context of best practice and current developments.
This module aims to enable students to recommend relevant options for financing a business, recognise and manage financial risks and make appropriate investment decisions.
This module aims to develop knowledge and skills in understanding and applying accounting standards and the theoretical framework in the preparation of financial statements of entities, including groups and how to analyse and interpret those financial statements.
The aim of this module is to develop awareness of various aspects of the international financial accounting environment, to provide an overview of the international differences in financial reporting, examines harmonisation and classification and assesses the obstacles to and progress of the adoption of international standards in major countries.
The module also provides a critical understanding of theories and contemporary approaches to ethics, corporate social responsibility and governance and the challenges of sustainable development and responses to it.
This module aims to develop students' critical understanding of the meaning and purpose of forensic accounting and the role of the expert witness.
To facilitate a critical awareness of the nature and extent of financial dispute resolution.
To enable students to apply techniques used in forensic accounting engagements, including the identification and quantification of admissible evidence and the quantification of damages.
The module aims to develop knowledge and understanding of the concepts of sustainability and sustainable development, as they apply to the accountancy and auditing professions, and how they inform future accounting/auditing practice.
This module aims to develop an understanding of the basic principles of public sector accounting, appreciate differences and similarities between public and private sector accounting and enable students to appreciate the significance of accountability in the public sector.
The module is aimed to provide final-year undergraduates with the opportunity to provide evidence of their ability to independently pursue research in the area of accountancy chosen by them, with the assistance of, and the recommendation by, members of the Department.
Students will be expected to develop their analytical ability and skills to conduct a general investigation into issues relating to accountancy.
Our aim is to teach you ‘employable knowledge’, which can be applied to real-world situations.
giving you the skills you need to find the right role after you graduate.
You’ll be well prepared for work, especially if you undertake a work placement.
Securing an accounting degree job is highly competitive so we’ll support you to gain a strong foundation in the skills employers are looking for.
We also offer opportunities within the Department of Economics, Finance and Accounting, as well as through the University’s Professional Development Centre (PDC) to help you build skills and experience.
Recent successful work placement opportunities have seen our candidates placed in ‘Big 4’ accounting firms in audit / consulting and reputed banks / financial services firms.
Our graduates are employed in many fields, with roles at NatWest (Financing Futures), PwC, EY, KPMG, the Treasury, and the Bank of England.
Within industry, graduates are working at businesses like BP, Xerox and Marks and Spencer.
A minimum of five GCSEs are required, including GCSE Mathematics grade B/5, and GCSE English Language grade C/ 4 or GCSE English Literature grade B/ 5.
Brunel University London is committed to raising the aspirations of our applicants and students.
Please check our Admissions pages for more information on other factors we use to assess applicants as well as our full GCSE requirements and accepted equivalencies in place of GCSEs.
£1,385 placement year
£20,400 full-time
Home undergraduate student fees are regulated and are currently capped at £9,535 per year; any changes will be subject to changes in government policy.
More information on any additional course-related costs .
See our fees and funding page for full details of undergraduate scholarships available to Brunel applicants.
Please refer to the scholarships pages to view discounts available to eligible EU undergraduate applicants.
We expect that all lecture sessions for all modules will be delivered on campus, with recording software used to make recordings available afterwards.
Our modules are delivered through engaging lectures, and in most modules, through seminars that allow for interactions in smaller groups.
We believe that you'll learn most successfully as an active participant in your learning among a community of scholars.
We expect you to actively engage with your learning programmes in real-time.
Course materials will be made available on our virtual learning platform ahead of many teaching sessions so that you can prepare well prior to coming to class.
The timetable is being constructed to produce the most efficient allocation of time for students both when they are on campus, and when they are off campus.
Placements are available by taking a year out of full-time study between Level 5 and Level 6.
Personal Tutoring
Your Personal Tutor is responsible for monitoring and supporting your academic and personal development both in your transition to university and between years.
It is someone you can discuss, in confidence, your academic progress with or any special requirements you may need.
We provide both - group tutoring sessions and (if you want), a one-to-one session.
You can book this with your tutor at a time suitable for you.
We provide online options for this too through some video conferencing platforms.
This tutoring relationship is introduced during your induction at the start of the programme, and is cemented by ongoing interaction throughout your journey at Brunel.
Assessment
It is expected that examination-style assessments, excepting some computer-based tests, will be held on campus, and you'll be expected to attend their examination sessions.
Assessment formats will include a mix of formal examination, coursework (problems, exercises and essays), computer-based tests, presentations, reports, individual projects and group projects, designed to meet the varied learning outcomes and develop a range of transferable skills.
Assessments for modules that lead to exam accreditations for ACCA, ICAEW and CIMA will be guided by the requirements of those professional bodies.
Feedback and Consultation
We provide set times where you can talk to your lecturers and module leaders, either in person or via phone or video conference, to discuss academic matters relating to your course.
You can also use these opportunities to obtain and discuss feedback on an assessment and exams.
These hours can be found on the virtual learning platform and at the Taught Programmes Office.
Please email your lecturer or drop by their office to make your booking and we will find a time convenient for both of you.
Departmental Communication
You can keep up with subject and module updates through our virtual learning platform.
We'll also send important updates to your student email account, so please keep an eye on those.
Co-curricula
We arrange and host many events designed to support your personal development and career path.
We'll email you about these opportunities at the start of each term and send a reminder before the event.
Some of these events will be on campus and some will be live-streamed, according to the requirements of the topic, the location of the speaker and what has worked most successfully in the past.
Students are strongly advised to purchase core texts from module reading lists, although copies are also available via Brunel Library.
Access to a laptop or desktop PC is required for joining online activities, completing coursework and digital exams, and a minimum specification can be found here.
Our staff have national and international reputations for their research, publications and applied work.
This means that your education will be innovative, inspiring and cover the most up-to-date industry knowledge.
Your accounting course will consist of lectures, workshops, seminars, one-to-one supervision, guest speakers from industry, site visits and team and project-based learning.
You'll have 12 to 14 hours of directed study a week in Level 1.
This number decreases in Levels 2 and 3.
Students are also expected to undertake substantial independent study.
Should you need any non-academic support during your time at Brunel, the Student Support and Welfare Team are here to help.
Modules are assessed by combinations of coursework and examinations.
In the final year you can also opt to write a dissertation.
The proportion of exam to coursework is approximately 75% to 25%, with some courses having a higher proportion of continuous assessment.
Year 1 does not count towards your final degree mark.
Year 2 is worth a third, and Year 3 is worth the rest.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/accounting-and-business-intelligence-msc:
January
Subject area
Business School
1  year full-time
2 years full-time with placement
16 months full-time with placement
15 months full-time
27 months full-time with placement
UK £14,435
International £24,795
2:2
Recent disruptive technological innovations such as Big Data Analytics, Blockchain Automation, and Business Financial Technology, lead to profound changes within the modern business environment.
Consequently, accounting and business finance professionals are challenged to develop new hybrid skillsets and attributes that will enable them to thrive within the sphere of the emerging 5 th industrial revolution.
The MSc Accounting and Business Intelligence is designed for students who have an academic background in accounting, business analytics, and financial management.
The structure of the programme makes it particularly relevant to the needs of accounting graduates and newly qualified accounting professionals who aim to pursue careers within the new hybrid accounting specialisms and who aim to operate within the new and increasingly popular business models that are a by-product of modern, fast-paced technological innovations.
Completing this course successfully will help you develop the attributes required to progress faster through the business hierarchy and will allow you to secure highly sought-after positions such as Chief Financial and Technology Officer, Chief Financial Information Officer, Forensic Accountant, and International Tax Consultant, in addition to the more mainstream career pathways in accounting and auditing.
The combination of the above attributes will also help you develop the necessary aptitude that leads to a successful pursuit of further studies at PhD level.
In addition to an intellectually challenging and robust learning experience, this programme will also provide you with the opportunity to apply classroom-learned theory and concepts at the workplace through an optional placement, subject to you being able to secure a suitable role within an organisation.
This course is accredited by AACSB and is recognised by the Chartered Institute of Taxation as relevant to its ADIT qualification.
Watch our video below to learn how the course will be taught, meet our academics and explore the facilities available on our campus.
The Accounting and Business Intelligence MSc consists of six compulsory and six optional modules (of which, you would select two), a dissertation, and an option to undertake placement.
The six compulsory modules foster the development of a set of specialist post-graduate attributes in accounting, hybridised with a strong conceptual understanding of business intelligence and business financial technology.
The optional modules are designed to encourage personal learning and development in the fields of Professional Consultancy, International Business Strategy, Creative and Forensic Accounting, Digital Creativity and Entrepreneurship.
These modules enable students to personalise their studies and develop specialist skills in line with their own interests and career aspirations.
The dissertation, which is a core module, enables learners to consolidate their skills through the conception and execution of a research-oriented project, that requires synthesis of theoretical concepts with empirical evidence and evaluation of relevant implications for practice.
This module provides you with an opportunity to learn and develop a thorough and critical understanding of contemporary theories and applications related to financial and non-financial reporting, sustainability, and governance.
This module aims to enable you to appraise theories of strategic management accounting and control.
Through this module, you will be able to evaluate how these theories contribute to strategy formulation, implementation, and sustainability.
In this module, you will have an opportunity to explore the world of international taxation, and how it impacts multinational corporations.
Key concepts covered in this module include transfer pricing, double tax treaties, and so on.
This module enables you to develop advanced critical awareness of business financial technology and appraise its practical implications for accounting.
You will also gain a deeper understanding of disruptive technologies, in the accounting and finance sectors, such as blockchain technology.
In this module, you will explore some of the most significant technologies associated with business intelligence, big data, and data analytics.
You will also gain a deeper understanding on how to these technologies are applied in the corporate sector.
This module facilitates a comprehensive grasp of research methods in the accounting field.
The provided learning materials establish a strong foundation for the dissertation project in MG5636.
This module requires students to research and write a thesis of 12,000 words.
The dissertation should involve undertaking either qualitative or quantitative research, involving a research problem in the field of accounting.
This is a module where you have an opportunity to develop critical awareness of theories, methods of practice, and contemporary issues within the creative accounting and fraud environment.
You will also be able to appraise the relevance and limitations of forensic accounting and fraud investigation techniques, with particular emphasis on sustainability and regulatory contexts.
This module defines creativity within the context of innovative and entrepreneurial firms.
It seeks to analyse creativity at individual, group, organisational, urban and national levels, delineating its vital role in fostering innovation and entrepreneurship in dynamic environments.
This module communicates the forces that shape the operating environments of organisations, nationally and internationally.
Upon completing this module, students will be able to systematically apply business management theories, concepts and techniques to central international business activities such as foreign entry.
Read more about the structure of postgraduate degrees at Brunel
Built upon the core advanced features of the professional accountancy domain, our Accounting and Business Intelligence MSc will equip you with a unique set of expertise, that is currently in increasing demand.
It fosters the development of a strong conceptual understanding of business intelligence, innovation, entrepreneurship and business financial technologies in addition to exploring current issues in such areas as corporate governance, international taxation, management and financial accounting.
Armed with the ability to appraise both theoretical and applied perspectives on modern business models’ operation and sustainability, you will be able to apply a range of specialist skills to the organisations in which you will operate as a modern accounting professional.
As a masters graduate you’ll be equipped to enter a number of job roles, including : Auditor; Financial Accountant; Management Accountant; Financial Technology Associate; Business Intelligence Analyst; International Tax Consultant; Forensic Accountant; Business Consultant; Financial analyst; Financial Controller.
£14,435 full-time
£24,795 full-time
Fees quoted are per year and are subject to an annual increase.
See our fees and funding page for full details of postgraduate scholarships available to Brunel applicants.
At Brunel Business School (BBS), you will experience a rich and engaging on-campus learning environment.
Additionally, you will have access to a wide range of resources on Brightspace, our online learning platform, including PowerPoint slides, video recordings, and peer-reviewed academic publications that align with the module learning objectives.
Moreover, BBS students benefit from a range of support and opportunities from our dedicated staff and faculty, such as:
The assessment is designed to enable you demonstrate your standard of competence on the programme’s learning outcomes.
In conjunction with appropriate feedback, it aims to incorporate crucial authentic elements that foster deep learning, self-direction, consolidation of experiences, relevance of skills to professional practice, problem solving, and peer interaction.
Implementation of the programme’s assessment strategy is achieved through a diverse set of methods and elements that include unseen examinations and MCQ tests/quizzes, essay/report writing, individually assessed group debates, individually assessed group presentations, case study analysis (alone and in teams), dynamic cumulative assignments that enable synthesis and achievement of learning objectives over longer periods of time, individually assessed role play, and writing of reflective accounts.
Finally, by working on a dissertation, you will be exposed to the challenges of developing a coherent and outcome oriented major piece of independent research that will help you develop original approaches in solving complex unstructured business problems.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/accounting-and-business-management-bsc:
NN14
N2NL with placement
International £22,320
AAB-BBB (A-level)
30  (IB)
Accounting and management best practice is a fundamental pre-requisite of today’s business world.
Today’s accountants do much more than maintain and communicate company financial data; they are key players in managing business, they're critical to success and business longevity.
You'll learn from a dynamic blend of seasoned academics with cutting-edge research and industry professionals.
From day one, you'll be immersed in the latest business trends and real-world insights, giving you a head start in your professional journey.
This programme equips you with a robust understanding of accounting and business management including management accounting, financial management, entrepreneurship, strategic planning, business law, marketing, and the international business environment.
You'll learn valuable transferable technical skills along the way including numerical analytical methods and get hands on experience of industry standard accounting and software packages.
There's the option to take a year’s work placement between your second and third year.
This gives you the opportunity to get paid to work with top global companies while you study, paving the way for full-time positions after graduation.
Deloitte, Morgan Stanley, Loreal, PWC -these are just a few examples of where our graduates land.
We've built strong connections with renowned accountancy firms, investment banks, and global employers, setting you up for success.
Previous employers have included Adidas, Microsoft, British Airways, PwC and Nissan.
Find out more on our work placement year page.
On successful conclusion of your degree this combination of technical, analytical and interpersonal skills will make you highly attractive to potential employers.
You'll be well equipped to work in multidisciplinary business teams facing real business challenges in areas as diverse as management consulting, business development, innovation, accountancy, public finance and entrepreneurship, within the UK and internationally.
This course does not require A-level maths or the overseas equivalent.
On the programme, you'll earn international accreditations from prestigious accounting bodies like ICAEW, ACCA, and CIMA.
These accreditations signify your expertise and open doors to a world of opportunities.
With us, you're not just learning accounting and business management; you're becoming a part of an elite group recognised by industry giants worldwide.
This programme has international accreditation from the following professional accounting bodies:
These accreditations attest to the relevance and rigour of our curriculum.
Professional accounting bodies highly regard our degree programme.
According to the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants, Brunel graduates have a higher than average pass rate in both the accounting and management exam streams.
Find out more about all our accreditations and exemptions on our accreditations and exemptions page.
The Accounting and Business Management BSc degree will equip you with a broad knowledge and appreciation of these principal subjects as well as the finer points of good accounting practice.
Optional modules in your final year allow you to learn more about entrepreneurship, taxation, strategic management, business ethics or corporate reporting.
Developing students’ understanding of the basic economic concepts and principles that apply to the international business environment with emphasis on European business, and developing analytical and conceptual skills in economic and business environment for them to be able to respond to problems associated with modern international business environment.
The module introduces students to the essential concepts of accounting and financial management.
As the foundation of all other accounting modules, you will study how financial information is prepared, communicated and used.
You will develop skills in critically evaluating and appreciating the importance of the accounting and finance function within organisations particularly in connection with business decision-making.
Students will learn how to: prepare a set of essential financial statements for a business, prepare information for business planning - such as budgets, prepare information for decision-making using techniques such as cost, volume, profit analysis and investment appraisal techniques.
This module aims to enable students to understand the job market for students of economics, finance, banking and accountancy, to develop their employability and the skills required to access insight events.
This module introduces students to fundamentals of business and management with the focus on a number of key concepts.
This includes subjects such as understanding organisational planning with a focus on the foundations of decision, organisational structure and design and managing human resources, leadership, trust, and managing communication, information and operations.
This module’s primary aim is to broaden students’ knowledge and skills in the use of IT and statistics in managing and analysing data for business to improve the quality of decision-making in a dynamic business environment.
This module introduces students to the study of organisations.
It outlines key sociological and psychological perspectives used to analyse organisations and occupational groups.
Students encounter core topics including organisational design, bureaucracy and contingency theory.
Theory and practice are linked via seminars, case study discussions and reflections on students’ experience of organisations.
This module introduces students to the fundamental concepts and strategies in marketing.
It covers a wide range of topics, including market research, consumer behaviour, branding, product development, pricing, marketing communication and retailing, digital marketing, among others.
The module blends theoretical knowledge with practical case examples, preparing students for real-world marketing challenges.
This module aims to develop the students' understanding and skills in the application of quantitative and qualitative research methods in business management and interpret data and present coherent and appropriate recommendations that lead to effective business and management decisions.
The module seeks to introduce students to a critical approach to the study of management and organisations.
This will be achieved through an exploration of bureaucratic/post-bureaucratic organisations, new forms of work organisations, new forms of managerial control, resistance and power, new forms of employment, gender and work organisations.
The aim of this module is to introduce students to issues, debates, and controversies relating to the field of Human Resource Management.
The module intends to develop students’ awareness of people management issues within and outside the workplace.
The people management issues are set against the background of national and international issues that affect HRM policies and practices.
This module aims to develop an understanding of the defining characteristics of digital marketing and the major issues facing marketers in the rapidly growing area of marketing using digital technologies.
Theory and application-based module content is strengthened with special emphasis on new digital products like NFTs, the new digital consumer like Gen-Z, digital platforms, and integrated digital marketing communications.
This module aims to enable students to appreciate the many, wide ranging issues and challenges that confront strategic managers, introduce concepts, topics and methodological approaches relevant to the analysis of the strategic position of the organisation and the development and implementation of strategies in complex uncertain environments, including a consideration of major operational implications, and to develop skills of strategic thinking, analysis and argument.
Graduates from Brunel University London rank 27th nationally, and 9th in London for the salaries they earn - earning £4,300 more than the median salary across the university sector.*
Our programmes are built with input from business professionals with the specific aim of helping you enter the workplace fully equipped and confident of your abilities.
We have extensive links with employers and industry and you’ll benefit from our networks as well as having the opportunity to learn from a variety of guest speakers.
As a graduate you’ll be equipped to enter a number of roles, including: Business development manager; Chartered accountant; Chartered management accountant; Chartered public finance accountant; Forensic accountant; Management consultant; Tax advisor; Entrepreneur; Business Financial Partner.
Recent Brunel Business School graduates have gone on to work for Accenture, Amazon, Barclays, British Airways, Capgemini, HSBC, Jaguar Land Rover, L’Oréal, McCann, Microsoft, PricewaterhouseCoopers, and Xerox.
Our inspiring professional and personal development programme Business Life will also help you to prepare for the world of work with its range of optional sessions including training and practice in a range of skills like customer service, team working, presenting and project management.
Find out more about how we'll support your future goals .
*Longitudinal Employment Outcomes 2022
A minimum of five GCSEs are required, including GCSE Mathematics grade C or grade 4 and GCSE English Language grade C or grade 4 or GCSE English Literature grade B or grade 5.
£22,320 full-time
Teaching is delivered through a combination of lectures, small group seminars, hands-on workshops, and one-to-one sessions with your tutor.
Many of our lecturers are internationally or nationally recognised for their innovative work and research, which results in challenging and stimulating course content.
Lecturers may consult for major companies and have practical business experience, potentially from running their own companies.
All of this contributes to real-time, real world observations and teaching.
There'll be email discussion groups and you’re encouraged to engage with online material using the university’s virtual learning environment.
To support your course content, Brunel Business School (BBS) regularly offers research talks on key management issues and presentations by outside speakers.
Throughout the course, you will also be expected to undertake group work and individual projects and presentations.
Your personal tutor will be assigned in your first year and will be available to help with academic or personal issues.
In your second year, this support will be continued through the Business School’s Pastoral Care programme – BBS Student Support – a team of specially chosen personal tutors who are available throughout the working week.
Additionally, if you choose a four-year sandwich course, you'll be allocated an industrial tutor who'll provide support during your work placement.
In your final year you'll receive one‑to‑one supervision for your major project.
Academic staff are available for a number of hours each week should you need to get advice.
Their availability will be displayed on their office doors so you can make an appointment or drop by to see them if they have any concerns about their studies.
Each subject is assessed either by a combination of continuous appraisal and examination or by coursework or examination alone.
As a rough guide, the split is approximately 50:50 exam to coursework but the exact ratio varies depending on the modules you select.
Your results from Level 1 do not count towards your final degree classification, but you have to pass the first year to continue with the degree.
Level 2 is worth a third of your final mark and Level 3 - the rest.
In your final year you will undertake an assessed project of around 8,000 words worth a third of your Level 3 marks.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/accounting-and-business-management-msc:
2 years  full-time with placement
Accounting data and analysis lies at the very heart of good management.
It provides vital information for investors and other external parties, and brings clarity to major decision-making in business management.
If you have a business-related degree and want to develop your understanding of accounting and management in a business context, our Accounting and Business Management MSc is for you.
This integrated programme will develop your theoretical knowledge and your practical skills, giving you a robust foundation of knowledge to build upon.
You will acquire technical accounting skills, understand the ins and outs of financial reporting, and learn about quantitative and qualitative research methods.
Understanding the role of stakeholders and the influence of regulatory frameworks on accounting and management, both domestically and internationally will give you the edge in the global market.
The Accounting and Business Management MSc is accredited by ACCA, CIMA, ICAEW and AIA providing you with a range of exemptions that stop you from having to study the same topics that you've already been taught.
Find out more on our accreditations and exemptions page.
Watch our video below to learn how the course will be taught, meet our academics and hear about the facilities available on our campus.
The Accounting and Business Management MSc consists of compulsory modules that create a firm foundation of knowledge in the principal subjects.
Optional modules allow for further exploration in related areas such as entrepreneurship, international business, and CSR.
This module exposes you to topical issues in both the financial and management accounting fields such as: developments in ethical standards, forensic accounting, financial technology and block chain accounting, sustainability reporting, and accounting for not-for-profit organisations.
The module will equip you with sufficient knowledge to evaluate alternative political, economic and social perspectives in accounting across a variety of institutional settings (e.g., private sector, public sector, voluntary sector).
This module is carefully designed to introduce you to the world of financial accounting, its language and fundamental practices.
It will enable you to confidently implement financial accounting practices, record various business transactions following relevant accounting standards, perform bank reconciliations and prepare essential financial statements for a single entity.
You will acquire crucial knowledge and skills for understanding the business world and build a solid foundation for the more advanced MG5613 Financial Reporting module.
Building on MG5612 Financial Accounting, this module enhances your skills in preparing intricate financial statements for more complex entities.
You will learn essential analytical techniques for interpreting financial statements and build confidence in accounting for leases, government grants, financial instruments, and more.
The module offers opportunities to develop critical thinking, problem-solving, and decision-making skills.
This module provides a comprehensive introduction to management accounting, focusing on decision-making, planning, and control practices.
You will learn to calculate product costs using various methods, identify relevant costs for organisational decisions, and master financial planning through budgeting.
The course establishes a strong foundation for the advanced MG5605 module, and together, they equip you with the necessary skills and knowledge to become an effective member of an organisation.
This module examines the legal, cultural, economic, political, technological and ethical challenges in managing complex international operations across borders.
It also explores managerial behaviours and organisational processes that are key when operating in a competitive global environment.
This module offers you the opportunity to research and write a thesis of approximately 12,000 words.
You will undertake either qualitative or quantitative research, involving a research problem in the field of accounting.
This module promotes an integrative understanding of the challenges and opportunities involved in business planning through practice.
Students develop a business plan by integrating all components, such as market opportunity, competition, business models, and financing, into a unified whole.
Using illustrative case studies, this module also examines business models’ underlying strategies and decision-making processes.
Studying the nature of entrepreneurship and its importance in society.
Analysis and understanding of the psychological and behavioural characteristics of the entrepreneur.
Overview of the major theories in the field (psychological theory and cognitive theory) as well as the main approaches to entrepreneurship.
This module focuses on business ethics, sustainability and corporate governance in internationally operating organisations.
These areas are addressed from the perspective of the dual ‘business’ models of the shareholder and the stakeholder approaches.
The broader societal impacts of business activities are discussed by using concepts from moral philosophy, CSR, sustainability and corporate governance.
This module introduces students to the design and choice of strategies in organisations across industries and sectors.
It enables students to appreciate the challenges that confront managers in complex, dynamic and increasingly uncertain conditions.
Students develop skills in critical thinking, logical analysis, argument and judgement based on insights from case studies and cutting-edge research.
This module builds on MG5614 Management Accounting and advances your knowledge in the management accounting realm.
You will develop critical knowledge and skills that enable you to implement a number of strategic management accounting practices, calculate and use cost information to make informed business decisions in uncertain environments and effectively measure organisational performance.
Students seeking exemptions from ACCA, CIMA, ICAEW or AIA examinations must select this module.
Our Accounting and Business Management MSc is ideal for those looking for a qualification that will support them in managing their own business, getting ahead in the corporate world, or as a foundation for further education in the field.
Our programmes are built with input from business professionals with the specific aim of helping you enter the workplace fully equipped and confident of your abilities.
As a masters graduate you’ll be equipped to enter a number of job roles, including: Auditor; Business analyst; Corporate controller; Financial analyst; Forensic accountant; Managerial accountant
Some of the well-known names who value Brunel Business School graduates include Accenture, Amazon, Barclays, British Airways, Capgemini, HSBC, Jaguar Land Rover, L’Oréal, McCann, Microsoft, PricewaterhouseCoopers, and Xerox.
Teaching and learning methods typically comprise of weekly lectures and workshops with the use of PowerPoint slides and other audio-visual teaching aids.
The Talis online portal provides access to the module guides, teaching and learning materials, and other resources.
Small study groups and individual or group presentations provide opportunities for debate and formative feedback.
Academics who teach this course are part of the Accounting and Auditing Research Group (AARG) which is directed by Dr Jill Collis.
Jill has developed a critical mass of research on the effects of accounting and auditing regulations on small and micro-entities, which has twice formed part of the UK government's regulatory impact assessment.
It has also been used as the model for surveys in other EU Member States and contributes to the 'think small first’ approach to accounting regulation in Europe.
Your dissertation is a self-directed activity guided by a supervisor and assessed with a project report.
Most of the accounting modules are assessed solely by examination, as this is a requirement for potential exemption from the professional examinations.
Other modules are assessed by coursework and examination.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/advanced-chemical-engineering-hydrogen-and-low-carbon-technologies-msc:
Chemical Engineering Aerospace Engineering Mechanical and Automotive Engineering Environmental Sciences Civil Engineering
Chemical Engineering
Aerospace Engineering
Mechanical and Automotive Engineering
Environmental Sciences
Civil Engineering
NEW FOR 2024: A pioneering course designed and delivered with a passionate commitment to achieving net-zero.
Taught within Brunel’s young and vibrant chemical engineering department, this new master’s programme is the first of its kind in the UK.
The course’s pioneering approach is rooted in its collaboration with four other departments within the university - mechanical and aerospace engineering, civil engineering, environmental science and social and political sciences - giving you a holistic view of low carbon technology and the issues that surround it.
You will be taught by a team of world-leading academics with extensive experience and diverse backgrounds in low carbon technologies, who deliver research-informed teaching across topics such as hydrogen production, carbon capture, utilisation and storage (CCUS), biorefineries and fuel cells.
You will benefit from the programme’s blended approach to teaching, which includes interactive modes, traditional lectures and tutorial-style learning, along with an active learning approach through extensive discussion.
A clear benefit of the programme’s interdisciplinary approach is that while you acquire the ground-breaking science expertise you’ll also have the opportunity to select employability-boosting modules, focusing for example on project management, environmental legislation and climate politics.
The compulsory modules will give you industry-relevant problem solving and transferable skills through holistic assessments, including assignments, written exams, oral presentations, and report writing.
Brunel is recognised for its sector-leading chemical engineering facilities on campus, from where you will undertake practical project work comprising both computational modelling and laboratory experiments.
This will not only enhance your employability on graduation, but also offer you a unique and exciting perspective on a range of modern technologies, and their potential to achieve sustainable resource management with minimal environmental impact.
At the end of their final year, engineering and maths students are invited to showcase their project work at Brunel Engineers +, an event that both celebrates their achievements and gives them the chance to network with industry figures and employers.
This video shows some of the projects exhibited at the 2024 Brunel Engineers + event, with explanations by the students themselves.
The aim of this module is for students to enhance their understanding of various elements, assumptions and considerations involved in designing chemical processes and low carbon technologies.
This advanced knowledge will enable them to create detailed designs, to analyse and to synthesise chemical processes and low carbon technologies including techno-economic, environmental and societal impacts.
This will be further supported by learning process safety concepts and by applying appropriate techniques in safe process designs.
The students will acquire and apply engineering management skills such as project management, reflective practices, critical thinking, decision-making and conflict resolution skills, while solving complex engineering problems.
The aim of this module is to give students the opportunity to develop independent and proactive learning, decision-making skills, and the ability to identify research needs in emerging areas.
The open-ended nature of the research project related to low carbon technologies facilitates the development of critical thinking and problem-solving capacities.The aim of this module is to provide students the opportunity to develop independent and proactive learning, decision-making skills, and the ability to identify research needs in emerging areas.
The open-ended nature of the research project related to low carbon technologies facilitates the development of critical thinking and problem-solving capacities.
To consider the principles of renewable resources including geothermal, biomass and hydrogen as an energy carrier and their environmental impact and to provide an understanding of renewable energy conversion technologies.
This module will develop deeper understanding of the roles of various engineering professionals involved in engineering and construction project delivery, deeper understanding of management science as applied to engineering and infrastructure projects, and wider appreciation of the role of the Engineer in society and in sustainable project development.
The problem: to build understanding of climate change science and associated threats to society and the environment, with critical analysis of progress towards adaptation and mitigation.
Available solutions: to promote innovative design solutions to climate change challenges affecting our critical infrastructure.
Decision making: to critically reflect on the multi-disciplinary nature of climate change challenges and solutions by adopting a holistic, evidence-based approach to decision making.
To teach students the fundamentals of mathematical modelling in the context of chemical engineering.
The module will cover the development of both first-principles and empirical models, numerical methods for solving models and model validation.
Linear and nonlinear programming for optimization will be also covered.
The aim of this module is to immerse students in the principles and practices of sustainable natural resource and solid waste management.
By exploring the complex interplay between environmental, economic, social, and technical factors, students will gain a deep understanding of effective resource management and waste reduction strategies, to oversee the design and implementation of sustainable resource management systems.
The module emphasises practical, forward-thinking solutions to promote resource efficiency and drive the transition towards a circular economy.
This MSc programme has been developed to address the skills gap in the workforce needed to decarbonise industries in response to the growing energy demand and to achieve the net-zero target.
Our MSc graduates will possess a comprehensive understanding of emerging low-carbon technologies and interdisciplinary knowledge in environmental sustainability, climate change politics, and project management.
Equipped with these skills, they will be able to tackle global challenges such as meeting the UN Sustainable Development Goals and addressing climate change.
Graduates will be proficient in sustainable industrial system design, enabling them to take up vital technical, managerial, and advisory roles in engineering and consultancy firms, think tanks, and governmental organisations.
They will play a key role in industrial decarbonisation, facilitating the transition from a fossil-based economy to a cleaner economy across sectors including energy, transportation, agriculture, pharmaceuticals, waste management and recycling, among others.
2:2 or above in Chemical and Process Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Civil Engineering, Environmental Engineering, Physics, Chemistry
Entry to this programme requires all students who are not nationals of the European Economic Area (EEA) and have temporary immigration permission to remain in the UK to obtain an ATAS certificate.
If you are made an offer to join this course and you are not an EEA national, you will be required to obtain an ATAS certificate as a condition of your offer.
Applicants who will need an Academic Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS) Certificate: find out if you will need an ATAS certificate, by visiting this webpage: https://www.gov.uk/guidance/find-out-if-you-require-an-atas-certificate#when-you-need-an-atas-certificate.
The deadline for Admissions to make offers to applicants who will require an ATAS certificate is 1st August 2025.
This MSc programme offers significant flexibility for interdisciplinary learning, allowing students to engage with core chemical and process engineering subjects and select elective modules from various departments.
Interactive learning modes are emphasised, combining traditional lectures with tutorial-style sessions and fostering active learning through extensive discussions.
Students will have the opportunity to work on design projects focusing on emerging low-carbon technologies, adopting a systems approach that considers economic, environmental, and social dimensions.
Additionally, the programme provides exciting cutting-edge research projects encompassing both computational modelling and laboratory experiments, offering students insight into modern technologies and their potential for sustainable resource management and minimising environmental impact in the near future.
Assessment of all learning outcomes is achieved through a balanced combination of coursework, projects, and examinations.
Assignments, design projects, and research projects provide students with opportunities to apply their knowledge to real-world situations.
Holistic assessments are conducted through a variety of summative and formative methods, including group and individual assignments, written exams, oral presentations, and report writing.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/advanced-clinical-practice-cardiovascular-health-pgcert-pgdip-and-msc:
Advanced Clinical Practice
3 years part-time
UK £6,060 (part-time)
International £12,395 (part-time)
Degree in a relevant health profession with at least one year of clinical work experience
Are you interested in gaining knowledge, practical, leadership and research skills in the area of cardiovascular health?
Do you currently work in a clinical or health setting delivering cardiovascular disease prevention strategies or rehabilitative care?
Or would you like to do so in the future?
This programme aims to enhance an array of career opportunities - whether this be in clinical practice, academic research, leadership, or community health and wellbeing.
This course offers you flexible learning, enabling you to simultaneously maintain a professional role in clinical practice or manage other commitments whilst completing your studies.
It’s interdisciplinary in nature and delivered by experienced specialist academics in partnership with national and international leaders and clinical specialists from cardiology, nursing, nutrition, exercise, and behavioural medicine.
You'll complete a series of clinical observations across key areas of cardiovascular prevention and rehabilitation.
This will give you a thorough understanding of the theory behind the practice.
You'll also learn first-hand the practicalities of current service delivery.
The research element of the course will provide you with a strong foundation in the practical use of research methods within cardiovascular health and you'll learn how to use research evidence in order to implement best practice within your healthcare setting.
At Brunel, we understand the challenges of fitting study around work and family life.
For this reason, we have designed this course to be flexible, so that it can fit around your current commitments.
The full master's course can be studied 3 years part-time starting in September.
If you don’t want to commit to part-time study of the entire master's, you can develop your educational portfolio over a longer period of time by undertaking staged study that leads to the award of Postgraduate Certiﬁcate (PgCert) after one year of study, Postgraduate Diploma (PgDip) after two years of study and full Masters (MSc) after three years of study.
Please note that it is important you apply for the stage you will be studying in that year, i.e.
to study for the PgDip you must have already completed the PgCert and you only apply for the staged MSc once you have completed the PgDip.
Each stage can be studied 1 year part-time starting in September.
You could even just take one or more CPPD modules for your professional development and return to complete your course at a later date.
This programme is accredited by the Centre of Advancing Practice .
Health Education England’s Centre for Advancing Practice has been established to standardise post-registration education by accrediting advanced practice courses that achieve the standards outlined in the multi-professional Advanced Practice Framework.
Practitioners who have completed accredited education programmes will be eligible to be listed on the Centre’s Advanced Practice Directory.
Programme accreditation from the Centre for Advancing Practice will bring a new level of consistency to the workforce and help showcase advanced practice within health and social care.
You’ll benefit from a course designed to incorporate a multidisciplinary perspective that fulfils the Advanced Clinical Practice framework as set out by NHS England (previously HEE).
You’ll study key modules in advanced clinical leadership, teaching and learning, evidence-based practice and research.
Alongside this, your specialist modules will cover the breadth of cardiovascular health, from populations at high multifactorial risk to those with established atherosclerotic disease.
The scientific foundation of this degree is lifestyle change (quitting smoking, diet and physical activity) through behavioural approaches, adult education, and health promotion.
On graduation, you’ll be able to translate theory into real-world clinical practice.
Each module consists of a taught component, some are delivered virtually and supported by online learning resources.
This module aims to develop advanced knowledge, skills, qualities and behaviours of leadership for clinical healthcare professionals working in a range of roles in healthcare settings in the NHS.
This knowledge and skills literacy will nurture and enhance existing team-working skills and clinical leadership requirements in order to evidence advanced level skills.
Indicative content includes principles of clinical leadership, leadership theories and change management.
Effective team working, partnership working and communication will be explored alongside service development tools including service co-design.
Click here to watch the video about this module
Process analysis will support your understanding of how to audit and measure systems and identify and track change.
Weds 9-12 face to face or 1-4 online
Jan 28th, Feb 11th, Feb 25th, March 11 th
Assessment portfolio and presentation April 2026
In this module we aim to develop your critical understanding of quantitative clinical research methodology and the principles of how to use clinical evidence to constructively inform your practice.
This means developing skills and knowledge of quantitative research methods and design, understanding data and how to analyse and interpret it and learning how to critically appraise published research.
Indicative content includes consideration of research ethics, governance and integrity alongside theoretical underpinnings of scientific method.
Different research designs will be examined alongside common sampling and approaches to statistics.
This module examines the science underpinning effective rehabilitation and exercise prescription relevant to advanced clinical practice.
There will be a focus on the science of strength and conditioning, physiological adaptation to exercise in multiple systems and motor learning.
This will include principles of exercise dosing and the evidence underpinning the effectiveness of approaches to exercise prescription in both prevention and rehabilitation of cardiovascular diseases and health more broadly.
Students will be introduced to the tools used to measure various aspects of movement and performance.
The module will consider the full spectrum of activity from the inactive to the higher functioning individual.
Fridays 9-4 dual teaching
Oct 3rd, Oct 17 th , Oct 31st, Nov 14 th
Assessment infographic and presentation Dec 2025
This module aims to provide students with the knowledge and skills needed to apply multi-factorial lifestyle approaches to the management of cardiovascular disease.
Students will obtain a critical understanding of behaviour change techniques, approaches to smoking cessation, and approaches to weight management.
This module will promote the use of the current evidence base, current national and international guidelines, and underlying principles to develop advanced knowledge of multi-factorial management of cardiovascular disease risk factors.
This module has a strong practical focus aiming to equip students with skills to translate theory to practice.
Students will develop skills to apply advanced behaviour change interventions, incorporating motivational interviewing and cognitive behavioural therapy, to individuals in health and cardiovascular disease.
They will also develop skills needed for safe and effective professional practice of dietary and physical activity management in the prevention and management of cardiovascular disease.
Jan 23 rd , Feb 6 th , Feb 20th, March 6 th
Assessment Essay and presentation April 2026
This module aims to critically explore, reflect upon and develop qualitative research skills and knowledge in health, and to explore qualitative approaches in research in the context of their philosophical, societal, and cultural underpinnings and use in clinical settings.
In additional to theoretical perspectives, through online lectures and interactive workshops you will be introduced to and practice different methods of collecting data and data analysis.
You will learn how to evaluate the quality of qualitative research and consider aspects such as ethics, power, reflexivity and the role of co-construction.
This is made relevant to research projects but also service evaluations, quality improvement projects and practice.
This module aims to provide practitioners with advanced knowledge and skills for the planning, organisation, delivering, teaching and evaluation of effective programmes for clinical training in specialist practice.
Current research and theory underpinning the educational process which support a challenging and supportive teaching and learning environment for clinical practice will be explored aiming to enhance practitioners’ individual ability to critically appraise and augment their skills, knowledge and actively contribute to the education awareness for members of their healthcare team, patients, service users and carers.
Note: Students must currently be in practice and have formally identified and entered an agreement with a mentor and/or supervisor for the learning-in-practice elements of this module, prior to commencing the module.
Mondays 9-12 face to face, or 1-4 online
Jan 19th, Feb 2nd, Feb 16th, March 2nd, March 16th
This module examines the fundamentals of prevention and rehabilitation in cardiovascular health.
There will be a strong focus on the pathophysiology of cardiovascular disease (CVD), risk factor and the genetic determinants of CVD, medical risk factor management, CVD prevention and rehabilitation core components, motivational interviewing and behaviour change.
In addition, students will be introduced to the tools used to measure CVD risk in both primary and secondary prevention and both personalisation of care and self-management.
Oct 10 th , Oct 24 th , Nov 7th, Nov 21st
Assessment essay Jan 2026
This module aims to develop the student’s advanced clinical practitioner skills both in the application of their learning to their own patient care and through observations of current preventive and rehabilitation practice in the context of cardiovascular health.
This module requires students to visit a range of relevant areas delivering prevention and rehabilitation services in cardiovascular disease.
The student culminates these visits in the form of a reflective practice portfolio.
Development of skills to critique and evaluate different clinical interventions and hence identify recommendations for improving or changing practice is core to this module.
Fridays 2-5 dual teaching
Jan 30th, Feb 13th, Feb 27 th , March 13 th
Assessment portfolio April 2026
Monday 9-12 dual delivery.
The in-depth understanding of cardiovascular health gained on this course will prepare you for leadership roles within your specialist area.
You’ll have acquired the skills and expertise to treat and improve the lives of people with cardiovascular disease.
This programme is ideal for any health professional with a role in the prevention of cardiovascular disease, for example nurses, dietitians, physiotherapists, physical activity specialists, occupational therapists, physician associates, sports scientists, and health promotion and public health specialists.
Hold a pre-registration degree in a relevant allied health profession, be currently employed in the clinical speciality you wish to apply for and have the following relevant experience as a minimum:
1.
Students currently working in the UK - At least 1 year of post qualification clinical work experience in the specialism they have applied for.
Typically this should be work experience from a ‘Band 6’ level role.
2.
Students currently working outside of the UK – At least 2 years post qualification clinical work experience, ideally including at least 1 year in the specialism you have applied for.
You must have met the minimum work experience requirement at the point you apply for the programme.
For example, if you submit your application in February 2025, you must have 2 years experience by February 2025 (depending on whether you are working in or outside the UK).
This is to make sure that you will definitely have enough experience when you join the course.
This does not include internships as they are supervised and therefore technically still part of your training.
You should aim to provide documented evidence of your clinical work experience.
All applicants should include a detailed CV as part of their application.
Applicants who are working outside of the UK should could include letters of recommendations and/or confirmation of employment (we appreciate that what you can provide will vary from one person to another and be dependent on your specific background and employer, so please aim to provide as much documentary evidence when you apply).
£6,060 part-time
£12,395 part-time
UK Staged Master £4,040 per stage .
International Staged Master £8,265 per stage .
For the (non-staged) MSc part time programme, the tuition fees are usually half of the corresponding full-time fees, and they apply in each of the first two years of study.
The course will be delivered using a variety of methods that have been chosen to optimise your learning of clinical theories and skills.
They have been designed to maximise the level of interaction and engagement with your tutors and fellow students.
The following modules will be delivered through in-person on-campus teaching that requires mandatory attendance:
For all other modules you may choose whether to study through live, online interactive teaching that doesn't require attendance on campus, or you may choose to study through in-person campus-based teaching that'll require your attendance on campus.
Support
You'll have a personal tutor throughout your time at university.
They'll be a source of support and will help you to make the most of your studies and time at University.
You'll have scheduled tutor meetings and be able to access your tutor, as required, either online or via face-to-face meetings on campus.
Assessments
Coursework, such as portfolios and critical essays, will be submitted online via WISEflow and exams will be a mix of on-campus in-person OSCE exams and online open-book style assessments.
The schedule of teaching and assessment has been developed to make the programme as accessible and flexible as possible.
Through the provision of both campus-based and online teaching, we'll provide an engaging and stimulating programme that helps you to maximise your learning and professional development in preparation for advanced clinical practice.
You’ll benefit from the expertise of academics across our well-established health sciences department, giving you a truly interdisciplinary perspective on important topics.
Many of our academics currently work in the NHS as physiotherapists, nurses and dieticians, so they'll be teaching you up-to-date scientific knowledge and patient-assessment skills.
Our lecturers are active in research and often contribute to the development of professional guidelines, so you know you’re being taught by practicing healthcare professionals with a high profile in the sector.
You’ll also be able to benefit from studying alongside other healthcare professionals in similar fields, giving you the opportunity to network and share ideas.
Our teaching approach is diverse and you’ll benefit from lectures, tutorials, seminars, and workshops.
The course uses a range of flexible and engaging approaches to assessment.
You'll be assessed through exams, critical essays, portfolios, oral presentations, and your dissertation.
The choice of the specific type of assessment will be appropriate to the intended learning outcomes of the taught modules.
The assessment strategies will balance the need to demonstrate knowledge and competencies with more in-depth and critical approaches to learning.
Such assessment approaches will include examinations, presentations of relevant clinical case scenarios, and coursework, which will take the form of critical assessment of literature and research, critical essays, and the development of the selected portfolio of learning.
Finally, the dissertation provides demonstration of an ability to synthesise and critically evaluate current research underpinning clinical practice, and to develop and undertake relevant research as well as its dissemination.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/advanced-clinical-practice-critical-care-pgcert-pgdip-and-msc:
Are you a nurse or allied health professional that cares for critically ill patients?
Perhaps you work in a critical care area and wish to learn more about the management of your patients?
Or maybe you care for patients in step-down units (SDUs)?
If so, this advanced clinical practice pathway in critical care, is designed to provide you with the solid academic foundation you’ll need to progress as an advanced clinician.
On this course, you’ll develop advanced assessment and clinical reasoning skills for the acute management and rehabilitation of critically ill patients from intensive care units through to their discharge.
You will acquire a comprehensive knowledge of critical care, which will enable you to work at an advanced level of practice and apply your knowledge to the acute management and rehabilitation of critically ill patients.
By studying the latest practices, policy and research, you will then be able to contribute to practice development initiatives to help your patients and improve their quality of care and health outcomes.
For this reason, we have designed this course to be flexible so that it can fit around your current commitments.
This course is designed to incorporate a multidisciplinary perspective that follows the patient pathway from admission to hospital discharge, which is essential when entering leadership roles in today’s healthcare systems.
You’ll learn a holistic approach to patient care alongside clinical leadership skills and how to use evidence-based practice and research to make informed decisions that grow your knowledge and expertise in critical care.
Your learning will be underpinned by the national Advanced Clinical Practice framework as set out by Health Education England, encompassing the four pillars: clinical practice, leadership and management, education, and research.
As well as studying key modules in advanced clinical leadership, teaching and learning, evidence-based practice and research, you’ll select modules to define your specialist pathway in critical care.
You will have the opportunity to explore anatomy and physiology at an advanced level, giving a strong foundation for the clinically-orientated modules.
These explore acute care interventions, specialist patient populations, and rehabilitation for the critically unwell patient.
This module will allow students to develop advanced theoretical knowledge of the anatomy, physiology and pathophysiology underpinning critical illness, in order to profile the critical care patient.
The module aims to develop students’ critical awareness of clinical evidence related to the critically ill patient through consideration of multiple systems including respiratory, cardiovascular, renal and brain failure and delirium.
This module will allow students to develop skills in the advanced clinical assessment of the critically ill patient, as well as a critical understanding of the acute management of critically ill patients, advanced clinical reasoning skills, human factors and non-technical skills.
The module aims to develop students’ critical awareness of clinical evidence related to the acute management of the critically ill patient.
Indicative content includes clinical assessment skills, respiratory and renal failure and support, pharmacology and measurement systems and consideration of ethics, end of life care and organ donation.
Tuesdays 9-5 online
Jan 20 th , Feb 3rd, Feb 17 th , March 3rd
Assessment viva April 2026
This module will allow students to develop theoretical knowledge and critical understanding of the physiological processes underpinning critical illness, including the neuromuscular effects of critical illness, the effect on the respiratory system and consequent impact on weaning, and the psychological consequences of critical illness.
In addition, students will develop a critical understanding of early mobilisation strategies, rehabilitation interventions, and outcome measurement in critical care; as well as the importance of inter-disciplinary working and long term follow up.
Tuesdays 0900-1600.
1st session dual taught (ideally face to face).
Online session 1400-1600
Oct 7th, Oct 21st, Nov 4th, Nov 18th
This module will allow students to develop theoretical knowledge of specialist critical care populations.
They will gain knowledge and understanding of the specific pathophysiological processes and management of trauma, burns, neuromuscular disease, spinal cord injury , traumatic brain injury, liver disease and transplant, cardiothoracic surgery and the renal patient.
Jan 27th, Feb 10th, Feb 24 th , March 10th
Assessment essay and presentation April 2026
Following successful completion of this programme, you’ll be prepared for senior clinical or leadership positions within critical care settings at Band 7 or 8a level in critical care.
You’ll graduate as a practitioner that makes a positive impact on patient care.
You’ll gain a deep understanding of a range of clinical skills and knowledge that will allow you to manage critically ill patients.
Alternatively, you could advance to a PhD or research degree and enter into a clinical academic pathway.
Your learning will be underpinned by the national Advanced Clinical Practice framework as set out by NHS England (formally HEE), encompassing the four pillars: clinical practice, leadership and management, education, and research.
You’ll benefit from the expertise of academics across our well-established clinical sciences department, giving you a truly interdisciplinary perspective on important topics.
Many of our academics currently work in hospitals and other clinical settings, so they'll be teaching you up-to-date scientific knowledge and patient-assessment skills.
Our teaching approach us diverse and you’ll benefit from lectures, tutorials, seminars, and workshops.
Finally, the dissertation provides demonstration of an ability to synthesise and critically evaluate current research underpinning clinical practice and to develop and undertake relevant research, as well as its dissemination.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/advanced-clinical-practice-musculoskeletal-rehabilitation-pgcert-pgdip-and-msc:
Are you a qualified physiotherapist working in musculoskeletal practice and looking to take your career to the next level?
Maybe your role involves assisting patients who require rehabilitation after surgery or sporting injury, or perhaps you work with individuals who have a disability or long-term condition that limits their functional level.
This course in advanced clinical practice of musculoskeletal rehabilitation is designed for physiotherapists who wish to further develop their skills and expertise as an advanced or specialist clinical practitioner across a range of musculoskeletal (MSK) healthcare settings here in the UK and abroad.
On this course, you’ll gain advanced clinical reasoning skills in assessment and evidence-based management for the treatment and rehabilitation of MSK patients, presenting within various clinical/care settings.
You’ll be taught the latest theory, science and principles behind MSK practice, which will give you a broad, yet in-depth, understanding of evidence-based rehabilitation approaches and how these can be used to treat patients with musculoskeletal conditions.
Our master’s degree will also develop your cognitive skills, such as writing skills, which are important in clinical practice to enhance communication with other clinicians, allied healthcare personnel, and for research.
You’ll be encouraged to be creative in your thinking, as well as enhancing your proficiency in analysis and evaluation - meaning you’ll graduate as a highly competent practitioner, ready to become a leader within your field.
Your learning will be patient-centred and clinically focused, studying evidence, concepts, and theories related to musculoskeletal practice.
You’ll benefit from a course designed to incorporate a multidisciplinary perspective, which is essential when entering leadership roles in healthcare systems around the world.
Throughout the course you’ll be required to think broadly about a range of rehabilitation services, exploring how to improve the care and experience of service users, alongside service provision, in a variety of global scenarios.
On this course, you’ll learn a holistic approach to patient care alongside clinical leadership skills and how to use evidence-based practice and research to make informed decisions that grow your knowledge and expertise.
Your learning will be underpinned by the national Advanced Clinical Practice framework as set out by NHS England (formally HEE), encompassing the four pillars: clinical practice, leadership and management, education and research.
You’ll develop the essential skills that are required by advanced clinical practitioners working in the NHS and other clinical settings.
You’ll study a combination of modules consisting of compulsory modules in clinical leadership, teaching and learning, evidence-based practice and research, plus you’ll select from a list of optional modules that define your specialist pathway in musculoskeletal rehabilitation.
This module aims to develop advanced critical understanding of the current theory and science of current upper quadrant musculoskeletal practice, and to develop advanced examination and intervention skills for the management of patients with upper limb, cervical and thoracic (upper quadrant) musculoskeletal conditions.
Indicative content includes epidemiology, aetiology, pathology and pathophysiology of upper quadrant conditions.
Complex clinical reasoning skills will be developed through consideration of advanced diagnostics and evidence based rehabilitation and health promotion approaches.
Thursdays 0900- 1600.
Sessions 1-3 online, Session 4 face to face.
Oct 9th, Oct 23rd, Oct 6th, Nov 20th
Assessment essay and presentation Jan 2026
This module aims to develop advanced critical understanding of the current theory and science of current lower quadrant musculoskeletal practice, and to develop advanced examination and intervention skills for the management of patients with lower limb, and lumbo-pelvic (lower quadrant) musculoskeletal conditions.
Indicative content includes epidemiology, aetiology, pathology and pathophysiology of lower quadrant conditions.
Thursdays 9-5 sessions 1-3 online, session 4 FTF
Jan 29th, Feb 12 th , Feb 26th, March 12th
The NHS, public health and social care system and the delivery of prevention, treatment and care will continue to change over the coming years.
An increased focus on managing complex co-morbidities will place a greater emphasis on the skills of the generalist as will the move towards increased care provision outside of dedicated care settings and professional boundaries.
An increase in the demand for Advanced Physiotherapy Practitioner roles is occurring to address complex MSK patients, both within secondary and primary are settings.
This module has been developed to address the learning needs of these clinicians who otherwise struggle to get the training they need to fulfil their roles.
Content is guided by contemporary professional standards for the Advanced Physiotherapy Practitioner.
Pre-requisites
- CV for review
- HCPC registered
- 4 years working as a qualified physiotherapist
- Minimum of 2 years specialising in MSK
- Have formally identified and entered an agreement with a mentor and/or supervisor for the learning-in-practice elements of a programme, prior to commencing the programme.
Thursdays 9-4 online
Oct 2nd, Oct 16th, Oct 30th, Nov 13th
Assessment viva Dec 25, portfolio Jan 2026
In this module, students will engage with contemporary pain science and up-to-date principles of management for the person in pain.
The module is designed for clinicians working with people with pain in any clinical setting.
It aims to improve students understanding of pain science and management and help to better embed this knowledge into everyday practice.
Students will look at the issue of pain from multiple perspectives, including knowledge from neurobiology, psychology and epidemiology and other disciplines.
Throughout, there will be a focus on developing clinical skills that can be embedded into practice.
Feb 5th, Feb 19 th , March 5th, March 19 th
Assessment essay April 2026
This course will prepare you for careers in advanced musculoskeletal physiotherapy practice within a range of healthcare settings.
You’ll be able to apply the expert knowledge, clinical reasoning and complex decision-making skills that you have gained to your clinical setting.
You could go on to become an Advanced Physiotherapist Practitioner (APP) within the NHS, where roles usually start in Band 8a of the NHS Agenda for change pay scale.
On successful completion, you’ll be best placed to undertake leadership or senior positions within a range of clinical areas.
From the NHS and private practices, to the military, public and sports sector; our graduates are well-equipped to make a positive impact and become innovative clinicians within their field.
You could also move into academic or clinical research roles or other healthcare-related positions in industry.
Many of our academics currently work in hospitals and other clinical settings, so they'll be teaching you up-to-date scientific knowledge and patient assessment and management skills.
You'll be assessed through exams, critical essays, portfolios, oral presentations and your dissertation.
Finally, the dissertation provides demonstration of an ability to synthesise and critically evaluate current research underpinning clinical practice, and to develop and undertake relevant research, as well as its dissemination.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/advanced-clinical-practice-neurological-rehabilitation-pgcert-pgdip-and-msc:
Are you an experienced allied health professional?
Do you want to develop your expertise as a clinician in the area of neuroscience?
This part-time programme will enhance your clinical knowledge and develop your research skills to enable you to critically reflect on your practice in neurorehabilitation, thereby optimising your clinical practice and enhancing service delivery.
Additionally, through exploration of links between research, theory, policy and practice, you will become an effective leader and advanced practitioner in the field of neurorehabilitation.
You will benefit from a course designed to incorporate a multidisciplinary perspective, that’s mapped against the Advanced Clinical Practice Framework as set out by Health Education England (now NHS England).
You will study key modules in clinical leadership, teaching and learning and research.
Alongside this, you will study specialist modules specific to neurological rehabilitation broadening your knowledge relating to neurophysiology and functional neuroscience for rehabilitation of movement, cognitive and behavioural issues experienced in neurorehabilitation, as well as critically evaluating neuroscientific research in the treatment and management of neurological conditions.
This module aims to develop and update student’s knowledge of functional neuroscience underpinning neurorehabilitation and to explore recent and emerging neuroscientific techniques with particular reference to differential diagnosis and prognosis in neurological disorders.
It will also extend knowledge of neuroplastic adaptation and debate how rehabilitation interventions can harness learning in the presence of neurological dysfunction with the overall aim to explore how advances in basic and clinical neuroscience research impact on the personalisation and prescription of professional practice in neurorehabilitation.
Tuesdays 9-12 dual teaching online and face to face combined
Oct 7th, Oct 21st, Nov 4th, Nov 18 th , Dec 2nd
Assessment Training resource and presentation Jan 2026
On this module, students will develop their knowledge of clinical neurophysiology and motor control and motor learning, relevant to rehabilitation of movement in neurology.
This will be achieved by critical examination of recent and emerging neuroscientific methods for assessment and management to inform clinical reasoning and decision making.
Tuesdays 9-12 dual teaching
Jan 20th, Feb 3rd, Feb 17 th , March 3rd, March 17 th
Assessment Infographic and presentation April 2026
By exploring the links between theory and practice, employing a person centred approach and through critical evaluation of current evidence for the effectiveness of selected rehabilitation interventions, measurement and approaches, this module aims to enhance the students’ ability to critically reflect upon their professional scope of practice.
Students will be expected to objectively rationalise and justify their clinical decision making, make evidence-based judgements including appropriate risk assessment and critically evaluate their effect when working with people with neurological disorders, their families and carers within the inter-professional environs.
Tuesdays 1-4 dual teaching online and FTF combined
Sept 30th, Oct 14th, Oct 28th, Nov 11th, Nov 25th
Assessment presentation Dec 2025
The aim of this module is to broaden knowledge of evidence based frameworks and interventions underpinning practice in cognitive rehabilitation across the key neurocognitive domains, as a consequence of acquired or progressive neurological conditions ( e.g., acquired brain injury, stroke, dementia, Parkinson’s disease and so on).
In this module, students will draw from their own clinical experience and practice in cognitive neurorehabilitation to explore evidence-based frameworks and interventions for cognitive, behavioural, emotional and social impairments.
They will engage in critical appraisal of emerging and technology assisted diagnosis and treatment and consider the impact of biopsychosocial perspective for holistic approaches to cognitive rehabilitation, reflecting the inter-professional team contribution to personalised rehabilitation interventions.
Tuesdays 1-4pm dual teaching
Assessment Essay April 2026
On this course you’ll have learnt to analyse complex information, manage uncertainty, deal with abstract concepts and use critical reflective practice.
These are all skills that will advance your career within the health and social care environment.
You’ll have acquired the expertise to improve the lives of people with disease, trauma or disorders of the nervous system in a multi-disciplinary and holistic way.
This programme is ideal for clinicians with one or more years of experience, clinical leads, managers, and research academics who are looking to develop and improve their expertise in neurology and rehabilitation.
You’ll benefit from the expertise of award-winning academic staff who have extensive experience as clinicians and researchers.
Almost all members of our teaching team are either currently working in the NHS or have had substantial clinical careers in various neurological specialities.
They're active in research and often contribute to the development of national clinical guidelines, so you know you’re being taught by practising healthcare professionals with a high profile in the sector.
Our teaching approach is diverse and you’ll benefit from a blend of online and face-to-face teaching.
There’ll be lab workshops, pieces of small group work, debates, presentations and online discussion.
Sharing knowledge and experience is encouraged as part of the programme so you’ll also benefit from extensive critical engagement with your peers.
Forms of assessment will include written assignments, online multiple choice, and oral presentations.
Feedback is a crucial part of the learning cycle and is part of an ongoing process as you learn through interaction with tutors and fellow students, as well as through more formal mechanisms.
The dissertation provides demonstration of an ability to synthesise and critically evaluate current research underpinning clinical practice, and to develop and undertake relevant research in an area of your choice as well as its dissemination.
Some of our students have undertaken research in their own trusts or have joined research projects with Brunel members of staff.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/advanced-clinical-practice-pelvic-health-pgcert-pgdip-and-msc:
Are you a physiotherapist, midwife, nurse specialist or doctor working within pelvic health?
If so, this advanced clinical practice pathway in pelvic health, is designed to provide you with the advancing skills in assessment, diagnosis and patient management to progress as an advanced clinician to provide conservative management of pelvic floor dysfunction.
You’ll explore links between research, theory, policy and practice, and how to apply them to optimise practice and service delivery.
You'll become an effective leader and practitioner in the field of pelvic health.
You’ll benefit from a course designed to incorporate a multidisciplinary perspective, that’s mapped against the Advanced Clinical Practice framework and credentials for pelvic health as set out by NHS England.
You’ll study key modules in clinical leadership, teaching and learning and research.
Alongside this, your specialist modules will cover assessment and diagnosis; conservative management of pelvic floor dysfunction and advanced practice with postpartum care, and pain.
You’ll learn practical skills to assess and manage urinary and faecal incontinence, emptying disorders of the bladder and bowel, sexual dysfunction, pelvic organ prolapse and pain and postpartum acute and long term recovery.
You will learn how to critically evaluate research and will apply this to your own practice and use reflective learning to advance your skills in your clinical practice skills in line with national guidelines.
This module will provide the students with knowledge of common pelvic health pathologies focusing on enhancing assessment and diagnostic skills within pelvic floor dysfunction.
An emphasis is placed on the critical appraisal of the current literature within pelvic floor dysfunction and supporting the student to work towards and individual view of clinical best practice.
Indicative content:
Mondays.
Various delivery as below
Sept 29th 9-4 online, Oct 13 th 9-4 face to face, Oct 27 th 9-4 online, Nov 10 th 9-6 face to face
Assessment OSCE Nov 2025, essay Dec 2025
This module will develop the practical skills for the treatment and management of the pelvic health patient.
This module is ideal to follow PH5642 Assessment and diagnosis of pelvic health.
Students will learn practical skills such as catheterization, vaginal pessary application, exercise, manual therapy, biofeedback and electrotherapy skills.
Rehabilitation will be the core of this module and the focus will be on conservative patient management of pelvic floor dysfunction.
Critique of the literature will be completed with in-depth evaluation on clinical effectiveness.
Fridays and various as below.
9-4
Jan 23rd online, Feb 5 th /6th face to face, March 6th online
The aim of this module is to give students an overview into the change of clinical practice when moving into an advanced practice position within perinatal care.
Content will include identification of high risk patients post birth, management of pelvic floor dysfunction, wound management and abdominal recovery post birth as well as bladder care following dysfunction.
There will also be a focus on legal aspects of practice as well as complex decision making.
This module is suitable for healthcare workers who support patients within the perinatal journey , such as midwives, physiotherapists, health visitors and nurses.
Pre-requisites: An identified mentor and / or supervisor within postnatal care for the learning-in-practice elements of a programme, prior to commencing the programme.
Various as indicated below
Sept 26 9-4 online, Oct 14 th 9-4 face to face, Oct 24th 9-4 online, Nov 11 th 9-6 face to face
Assessment OSCE Nov 2025, portfolio Jan 2026
The advanced clinical practice and understanding of pelvic health learnt on this course will help you to improve the quality of care you deliver to your patients.
The course is ideal for physiotherapists, nurses, midwives specialising in postnatal care, and health practitioners who treat pelvic floor dysfunction in urogynaecology, colorectal and urology.
Many of our academics currently work in hospitals and other clinical settings so they'll be teaching you up-to-date scientific knowledge and patient-assessment skills.
Our academic team combines years of experience working in hospitals such as the Royal Free, Imperial College, Guy's and St Thomas', and Chelsea and Westminster.
Additionally, there'll be an emphasis on peer-to-peer learning as you’ll be working alongside other clinicians and benefit from their knowledge across the profession.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/news-and-events/news/articles/Brunel-shines-in-stunning-rankings-rise:
Brunel University London is spotlighted among the nation’s 10 ‘major climbers’ in this year’s Complete University Guide.
Brunel now ranks 79th out of 130 UK universities in The Complete University Guide’s newly released University League Tables 2025 — a remarkable rise of 16 places on last year.
“I am extremely pleased to see us rise so significantly in such a nationally recognised and important league table,” said Vice-Chancellor and President, Professor Andrew Jones.
“Today’s ranking and other recent performances demonstrate our continued progress towards our long-term ambition to provide the very best for our students enabling them to become the next generation of international leaders and ‘change-makers’.”
Across the UK, University of Cambridge was rated number one in the 2025 rankings, with London School of Economics and Political Science bagging the top spot in London.
This article was updated on 3 June 2024 following changes made by The Complete University Guide to their data.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/about/brunel-public-policy/SDGs:
The United Nations adopted the '2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development' in 2015, at the centre of which are 17 Sustainable Development Goals which are an urgent call for action for peace and prosperity for people and the planet.
Adopted by all the UN's member states, the SDGs recognise that ending poverty and other deprivations must go hand in hand with strategies that improve health and education, reduce inequality, and spur economic growth – all while tackling climate change and working to preserve our oceans and forests.
(See the UN's explanation of its SDGs .)
The research, teaching and corporate activity that takes place here at Brunel – and which engages individuals, communities, societies and economies – helps to achieve, evaluate and improve the UN SDGs.
We have introduced Strategic Challenge Areas , and are building on our strengths to enable us to pioneer world-leading research, and to accelerate and maximise our abilities to address society’s most pressing challenges, in collaboration with partners locally and from across the globe.
Our strategy aligns with UK Research and Innovation's strategy placing t he UK at the forefront of the green industrial revolution and committing to a net zero economy, responding to climate change and helping all of us to live more sustainably .
We work through developing innovative materials to make renewable energy systems last longer, through reducing gender inequality in India, through being the 15th best university in the world for our responsible consumption and production (Times Higher Education Impact Rankings 2021), through establishing scholarships for refugees, and much more.
Together, our actions aim to make the world the place it ought to be, for us, for the generations after us and for the planet they deserve.
We have grouped the 17 SDGs into three broad categories – Biosphere, Economy and Society – in line with a model introduced by the Stockholm Resilience Centre , and with SDG 17, 'Partnership for the goals', at the top.
Use the pages below to explore these categories, and the events we put on about our SDG-related work.
The cake model from Stockholm University's Stockholm Resilience Centre
Our student volunteering activities have included students pausing their placements in Indonesia to support the Lombok earthquake relief effort
As part of our commitment to meaningful education around the SDGs, we offer programmes in understanding the scientific, social, political and economic factors that impact on decision-making in today's world
Global Challenges lecturer Dr Omer Aizaji and colleagues analysed how Asia-Pacific's sustainable development can be transformed

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/about/finding-us:
Your safety is our priority so we’ve made changes to ensure you have the best student experience whilst at Brunel.
To find out more, click here.
If you're travelling by car, please note that ULEZ charge is now in place.
Entry is via Kingston Lane only.
On arrival, please request a permit for the day from the main reception desk in the Eastern Gateway Building.
The main reception can be found with what3words at ///legend.duty.impact .
Input these 3 words into the what3words app to navigate directly to our main reception.
Pay-and-display parking is also available on site but there are limited spaces.
Parking Charge Notices will be issued for illegally parked vehicles.
This does not apply to Undergradute Open Days , where we will provide free parking.
Leave the M4 at junction 4 on to Stockley Road.
At the second roundabout turn right on to Park View Road.
Then take the first left on to Colham Green Road.
Go over a mini roundabout and continue to a second mini roundabout.
Turn left here and continue past Hillingdon Hospital and across a set of traffic lights.
At the roundabout, go straight on and take the first right into Kingston Lane.
At the next roundabout, turn left into the university.
At Swakeleys roundabout take the B483 exit to Uxbridge.
Follow the signs across two mini roundabouts.
At a major roundabout, bear left on to the A4020 (signposted to Brunel); at the second set of traffic lights turn right into Kingston Lane.
At the roundabout, turn right into the university.
From the North or the South, join M40 or M4 and follow instructions as above.
Disabled parking bays are available at various locations around the campus.
Please collect a permit from reception in the Eastern Gateway Building on arrival.
Parking restrictions are operational between 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday.
Parking on campus is limited for events taking place on weekdays.
On a weekday, your contact on campus can request for you a Virtual parking permit, but it does not guarantee a space to park.
For events taking place at weekends Virtual permits are not required and ample parking is usually available.
We advise that you arrive at least 30 minutes prior to the start of an event to allow for parking.
We also have ample Pay & Display spaces on campus at a cost of £1 per hour, for those persons who have not been pre-booked by their Brunel Contact.
The Pre-booking of a vehicle is required by your Brunel Contact as above, additionally the Blue Badge must be displayed in the car windscreen whilst you are parked in the accessible baysAll blue badge holders will be eligible to apply for a Virtual parking permit.
Accessible parking is available across the campus.
Map showing visitor parking
You may use the car parks free of charge out of hours.
Please press the security call button for access.
Parking is not permitted in:
If you are a student who lives outside a two-mile radius of Brunel you may apply for an annual parking permit (chargeable) online via eVision.
You must be fully enrolled to be eligible to apply.
Coaches and minibuses dropping off should enter campus via Kingston Lane.
At the first roundabout turn left and the drop off bays are immediately on your left and right hand sides between the Mary Seacole and IAC buildings.
Coaches or Minibus staying on campus should enter campus via Kingston Lane.
At the first roundabout turn left, then left again at the second roundabout before going through the barrier, please press the security call button for access, you must proceed to the designated parking bays located behind the Mary Seacole building.
If the campus is busy, Security will manage coach and minibus movements on the day.
Buses U1, U2, U4 and U7 stop by the main entrance of the University (Kingston Lane).
U1, U2, U4 and U7: Alight at Brunel University London, Kingston Lane.
U3: Alight at Brunel University London, Cleveland Road.
222 and U5: Alight at Cowley Road and use the path through the university accommodation complex.
U1: Alight at Brunel University London, Kingston Lane.
222: Alight at Cowley Road and use the path through the university accommodation complex.
U2: Alight at Brunel University London, Kingston Lane.
A10: ‘Heathrow Fast’ bus leaves every 15 minutes and the journey time is 25 minutes.
Alight in Hillingdon Road at the bus stop called ‘The Greenway’ and you’ll find the footpath to our campus.
A10: ‘Heathrow Fast’ bus as above, with a journey time of 10 minutes.
427: From Hayes and Southall SL8: From Shepherd’s Bush, Acton and Ealing Arriva 724: From Harlow, Essex
Timetables are available on the Transport for London and Arriva websites.
Uxbridge tube station ( Travelcard Zone 6 ) is about one mile from Brunel’s campus.
You can get to Uxbridge from central London (Baker Street) on the Metropolitan Line or Piccadilly Line in as quick as 40 minutes.
When you arrive at Uxbridge, leave the tube station from the exit on your right to get to the bus station.
The bus takes 10 minutes; or you can walk to the campus in 20 minutes.
West Ruislip tube station ( Travelcard Zone 6 ) is about 4.5 miles from the campus and served by the Central Line .
The Central line runs through central London, from Epping, Essex.
From the tube station take the U1 bus departing from Stop M in front of the station.
The bus takes about 30 minutes.
West Drayton tube station (Travelcard Zone 6) is your closest station to Brunel on the Elizabeth Line , which stretches from Reading to Essex.
West Drayton (First Great Western Link) is the nearest mainline station, approx 1.5 miles from the campus.
Services run from London Paddington (approx.
20 mins journey time) or from the West (Bristol).
West Ruislip Station (Chiltern Railways) is the mainline service from London Marylebone (approx.
20 mins journey time) and the North (Aylesbury, Banbury and Birmingham) and is approx.
4 miles from the campus.
If you're visiting us for an Open Day we have a free shuttle bus running from Hillingdon underground station to our campus.
Please note that this service unfortunately isn't available for Mini Open Days.
The walk from Uxbridge to Brunel is approx.
one mile.
From the main exit of Uxbridge tube station, take the road almost directly in front in you (between HSBC and the Old Market building) into Windsor Street.
At the bottom of Windsor Street, turn left and cross the dual carriageway via the light-controlled crossing.
Bear left and then walk straight on to Whitehall Road.
It is then a 15-minute walk along Whitehall Road and over the crossroads onto Cleveland Road.
The main University Reception can be found by following the path through the centre of the University to the Eastern Gateway Building.
Uxbridge campus is on a signposted cycle route, which passes through the middle of the campus, along Cleveland Road.
Cycle storage facilities are located around the campus, and some halls of residence have enclosed cycle storage areas, and showers with changing facilities are available within the Sports Centre for use by student and staff cyclists.
Santander Cycles Brunel – affectionately-dubbed ‘Brunel Bikes’ – connect six docking stations across Uxbridge town centre, Brunel University London and Hillingdon Hospital, with proposals being drawn-up to extend the network to West Drayton in the future.
Brunel University London is collecting data from the Visitor application forms for the provision of visitor parking permits and Covid 19 Track and Trace.
This is for the legitimate interests of Brunel University London to ensure the appropriate use of the limited parking available on campus and to comply with Government Track and Trace legislation.
The information collected will be used by the Main Reception Team to issue permits, the Security Team to monitor parking on campus and for the Security and Safety of all Brunel University London assets.
The University management will also use the information to compile reports on the usage of available car parking spaces.
All personal information collected will remain within the United Kingdom, and this information will be retained for a period of one year after which it will be destroyed.
The reason for retention is to ease any future visits to the University within that one-year period.
Please note this information may be shared with NHS Track and Trace for up to 21 days after your visit
The information requested must be provided before a relevant Visitor Parking Permit or Visitor access permission may be issued; failure to provide the correct Information would leave persons in breach of Brunel University London’s Traffic and Parking Regulations and this may result in a penalty charge of up to £100.
Any person may have access to his/her own information related to visitor application request and parking permits held by Brunel University London, and they may request the rectification or erasure of any of that information they deem inaccurate.
All persons affected by this data usage may lodge a complaint to the Information Commissioner’s Office (ICO) or the Brunel University London Data Protection Officer ( data-protection@brunel.ac.uk ).

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/open-days/self-guided-campus-tour:
Welcome to our campus!
Your tour will start at the Eastern Gateway Building (Main Reception).
We have a suggested route for you to follow, but you are welcome to customize your tour based on your interests.
If any of the buildings are open, please feel free to enter and explore at your leisure.
Please note that there are some buildings which are available only with our guided campus tours or on our open days (e.g.
accommodation, labs).
We hope that you have a brilliant time exploring our campus!
If you use public transportation, the closest underground station is Uxbridge for the Metropolitan and Piccadilly lines, the closest train station is West Drayton.
Buses U1, U2, U4, and U7 stop at the main entrance of the university.
Parking restrictions are operational between 8am-4pm Monday to Friday, outside these hours parking is free and no need for a permit.
You can pick up a printed campus map at the Eastern Gateway reception during working hours.
For detailed information about parking, transportation and our location please check out our Finding us page .
If so, we encourage you to watch this video beforehand.
In just a few minutes, you'll learn all the essential information you need and arrive on campus fully prepared and ready to explore.
So you'll be able to focus on the details of each location, knowing what to look for and what questions to ask.
Don't miss out on this opportunity to get a head start!

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/virtualtour:
Explore
The photos and 360's shown are a representation of the accommodation block, some rooms and facilities may differ to what is seen.
Welcome to our
Virtual Tour
Share on:

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/news-and-events/events/online.aspx:
We’re sure you’ll have questions about what the course will really be like and what you can look forward to learning at Brunel.
During many of the sessions you’ll have the chance to ask those important questions to academic staff and current students.
Booking is simple, for upcoming webinars just click on the event and complete the quick registration form.
You’ll receive an email confirmation once you’ve booked your place.
On the day, you’ll just need WiFi access to follow the link in your email.
If you are unable to make any of these events, or want to find out more about your course or any aspect of life at Brunel, explore our on-demand content.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/on-demand:
Our content is available 24/7 to help you explore our campus and learn about our courses, student services and life at Brunel.
Don't forget to add this page to your favourites and return at any time you want.
Find out everything you need to know about our undergraduate courses
Find out everything you need to know about our postgraduate courses
Discover our campus in Uxbridge, west London, including classrooms, study spaces, sport facilities, places to eat and chill, and many more
All our halls of residence are on campus, so you're never more than 10 minutes from our teaching, social and sporting facilities
At Brunel, we want to make sure you’re getting the most out of student life, whether you’re living at home or off campus
As a Brunel student, you’ll have access to a wide range of study and personal support services to ensure you have a supportive and productive experience whilst studying with us
Whether you’re a first year with big career dreams, on your placement year, or a final year considering life after graduation, our Professional Development Centre is there to help
With everything on site, from sports facilities and great eating spots, to industry leading technical facilities and amazing student support, there’s a real community feel on campus
Explore every nook and cranny of our Uxbridge campus in the heart of west London.
Discover our state-of-the-art classrooms and labs, cozy study spots, exciting sports facilities, a variety of dining and coffee options, and countless other enticing places where you can relax and unwind.
There's so much to see and experience here!
When it comes to convenience, our on-campus halls of residence have got you covered.
Located within a mere 10-minute stroll from our teaching, social, and sporting facilities, you'll find it incredibly easy to access all the aspects of university life.
And if you happen to be in search of off-campus accommodation that's still close to the action, rest assured that Brunel Student Lettings is your reliable partner in finding the perfect place to call home during your time at Brunel.
Here at Brunel, our goal is to ensure that you're not just experiencing student life but truly thriving in it, whether you're residing in the comfort of your own home or exploring the exciting possibilities of off-campus living.
We're dedicated to providing you with a well-rounded, enriching university experience that extends beyond the classroom, making every moment of your student life memorable and rewarding.
When you join Brunel, you'll find yourself immersed in a diverse and welcoming community that's all about supporting your academic journey and personal growth.
We offer a wide range of support services to ensure your tine as a university student is both enjoyable and productive.
Our focus is on your success, both academically and personally, providing the resources and guidance you need to thrive.
Whether you’re a first year with big career dreams, in the midst of a placement year gaining practical experience, a seasoned final-year student considering life after graduation, our Professional Development Centre (PDC) stands ready to provide guidance and support, available to assist you whether you prefer in-person interactions or online meetings and resources.
And our careers team will be there to help you find a job for up to three years after graduation.
If you're looking for part-time student job opportunities on and off campus, we have a range of opportunities for you.
Our campus is a bustling hub of activity, where you'll discover a wealth of amenities just steps away.
From world-class sports facilities to delicious dining spots, our campus creates a real sense of community.
Here, you can easily immerse yourself in a dynamic environment that's all about achieving your goals and connecting with friends.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/research/News-and-events:
Join us at Brunel for an evening with Colin Barrett, winner of the 2025 Nero Debut Fiction Prize, discussing his novel Wild Houses.
Join us at Brunel for a magical evening with Liz Hyder, winner of the 2024 Nero Children's Fiction Prize, discussing her novel The Twelve.
Join us online as journalist Sophie Elmhirst discusses her award-winning book  about 1970s couple's extraordinary tale of survival at sea.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/news-and-events/events/2025/Brunel-Writers-Talking-Series-Colin-Barrett:
Online
Brunel University of London is a very proud sponsor of the Nero Book Awards.
As such, we are delighted to welcome Colin Barrett winner of Nero Book Awards Debut Fiction Prize in 2025, to the Brunel Writers Talking series.
Colin will be interviewed about his debut novel, Wild Houses, by Helen Cullen, Novelist and Reader in Creative Writing at Brunel.
You can see the other author events in Brunel’s Writers Talking Series here.
Colin Barrett grew up in County Mayo, Ireland.
His stories have been published in the Stinging Fly , Granta , Harper's and the New Yorker .
His first book, the short story collection Young Skins , won the Guardian First Book Award, the Frank O'Connor International Short Story Award and the Rooney Prize for Irish Literature.
His second collection, Homesickness , made the New York Times 100 Notable Books of the Year and was a Book of the Year in Oprah Daily and the Irish Times .
His debut novel, Wild Houses, was longlisted for the Booker Prize in 2024 and won the Nero Book Award for Debut Fiction in 2025.
Wild Houses , Colin Barrett’s much anticipated debut novel, is set in County Mayo, Ireland.
It follows a small-town feud, a kidnapping and a life-altering weekend resulting in a darkly funny and deeply moving novel that found acclaim as a literary page-turner.
You can see the other author events in Brunel’s Writers Talking Series here

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/news-and-events/events/2025/Brunel-Writers-Talking-Series-Liz-Hyder:
As such, we are delighted to welcome Liz Hyder, winner of the Nero Book Awards Children’s Fiction Prize 2024, to the Brunel Writers Talking series.
Liz will be interviewed about her workby Jessica Cox, Reader in English Literature at Brunel.
Liz Hyder has been making up stories ever since she can remember.
She has a BA in drama from the University of Bristol and, in early 2018, won the Bridge Award/Moniack Mhor’s Emerging Writer Award.
Her debut novel, Bearmouth , won the Waterstones Children’s Book Prize for Older Readers, the Branford Boase Award and was The Times Children’s Book of the Year.
Her latest novel, The Twelve , won the 2024 Nero Book Awards prize for Children's Fictionand the Tir na n-Og Award 2025 English language category.It was a book of the year in both The Financial Times and The Guardian , one of The Observer's young adult books of the month and Children's Book of the Week in The Times .
Liz has also written two acclaimed historical fiction novels for adults - The Gifts and The Illusions - and is currently working on more ideas than she has time to write.
The Twelve is a deeply magical novel that explores the haunting mystery of a vanishing sister and the folklore surrounding ‘The Twelve’.
The novel follows protagonist Kit on a winter holiday with her sister, Libby, and their mum.
When suddenly her sister vanishes into thin air and only a local boy named Story remembers her, he and Kit join forces and embark on a journey into a world steeped in ancient folklore to uncover the truth and find Libby.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/news-and-events/events/2025/Brunel-Writers-Talking-Series-Sophie-Elmhirst:
As such, we are delighted to welcome Sophie Elmhirst, winner of Nero Book Awards Non-Fiction Prize and Gold Award, to the Brunel Writers Talking series.
Sophie will be interviewed about her book, Maurice and Maralyn: An Extraordinary True Story of Shipwreck, Survival and Love by Hannah Lowe, Professor in Creative Writing at Brunel.
Sophie Elmhirst has enjoyed an accomplished career as an award-winning journalist, including contributing regularly to The Guardian’s Long Read.
She won the British Press Award in 2020 for Feature Writer of the Year and in 2024 and was shortlisted for the Orwell Prize for Journalism.
Maurice and Maralyn: An Extraordinary True Story of Shipwreck, Survival and Love is a narrative non-fiction book that charts the true story of a couple in the 1970s who, bored of suburban life, decide to sell their house, build a boat and set sail for New Zealand.
Halfway around the world, their boat is struck by a whale, and they are cast adrift in the middle of the Pacific Ocean for 118 days.
It is a story of how we survive – both at sea and in life.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/news-and-events/events/2025/60th-International-Universities-Power-Engineering-Conference:
Physical
Call for papers: We invite submissions on topics including, but not limited to:
Important dates:
Conference highlights:
Accommodation: On-campus single en-suite rooms are available at £47/night (Bed & Breakfast).
Discounted PhD and MSc student rate - £350 early registration by 18 July 2025
Submit your paper and register

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/news-and-events/events/2025/2025-Brunel-Summer-Programme-on-International-Arbitration:
Brunel Law School
This programme offers a focused introduction to international commercial and investment arbitration, combining academic insight with practical skills development.
In addition, the programme will explore more advanced topics such as the intersection of artificial intelligence (AI) and international arbitration, and will delve into some of the more specialised forms of arbitration such as sports and WIPO arbitration.
Register here Please note, the number of available places in the programme is limited.
Upon completion of the programme, you'll receive a Certificate of Attendance.
Course date: 8-12 September 2025
Fees: Brunel Law School students / alumni: £499 | Non-Brunel Law School students: £599 | Professionals: £999
This summer programme is organised by the co-directors of the International Dispute Resolution Research Group at Brunel University of London Dr Boris Praštalo, Lecturer in Commercial Law, Boris.Prastalo@brunel.ac.uk and Dr Filip Balcerzak, Lecturer in Law, Filip.Balcerzak@brunel.ac.uk .
Please email Dr Boris Praštalo or Dr Filip Balcerzak if you've any questions.
9.30am Welcome Address - Prof.
Jurgita Malinauskaite (Head of Brunel Law School) Venue: Brunel Law School, Moot Court
10am Introduction to International Commercial Arbitration - Dr Boris Praštalo (Lecturer, Brunel Law School) Venue: Brunel Law School, Moot Court
12pm Agreement to Arbitrate - Prof.
Giorgio Fabio Colombo (Ca’ Foscari University) Venue: Brunel Law School, Moot Court
3pm Applicable Law(s) and Rule(s) in International Commercial Arbitration - Dr Patricia Živković (Senior Lecturer, University of Aberdeen School of Law) Venue: Brunel Law School, Moot Court
10am Arbitral Awards and Their Global Recognition and Enforcement - Samuel Pape (Partner, Latham & Watkins) Venue: Latham & Watkins
12pm Artificial Intelligence and the Evolution of Arbitral Practice - Dr Piotr Wilinski (Asst.
Prof., Erasmus University Rotterdam; Senior Managing Associate, Linklaters) Venue: Latham & Watkins
3.30pm Constituting an Arbitral Tribunal: Practical and Theoretical Insights - Tim Smyth (Counsel, Boies Schiller Flexner) Venue: Pinna Goldberg
5.30pm Sanctions in the Realm of International Commercial Arbitration - Konstantin Ksenofontov (Foreign-Qualified Lawyer, Pinna Goldberg) Venue: Pinna Goldberg
10am Advocacy Skills in International Arbitration I - Ania Farren (Partner, Fieldfisher) Venue: Fieldfisher
12pm Arbitral Proceedings and Evidence - Prof.
Dr.
Kaj Hobér (Uppsala University) Venue: Fieldfisher
4.15pm The New English Arbitration Act 2025 - Simon Maynard (Partner, King & Spalding) Venue: King & Spalding
6pm Keynote Lecture: Arbitration in the Energy Sector - Prof.
Kaj Hobér (Uppsala University) Venue: King & Spalding
10am Advocacy Skills in International Arbitration II - Tsegaye Laurendau (Partner, Signature Litigation) and Philipp Kurek (Partner, Signature Litigation) Venue: Signature Litigation
12pm Introduction to International Investment Arbitration - Dr Filip Balcerzak (Lecturer in Law, Brunel Law School) Venue: Signature Litigation
3.30pm Fair and Equitable Treatment and Beyond: Substantive Protections in Investment Arbitration - Dr Velimir Živković (Associate Professor, University of Warwick) Venue: Brunel Law School, Moot Court
5.30pm ISDS Reform: Where Are We Now and What the Future Holds - Fahira Brodlija (Rule of Law Advisor, GIZ) Venue: Brunel Law School, Moot Court
10am Overview of TMT Sector and IP Arbitrations - Shobana Iyer (Barrister, Swan Chambers) Venue: Brunel Law School, Moot Court
12pm Introduction to Sports Arbitration - Shobana Iyer (Barrister, Swan Chambers) Venue: Brunel Law School, Moot Court
3pm Equality and Diversity in International Arbitration - Dr Nevena Jevremović (University of Aberdeen School of Law) Venue: Brunel Law School, Moot Court
4.30pm Closing Remarks Venue: Brunel Law School, Moot Court
We reserve the right to make changes to the summer school programme at any time, including before and during its duration.
While every effort will be made to deliver the programme as advertised, adjustments may be necessary due to unforeseen circumstances or to enhance the learning experience.
Brunel Law School gratefully acknowledges the support of our media partner Transnational Dispute Management (TDM) / OGEMID .
Brunel Law School also gratefully acknowledges the support of the following law firms, all of which will host sessions as part of the Summer Programme on International Arbitration:

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/news-and-events/events/2025/2025-6th-International-Conference-on-Computer-Vision-and-Data-Mining-ICCVDM-2025:
Brunel University of london,Kingston Lane,Middlesex UB8 3PH,UK,Uxbridge

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/business/Commercial-Services/hotel:
Welcome to the Lancaster Hotel
Whether you’re travelling for business or pleasure, the Lancaster Hotel offers the ultimate in comfort and service.
Our en-suite rooms, boardrooms, lounge bar, and à la carte restaurant are designed to meet all your needs.
Located on Brunel University of London's campus, with easy access from the A40, M25, Heathrow Airport, and Uxbridge tube station, our hotel is ideally situated for visits to Wembley, Westfield, and other London attractions.
You'll find everything you need right on your doorstep, whether it's from the outlets on campus or in Uxbridge town centre.
Our en-suite rooms are spacious and elegantly furnished, equipped with modern amenities to ensure a comfortable stay.
The boardrooms are perfect for meetings, featuring state-of-the-art technology.
The lounge bar offers a relaxing atmosphere with a wide selection of beverages.
Our à la carte restaurant serves a variety of delicious dishes prepared by our talented chefs.
Our clientele includes students, both current and prospective, parents visiting the university, conference attendees, and lecturers.
We cater to a diverse range of guests, ensuring that everyone feels welcome and comfortable during their stay.
All guests are welcome at the Lancaster Hotel, and we strive to provide an inclusive and hospitable environment for everyone.
Our friendly and professional Lancaster Hotel team is dedicated to providing excellent service.
From the moment you arrive, our staff will ensure you feel welcome and cared for.
We pride ourselves on our attention to detail and personalised service, continually monitoring performance and facilities to ensure the highest standards are met.
Whether you need assistance with your luggage, recommendations for local attractions, or special requests, our team is here to help.
Contact us to receive information about our promotions and events.
We look forward to welcoming you to the Lancaster Hotel.
The Lancaster Hotel offers you a fine a`la carte restaurant on the ground floor as well as a very modern bar and lounge.
Both offer freshly prepared food, fine wines, and ice cold beers on tap.
We have a secluded outdoor area perfect for social gatherings, especially BBQ's.
Email us today to find out how we can help you plan your event.
The Lancaster Hotel comprises of 70 high specification en-suite bedrooms, 30 twin double rooms and 40 single rooms.
The hotel features:
Please note all of our rooms are non- smoking.
The Lancaster Hotel offers 3 fully equipped luxury boardrooms and can cater for meetings up to 16 people in each.
Each boardroom is set up in a boardroom meeting style, with a full size meeting table and comfortable chairs.
There is a separate annex within each boardroom where tea, coffee and other refreshments can be provided.
All 3 rooms come inclusive with flipcharts, AV support and access to Wi-Fi.
Laptops can be provided if required for an additional charge.
Lancaster Hotel Brunel University London Kingston Lane Uxbridge Middlesex UB8 3PH
Tel: 01895 268006
Email: lancaster-suite@brunel.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/foundation-study:
In some cases, these are provided by Brunel Pathway College and in some subjects there are other pathways for International and EU students.
There are foundation programmes in almost every degree subject and you can see which you are eligible for below.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/brilliant-brunel/home:
Our academics are making brilliant discoveries and shaping a better world.
Apply your mind at Brunel and we'll create change together #IamBrunel
Unleash your brilliance with support from our Professional Development Centre.
Our graduates rank among the most employable in the country.
You’ll find everything you need on one site.
From world-class facilities and great eating spots, to amazing student support services.
All just 45 minutes from central London
With over 150 of the world’s countries represented at Brunel, you’ll have the opportunity to live and study as part of a diverse, international community

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/life/accommodation:
All our halls of residence are on campus, so you're never more than 10 minutes from our teaching, social and sporting facilities.
If you're looking for accommodation close to campus, Brunel Student Lettings can help you find a great place to live.
Information for current residents living in our on campus halls of residences.
Brunel Student Lettings offer a rent guarantee scheme for landlords renting property in the local area.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/information-for-parents-and-schools:
We know that choosing a course and university is important, exciting and life-changing.
It can also feel like there’s a lot to research and many deadlines to meet.
Rest assured we’re here to help and support every step of the way.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/schools-and-colleges:
It's never too early to start thinking about Higher Education and STEM in particular.
We offer a range of events and resources to assist students on their journey
We are here to support you and your students on their journey.
Learn more about our workshops and events
The Widening Access team works to increase the number of young people and adults from underrepresented backgrounds who progress to higher education
Our range of tips, guidance, useful websites and downloadable materials are here to assist you in providing the necessary support
Thinking about university?
It's never too late.
You are considered a mature student if you are aged 21 or over when you enrol in undergraduate study.
We offer dedicated 1-to-1 support and guidance from application to graduation.
Find out more about mature student support here .
Mature students are also welcome to join all of our post 16 events.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/about/admissions/admissions-team:
We're here to support you through the application process and want to ensure that applicants who are able to successfully study at Brunel University London are offered a place.
Our enthusiastic team are all working hard to ensure that we deliver fair and accurate decisions as efficiently as possible.
We're on hand to support you and want to make sure you receive a welcoming and high quality admissions service from initial enquiry right through to registration.
If you need to contact us, please use the following email or telephone details.
E: enquiries@brunel.ac.uk
Telephone: +44 (0)1895 265 265 (Mon - Fri: 10am-4pm)
Live chat: Mon - Fri: 10am-4pm
Email: admissions@brunel.ac.uk
Postal Address:
Admissions Office Bishop's Building 004 (ground floor) Brunel University London Uxbridge Middlesex, UB8 3PH
E: clearing@brunel.ac.uk
E: registration@brunel.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/about:
When Brunel was awarded its Royal Charter in 1966 we were given a distinct purpose and an incredible opportunity.
Directions to our Uxbridge campus and modes of transport to get you here
With approximately 2,500 staff we’re one of the largest employers in the area and offer a diverse range of job opportunities.
See our latest vacancies and apply online today
If you have any questions about our courses, admissions or need directions to our campus you can find our contact information here
Our processes and procedures assure the quality of learning and teaching
We support good employment practices for women in Science, Engineering and Technology
Examination timetables and important exam information
Income, expenditure, student and staff numbers, statistics, data breakdowns and Degree Outcomes Statement
Read about our beginning in 1966 up to the present day

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/business/Knowledge-Exchange-Framework:
The Knowledge Exchange Framework or KEF was introduced by the UK Government in March 2021.
The KEF aims to increase efficiency and effectiveness in the use of public funding for Knowledge Exchange (KE).
This initiative also provides businesses and other users with useful information to help them access the world-class knowledge and expertise embedded in English universities.
The latest of the annual updates, KEF4, was published in September 2024, using methodology that has been refined since the first survey.
In KEF4, Brunel shows very high engagement (top 20%) in two metrics: its contribution to collaborative research; and how much of its research income comes from Innovate UK, the country’s innovation agency.
The university has also made substantial progress towards increased local growth, regeneration and development.
Universities are grouped into “Clusters” to ensure they are compared with similar sized institutions with broadly similar public “missions”.
Brunel University London has been allocated to Cluster X for comparative purposes.
This grouping consists of large, high-research-intensive universities with a broad academic disciplinary base.
The KEF evaluates seven different aspects of a universities work with external stakeholders which are known as ''Perspective''.
The seven Perspectives are:
For further information on KEF, please visit kef.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/research/spotlight/communities/diversity-british-poetry:
Daljit Nagra is Professor of Creative Writing at Brunel, Chair of the Royal Society of Literature , Council of The Society of Authors , national advisor to Poetry By Heart , a Poetry Book Society New Generation Poet and presenter on BBC Radio 4 Extra's Poetry Extra .
He's published four collections of poetry with Faber & Faber and has won numerous awards.
In 2023, he was commissioned by the BBC and the Royal Palace to write a poem for the King’s coronation , which was read by James Nesbitt.
But, despite having such a distinguished career, he says there have been challenges too, like facing criticism from traditionalists who can be resistant to change.
These experiences have only strengthened his commitment to modernising and diversifying the arts.
My work in poetry is all about exploring multiculturalism in Britain, especially the relationships between first and second-generation migrants.
I dive into broader societal issues, examining what's happening in today's world and exploring current events.
>I'm very keen to see if I can help diversify the arts, and of literature in particular, across the country.
A big passion of mine is to make the arts more inclusive for people from working-class backgrounds and those outside of London.
I was the first poet of color to have their debut collection published by Faber & Faber in their 80-year history and the first person of color to chair the Royal Society of Literature in its 200-year history.
I was also the first poet in residence for BBC Radio 4.
Coming from a background where my parents were uneducated migrants working in manual labor, my journey and achievements in the literary field are quite unique.
I've had a lot of unique "firsts" and have worked in various roles in the arts.
Plus, with my weekly program running for eight years, I've probably had more on-air exposure than most writers in the country, which, given my background, is pretty unusual.
My love for poetry started when I was 19.
I didn’t study poetry in school, but I found it transformative during a tough time in my life.
Poetry became a source of joy and wellbeing for me.
Now, I’m passionate about showing others, especially those from marginalised or working-class backgrounds, the therapeutic benefits of poetry.
I believe poetry can offer a healthy intervention in an unequal society, providing a sense of ownership and wellbeing.
Brunel is my local university - I grew up just down the road in Yiewsley, and now live in Harrow, so Brunel was a natural choice for me.
I’m very invested in the area, regularly visiting schools and getting involved in various projects in the community.
I'm also very mindful that Brunel has a large number of commuter students, and students from working-class backgrounds, many of whom are the first in their families to attend university.
These are all things of importance to me, so I get a great sense of value working with both these students and the wider community.
Brunel provides a diverse and inclusive environment.
I feel we're really good at filling students with ambition - that you are good enough, you have a voice, you are entitled, no matter where you come from.
This aligns perfectly with my goal of diversifying literature.
There are some excellent academics here who are also passionate about this also, which means our Creative Writing department is particularly supportive in this regard – something I really value.
"Brunel is really good at filling students with ambition - that you are good enough, you have a voice, you are entitled, no matter where you come from."
Professor Daljit Nagra
My poetry itself is about overcoming difference.
With my Poetry Extra programme, we’re committed to showcasing a diverse range of voices.
It won’t just be white male poets - we’ll feature women, poets from different parts of the world, and those from various working-class backgrounds.
A lot of my work promotes understanding and empathy - presenting ordinary Punjabis as they actually are, and highlighting the similarities among different cultural groups.
I'm trying to find ways to help Britain understand itself and its diverse population.
I feel I'm adding a fresh language to the various debates that are ongoing about inequality and difference in today's world.
Believe in yourself and the possibility of success.
Be resilient and tenacious.
Perseverance is key, and you shouldn’t be discouraged by a lack of initial interest or support – don't worry about what other people think.
Enjoy the art form and write for fun and pleasure.
Overcoming hurdles is part of the journey, and success often comes when you least expect it.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/business:
Why have a business relationship with Brunel University London?
Develop your company's products, services and technologies to stand out in a competitive market
Tailored to your needs - sign up for our open or bespoke executive programmes
Earn a degree while building a career you love - apprenticeships offer the perfect blend of education and hands-on experience
Grow your SME with our range of services designed to boost your business prospects
Discover how RIEm at Brunel helped Emmanuel Tchombe secure a £50K Innovate UK grant and launch Falcon Tag, an AI-powered smart logistics startup.
How Circular 11 turned low-grade plastic waste into sustainable construction materials with RIEm’s support—raising £1.1M and scaling innovation.
Innovative digital health solutions to have better outcomes for stroke survivors
ELODIZ Case Study: Scientific equipment development company gets funding to develop new instrument better understand, detect and address the growth of tumors
Discover how G-Volution, a leader in dual fuel technology, collaborated with Brunel's RIEm Programme to advance their innovation and secure innovation funding.
RIEm supported JurnyOn to secure innovation funding for an AI-based rail ticketing service, enhancing travel experience in partnership with Transport for Wales.
RIEm Programme supported Mettle Capital to access funding to validate Open Source Intelligence on ESG, reputation and trust for global companies/asset managers.
Optimisation saves Caterpillar Inc.
over $1,12bn across the global supply chain
Innovation enabled Elster to increase production and sales, reduce carbon foot print and save UK jobs
New electrolytic disinfection device reducing bacteria levels by up to 99% in the hot water system and offering the highest standards of hygiene.
Help to Grow launches SME on a successful learning journey
Revolutionize your future with ZIYX, the innovative platform offering games, support, and tools to empower your digital business journey.
Stix, a mindfulness tool, helps children cope with anxiety and anger, improving their wellbeing, as shown by research.
Katlas Technology Case Study:  Developing software to give everyone the power to control and manage their information, decision-making, and social outcomes.
The revolutionary pouch cover, Ostique products are designed with the unique needs of every ostomate in mind.
AI sensory solution for millions suffering from burnout
Innovative entrepreneur programmes sustainability into her SME
Ministry of Labour raises minimum wages on Brunel advice
Evidencing the need for speed as key to market growth for top telecoms provider
Brunel technology delivers 40% savings in capital cost for pioneering clean-tech innovation company
Detecting cracks in nuclear plants prevents national disaster
Design innovation in the food supply chain benefits agricultural and horticultural industries
Companies worldwide keep assets safe with Brunel's advancements in mathematics
Thousands of patients across 6 hospitals benefit from Brunel's pandemic planning toolkit.
Innovative research on using niobium as a grain refiner for casting aluminium alloys delivers solutions for aerospace and automotive industry
Heat pipe technology helps percolate prospects for exports by tackling toxicity of maté tea
Simulation techniques cut costs in nuclear, manufacturing, defence and retail industries
Brunel opens a new machine learning sector in the market
Bayesian quantile regression incorporated in major statistical software suites globally
Collaboration with Brunel transforms TWI’s business model
Helping the company expand by creating a new brand, product and theoretical underpinning.
Brunel helps start-up tackle water crisis by redeveloping the second most water demanding product in the home: washing machines.
Using mobile technology in customer communications to overcome their fears and initiate recovery from the post pandemic economic crisis.
Commercialising the idea of raising awareness of domestic abuse through performance in the community
Understanding the impacts of COVID-19 on businesses, areas of concern and how organisations are dealing with them.
Brunel Design School and Open Inclusion address the inclusive design for immersive technology gap with a ground-breaking partnership.
Emotional design elements, social media marketing and manufacturing efficiency come together to design successful homeware products.
Reducing energy consumption by 23%, unlocking significant savings and reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
If you have a new idea or would like your organisation to work with us then contact our friendly External Engagement Team.
Our email newsletter keeps you up to date with all the latest business activity at Brunel
Giving back to the University can have commercial and social benefits
Our business booklet outlines all the services we offer to businesses
Please accept all cookies to view this content.
Alternatively view the content on Twitter

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/people:
We have over 1340 academic staff at the University and they are responsible for advancing our teaching and research programmes.
You can find out more about the profile of our academic staff by using the search tool below.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/research/Strategic-Challenge-Areas/Communities:
Aligned with the Government’s GCRF challenge areas, our strengths mean we can make a significant impact on the  global societal challenges with our challenge-led, interdisciplinary research.
Our multidisciplinary research into sustainable comunities is underpinned by a number of research groups including:

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/research/Strategic-Challenge-Areas/Digital:
Aligned with the Government’s GCRF challenge areas and Industrial Strategy ‘Grand Challenges’, our strengths mean we can make a significant impact on the industrial and global societal challenges with our challenge-led, interdisciplinary research.
Our excellent disciplinary digital research supports our Health strategic challenge area by pioneering new technologies for assistive technology, telehealth, robotics and AI.
It also provides knowledge, insight and innovative technological breakthroughs in Industry 4.0: the automation and data exchange in manufacturing technologies, including the Internet of things, cloud computing and cognitive computing.
Our multidisciplinary digital research is underpinned by a number of research groups including:

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/research/Strategic-Challenge-Areas/Health:
Aligned with the World Health Organization, a lifecourse approach of our research provides a holistic view of health and wellbeing at all ages and interlinks with sustainable development.
This approach brings together high-impact, evidence- and rights-based strategies and outputs.
Our experts apply their research through new models of care, understanding biological, social and psychological perspectives for defined populations across the lifecourse .
We also develop effective intervention and prevention practises of health problems.
With Hillingdon Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust and Central North West London Foundation Trust as partners we aim to deliver radically transformed physical and mental health and social care in our community .
Our multidisciplinary research on planetary and human health is underpinned by a number of research groups including:

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/research/Strategic-Challenge-Areas/Manufacturing:
Our excellent disciplinary manufacturing research provides knowledge, insight and innovative technological breakthroughs in Industry 4.0: the automation and data exchange in manufacturing technologies, including the Internet of things, cloud computing and cognitive computing, often referred to as the fourth industrial revolution.
Our challenge-led, interdisciplinary research and innovation in manufacturing is underpinned by a number of research groups including:

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/research/Strategic-Challenge-Areas/Sustainability:
Our challenge-led, interdisciplinary research and innovation in sustainability is underpinned by a number of research groups including:
Research centres
Research groups

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/research/Our-research:
Our community shapes and participates in a strong, vibrant and inclusive research culture and environment, embedding an innovative and entrepreneurial spirit throughout, in order to attract, develop and retain exceptional PhD students, Early Career Researchers and academic staff at all levels able to deliver world-leading and internationally excellent research.
We support our academics’ development throughout all stages of their careers, creating and making visible the full range of research-related development activities and resources to enable growth, including for example shadowing, mentoring, publication and proposal-writing masterclasses, tailored programmes and coaching that develop leadership, entrepreneurship and collaboration skills.
The Graduate School  will help you with training and development opportunities whether you are a doctoral researcher, early career researcher or a supervisor.
The Research Support and Development will help you with funding bids for grants, managing contracts, and safeguarding your Intellectual Property.
The Open Research and Rights team has experts in publishing research outputs and will help you with issues around Open Access and research repositories.
The Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/research/projects/effectiveness-of-the-istep-ms-intervention:
People living with multiple sclerosis (MS) face many barriers to physical activity, leading to longer periods of sitting.
This can cause an increase in factors like disability, fatigue, walking difficulties, and conditions like heart disease and stroke.
The iStep-MS programme has shown potential for increasing physical activity and reducing sitting time.
This study aims to evaluate the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of the programme when delivered across the MS care pathway.
People with MS live with a range of symptoms, such as fatigue, muscle weakness and balance issues, which can make them more susceptible to reduced physical activity and increased sedentary behaviour in their daily routine.
These changes in behaviour are associated with additional health risks, such as type 2 diabetes, heart disease and stroke, in addition to worsening of MS symptoms.
The iStep-MS intervention involves delivery of behaviour change techniques through four consultations with different healthcare professional across a range of healthcare settings, supported by a handbook and a Smartwatch activity tracker.
If iStep-MS is found to be effective for reducing fatigue and improving quality of life when delivered by different staff across the MS healthcare pathway, it could lead to greater accessibility to sedentary behaviour and physical activity interventions and improve the management of MS on a wide scale.
Most commonly, physical activity- and sedentary behaviour-focussed interventions are delivered by physiotherapists within an NHS or therapy setting, limiting wide-scale accessibility.
The iStep-MS intervention, however, can be delivered across the MS care pathway (e.g.
from NHS acute care to MS charities) by a range of healthcare staff, such as allied health professionals, rehabilitation assistants, and exercise therapists.
This research will demonstrate if such an intervention can be delivered in a flexible way to make it more accessible for individuals with MS.
This will give greater equality of delivery and scope for expansion across healthcare and support services in the UK.
Additionally, this study is unique in that it will evaluate cost-effectiveness of the iStep-MS intervention to determine if it is value-for-money.
This will help with decisions for healthcare commissioning and services for MS in the future to support the inclusion of interventions like iStep-MS for better care.
The main aim of this study is to determine the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of the iStep-MS intervention for reducing fatigue in people with MS, when delivered in an accessible way across the MS care pathway.
The objectives of the project are to investigate the effect of the iStep-MS intervention on the following outcomes at 3 and 9 months:
Participants will be adults aged 18 years and over, with a diagnosis of MS who have recently experienced fatigue and are able to walk over 10 metres independently with or without a walking aid.
This is a multi-centre, two-arm, parallel group randomised control trial, consisting of an intervention group (iStep-MS) and a control group (usual care).
Following randomisation, participants in the intervention group will receive an intervention pack, which will include the iStep-MS handbook and a Smartwatch activity tracker (Fitbit Charge).
To increase accessibility to the intervention, the four iStep-MS consultation sessions will be delivered by healthcare staff qualified to different levels.
Prior to each consultation, participants will complete a pre-reading section in the handbook and to record their sedentary behaviour and physical activity.
The iStep handbook contains information and worksheets to support the consultation activities.
There is content dedicated to each of the four sessions that provides (1) session overview, (2) pre-session reading and reflection, (3) session-specific content e.g.
barriers and facilitators for physical activity, (4) goal setting, and (5) a diary to record and monitor goals.
Study assessments will happen at baseline, 3 months and 9 months.
This will include completing questionnaires and wearing an activity monitor on the thigh to measure sitting, standing and stepping time..
Funding body
The trial is being funded by the Multiple Sclerosis (MS) Society.
Organisations interested in our research can partner with us with confidence backed by an external and independent benchmark: The Knowledge Exchange Framework.
Read more.
Project last modified 27/08/2025

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/research/projects/evaluation-of-move-together-bucks:
This study aims to evaluate Buckinghamshire Council’s ‘Move Together Buckinghamshire’ programme: a physical activity intervention for adults over 50 years old living with a long-term health condition.
Move Together Buckinghamshire is being delivered in collaboration with Active in the Community, LEAP , and Age UK Buckinghamshire .
Low physical activity and living with long-term health conditions are associated with poor health and higher demands on health and social care.
Move Together Buckinghamshire aims to address these challenges within Buckinghamshire by supporting older adults via a tailored behaviour change approach to be physically active.
The long-term aims are to improve healthy life expectancy, reduce social isolation and loneliness and reduce demand on health and social care.
This study will: i) evaluate the impact of Move Together Buckinghamshire on physical activity, health and wellbeing outcomes, and ii) assess the feasibility and acceptability of the programme in participants and providers.
This study presents a mixed-methods independent evaluation of a community-based physical activity intervention targeted at older adults with long-term health conditions.
This study builds on other community-based physical activity intervention evaluations, such as ‘ActiveHerts’ and ‘Move Together Oxford’.
This study will collect and analyse data to evaluate Move Together Buckinghamshire using the following methods:
This evaluation is funded by Buckinghamshire Council.
Health Behaviour Change - Development and evaluation of theory- and evidence-based health behaviour change interventions, across communicable and non-communicable diseases; evidence synthesis of behaviour change interventions.
Health and Wellbeing Across the Lifecourse - Inequalities in health and wellbeing in the UK and internationally; welfare,  health and wellbeing; ageing studies; health economics.
Project last modified 24/07/2025

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/research/projects/ai-adoption-and-governance:
This project investigates AI adoption and governance, focusing on labour market reform, AI ethics, and global innovation.
It explores economic and social impacts, responsible deployment, and cross-border collaboration.
Emphasising business-influenced policy for innovation-led growth, the project aims to support skills development, infrastructure, and international cooperation in AI.
The rapid adoption of artificial intelligence is transforming economies, labour markets, and societies globally, raising urgent questions about social equity, ethical use, and economic disparities.
This research explores AI governance from both the boardroom and policy angles, collecting data from business leaders and policymakers to understand their perspectives on fair labour market reform, responsible deployment, and inclusive innovation for sustainable growth.
By examining the interplay between AI technologies, corporate strategies, and regulatory frameworks, the project tackles challenges like social inequities and economic divides.
It aims to inform balanced policies that promote ethical AI, sustainable economic growth, and equitable access to technology, ensuring AI benefits society while minimising risks.
This project stands out by combining insights from both business leaders and policymakers to explore AI adoption and governance.
Unlike research focused only on technology or regulation, it uniquely integrates boardroom perspectives with policy analysis, providing a comprehensive understanding of AI’s impact on labour market reform, ethics, and global innovation.
This dual approach addresses gaps in knowledge about aligning corporate strategies with public policy, offering new insights into responsible AI deployment.
By bridging these areas, the project contributes to advancing balanced governance frameworks that support sustainable economic growth and social equity.
This research project explores AI adoption and governance with a focus on data economy, labour market reform, and ethical considerations for ethical global innovation.
AI is transforming how businesses operate and economies grow, but these changes bring challenges related to social equity, responsible deployment, and the alignment of business and public policy.
This project uniquely collects data from both business leaders and policymakers to provide a comprehensive view often missing in existing studies.
The study investigates how AI reshapes labour markets, examining shifts in skills demand, employment patterns, and necessary policy interventions to ensure inclusive reform.
It also explores ethical challenges in AI, such as bias, transparency, and accountability, aiming to promote responsible innovation.
A global perspective is taken by analysing cross-border collaboration and international regulatory dynamics that shape AI innovation.
Additionally, the project assesses AI’s contribution to economic growth and productivity, identifying barriers and opportunities for businesses leveraging AI.
The data economy’s role is also examined, focusing on data access, governance, privacy, and security- critical factors for responsible AI deployment.
By integrating these topics, the project captures the broader AI ecosystem, encompassing technological, economic, social, and policy dimensions.
Methodologically, this research employs a mixed-methods approach, combining quantitative data such as surveys with qualitative data such as interviews, focus groups and etc.
Quantitative data gathered through structured questionnaires will reveal key trends and challenges from business and policy perspectives.
Qualitative methods, including in-depth interviews and focus groups, will provide richer insights into the ethical and regulatory complexities of AI adoption.
Comparative analysis across sectors and countries will identify best practices and governance gaps.
This project’s significance lies in its holistic approach, bridging boardroom strategy with policymaking.
By addressing economic growth and the data economy alongside labour and ethics, it offers a nuanced understanding of AI’s societal impact.
The findings aim to inform balanced policies that promote sustainable economic growth, social equity, ethical AI use, and responsible data governance.
Ultimately, the research will produce actionable recommendations to support innovation and inclusive development in the AI age.
Strategy Entrepreneurship and International Business - Our themes of research range from entrepreneurial and internationalisation strategies of small-to-medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) to inward and outward investment by large enterprises and supra-national governance.
AI Social and Digital Innovation - Social, economic and strategic effects of AI and associated technologies.
Impact of AI and related technologies on societies, organisations and individuals.
Project last modified 10/07/2025

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/research/projects/nuclear-pore-complex-the-entry-gate-into-the-nucleus-for-molecules-and-viruses:
The Nuclear Membrane separates the cytoplasm and nucleus, with the genome in the latter.
Enormous structures intercalate the membrane, Nuclear Pore Complexes (NPCs), allowing molecules to cross between nuclei and cytoplasm.
Proteins, called nucleoporins, are the building blocks of NPCs.
Molecules and viruses, such as HIV-1 (an incurable virus), cross the NPC aided by nucleoporins.
Once it passes the NPC, HIV-1 integrates into the host genome, the ultimate viral step that allows its replication.
The Nuclear Pore Complex (NPC) is the gate into the nucleus.
Molecules use this gate to reach the nuclei.
Viruses, like HIV-1, also translocate into the nucleus through the NPC.
Throughout the passage of HIV-1 across the NPC, there's interaction between molecules of both structures.
One of these molecules, NUP153, is under scrutiny in this study, where we want to understand if NUP153 can be present in different conformations and how these impact NPC structure and viral import.
We're using basic molecular biology techniques coupled with super-resolution microscopy, genomic approaches and molecular virology experiments to investigate the impact of NUP153 conformations in NPC structure.
In this project we're using cloning to generate several versions of NUP153.
We hope to generate CRISPR / Cas cell models in the future of NUP153 mutations.
We aim to investigate how these NUP153 versions instigate changes in the NPC structure and function, both by looking into the import of molecules and viruses and its interactions with the genome.
Therefore, this project touches several aspects of research, from molecular biology, to genomics to even virology in a unique way, to understand how HIV-1 uses the host nuclear entry machinery.
Genome Engineering and Maintenance - Diverse research network focused on molecular, cellular, organismal and computational aspects of genome biology.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/research/Centres/AI-Social-and-Digital-Innovation:
Read our latest research publications, view grants and seminars to learn the latest in artificial intelligence
We map the research terrain of Big Data and AI and investigate the impact of AI and related technologies on societies, organisations and individuals.
Get in touch for collaboration and knowledge exchange
Please Allow all cookies to view this video from YouTube.
Alternatively view the video from YouTube content here
Our Centre invites you to participate in thought leadership seminars and other events led by our members with invited subject area experts and leading organisations.
Bringing together public, private and third sector organisations together with computer scientists, health scientists, engineers and social scientists in a shared physical and virtual space, creating the conditions for innovation.
Learn about the implications, applications, limitations and opportunities of Artificial Intelligence in various private, public and third sector organisations.
The Centre collaborates closely with government bodies and institutions and partners with forward thinking organizations to offer increased support and training, so that our research has the most impact in the public sector and society.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/research/Groups/Inclusive-Design:
Meet the people behind our research
Group Leader
An international platform for researchers, design practitioners, design educators and students, and the general public

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/research/Centres/flood-risk-and-resilience:
CFR2 is a team of colleagues from across the university working to understand the societal, environmental and sustainability implications of flood risk and resilience in the UK and elsewhere.
We develop and test novel and holistic tools and solutions for infrastructure and communities exposed to flood and climate related hazards, and to train the next generation of engineers and practitioners.
Brunel's Centre for Flood Risk and Resilience run three CIWEM-accredited e-learning courses.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/research/Groups/media-culture-and-politics:
Our focus will be on the converging crises and technological innovations that are challenging the foundations of how we have traditionally understood their roles in society.
There is an urgent need to understand how media, culture and politics intersect, interact and can contribute to the amplification and the subsiding of responses to unfolding dynamics

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/research/Groups/Design-for-Sustainability:
Meet the members of our Group
We explore the role of design in circular products and business models, materials and manufacturing, design inspired by nature , and design for social innovation.
Learn more.
Join our research community

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/research/Groups/intellectual-property-and-innovation:
We engage in interdisciplinary activities, creating synergies between members working at the intersection of intellectual property rights and innovation in a supportive and collaborative environment.
We address the significant challenges posed by the rapidly evolving digital landscape and technological advancements on intellectual property law

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/research/Groups/Brunel-Digital-Design-Lab:
Research, design and development / Consultancy / Knowledge transfer
Brunel Digital Design Lab undertakes human-centred projects across a range of application areas, with the current and completed work covering inclusive design of immersive content and interfaces (VR, AR and MR), digital audiovisual production tools, design for health, assistive technology, social networking, the IoT, e-Government, m-Learning and digital arts.
The lab has also been involved in projects within the contexts of physical-only product design and environmental design.
The lab benefits from the use of a dedicated space with an assortment of immersive technology equipment.
We welcome new collaboration opportunities with industry and academia and PhD candidates interested to join our team.
Browse the profiles of our group members.
From Channel 4 to Virti Health, we work with a number of industrial and academic partners.
There are currently no upcoming events.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/research/Centres/Culture-and-Evolution:
Evolution and culture are the two most fundamental and powerful influences on human behaviour, and their effects are what we study at the Centre for Culture and Evolution (CCE).
Research at the CCE focuses on cultural variation in, and the evolutionary origins of, psychology and behaviour
Specialist facilities available to our researchers
The people behind our research
Research opportunities for students in our Centre
Find out about upcoming events and watch our seminar recordings
We're making an impact with strategic partnerships with businesses, industry and the not-for-profit sector

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/research/Centres/Power-Systems:
The research activities of the centre draw on the disciplines of electrical power engineering, control engineering, optimisation theory, computational algorithms and methods and information technology.
Much of the research is multi-disciplinary, with individual research projects requiring skills in two or more disciplines.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/research/Groups/statistics-and-applied-probability:
The areas of applications of data analytics investigated by the group include astrophysics,  biology and genomics, financial econometrics, health sciences, materials science,   wellbeing and UK intelligence, with funding and end user problems coming from industry (TWI, for analyses of pipeline corrosion), the EU (COSTNET project, on network science), ONS (the Office of National Statistics, for analyses of wellbeing data) and overseas collaborators from China, Iran and Italy.
There is also particular strength within the group in quantile/expectile regression and its application in bioscience, finance and other areas.
For more detailed descriptions of research and list of individual publications, please follow the links to the web pages of individual group members.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/research/Groups/Human-Rights-Society-and-Arts:
Thurs 10 Nov, 12.30-13.30 ELTJ 081
Thurs 24 Nov, 1-2pm, Eastern Gateway Auditorium
Mon 28 Nov, 12.30-13.30 LECT 020
Mon 5 Dec, 12.00-13.00 LECT 020

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/research/projects/centring-families-in-icelands-just-transition:
This interdisciplinary project will advance new ways of thinking about low-carbon energy transition and social, environmental and climate justice through a focus on the families of Iceland.
In doing so, this project will foreground the family in Iceland’s climate action policy in order to achieve the aim of driving forward just transition for families across the country.
The Icelandic Government’s action plan to achieve carbon neutrality by 2040 overlooks families as key stakeholders, despite the fact that families are directly impacted by changing climate and the actions taken to achieve carbon neutrality.
This interdisciplinary project addresses this ‘missing link’ in Iceland’s climate action policy.
It does so through two interlocking strands.
The first strand of the project analyses post Independence Icelandic literature and films to develop a deeper understanding of how climate change has marked family lives over the years and what lessons can be learned from the past.
The second strand adopts an ethnographic approach to capture the impact of climate policy on contemporary Icelandic families.
By drawing together historical and contemporary understandings of climate action and family life, the project will identify what additional state support and policy changes are needed to centre families in Iceland’s just transition.
Public and policy discourse on climate change is dominated by the hegemony of natural sciences and predictive climate modelling which feeds into the targets set by the Icelandic government for businesses and industries.
Turning climate into a known element of predictive models and viewing a carbon neutral future solely through such a prism has inadvertently foreclosed other modes of thinking that can help place social, environmental and climate justice at the heart of low-carbon energy transition.
There is a paucity of research that go beyond these frameworks to explore and analyse the broader cultural context of the way family life intersects with Iceland's changing climate, and demonstrate how climate change and energy transition have marked the cultural imagination of Iceland in a longer historical perspective.
Driven by this need, this interdisciplinary project has been co-designed with key stakeholders to foreground families in Iceland’s just transition.
This project will develop deep understandings of family life to inform and influence climate action policies in Iceland with the aim of enabling a just transition to carbon neutrality for families across the country.
It will do so by adopting an interdisciplinary approach that ingrates both historical and contemporary understandings in order to produce rich, nuanced and actionable understandings that juxtapose lessons from the past and present in order to facilitate a just and equitable transition.
The project aim will be addressed through two inter-locking strands that integrate the humanities and the social sciences.
The first strand will develop deeper understandings of the way the impact of climate change has marked family lives in Iceland since its independence in 1944, identifying shifts in cultural imaginations through ecocritical analysis of Icelandic literature and films.
This will lay the foundation for work on the second strand of the project which will build on these historical and cultural insights to engage contemporary families across multiple regions of Iceland, to foreground their lived experiences and aspirations for a carbon neutral future.
Drawing together insights from the past, as captured in Icelandic cultural texts, and contemporary lived experiences of families will provide historically-aware syncretic understandings that can be powerfully applied to develop effective policies and interventions that can minimise the adverse implications of climate change and maximise the potential benefits of climate action for families.
This 2-year project has been funded by the British Academy as part of its Knowledge Frontiers 2025 programme with a total funding of £308,306 (British Academy's contribution is £294,842).
This project build on pilot work funded by Brunel's Research Development Fund (RDF)
Education, Identities and Society - Research at the intersection of Education, Sociology, Human Geography, Youth Studies and Digital Presence.
Human Geography - Aims to develop and consolidate interdisciplinary research around space, place and society at Brunel.
We provide a forum for engagement with geographical research, for sharing and receiving feedback on writing and developing new collaborations nationally and internationally.
Project last modified 08/07/2025

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/research/projects/preclinical-efficacy-of-targeting-enzymes-for-friedreichs-ataxia-treatment:
Friedreich’s ataxia (FRDA) is a rare, inherited neurodegenerative disorder with limited treatment options.
Our project explores the novel role of sphingolipid metabolism in FRDA, a pathway linked to other neurodegenerative diseases but not yet studied in this context.
By identifying key regulators and therapeutic targets, we aim to uncover new mechanisms and develop strategies to improve outcomes for individuals affected by this devastating condition.
Our project aims to explore the role of sphingolipid metabolism in FRDA.
By identifying key regulatory pathways and novel drug targets, our research has the potential to pave the way for more comprehensive and effective therapies.
Beyond addressing a critical medical need, this work contributes to broader societal goals by advancing scientific knowledge, supporting the development of treatments for rare childhood diseases, and improving the quality of life and life expectancy for affected individuals and their families.
While most FRDA research has focused on mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative stress, our project takes a novel approach by investigating the role of sphingolipid metabolism, a pathway increasingly linked to neurodegeneration but largely unexplored in FRDA.
By focusing on key regulatory enzymes and genes involved in sphingolipid metabolism, we aim to pinpoint novel therapeutic targets.
Friedreich’s ataxia (FRDA) is a rare, inherited neurodegenerative disorder and the most common form of childhood-onset ataxia, affecting approximately 1 in 50,000 individuals of Caucasian descent.
FRDA typically presents in early childhood with progressive difficulty walking due to impaired coordination, known as ataxia.
As the disease advances, individuals often develop severe musculoskeletal deformities and lose mobility.
Most patients succumb to heart failure or related complications in early adulthood.
FRDA is caused by a mutation in the FXN gene, which encodes frataxin, a protein essential for mitochondrial function.
Frataxin deficiency disrupts iron homeostasis within mitochondria, leading to the accumulation of toxic byproducts, increased oxidative stress, and ultimately cellular death.
Currently, Omaveloxolone (SKYCLARYS™) is the only approved treatment for FRDA in the USA and EU.
While it provides neurological benefits, its effects on other clinical aspects of the disease remain to be fully understood.
This underscores the need to identify additional therapeutic targets that could broaden treatment strategies for FRDA.
Emerging evidence suggests that defective sphingolipid metabolism may contribute to the pathology of various neurodegenerative diseases, including childhood-onset conditions such as Tuberous Sclerosis Complex and Fatty Acid Hydroxylase-associated Neurodegeneration, as well as adult-onset diseases like Alzheimer’s, Huntington’s, and Parkinson’s.
Sphingolipids are a class of lipids vital to brain function, and disturbances in their metabolism can have significant neurological consequences.
Our recent findings indicate altered sphingolipid levels and dysregulation of associated genes in both mouse models and human samples of FRDA.
These changes may play a crucial role in disease progression.
The goal of this project is to investigate key regulators of sphingolipid metabolism in FRDA and to identify novel therapeutic targets.
Project last modified 07/07/2025

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/research/projects/progys-gys-pilot-testing-and-integration-to-engage-stakeholders:
ProGYS+ is an EPSRC-funded Impact Accelerator Project focusing on ‘Engagement’ to promote the reach and impact of the Green Yard Scheduler (GYS) through stakeholder engagement.
It aims to embed the sustainability considerations, for the first time, in planning the container yard operations as an explicit objective alongside maximising productivity.
Building on the successful outcomes of the Impact Accelerator project for ‘Readiness’, ProGYS, and the H2020 project, PortForward, ProGYS+ aims to engage with representatives from the two customer groups of The Green Yard Scheduler (GYS).
These include TERMAVI the operator of the Vigo’s container terminal and the provider of their Terminal Operating System (TOS), in coordination with the Port Authority of Vigo (Figure 1).
This overarching aim will be achieved by adjusting and piloting the GYS and its integration with Vigo’s TOS for implementation by TERMAVI.
Effective implementation of the GYS at the Port of Vigo will provide strong evidence for engagement and negotiations with the TOS provider regarding a licensing agreement.
Furthermore, the positive piloting results at Vigo will support negotiations with other ports using the same TOS to adapt it as an add-on, even if they do not desire integration.
Operations and Information Systems Management - We specialise in responsible and sustainable operation management exploring information systems, operations research, management science, and general management and strategic management knowledge and approaches across public and private industry sectors
Project last modified 26/06/2025

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/research/projects/co-design-of-very-brief-advice-for-pulmonary-rehabilitation:
Over 1.2 million people living in the UK have a lung disease known as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) which causes people to get short of breath.
A treatment that helps with shortness of breath is an exercise and education programme called pulmonary rehabilitation (called rehab for short).
However, only a small number of people are referred for and start rehab.
People from ethnic minority groups, those living in poor areas, women and older people are less likely to be referred.
Increasing the number of people receiving rehab is an urgent NHS priority.
In the past, there were similar problems with the referral of smokers to stop smoking services.
However, a way of changing people’s behaviour, called Very Brief Advice, has increased the number of people referred for support and who stop smoking.
Very Brief Advice, which is widely used in the NHS, involves an online training course for healthcare workers that teaches them how to discuss a referral to stop smoking services with smokers.
Changing Very Brief Advice so it can be used by healthcare workers to discuss a rehab referral with people with COPD may be a way to increase the number of people who agree to be referred to rehab.
Therefore the aim of this study is to work with with different types of people living with COPD, their carers/family and healthcare workers to change Very Brief Advice so it can be used by healthcare workers to discuss a rehab referral with people with COPD.
This will be called Very Brief Advice for rehab.
People living with COPD, their carers/family and healthcare workers will be interviewed.
This is to understand the problems around rehab referral and how Very Brief Advice can be changed to discuss a rehab referral.
Together, people living with with COPD, healthcare workers, researchers and the National Centre for Smoking Cessation and Training, the organisation that developed Very Brief Advice for smoking, will co-design Very Brief Advice and the online training course to teach healthcare workers how to use Very Brief Advice to discuss a rehab referral.
We will then do another study to look at whether Very Brief Advice for rehab works in the real world.
If it is shown to be effective, Very Brief Advice for rehab can be established nationally using the Very Brief Advice for smoking website.
It will educate healthcare professionals, increase pulmonary referral and uptake rates which will help people living with COPD, for example, improved quality of life and reduced number of hospital admissions, and the NHS including reduced healthcare resource use and costs.
Project last modified 17/06/2025
Tweets by @clairemnolan Please accept all cookies to view this content.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/research/projects/energy-markets-policy-and-regulation-in-terms-of-reaching-net-zero-emissions:
At present energy markets, policy and regulation face major decarbonisation and security challenges.
The main environmental challenge is to reach a net zero economy by 2050.
To reach such an ambitious aim countries are required to develop energy roadmaps for 2050 with national Long-Term Strategies and National Energy and Climate Plans.
These documents highlight the need to reduce fossil fuel usage, develop renewables, and switch to more electrified economies.
Secondly, to achieve greater economic security in energy markets European countries need to ensure that their power systems are more interconnected and synchronized where possible.
From March 2022 Ukraine become an observed member of the ENTSO-E with a capacity of 0.9 GW and the ability to expand it to a total of 2.0 GW.
That means benefits for both Ukraine and the EU in improving countries’ financial situation and energy security, acquiring additional flexibility and balancing options, and receiving frequency support.
Despite its withdrawal from the EU, the UK remains a member of the ENTSO-E energy union.
Expanding National Grid`s interconnectors to ENTSO-E by 2030 is beneficial for the UK in the reason of getting clean resources, better dispatching, and taking better energy value overall for consumers.
Therefore, the development and extension of ENTSO-E are valuable for the countries, its business, and customers.
Lastly, energy markets are also facing challenges related to the increasing prices that force national governments to seek solutions to support consumers, as well as switch their focus from total decarbonization to energy security.
To reach the net zero and meet highlighted incentives, European countries are involved in developing policies and improving market mechanisms which need to foster the transition to more flexible energy systems and grids, state-of-the-art market design, and investment possibilities.
The main objectives of the planned research project are as follows:
The project is devoted to investigating the effective solutions for best data-driven decisions in energy market policies, coordinating future energy markets into existing and future European inseparable energy systems, and considering issues related to price forecasting and optimal bidding strategies in electrical power markets.
Brunel Interdisciplinary Power Systems - Power systems analysis for transmission and distribution networks, smart grids; congestion monitoring in transmission networks; simulation and analysis of new energy markets;  optimisation of the design and operation of electrical networks; condition monitoring of power station and power system plant; energy-efficient designs for underground electric power cables.
Project last modified 10/06/2025

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/research/projects/digitalisation-of-electrical-power-and-energy-systems-operation-deeps:
The Digitalisation of Electrical Power and Energy Systems Operation (DEEPS) project is part of the UKRI Future Leader Fellowship .
This initiative aims to cultivate a leader in the field of digitalising power and energy systems.
It involves collaboration with eight industry partners in power systems engineering and digital technologies, three renowned research and engineering societies, and mentors from academia and industry.
The Fellowship will provide intensive training and help build the Fellow's research and innovation networks.
Reliable power systems are crucial for delivering electricity to various sectors such as transport, communications, agriculture, manufacturing, construction, and education.
This project leverages the Fellow's experience in Electricity National Control and expertise in renewable power system operation.
Supported by leading digital technology companies, the project will address the challenges of integrating low-carbon and renewable energy sources (RES) into power systems.
Prototype applications will be tested at Brunel University of London and then deployed in real-world energy management systems.
The research aims to create cost-effective and scalable simulation platforms for industry and academia, contributing to environmental sustainability and economic stability.
The DEEPS project stands out by focusing on the collaboration between different energy systems and entities, including transmission, distribution, and renewable system operators.
The research aims to enhance the monitoring and management of power systems, ensuring they are reliable and efficient.
This will support the UK's goal of achieving net zero emissions by promoting digitalisation, decarbonisation, and decentralisation.
The project will develop new modelling approaches and digital simulation techniques for future power system operations.
Reliable power systems are essential for social comfort and economic growth, and they will play a key role in achieving the UK's target of 100% decarbonisation of energy usage.
The project is backed by leading digital technology companies and involves collaboration with eight industry partners in power systems engineering and digital technologies.
The Fellowship will include intensive training and help build the Fellow's research and innovation networks.
Project last modified 21/03/2025

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/research/projects/a-cross-sector-expert-review-of-inclusive-and-ethical-qualitative-research:
In collaboration with a network of experts from various sectors, Brunel University of London is compiling evidence on best practices in inclusive and ethical qualitative research.
Our research spans sports, community, education, arts and culture, human/social geography, and public health sectors.
The goal is to support Sport England in developing evidence-led guidance on inclusive and ethical qualitative research.
Our project addresses significant societal challenges by investigating key principles and processes underpinning inclusive and ethical qualitative research.
It seeks to identify best practices for implementing inclusive and ethical qualitative evaluation across different methods and contexts, enabling meaningful participation.
It also aims to uncover barriers to conducting inclusive and ethical research and propose mitigations for policymakers, practitioners, and participants.
Our research contributes to broader societal goals by tackling social inequities, promoting inclusivity, and enhancing the quality of qualitative research.
The project seeks research, frameworks, and guidance tools from charities, government departments, funders, businesses, and community groups.
These should be defined as 'grey literature' and include reports, toolkits, or websites that provide information on designing and implementing inclusive and ethical research and evaluation.
Evidence should be from the sport, community, education, arts and culture, human/social geography, and public health sectors.
Send relevant suggestions electronically to Dr Tarryn Godfrey at tarryn.godfrey@brunel.ac.uk with the subject line 'Call for evidence: inclusive and ethical qualitative research'.
Submissions should be received by 24 March 2025, 5pm UK Time .
Project last modified 20/03/2025

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/research/projects/grown-up-children-from-armed-forces-families:
These ‘grown up’ children have been overlooked in research, policy and practice, as the main focus has historically been on serving members of the military and veterans, with some exploration of the families, including school-aged children.
The Office for Students note that children from Armed Forces families face ‘very specific and complex barriers’ (OfS, 2020: para 9) and this has been recognised in the English government’s Service Pupil Premium funding, provided to schools since 2011 (MoD, 2023).
Although research has been undertaken with school-aged children, we know very little about the childhood and educational experiences from those now grown up.
The reflections from this unique group of adults that cannot be elicited from anywhere else, provide knowledge about how childhood and education as part of an Armed Forces family have been experienced, and the implications of this.
The outcomes of this project provide recommendations for policy, practice and research for current children who are in this context, their families, and those that work with and for them.
This provides an evidence-based foundation for support for the children, as they move through childhood, schooling, further study and work, and make their transitions into adulthood.
Pedagogy, Policy and Professional Education - Focusing on pedagogy, policy and professional education, including the education of teachers.
Global Lives - Research conducted in the Centre addresses the challenges facing society, helping to change the lives of people around the world by bringing economic, social and cultural benefits.
Project last modified 07/03/2025

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/about/chmls:
I am delighted to introduce you to the College of Health, Medicine and Life Sciences.
The College is comprised of three departments that cover life sciences, clinical and health-related subjects across a number of disciplines.
We teach and train 4000 students and have around 300 academic and professional and support staff in the College.
We strive for excellence and contribute enthusiastically to the University’s priorities.
Our vision is to be a College that is distinguished by excellence in education and the learning experience, that conducts world leading research, and ensures its activities have a real impact on human health.
The College specialises in courses that enable our graduates to make a real difference to the world around them.
Through our key strategic partnerships we aim to make Brunel University London a key part of health research in the UK.Whether it is through medical breakthroughs that aid those suffering from disease, research designed to aid elite athletes improve their performance or programmes to train the next generation of health professionals, we aim to produce graduates who stand willing and able to make a difference.
Brunel is a signatory to the national Technician Commitment
Reclaiming Community Social Work: Building Skills for Collective Impact
Join us on our campus to explore all aspects of university life and find out what Brunel has to offer.
We offer a number of CPPD courses to develop and extend your skills
The central aim of the Antimicrobial Innovations Centre (AMIC), is to address key challenges related to antimicrobial resistance, through focused interdisciplinary collaboration and cutting-edge research, positioning it at the forefront of addressing global health and planetary challenges.
Fundamental and applied research into brain function using techniques such as functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), electroencephalography (EEG), electromyography (EMG), eye-tracking, transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS), transcranial direct-current stimulation (tDCS), infrared thermography together with psychophysics and cognitive behavioural paradigms in health and disease.
Evolution and culture are the two most fundamental and powerful influences on human behaviour, and their effects are what we study at the Centre for Culture and Evolution.
Diverse research network focused on molecular, cellular, organismal and computational aspects of genome biology.
Inequalities in health and wellbeing in the UK and internationally; welfare,  health and wellbeing; ageing studies; health economics.
The generation, promotion and integration of new, multi-disciplinary research that is particular to the British nuclear test veteran community, their genomic health and the impact of uncertainty on health more broadly.
Driving scientific innovation and discovery for diagnosis, treatment, and management of cardiovascular disease, inflammatory and immune disorders, microbial resistance, and cancer.
The centre conducts interdisciplinary research to improve human health and performance through regular physical activity and exercise, and by limiting sedentary behaviour.
Predictive approaches in toxicology, including combined chemical exposures and development of new frameworks for non-animal approaches for predicting toxicity; Endocrine disruptor research with an emphasis on mechanisms of disease and test method development; Pollution monitoring, clean-up technologies and chemical analytics.
Data science/wearable technology and Rehabilitation; Haptic feedback, multi-sensory interfacing and Robotics in Health; Immersion and Engagement in Virtual Rehabilitation; TeleHealth/TeleRehab; Data: using AI and Machine learning to improve health.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/advanced-clinical-practice:
Brunel offers a range of advanced clinical practice courses where you’ll learn a holistic approach to patient care alongside clinical leadership skills.
You’ll use evidence-based practice and research to make informed decisions that grow your knowledge and expertise leading to improved patient care.
Our part-time programmes are designed to support experienced, employed healthcare professionals, to further develop their skills in advanced practice
Our full-time APP programmes help experienced healthcare practitioners advance their careers
Progress your clinical skills with our Continuing Personal Professional Development courses
Our courses are built to develop your skills in a range of clinical areas
See where our advanced clinical practice degrees could take your career
Learn in state-of-the-art facilities, designed to teach you to industry standards
Advanced Clinical Practice (Cardiovascular Health) PgCert,...
Advanced Clinical Practice (Critical Care) PgCert,...
Advanced Clinical Practice (Musculoskeletal Rehabilitation) PgCert,...
Advanced Clinical Practice (Neurological Rehabilitation) PgCert,...
Advanced Clinical Practice (Pelvic Health) PgCert,...
Advanced Clinical Practice CPD
Advanced Clinical Practice MSc
Advanced Professional Practice (APP) PgCert, PgDip...
Advanced Professional Practice (Cardiovascular Health) PgCert,...
Advanced Professional Practice (Critical Care) PgCert,...
Advanced Professional Practice (Musculoskeletal Rehabilitation) PgCert,...
Advanced Professional Practice (Neurological Rehabilitation) PgCert,...
Advanced Professional Practice (Pelvic Health) PgCert,...
Ageing Studies PhD

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/Art-Psychotherapy-MA:
Art Psychotherapy
2 years full-time
UK £13,280
International £28,350
This programme will offer you the advanced skills, knowledge and confidence to respond to a wide range of health needs across physical, mental health and community sectors as an art psychotherapist.
As a graduating student you will be able to apply for registration with the Health and Care Professions Council (link here).
The MA Art Psychotherapy programme is provided in partnership with CNWL NHS Foundation Trust and this means work placement experience is at the core of this programme.
The MA qualification is approved by the HCPC and you will gain experience of working in health contexts, including the NHS and third sector.
This qualification aligns with Healthcare Employers strategic objectives and goals related to workforce planning and the strategic aims set out by NHS England and local NHS Trusts to have closer working relationships with the third sector.
Please click here for more information on the course.
The course is two year full-time starting in September.
It includes two clinical placements that run alongside academic teaching.
At the heart of this programme are the cultural values of responding to the social and health care needs of the participants and this may vary according to the socio-economic context, age, disability, gender, sex, race and religion.
You will learn ways of understanding different approaches to art psychotherapy which means you can tailor the practice according to the people you work with.
You will be taught evidence-based practices by leading practitioners, including arts-based innovative approaches to collaboration and co-production that are safe, effective and well managed.
The first placement (Placement A) is for the first year of the programme and the second placement (Placement B) for the duration of the second year of the programme.
Our qualification is approved by the HCPC and you’ll gain experience working in health contexts, including the NHS and the third sector.
Our partnership with CNWL NHS Foundation Trust means work placement experience is at the core of this programme.
Throughout the course, two clinical placements run alongside academic teaching.
You’ll be taught evidence-based practices by leading practitioners, including arts-based innovative approaches to collaboration and co-production that are safe, effective, and well-managed.
A 2:2 (or above) UK Honours degree or an equivalent internationally recognised qualification in a visual arts degree or in a discipline related to the programme such as psychology, occupational therapy, social work, or nursing.
In addition, applicants must provide the following:
Portfolio:
All applicants must submit a portfolio of artwork demonstrating an in-depth understanding of aesthetics and image making processes.
The portfolio should include:
Ideally the portfolio should be presented in an online format, for example as an Adobe Portfolio (more information on Adobe Portfolio can be found at https://portfolio.adobe.com ) or alternatively Microsoft Sway ( https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-365/blog/2016/08/17/sway-design-tips-and-new-templates/ )
Work experience: We recommend 12 months comprehensive and relevant work experience, which may be voluntary work in a health, social services, education, special needs, community centre or charity setting.
You should supply a CV with your application that details this experience.
Interview: Competitive applicants will be invited to take part in an interview with the academic department.
Further details about the format of the interview will be available soon.
£13,280 full-time
£28,350 full-time
We use an array of teaching and learning strategies on the MA, including group lectures, role-play, workshops, experiential learning (e.g.
dynamic group art therapy work), tutorials, writing and arts-based learning experiences.
Lecturers will introduce conceptual material and we will direct learners to explore this in relation to arts therapies, either individually or in collaboration with peers.
The seminars and practical workshop sessions will provide smaller group contact and the opportunity to practice, review, discuss and debate the practice and theory, knowledge and understanding of evidence informed Art Psychotherapy.
The sessions sometimes will require learners to make non-assessed presentations to the peer group and the tutor, either individually or as part of a team making use, where appropriate of ICT.
Individual and small group assignments and presentations build critical awareness and give opportunities to explore and develop the practical implications of theory.
Dissertation research will give learners the opportunity to integrate knowledge about pertinent clinical advances, and to familiarise learners with the rigours of independent investigative work.
Formative Assessment Strategy
The programme uses a range of formative (interim) assessment methods leading to summative (final) assessments to help you to assimilate and understand complex learning material.
We will often use formative assessments at the end of learning sessions and these enrich the learning experience through assessing for learning rather than only an assessment of learning.
Formative assessments will focus on five areas of learner experience: reliability, validity, feasibility, acceptance, and impact.
Reliability will focus on art psychotherapy theory and practice required for using the arts as well as practice and knowledge about the professional environment and competencies.
Examples of formative assessments include case study analysis, clinical simulation, practice observations and feedback, peer assessments, surveys of practice.
The placement uses an ongoing placement digital portfolio which can utilise images and writing for the purposes of supporting formative assessments involving the placement supervisor and tutor and contributes towards the final placement digital portfolio for your summative assessment for each year.
The expectation is that the placement digital portfolio reflects assimilation of critical thinking with an advanced applied knowledge of clinical practice in art psychotherapy.
Summative Assessment Strategy
The summative assessments progress from formative assessments and are based on many of the same principles that enable you to learn and assimilate knowledge.
Throughout the programme we have positioned summative assessments to reflect the required depth of learning consolidation required for effective application of practice and theory.
Further to this the summative assessment strategy will ensure that you are ‘work force ready’ enabling professional competency, increasing employability and offering an accessible and inclusive approach to learning.
We use summative assessments to develop your skills and abilities and to assess levels of competence.
The nine modules for the award combine different modes of assessment which are positioned carefully throughout the course to support your learning.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/biomedical-sciences:
If you have a fascination with how the human body fights disease, take it one step further by studying Biomedical Sciences at Brunel.
From day one, you’ll have access to our state-of-the-art laboratories, starting with the basic hands-on skills you need for your future career and building up to more specialist forensic equipment throughout your time here.
You’ll be taught by award-winning lecturers, who are carrying out some of the most important biomedical research of the 21st century.
Gain a comprehensive understanding of biomedical sciences on one of our Royal Society of Biology accredited undergraduate degrees
Focus on bridging the molecular basis of human diseases with innovative therapeutic approaches through extensive laboratory learning
Make scientific breakthroughs in the biomedical sciences world through research with a PhD
If you have any questions, we'd love to hear from you
Register your spot on one of our upcoming Open Days

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/life-sciences:
If you’re not yet decided on the area of biological sciences you want to study, this degree is the one for you.
Studying the Life Sciences BSc at Brunel will enable you to study several life science streams (biological, environmental, psychological and sport sciences) alongside computational data analytics and optional modules such as languages and creative writing, so you’ll enter the world of work with a competitive set of in-demand skills like no other.
Gain a comprehensive understanding of several life sciences disciplines to create a distinctive yet industry-valued degree
Build a career in an industry you’re passionate about or experience a whole new area of interest while studying on your life sciences degree
Live, study and thrive in our one London campus which boasts excellent learning and social facilities
Make scientific breakthroughs in life sciences through research with a PhD
Back in the teaching labs with the @brunellifesciences students @bruneluni purifying proteins, doing western blots, having fun!
This is an excellent listen, full of great science but also handy tips for the everyday exerciser!
How do you successfully distribute vaccines in a country where two-thirds of the population state they won’t take it?
If you have any questions about our courses, admissions or need directions to our campus, don't hesitate to contact us
Biosciences PhD
Cognitive and Clinical Neuroscience PhD
Environment and Health PhD
Life Sciences BSc
Undergraduate Pathway in Life Sciences
Welfare, Health and Wellbeing PhD

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/occupational-therapy:
Studying an Occupational Therapy degree at Brunel means you’ll learn the practical and enquiry skills that really make a difference.
This ranges from assessing the impact of everyday activities to prescribing specialist equipment or other remedial medical solutions.
You’ll learn the latest developments in occupational therapy and be better able to think, discuss and engage critically using the latest practices.
Our expert lecturers are experienced, passionate and still active in clinical environments or research so you’ll get a comprehensive learning experience where their knowledge becomes yours.
Study our industry-respected Occupational Therapy BSc, built with a client-centred approach in mind where you’ll integrate theory with practice to develop creative solutions that enrich people’s lives
Our postgraduate Occupational Therapy courses will help you start an exciting career in this industry or, if you’re a qualified practitioner, help you grow your existing knowledge and expertise
Immerse yourself in research with an Occupational Therapy PhD and play your part in bringing improvement to clinical practice and patient care in this universally important industry
Discover more about the academic experts who teach our courses
Find out more about the support that's available to you
Human Performance, Exercise and Rehabilitation PhD
Occupational Therapy (Pre-registration) MSc
Occupational Therapy BSc
Occupational Therapy PhD
Sport, Health and Exercise Sciences PhD

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/physician-associate:
Studying on a Brunel Medical School physician associate degree lets you be a part of a growing number of multi-skilled medical professionals who are improving the lives of many and are vital to the future of healthcare in the UK.
You’ll gain exceptional theoretical and clinical learning as well as valuable work experience from over 1,800 hours of clinical placements.
Develop your knowledge by creating innovative solutions to existing challenges faced in the diagnosis, treatment and care of patients
Benefit from over 1,800 hours of professional practise on your degree
See how our academics are making a difference through world-class research
Explore all aspects of university life, talk to our staff and students, and find out what Brunel has to offer
Gain the skills and knowledge required to enter this exciting profession and begin practice
You may be eligible for financial support with a £5,000 training grant
Meet our Physician Associate team
If you have any questions about our Physician Associate degree, get in touch
Physician Associate MSc

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/physiotherapy:
From working with sporting professionals through to helping patients affected by injury, illness or disability, by studying a hands-on physiotherapy degree at Brunel you’ll play an active role in helping people to achieve their goals.
Brunel has one of the largest physiotherapy teams in a university with an expert in every area of this subject, so you’ll benefit from their experience, knowledge and connections within the sector on your physiotherapy degree.
We produce graduates eligible to apply for professional registration, as your studies with us will prepare you for the working world of physiotherapy.
Learn to use scientific knowledge and patient-assessment in helping to improve the physical well-being of your patients or optimising sports professionals’ physical performance
Whether you’re a qualified practitioner or looking to become a physiotherapist, we have the physiotherapy course for you
Bring improvement to clinical practice and patient care through research with a Physiotherapy PhD
Develop or extend your clinical skills with our wide range of CPPD courses designed for physiotherapists
Graduate with a work-ready set of skills with a work placement
Learn in state-of-the-art facilities, designed to teach you to industry standard
Find information for international students here
See what our expert team of academics have achieved
Brunel graduates Adam and Ethan in The Lancet, 180 degrees shift.
Great read...
If you have any questions about our physiotherapy degrees, get in touch
Tune in to our podcast where members of our physiotherapy team talk about their research interest
Physiotherapy (Pre-registration) MSc
Physiotherapy BSc
Physiotherapy PhD

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/public-health-and-health-promotion:
Studying Public Health and Health Promotion at Brunel helps you gain the advanced skills, principles and knowledge in this exciting discipline to achieve change and influence health policy at local, national and global levels.
From local issues like the effects of the Heathrow expansion on public health to international topics like obesity or contagious viruses, you’ll be at the forefront in developing or improving existing approaches to solve these challenges.
Gain a comprehensive understanding of ‘health’ in its broadest sense with our range of public health courses
Study anywhere and at any time.
Build connections with like-minded professionals worldwide with our online courses
See how our academics are making waves in the industry through world-class research
Develop or extend your skills with our wide range of CPPD courses
Pursue a career within organisations tasked with improving the health and wellbeing of society
If you have any questions about our Public Health and Health Promotion degree, get in touch
Global Healthcare Management MSc
Health Economics PhD
Public Health and Health Promotion MSc
Public Health and Health Promotion PhD

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/nursing:
Studying nursing at Brunel develops your career as an innovative practitioner in the promotion of health, and the prevention of ill health, for individuals, groups and communities.
Our new Blended Learning Interactive Simulation suite (BLISs) offers an innovative unique learning space which brings multi-sensory environments into the modern classroom giving students innovative learning experiences.
For those looking to enter the profession, you can choose from Adult, Child Health and Mental Health Nursing.
If you have initial nurse or midwife registration and wish to become a specialist community public health nurse, we offer degrees in Health Visiting, Occupational Health Nursing or School Nursing.
NMC registration, with your degree, enables you to practise as a registered nurse in the UK.
Gain the skills to become a proactive, creative and dynamic practitioner in this challenging yet fulfilling profession
Enhance your nursing career by developing specialist expertise in your chosen subject with postgraduate study
Our Specialist Community Public Health Nursing programme allows you to continue to be effective in your profession by developing and extending your skills
Earn and learn with our Nursing Associate apprenticeship that’s fully approved by the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC)
Develop your career as an innovative practitioner in the promotion of health and the prevention of ill health
Benefit with over half of your degree consisting of supervised practice placements
Nursing (Adult) BSc
Nursing (Child Health) BSc
Nursing (Mental Health) BSc
Nursing CPD
PGDip Specialist Community Public Health Nursing...
Registered Nurse (Adult) MSc
Registered Nurse (Child) MSc
Registered Nurse (Mental Health) MSc

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/about/calss:
Welcome to the College of Arts, Law and Social Sciences - Brunel’s newest College, bringing together disciplines with rich histories and inspiring alumni.
Here, you’ll join a vibrant community of scholars and practitioners who are passionate about understanding and improving the world around us.
Our global reputation and strong connections across industries and communities shape the outstanding education and skills development we offer.
Our mission is to fulfil two aims: to help you thrive in careers linked to our disciplines, and to influence sectors in ways that drive positive change in society.
Brunel’s founding vision - combining technical expertise, cutting-edge research, and real-world innovation - is at the heart of everything we do.
We’re committed to helping you grow, both academically and personally.
Whether your passion lies in Anthropology, Creative Writing, Criminology, Communications, Drama, Dance, Education, English, Film, Games Design, Geography, Global Challenges, History, Journalism, Law, Music, Policing, Politics, Sociology or Theatre, you’ll be taught by experts within one of our four dynamic departments: Arts and Humanities, Social and Political Sciences, Education, and Law.
You’ll also benefit from a personal tutoring system designed to support your journey and help you develop the skills to succeed in a global economy.
Our research-led curriculum is delivered through engaging lectures, seminars, workshops, simulations and performances.
Alongside this, you’ll find plenty of opportunities to grow through Brunel Arts, alumni connections, industry partnerships, career development programmes, and our excellent sports facilities.
We take the responsibility of supporting your future seriously, and I’m excited to welcome you to campus soon.
Brunel is a signatory to the national Technician Commitment and the Brunel Law School is a proud holder of an Athena SWAN Bronze award in recognition of its activities and practices in relation to the Athena Swan Equality Charter .
Brunel Summer Programme on International Arbitration
Everything you need to know for a successful first year at Brunel University of London in the College of Arts, Law, & Social Sciences.
Research conducted in the Centre addresses the challenges facing society, helping to change the lives of people around the world by bringing economic, social and cultural benefits.
As an inter-disciplinary research centre, established to deal specifically with intelligence issues, policy and institutions, to promote and develop social science and policy-oriented approaches to intelligence.
The Centre for Law, Economics and Finance aims to advance the wider societal impact of our research by engaging with policymakers, practitioners and other stakeholder.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/Anthropology:
Anthropologists want to know how people across the globe experience and understand the world around them.
Anthropologists answer their research questions by engaging in long-term immersive fieldwork (fully funded  for undergraduates) with the societies and communities they study.
Brunel Anthropology offers a unique programme that gives you the opportunity to carry out your own anthropological research or work placements as part of your degree.
Study this innovative and exciting subject at Brunel, which has repeatedly been voted the number one place to study Anthropology in the UK.
Expand your perspective in anthropology and sociology with funded fieldwork opportunities in and out of the classroom.
Top 10 in UK - Times University Guide 2025.
Deepen your understanding of anthropology and other areas including medical, psychological, social, youth, education and international development
Join our thriving research community, led by lecturers who are actively engaged in research or creative practice across a wide and diverse number of specialisms
100% of our research outputs submitted to REF 2021 was graded as being world-leading or internationally excellent.
Find out more here
Find out lots more about your course, our campus and all of our support services at one of our Open Days
Follow us and join the conversation on the latest Brunel news and events
For more information on our Anthropology degrees, get in touch
Anthropology and Sociology BSc
Anthropology BSc
Anthropology PhD
Childhood, Youth and Education MSc
Children, Youth and International Development MA
Culture and Evolution PhD
Global South Asia Studies MSc
Human Geography and Anthropology BSc
International Development and Humanitarianism MSc
Medical Anthropology MSc
Social Anthropology MRes
Undergraduate Pathway in Humanities, Social Sciences...

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/business-school:
Create a career in business your own way with a choice of five Bachelor's degrees at Brunel Business School
Excel yourself with further learning that'll help you stand apart from the competition
Choose from three pathways on this year-long intensive programme to develop your specific interests and progress in your career
Bring theory to life and contribute to knowledge creation by studying an area of specialist research with a Business PhD
We engineer the growth of ambitious businesses worldwide
The destination for your management studies
Discover stories from our business school community about student life, placements, and career journeys post-graduation
Gain real-world experience at a leading company while you study
We were one of the first business schools in the UK to introduce placements for Master's students - see how we can help boost your career
Our graduates report 12% higher salaries than graduates nationally
Reconnect, network and keep updated on the latest alumni opportunities
Our research activities cover a wide ranging and diverse field of topics from accounting, through HR, to strategy
Our experts provide specialist knowledge and analysis through consultancy partnerships
Get to know your business school teaching team
Register for a spot at one of our upcoming open days
Accounting and Business Intelligence MSc
Accounting and Business Management BSc
Accounting and Business Management MSc
Artificial Intelligence Strategy MSc
Business Administration MBA
Business and Management BSc
Business Intelligence and Digital Marketing MSc
Business Management with Entrepreneurship BSc
Corporate Brand Management MSc
Creative Writing for Marketing MSc
Economics BSc
Global Supply Chain Management MSc
Human Resource Management BSc
Human Resource Management MSc
International Business and Entrepreneurship MSc
International Business and Sustainability MSc
International Business BSc
International Business MSc
Management MSc
Management PhD
Marketing  BSc
Marketing MSc
PhD without residence - Ahlia
Undergraduate Pathway in Business and Management

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/about/cedps:
It is my pleasure to introduce you to the College of Engineering, Design & Physical Sciences, one of the largest Colleges of its type in the UK, with close to 5,000 undergraduate and postgraduate students.
The College is comprised of the Brunel Design School and six departments that cover Engineering, Computer Science and Mathematics.
We strive to put creativity and innovation at the heart of everything we do, offering exciting, vocational programmes across a range of integrated disciplines.
Our graduates are known for their ability to solve challenging problems, for the good of society, and their entrepreneurial spirit, following in the footsteps of one of Britain's most creative designers and engineers, Isambard Kingdom Brunel.
Our staff are renowned for their internationally leading research, including 3 Fellows of the Royal Academy of Engineering (FREng).
Our vision is to be a leading and distinctive STEM education and knowledge provider, and a leading multidisciplinary research-intensive college for excellence in research and innovation in engineering, design, computer science and mathematics.
Our mission is to deliver a transformative education experience that nurtures talent, encourages creativity and scholarship and fosters lifelong learning through enquiry, and to bring benefit to society through excellence in education, research and knowledge transfer.
Our distinctive programmes will help Brunel University London meet its strategic aims of providing an environment that promotes excellence and prepares graduates ready for the world of work.
With over 250 research active staff and over 400 PhD students, we are one of the largest Colleges of its type in the UK.
Our multi-disclipinary research community comes from a wide range of Engineering disciplines as well as Design, Mathematics and Computer Science.
Read more about our research profile .
Brunel is a signatory to the national Technician Commitment .
Welcome to our multi-disciplinary research community

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/computer-science:
Technology is rapidly evolving and affects our daily lives as we are constantly connected and are able to access information on demand via the devices that have become a key part of our routines.
With new solutions to real-world and business-related problems being released on a regular basis, studying a Computer Science degree could put you at the forefront of developing the next big thing.
By getting hands-on experience in creating mobile apps, gaining specialised knowledge in artificial intelligence, and learning the intricate details of network security, you will be equipped for an ever-changing world as a Brunel graduate.
Our courses are developed to give you a thorough grounding in the current trends, such as artificial intelligence and cyber security
Gain a deeper practical insight into the development and use of computational techniques and technology on our master’s courses
Make an impact through research with your knowledge of computer systems in the real world of technology
Our brand new labs give you the working space to put your ideas to the test
Our spectacular annual event will show off your talent with the chance to win prizes
Brunel’s Computer Science alumni do great things
Learn from research-active academics who feed their up-to-date knowledge into your degree
Join the conversation!
Expand your social network and stay updated on our latest news stories
Find out more about our exciting Computer Science courses
Artificial Intelligence MSc
Business Computing (eBusiness) BSc
Business Computing (Human Computer Interaction) BSc
Business Computing (Social Media) BSc
Business Computing BSc
Computer Science (Artificial Intelligence) BSc
Computer Science (Cybersecurity) BSc
Computer Science (Digital Media and Games)...
Computer Science (Network Computing) BSc
Computer Science (Software Engineering) BSc
Computer Science BSc
Computer Science PhD
Data Science and Analytics MSc
Data Science and Analytics MSc by...
Human-AI Interaction MSc
Mathematics and Computing with Integrated Foundation...
Undergraduate Pathway in Computer Science

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/environmental-sciences:
Studying an Environmental Sciences degree at Brunel gives you a wide range of skills that will make you an all-rounder capable of dealing with the many challenges our environment faces.
You’ll develop a strong scientific background which builds your knowledge of environmental management and its effective application globally.
You’ll also develop your skills in data analysis, teamwork and critical thinking – all valued by employers in this sector.
Our academics conduct world-leading research and make a valuable contribution to the world of environmental sciences.
Their up-to-date expert knowledge will feed directly into your learning.
Generate knowledge to resolve environmental issues in a sustainable way with a postgraduate Environmental Sciences degree
Make an impact on generating new knowledge towards understanding the links between the environment and living organisms through research
You’ll have the skills to analyse and evaluate potential solutions regarding climate change, sustainability and renewables
@brunelenvironmental have released the first episode of #intothespotlight.
Check out the details below!
Black British in STEM: This is the last week to sign up to the Bridge Mentoring Scheme!
Don't miss out on this great opportunity, sign up here http://bit.ly/37VxARM
Advanced Chemical Engineering (Hydrogen and Low...
Energy Efficient and Sustainable Technologies PhD
Environmental Management (Pollution) MSc
Environmental Management (Resources and Waste Management)...
Environmental Management (Sustainable Water Resources) MSc
Environmental Management MRes
Environmental Sciences MRes
Environmental Sciences PhD
Resource Efficient Future Cities PhD
Sustainability, Entrepreneurship and Design MSc

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/economics-and-finance:
There has never been a better time to enter the world of economics and finance and develop a unique view on how it affects modern society, as many institutions are now having an increasing influence on how our world is shaped.
Our Economics and Finance degrees will give you an immersive learning experience, preparing you to enter this fast-paced industry.
Our flexible courses, engaging staff and real-world learning means you’ll become an independent thinker, ready for the world of economics, finance and accounting through leadership and practical application.
Gain a thorough grounding on one of our undergraduate degrees integrating Economics, Finance and Accounting to see where your interests lie
Find out how our postgraduate degrees can boost your career prospects in the fields of banking, business, finance and accounting
At Brunel your learning is informed by expert research.
Have a look at what we’ve been up to and how you can explore your research interests through our PhD courses
Accountancy BSc
Banking and Finance BSc
Banking and Finance MSc
Business Finance MSc
Economics and Accounting BSc
Economics and Business Finance BSc
Economics and Finance PhD
Economics and Management BSc
Economics and Mathematics with an Integrated...
Finance and Accounting BSc
Finance and Accounting MSc
Finance and Investment MSc
Undergraduate Pathway in Accountancy
Undergraduate Pathway in Economics and Finance

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/Education:
Choose Brunel and you’ll benefit from studying some of the best education courses in London thanks to our commitment to practical learning, supportive learning environment and vibrant student body.
You’re never too far from top institutions and centres for education or networking on or off our London campus.
Develop a broad and balanced view of educational theory, policy and practice across a range of settings while exploring the ways in which society and culture shape the ideas of education
Gain further skills, knowledge and experiences on our Education MA or our PGCE courses
Our research covers a wide variety of topics within the field of education from pedagogy and policy to STEM education.
Find out how you could bring your research interest to Brunel
Please contact us if you’re interested in opportunities for Continuing Professional Development or Knowledge Exchange Partnerships
Follow us on Twitter Join us on Twitter to keep up to date with our Education department
Education BA
Education EdD
Education MA
Education PhD
PGCE in Primary Education (5-11 years)...
PGCE in Secondary Education (English) with...
PGCE in Secondary Education (Mathematics) with...
PGCE in Secondary Education (Physical Education)...
PGCE in Secondary Education (Physics with...
PGCE in Secondary Education (Science with...

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/chemical-engineering:
Have you ever wondered how materials can be re-used to make products?
Or how food can be kept fresh for longer?
Or how energy can be used more efficiently?
By studying Chemical Engineering at Brunel, you’ll learn to turn raw materials into useful every day products and assist in tackling global waste problems.
Chemical engineers use energy efficient resources to work out the processes to make these products.
Our Chemical Engineering courses are tailored to the engineering industry demands and give you the skills to make an impact when you graduate as a Chemical Engineer.
Study a pioneering chemical engineering degree that has been created with industry requirements in mind
Our new course gives you a holistic view of low-carbon technology and the issues that surround it
Investigate the processing and manufacture of novel materials, develop new processes and products based upon sustainable systems, and deliver real world solutions
You'll be taught by passionate academics with over 20 years experience in the industry
Exhibit your final year project at our yearly event which promotes new engineering talent
Supporting our female students through a mentoring scheme, personal professional development training, and visits to industry
If you have any questions about our courses please contact us
Advanced Powertrain and Fuels PhD
Chemical Engineering BEng
Chemical Engineering MEng
Chemical Engineering PhD
Engineering with an Integrated Foundation Year
Engineering with Business BEng
Engineering with Business MEng
Manufacturing and Enterprise Engineering PhD
Materials Characterisation and Processing PhD
Materials Engineering PhD
Micro-Nano Manufacturing PhD
Synthetic Biology PhD
Undergraduate Pathway in Engineering

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/civil-engineering:
Do you like the idea of looking at the bigger picture?
Are you interested in how buildings, bridges, railways and airports are structured?
Our civil engineering courses give you knowledge and hands-on experience to become creative thinkers in developing infrastructural solutions.
With the rising populations, urbanisation and climate change there is a need for civil engineers to use sustainable resources to protect and enhance our environment.
You’ll be equipped to take a holistic view when studying our civil engineering degrees in order to make impactful decisions.
Develop an understanding of the fundamental theory and gain hands-on experience in providing sustainable and resilient solutions to everyday problems in society
Gain a deeper appreciation of the threats to infrastructure and the opportunities for a sustainable future on one of our master’s courses
Make an impact in the civil engineering industry with your research knowledge from one of our PhD courses
Our spectacular annual event will show off your talent to industry professionals
Brunel’s Civil Engineering alumni make an impact on the world
Learn from research-active academics who incorporate their up-to-date knowledge into your degree
If you have any questions about Civil Engineering, we'd love to hear from you
Botwell Canal Bridge Inspection
Bushey Arches Bridge Inspection
Chiswick Bridge and Tower Bridge Inspections
Great Howard Viaduct Bridge Inspection, Liverpool
Masonry Bridge Inspection
Regents Canal and Victoria Park Bridge Inspections
River Pinn Bridge Inspection
Stratford to Broxbourne Railway Line Bridge Inspection
Civil Engineering (Environmental Engineering) BEng
Civil Engineering (Environmental Engineering) MEng
Civil Engineering BEng
Civil Engineering MEng
Civil Engineering MSc
Civil Engineering PhD
Flood and Coastal Engineering (with Infrastructure...
Project and Infrastructure Management MSc
Structural Engineering MSc
Structural Integrity PhD
Water and Environmental Engineering MSc

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/electronic-and-electrical-engineering:
If you’re interested in how technological devices are designed and developed to meet the needs of the customer, or how to improve solar energy and power systems then our degrees are for you.
With electronic equipment and products being a vital part of our daily lives, you’ll gain a broad understanding of how engineering translates into everyday life through mobile phones, computers and state-of-the-art fibre optic communication systems.
Computers, telecommunication systems and consumer electronics are advancing at a fast pace.
Electronic and microelectronic embedded systems are at the core of these developments and our courses are tailored to meet the growing demand for well-qualified engineers.
Gain a solid foundation of electrical and computational engineering knowledge on one of our degree courses
Enhance your skills in electronic and electrical engineering by developing specialist expertise on one of our master’s courses
Study one of our engineering PhD courses and make an impact in the technological industry with your research  profiles
If you have any questions about Electronic and Electrical Engineering, we'd love to hear from you
Advanced Electronic and Electrical Engineering MSc
Biomedical Engineering PhD
Computer Systems Engineering (Artificial Intelligence) BEng
Computer Systems Engineering BEng
Computer Systems Engineering PhD
Electric Vehicle Systems MSc
Electronic and Communications Engineering BEng (China)
Electronic and Computer Engineering PhD
Electronic and Electrical Engineering (Artificial Intelligence)...
Electronic and Electrical Engineering (Communication Systems)...
Electronic and Electrical Engineering (Computer Systems)...
Electronic and Electrical Engineering (Energy Systems)...
Electronic and Electrical Engineering BEng
Electronic and Electrical Engineering MEng
Electronic and Electrical Engineering PhD
Electronic Engineering BEng (Top Up)
Smart Power Networks PhD
Sustainable Electrical Power MSc
Wireless and Computer Communication Networks MSc

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/mechanical-engineering:
Mechanical and Automotive Engineering are diverse subjects that utilise engineering, physics, mathematics, material design and manufacturing principles to create everything form microscale sensors and toaster to supersonic jets and building.
Many mechanical engineers specialise in areas such as aerospace, automotive and transportation, air conditioning and manufacturing.
Others cross over into alternative fields including banking, pharmaceutical and the armed forces.
An undergraduate and postgraduate degree from Brunel will give you the theory and practice required to prepare you for a career in this exciting industry.
Study the Mechanical or Automotive Engineering BEng or MEng which cover the fundamentals of mechanical engineering and design
Enhance your career in mechanical or automotive engineering by developing specialist expertise through postgraduate study
Expand your knowledge in tackling engineering challenges to society and the world’s economy
Step closer to Chartered Engineer status with our IMechE approved distance learning modules
Supporting our female students through a mentoring scheme, personal professional development training and visits to industry
Our alumni have gone on to have successful careers, find out more
Let us know if you have any questions about our courses or admission requirements
Come and see the Brunel University London campus for yourself by booking on to a campus tour or experience day
Advanced Engineering Design MSc
Advanced Manufacturing Systems MSc
Advanced Mechanical Engineering MSc
Automotive and Motorsport Engineering MSc
Automotive Engineering BEng
Automotive Engineering MEng
Building Services Engineering Management MSc
Building Services Engineering MSc
Building Services Engineering with Sustainable Energy...
Engineering Management MSc
Engineering Management PGCert
IMechE approved distance learning modules
Mechanical Engineering BEng
Mechanical Engineering MEng
Mechanical Engineering PhD
Metallurgy PhD
Renewable Energy Engineering MSc

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/brunel-design-school:
Brunel Design School brings together the subjects of design and digital media in response to the increasing demand for creative talent in the ever-growing design industry and rapidly expanding digital economy.
Recognised as one of the best places in the world to study and research design by the QS subject ranking, and a top design education provider within the UK university sector, Brunel Design School embodies Isambard Kingdom Brunel’s visionary and practical approach to innovation, entrepreneurship and pursuit of excellence.
Our design graduate prospects are among the very best in the UK, ranked by industry.
When joining us, you will become part of our ‘Made in Brunel’ community – an experience we are all proud of.
Our hands-on design and digital media degrees have a strong practical element with a technical and creative mix
Develop your specialist expertise on one of our master’s courses
In the spirit of our namesake Isambard Kingdom Brunel, the Brunel Design School strives to put innovation and entrepreneurship at the heart of everything we do.
We are one of the few design schools in the UK that offers degree courses accredited by Institution of Engineering Designers and ScreenSkills.
Artistic and design thinking, creative engineering knowledge, digital media and making skills are woven together in our exciting new programmes.
You will get the unique experience of Made in Brunel – a truly student-driven innovation showcasing the talents of Brunel.
Each year strives to do better than the previous year and our graduates leave legacies behind.
I’m proud that Brunel Design School has been recognised as one of the best places in the world to study and research design.
Design for Sustainability, Inclusive Design, Digital Media and Creative Computing, and Additive Manufacturing and 4D printing represent our research groups.
You will be taught by some of the world leading researchers, as well as practitioners with ample industrial experience.
I look forward to welcoming you and hope you will be challenged and supported to realise your full potential!
Dean of Brunel Design School
Our Digital Media courses are fully accredited and industry recognised by ScreenSkills, the industry-led skills body for the UK’s screen-based industries
Our Design courses are accredited by the Institution of Engineering Designers.
This accreditation indicates to employers that our graduates have an industry-standard competency
Made in Brunel is a student-led initiative showcasing our design talent at its finest through a variety of annual engagement events
Exhibit your final year project at our yearly event which promotes media students’ talent
We offer a platform to connect our students with a wide range of companies in the creative industries
This co-working space is a place where our graduates and alumni can get the support they need to take their product and technology ideas to market
Aero
AWaRe
Beekeeping
BioPeel
BioSphere
Bubbl
Cosi Care
DermaTrack
EcoStitch
Extent
EZZE Assistance
Fibre
Flora
FurPlus
Iconicle folding skateboard
Kard Radio Alarm Clock
Laser Lane
LvL Up
Memo
Mode
Moments
NHS Detect
Ozymandias
Phloss
Pilot Health Monitor
Portable Urban Electric Bike
ProTension
Rap Battles
ReCleft
Redefining High Heels
Ro
Scopum
Tac-Tile
The House of Mordrin: Cinematic
Three Pins
Tiptap
VOUR Virtual Happy Hour Experience
VUI
Vutia
Wooden Bicycle Frame Kit
Zen
Today on #MIBdesignfeatures we have @Jlogal_designs Embedded Systems Project...
Follow us on Twitter and keep up to date with all the latest info
If you have any questions about our courses, we'd love to hear from you
Design and Branding Strategy MA
Design BSc
Design for Sustainability and Circular Economy...
Design MDes
Design PhD
Design Strategy and Innovation MA
Digital Design (3D Animation) MSc
Digital Design (Immersive Mixed Reality) MSc
Digital Design (Motion Graphics) MSc
Digital Design and Branding MSc
Engineering Design PhD
Industrial Design BA
Industrial Design MDes
Integrated Product Design MSc
Product Design Engineering BSc
Product Design Engineering MDes

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/creative-writing:
If you choose Brunel, you’ll benefit from studying one of the best Creative Writing courses in the UK.
Studying in close proximity to central London means you’ll never be far from fantastic events and spaces to hone your writing skills.
From iconic centres such as the British Library and Shakespeare's Globe to our very own book clubs, author events and festivals on campus, you’ll have the opportunity to build your creative skills at Brunel.
Our creative writing degree and tailored joint options will allow you to explore your imagination and develop your writing skills across a number of genres and forms
Take your understanding of contemporary writing to the next level, with the chance to specialise your learning to where your interest lies
Join our thriving research community, led lecturers who are actively engaged in research or creative practice across a wide and diverse number of specialisms
See where your future in the creative industries could lie with our expert support
Find out what our alumni have gone on to achieve and how we’ve helped them along the way
Follow our Twitter account
If you have any questions about our courses, admissions or need directions to our campus, don’t hesitate to contact us
Comedy Studies PhD
Contemporary Writing PhD
Creative Writing BA
Creative Writing MA
Creative Writing PhD
English PhD
Games Design and Creative Writing BA
Journalism PhD
Theatre and Creative Writing BA
Theatre PhD

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/english:
By studying at Brunel, you’ll benefit from studying one of the best English courses on offer in the UK thanks to our teaching quality, engaging course content and commitment to student satisfaction.
Our close proximity to central London means you’ll never be far from fantastic events and spaces to hone your literary skills in iconic venues like the British Library, Shakespeare's Globe and West End theatres to our very own book clubs, author events and literary debates on campus.
Benefit from the flexibility to follow your literary interests, and gain support and practical opportunities in and out of the classroom
Study across a wide range of topics and period and deepen your understanding of literature and its influence on culture and society
Develop a deeper understanding of your specialist area with an English PhD.
Carry out research in our thriving community
See where an English degree can take your future career
See how the Brunel experience kick-started our alumni’s road to success
English BA
English Literature MA
English with Creative Writing BA
English@Brunel
Pre-sessional for Brunel Pathway College
Theatre and English BA

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/Law:
Brunel offers life-changing work placement opportunities at both undergraduate and postgraduate levels.
We work closely with industry to offer the award-winning Macfarlane’s LLP training scholarship programme as well as world-class teaching, research staff and two UN special rapporteur academics.
Our excellent facilities include a Moot court, pro-bono and law clinic.
Brunel Law School is dedicated to social inclusion, and as a result, we’ve been awarded the Athena Swan Bronze Award for gender equality.
Study the Law LLB in a vibrant and supportive community with the opportunity to gain professional experience through placements
Enhance your legal career by developing specialist expertise in your chosen subject with postgraduate study
Expand upon your knowledge and experience, and push the boundaries of research with a Law PhD
Providing pro bono service to the community, improving your access to justice, particularly in the area of employment law
Learn from a practising legal professional through one-to-one mentoring
The Brunel Law School academic team are dedicated to progress in the legal sphere, providing an open forum for research, theorising and discovery
Expand your social network and keep updated on our latest news stories over on X
Follow us on Facebook to stay up-to-date with all the latest info
Got a question about our courses or admissions?
Complete our enquiry form
Come and see the Brunel University London campus for yourself by booking onto a campus tour or experience day
Artificial Intelligence, Law and Technology LLM
Intellectual Property Law LLM
Intellectual Property Law Postgraduate Certificate
International Commercial Law LLM
International Financial Regulation and Corporate Law...
International Human Rights Law LLM
Law (Graduate Entry) LLB
Law LLB
Law PhD
Law with Criminal Justice LLB
Law with International Arbitration and Commercial...
Master of Laws (LLM Law)
Master of Laws (LLM) with SQE...
Undergraduate Pathway in Law

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/mathematics:
Studying a maths degree at Brunel equips you with problem-solving, analytical, computational, and versatile skills for diverse careers.
You'll learn from our expert mathematicians who are actively involved in global research collaborations.
They use real-world examples from their research to enhance your learning in lectures and workshops.
Learn diverse maths and advanced problem-solving skills, aligned with industry-relevant placements
Gain the mathematical skills that you can take into your science, technology, business or academic career
Make an impact through research with your knowledge of solving mathematical problems, statistical data and financial markets
Boost your career prospects in finance, without the full commitment of a master’s programme
Brunel’s Mathematics Department is ranked fourth in the UK for it’s international outlook by The Times Higher Educational World University Rankings 2023
Take advantage of the many opportunities we provide to explore new places as part of your degree
We'll support you through a mentoring scheme, personal and professional development training, and visits to industry
Our academic staff are available to answer all your questions
Financial Markets CPD
Financial Mathematics BSc
Financial Mathematics MMath
Financial Mathematics MSc
Mathematics BSc
Mathematics for Data Science BSc
Mathematics MMath
Mathematics PhD
Mathematics with Computer Science BSc
Statistics with Data Analytics MSc

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/film-and-television-studies:
The world of film, television and media is changing around us at a rapid rate, so it’s important we build graduates who can be flexible and responsive.
We’ll teach you theoretical frameworks but also allow you to practically apply your learning in an industry which is constantly developing.
Our London campus means you’re never too far from fantastic events and spaces to find inspirations.
From our own festivals and events on-campus, to iconic centres such as the BFI or the ICA, studying within easy reach of central London is a big plus for you, especially if you’re considering work experience, you’ll have the opportunity to pursue your passion for film.
You’ll have the flexibility to learn what you love on our BA film studies courses and gain the practical experience you’ll need to step into the industry
Engage with concepts that will give you an in-depth understanding of how PR and the media work, taught by experts on our PRCA recognised master’s course
Find out more about our exciting Film and TV Studies courses
Film and Television Studies and English...
Film and Television Studies BA
Film Production and Theatre BA
Film Production BA
Public Relations and Media Strategies MA
Screen Media (Film and TV) PhD

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/games-design:
You’ve probably grown up surrounded, and fascinated, by digital games.
You’ve thought about designing your own — maybe you already have.
If you've got the passion to understand games, we'll teach you all you need to succeed in this competitive field.
Our Games Design courses are highly regarded by design studios and you will be taught by a team of specialists who are working or have worked in games production.
So whichever Games Design course you choose, it will be up-to-date and relevant and it will equip you for many roles in and beyond the gaming industry.
If you're passionate about gaming, and have an enthusiasm for game-play concepts, studying Games Design at Brunel will give you the practical and transferable skills you need to kick-start your career
On the master's course you will develop skills and knowledge to make contributions to the development of games that go beyond what’s here today
Our academics are working on topics from tabletop games to gaming as a means of communication.
Take a look at what's going on
Like us on Facebook to keep up-to-date on all our Games Design events
Digital Games Theory and Design MA
Games Design BA
Games Design PhD
Wargaming and Resilience Planning MA

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/music:
At Brunel, we provide a broader understanding of the history of western music and other musical traditions.
You will be taught by leading figures in European contemporary music.
Whether you are interested in performance, composition, or new technologies, Brunel offers a programme which provides the necessary professional skills and rigorous academic grounding.
With plenty of opportunity to showcase your talent to industry professionals, we strive to propel you into a successful career.
Designed to develop your interests in contemporary music-making, our Music BA will equip you with a solid grounding in the craft of creativity reflecting the diversity of musical styles and genre in today’s world
Join our thriving, research-intensive community and be supported by our internationally respected music academics to draw on our cutting-edge research and to pursue your music PhD
See where a Brunel degree could take you
Read about what our graduates have achieved
New at MusicBru https://musicbru.wordpress.com/2020/02/19/new-at-musicbru-75/
Like our Facebook page to gain exclusive access to our Facebook LIVE performances
Register your place at one of our Open Days
Music (Production) BA
Music BA
Music PhD

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/Theatre:
Choose Brunel and you’ll study in an environment where you’ll be surrounded by experts and develop skills, knowledge and understanding across the world of performance and live art.
On campus, you’ll enter a vibrant community that will give you a fresh perspective on the world and support you to tell your story through your work.
Off campus, you’ll never be far from fantastic events and spaces to hone your literary skills.
From iconic centres such as the National Theatre, Royal Opera House and West End theatres to our very own clubs, theatre events and festivals on campus, you’ll have the opportunity to hone your skills in the world of theatre.
Learn the core skills needed to break into theatre in dedicated facilities and alongside specialists in the fields of theatre, performance and live art
Find out more about where our interests lie and how our dynamic research informs teaching and learning in theatre and performance
From student productions and creative projects to insights from faculty and alumni - this is where passion meets performance
Peek into our performances, projects, and the people bringing them all to life @brunel.theatre
Theatre BA

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/history:
Do you have a passion for exploring societies and events of the past?
Study one of our innovative undergraduate history degrees and you’ll look at the modern world from a new perspective.
You’ll compare and contrast the past and the present and understand their connection better.
You'll be taught by award-winning lecturers who are world-famous experts in their chosen fields.
Benefit from the range of archives in our special collections and at renowned establishments in central London.
Choose our History BA, one of the first in the UK to focus exclusively on the modern world, or deepen your knowledge on the modern history of armed conflict and diplomacy by selecting our specialised Military and International History degree
Explore your research interests through our PhD courses where you will learn and be supported by our internationally-distinguished academics
Our innovative history courses set our graduates on the path to success
History and International Relations BA
History BA
Intelligence and Security Studies PhD
International Relations and History BSc
Military and International History BA
Politics and History BSc
Politics and History PhD

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/politics-and-international-relations:
Do you want to make a difference in today’s world?
Are you challenged by political unrest in the news and popular media?
Study a politics degree at Brunel and learn how to understand theories and approaches developed over centuries and how they influence the world around us today.
You’re never too far from high profile political events, establishments and networking opportunities on or off our London campus, as you’ll be studying in the political capital of the UK.
Our distinctive focus on politics and international relations will put you in good stead for a successful future.
Our Politics BScs offer a wide range of dynamic modules, allowing you to figure out where your interest lies
Internationally-focused postgraduate degrees taught by experts, with flexible options to suit you
Bring your research to Brunel and join a dynamic environment supported by internationally renowned academics
Take a look at what our graduates have achieved since completing a politics degree at Brunel
Find out about how the NCTJ Diploma could help you
@PolHistBrunel  be advised that our own Prof Matthew Hughes has been longlisted for the  @BritishArmy  Book of the Year!
Our Seminar Term Card for Winter 2020 is now up!
We meet Wednesdays, 2.30-4 pm, Gaskell 239 (tea and coffee from 2 pm).
Book your place on an open day to meet our academics and take a look around where you’ll be taught
Intelligence Analysis PG Cert (Distance Learning)
Intelligence and Security Studies MA
International Politics BSc
International Relations MA
Political Communication MSc
Politics and Sociology BSc
Politics BSc

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/psychology:
Psychology is an exciting and ever-expanding discipline with areas of research that can provide breakthrough knowledge about how the human mind works.
Since the 1960s, we’ve been teaching psychology and creating a legacy of world-leading research that benefits society at large.
So you can be sure that whichever Psychology course you choose, it will be current and relevant, and will open doors to a wide range of careers in different sectors.
Unique four-year sandwich courses that include two six-month work placements
Choose from our BPS accredited conversion MSc, Culture and Evolution MSc or Cognitive and Clinical Neuroscience MSc
Brunel has a thriving and diverse culture of research in which to gain your Psychology doctorate
Register your place for one of our upcoming Open Days
Cognitive and Clinical Neuroscience MSc
Psychological Sciences (Conversion) MSc
Psychology (Sport, Health and Exercise) BSc
Psychology BSc
Psychology PhD

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/journalism:
We offer a broad range of engaging topics across communication, politics and society both in our undergraduate and postgraduate journalism programs.
You’ll graduate with employable skills that will enable you operate with cross-platform digital skills in the modern workplace.
After graduation, you could join a long and growing list of Brunel journalism graduates working at the BBC, Sky, TalkSPORT, Daily Star, Express Online and newer digital media companies.
Prepare yourself for a career in journalism in the digital age through a dynamic combination of theory and practical learning, and boost your prospects with the opportunity to study the NCTJ Diploma
Our postgraduate journalism course will allow you to further your knowledge and understanding of journalistic practice, with a distinct international view
The expertise of our world-class academics means we specialise in innovative research across a wide range of areas, which not only informs teaching but impacts society
International Journalism MA
Journalism (Communication) BA
Journalism (Politics) BA
Sociology and Communication PhD

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/sociology:
The central topics of sociology are all around us in our everyday lives.
You’ve probably witnessed them first-hand: for example class inequality, sexist stereotypes, austerity and racism.
Come and study sociology at the UK’s most diverse university to understand the patterns and deeper meaning behind these issues, and find out how our societies are changing.
In 2024 we are celebrating 50 years of Sociology at Brunel!
We are an international team of world-leading academics doing pathbreaking critical research about society, media and culture, and economic and political forces, in the UK and around the world.
We are ranked 1st in London for Sociology and 4th in the UK (National Student Survey 2025) and our graduates are highly sought after – they are in the top 25% of employment and graduate incomes.
Examine contemporary issues such as the nature of media-generated ‘moral panics’ and gain practical experience by producing films, documentaries, journals and blogs
Join our thriving, research-intensive community and be supported by our internationally respected academic researchers to draw on our cutting-edge research and to pursue your PhD
Register your place at one of our upcoming Open Days
UPEC2025 (IEEE, PES, PELS, YP UK and Ireland) at Brunel University of London, 2-5 September 2025 - supporting the transition to a low-carbon future.
Global Challenges PhD
Sociology (Digital Media) BSc
Sociology BSc

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/sport-health-and-exercise-sciences:
If you have a passion for sport, study a sports science degree in an environment which will help you to achieve your athletic ambitions.
Some of our graduates have become household names, representing national teams in sprint, rowing, women’s football, rugby, hockey, bobsleighing, and more, so no matter which sport you’re dedicated to, we have facilities and staff to help everyone excel.
Our range of undergraduate and postgraduate courses will give you specialised sporting knowledge, and you will benefit from the opportunity to learn from world-renowned academics while you train.
Choose one of our exceptional sport, health and exercise sciences programmes and pursue your specialist interests
Take your studies one step further with a postgraduate degree.
Enhance your learning in sport, or move into sport psychology
Join a world-leading research environment and address the complex multidisciplinary challenges surrounding sport, exercise, health and wellbeing
You could spend a year at San Francisco State University as part of our American Exchange programme
By the end of your sports science degree, you’ll be ready to focus on a sport-related career with specific knowledge valued within the industry
At the recent Athletics European Indoor Selection event in Manchester, final-year Sport, Health & Exercise Sciences student Holly Mills came first in the pentathlon.
If you have any questions about our courses or admissions we'd love to hear from you
Designed to support and develop talented sportsmen and women studying at Brunel
Interested in joining a sports club at Brunel?
Join a Team Brunel club for free
We offer a range of sporting options for students, whether you're the next international athlete or just want to keep fit and have fun
Physical Activity and Exercise for Health...
Sport and Exercise Psychology MSc
Sport Performance Science MSc
Sport, Health and Exercise Sciences (Physical...
Sport, Health and Exercise Sciences BSc
Sport, Health and Exercise Sciences with...

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/research/projects/helping-policymakers-stub-out-smoking:
The year was 2012.
Despite strong words from health professionals and stringent measures from governments around the world, tobacco-related illnesses were still claiming millions of lives and costing taxpayers billions.
Policymakers started to wonder what the alternative strategy was.
Whilst the number of smokers was falling, they weren’t falling fast enough – 20 per cent of Brits were still puffing away – with the resulting poor health creating a significant burden for health services.
Was there a new strategy that would both get more people to quit, and be more cost-effective?
To help the policymakers develop their new strategies, researchers from Brunel University London’s Health Economics Research Group began to develop tools that would allow the policymakers to answer three key questions: What new areas should we invest in?
What existing areas should we invest more in?
And what areas do we disinvest from?
The Brunel team’s new tools allowed policy makers to gain a better understanding of what measures would give them a better Return on Investment (ROI):
The researchers worked with local, regional and national policymakers from around Europe to help them understand where they should be spending their money, and what each possible investment might recoup in the long term in the form of lower healthcare costs, increased productivity and reduced demand for social care.
The tools were adaptable and considered local conditions, such as the general make-up of the population and how many of them smoke or used to smoke, and what intervention measures were available to policymakers, how effective each one was, and how much each one cost.
The policymakers were able to develop a variety of successful measures thanks to the work of Brunel’s health economists, and there are now lives being saved because those that decide where the money gets spent have the tools to show them what works.
Health Economics (HERG) - Our strategic focus is on economic evaluation and systematic reviews of a broad range of clinical and health service technologies by providing high-quality, applied, policy-relevant research, as well as developing and refining methods to increase the rigour and relevance of such studies.
Project last modified 02/10/2023

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/research/projects/rwandas-uber-for-motorbike-taxis-triumph:
An uber-style phone app that helps motorbike taxi riders find careful drivers and makes the streets safer is gearing up to transform transport across Africa.
SafeMotos uses GPS and gyroscopic data to log and rate drivers’ location and road behaviour in real time so passengers can hail motorcycle taxis based on their driver’s safety score.
Called motos in Rwanda, boda-bodas in Kenya and Uganda and okadas in Nigeria, cheap and nippy motorcycle taxis are Africa’s go-to transport.
And they’re dangerous – motorbike accidents are a leading cause of death, in some coming scarily close behind malaria and HIV/AIDS.
SafeMotos started life in Rwanda’s capital, Kigali, in 2015, borrowing from research by Brunel University London into moto drivers’ lives and livelihoods and how they weigh up risk, safety and profit.
Anthropologist Dr Will Rollason spent three years in the East African capital studying the motos business, bike ownership, running costs, state regulation in relation to local politics and real-life working practices.
Motos appeared in Rwanda relatively recently in the mid-90s, and little was known about their business model there and across East Africa.
Moto drivers mostly are young men, many of whom are migrants who left school at about 11 years old.
They are not usually poor and make good money by local standards, and often support families of four or more.
But their margins are narrow, taxes and other charges plus motorbike maintenance costs take a big chunk of what they make.
While it’s a risky job, with accidents, crime and breakdowns the norm, riders themselves are risk-averse, preferring to take passengers they know in familiar areas.
Most moto drivers, Dr Rollason discovered, don’t own their own bikes, but rent them or buy them on credit from small business people.
To work legally in Rwanda, drivers must belong to syndicates or belong to a professional body, which demand fees or rents with nothing in return.
City authorities, police and security staff demanding bribes and fines are a constant menace.
Rwanda’s media widely covered Dr Rollason’s study report to the city council, which was picked up and read by SafeMotos founder Barret Nash, who calls it ‘the company’s bible’.
Working with self-taught coder, Peter Kariuki, Nash used the research to design a socially responsible business model.
Drivers need to be screened and have three years’ experience to join SafeMotos.
They carry a smartphone and the SafeMotos app that records their speed, acceleration, location, and lean to give a safety score out of a hundred.
Drivers need to notch up a rating of at least 90 to keep working with the company.
After three years in Kigali, SafeMotos has grown its pool of drivers by hundreds, drivers earn more and road accidents have dropped.
In 2019, following Dr Rollason’s business bible, the company expanded into the Democratic Republic of Congo.
Project last modified 11/05/2022

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/research/projects/business-brains-helping-uganda-dairy-farmers-milk-it:
Waste-saving ideas borrowed from Japanese car makers are the magic formula helping Uganda’s dairy farmers produce 75% more milk.
Lean thinking – originally Toyota’s recipe to cut waste in car manufacturing – proved the magic formula to switch up dairy production across Western Uganda’s Rwenzori region.
Brunel Business School supply chains expert Dr Manoj Dora worked with hundreds of dairy farmers, cooperatives, food processors and suppliers to streamline the journey from cow to carton.
Dr Dora spotted bottlenecks, waste hotspots and losses across the region’s dairy network, and streamlined the system to make the most of resources and dramatically pump up productivity.
“Traditional methods caused a lot of waste and led to considerable losses of money,” said Dr Dora.
“In the past, these dairy farmers just kept producing endlessly.
But now, incorporating lean management methods into their day-to-day operations, suppliers are starting to respond to demand.
“This is greener, more sustainable farming.
When you use fewer resources,” said Dora, “you use less energy, less water – those are the extra advantages of applying lean.”
Realising most Rwenzori’s dairy farmers had smartphones, Dr Dora and team developed a ‘Cowalytics’ app that lets Rwenzori dairy farmers use their mobile phones to market their milk and see the latest changing prices.
Working with Uganda’s Mountains of the Moon University , they also put the cows on a healthy diet, with farmers swapping tips about the best breeds and grasses to feed them.
Over its 12-year lifespan, the research funded by the Institutional University Cooperation boosted the region’s milk production by 120%, from 10 litres of milk per day per cow to 22 litres.
Ten new milk collection centres and milk coolers started to make farmer’s jobs easier, and they made 72% more money from processing and marketing milk products such as cheeses, bottled milk, yogurt, ice cream and butter.
The Food Supply Management System designed by the team has benefited not only the farmers in the region who have implemented the system but also its wider community – Rwenzori region – economically by establishing a new sustainable partnership model between an academic institution and an industry.
Dr Dora’s lean farming principles have helped not only Rwenzori’s dairy farmers, but also brought vast economic, social, ecological, and educational improvements to the lives of the region’s people.
“If a car company can use it,” Dr Dora said, “then why can’t it help farmers become more efficient too?”
Project last modified 09/01/2024

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/research/projects/connecting-africa-new-networks-for-open-science:
National Research and Education Networks – known as NRENs – are organisations that set up and run broadband networks that help universities and research institutions communicate and work with each other.
Whether they know it or not, those who work at a UK university will likely be using NREN services all the time, with Eduroam, a system that allows easy WiFi access across different campuses, perhaps the most recognisable.
In Europe, the past few decades have seen the creation of NRENs in each country, helping with everything from making logging in a more straightforward task, to sharing the vast amounts of data gathered by CERN’s Large Hadron Collider.
“Twenty years ago, if I visited another University I couldn’t just connect my laptop and access the Internet,” said Prof Simon Taylor, Professor of Computer Science and Vice Dean of Research at Brunel University London.
“Nowadays, thanks to NREN services I can now connect to the Internet at Universities and Research Institutions across the world.”
“But there is a whole ton of computer architecture needed underneath it all that says, 'actually, yes, this person is allowed to use this system but not that other system.' And once you’ve standardised these systems, you can then roll them out more widely – so nowadays I can visit a university in the Netherlands or Germany and log into their systems using my Brunel credentials.”
With NRENs established and working well in Europe, Prof Taylor and his colleague Dr Anastasia Anagnostou set their sights on Africa, where such networks were rare and underdeveloped, but had the potential to revolutionise how research is completed and shared.
The Brunel team set about working with groups in a number of African countries to share the research and knowledge that underpinned the established European systems, with the goal of helping local institutions and governments develop their own.
As part of the work, Prof Taylor and Dr Anagnostou helped local NRENs in Ethiopia, Nigeria, Somalia, Tanzania and Uganda to begin setting up their own Open Access Repositories, giving those nations’ researchers a platform through which they could better share their research.
“One of these platforms was deployed in Ethiopia as an open repository for academic papers and PhD theses,” said Prof Taylor.
“Off the back of that, the Ethiopian government announced that all publicly funded research must now be added to the repository.
It’s now helping African researchers get their work seen across the world.”
Whilst Africa’s NRENs still have a little way to go to get their networks as connected as their neighbours in Europe, Prof Taylor says they’re now well on their way, pointing to the fact that when he last visited a university in Ghana, he could easily log onto the system using Eduroam.
“There has been quite a nice trickle-down effect, and fairly rapidly we’ve started getting network services connected to universities in those countries,” said Prof Taylor.
“Now with the growth of African NRENs, new Open Science facilities are being created to help colleagues across Africa to make their excellent research more open and accessible.
There’s tremendous benefit from doing this and it’s really exciting being part of the African Open Science movement.”

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/research/projects/new-chemicals-safety-laws:
Our food, our water and the things we use every day are constantly contaminated by hundreds of harmful chemicals that build up in bodies and the environment.
Until about a decade ago, safety watchdogs only rated toxicity levels for each separate chemical on its own.
They thought the effect of a build-up of many different chemicals at once was safe if each chemical in the mixture was within its own legal exposure limit.
Toxicologists at Brunel University London showed for the first time that even if each chemical in a mixture is at a safe level, the overall cocktail effect of the mixture is dangerous.
But for years, chemical safety legislation stayed the same.
Mixtures of plasticiser chemicals (phthalates) found in everyday things like food wrappers, pesticides, toys, cleaning products and cosmetics are linked to male infertility.
The finding helped trigger major moves in Europe-wide safety policy.
Pesticides, biocides, food contaminants and industrial chemicals are the most common types of harmful chemical mixtures people are exposed to in everyday life.
The 2020 EU Chemical Strategy for Sustainability pledged to fast-track risk assessments for pesticides and bring in new protective regulations for other chemical mixtures.
This will protect 445 million Europeans from mixture risks.
The European Chemicals Agency in 2017 used Brunel’s research to back restrictions on a group of four phthalates used in household goods, to protect 400,000 boys at risk from exposures.
In the last 10 years, the Brunel team, led by Dr Andreas Kortenkamp, published more than 30 scientific studies into the toxic effects of chemical mixtures.
The resulting raft of evidence strongly suggests toxicologists can predict the effects of multi-chemical cocktails when they know how toxic each chemical in the mix is.
In many different experiments with fish, rodents and cultured cells, the team accurately predicted mixture effects.
Working with the European Food Safety Authority, the Brunel team put together a new workable way to group chemicals for mixtures risk assessment.
The new approach brought in by the authority will influence maximum residue levels for toxic pesticides in food in Europe.
It means people will be better protected against the extra risks of harm caused by a mix of pesticide residues found in most foods.
Key findings from this body of Brunel research are that a mixture of chemicals is usually more toxic than the most toxic chemical in the mix, and that mixtures of chemicals can still be dangerously toxic even if each chemical in it is at safe levels.
Altogether, the toxicology team’s research shows that ignoring the effect of mixtures of chemicals underestimates the risk of toxicity.
View on the BBC
Alternatively view the content on BBC
Pollution Research and Policy - Predictive approaches in toxicology, including combined chemical exposures and development of new frameworks for non-animal approaches for predicting toxicity; Endocrine disruptor research with an emphasis on mechanisms of disease and test method development; Pollution monitoring, clean-up technologies and chemical analytics.
Project last modified 21/11/2023

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/research/projects/caribbean-pensions-on-a-better-financial-footing:
A well-managed pension is central to income security in old age, and pension funds are key financial institutions in many countries, contributing funds to the economy and enabling people to save sufficiently for their retirement needs.
But pension provision is in crisis globally, which puts at risk financial sustainability, care and dignity in old age.
The ongoing shift from defined benefit pension schemes, which guarantee a retirement income, to defined contribution ones, in which retirement income depends on financial market returns, is a key aspect of the pension crisis, making pension funds more precarious.
More of people's pension money is at risk if the value of a fund’s assets decline, and if lower long-term interest rates result in a fund’s liabilities increasing.
A further risk is that people may live longer than expected, leaving pension funds more stretched.
And it is essential that the fund is well-managed in terms of aspects such as portfolio diversification, appropriate risk and return, management and governance.
In this context, pensions in five countries in the Caribbean are now on a far better financial footing thanks to research by Brunel's Prof Philip Davis on pension regulation and reform, including health and stability indicators that flag up risks and enable pension fund managers to react, either for individual funds or for the overall sector.
From 2015 to 2017, Prof Davis was commissioned by the International Monetary Fund (the IMF) through its Caribbean Technical Assistance Centre, known as CARTAC, to contribute to better and more consistent data collection, and thereby enable calculation of such financial health and stability indicators for pension policy in the Bahamas, Barbados, Guyana, Jamaica and Suriname.
Besides his own long-run research expertise in the pension field, the background for this work was separate to research, also at the IMF, to assess macroprudential indicators and the development of financial soundness indicators for 36 countries.
His research showed that concentration and distribution measures (CDMs) can help predict system-wide vulnerabilities.
Until recently, only a small fraction of the population in the Caribbean countries was saving for retirement, and a lack of consumer knowledge and tools for oversight by supervisors meant that the pension systems in the Caribbean were fragile.
But if pension fund supervisors were to collect data appropriately and thereby create health and stability indicators for individual pension funds (also using the CDM approach for the sector as a whole), Prof Davis explained in presentations given in the Caribbean, then the supervisors could be better informed as to when to intervene.
"The work I did gave the authorities a better set-up of data from the pension funds," explained Prof Davis.
"This would then enable them to calculate various financial indicators that would give them evidence as to whether the pension fund was acting appropriately or not.
And that could be true at an individual fund level or at the whole-sector level.
As a result of Davis's work, countries have implemented improvements to supervision at both the operational and strategic level, increasing retirement income security for vulnerable people in old age.
The countries fully accepted the recommendations and adopted the framework for improved pension regulation, as proposed by Prof Davis.
Helped by this and other reforms, the countries' pension sectors have experienced consistent growth, also boosting the countries' economies.
And there has been a rise in people being registered for pension plans, increasing the number of prospective retirees who will be financially independent and cared for in old age.
For example, in Barbados, the number of pension plans registered under their Occupational Pensions Benefit Act rose from 145 pension plans in 2014 to 268 in 2017, so that there are now 96% fully registered active pension plans in that country - meaning that they're properly supervised.
And in Jamaica, the pension fund assets rose from being 22.4% of gross domestic product (GDP) in 2012 to 28.2% in 2017.
Prof Davis’s research thus serves as an outstanding example of how effective pension reforms can have a fundamental impact on both regulators and at-risk people in several countries.
His contribution has not only had real policy impact, but also benefited some of the most vulnerable people in the Caribbean.
The changes in pension data management and supervision have improved retirement income security for both current and prospective pension plan members, safeguarding their wellbeing in old age.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/research/projects/helping-housing-associations:
Residents living in properties run by three Housing Associations are benefiting from better service, training and support brought on by fresh thinking from Brunel University London.
Help to find jobs, manage money and learn basic skills they may have missed out on at school are just some of the ways associations are now helping improve the lives of people they house.
Dr Wainwright drew on research on the geographies and sociologies of education, training and welfare to help A2Dominion, Catalyst Housing and East Thames (now L&Q) design smarter services for their residents.
With people living in social housing twice as likely to be jobless, sweeping housing welfare reforms in 2016 led the Government to start looking to social landlords to help fix long-term unemployment.
There was a strong sense that Government was not offering opportunities and that job centres didn’t have time to offer meaningful help.
Dr Wainwright studied new training-for-work programmes offered by the three associations, highlighting barriers residents face in considering work, and made recommendations to help steer future employment schemes.
Depression, anxiety, low confidence and lack of qualifications are residents’ biggest obstacles to seeking work, while the best way to improve training programmes is to tell more people they are available.
Crucially, a lack of local, entry-level jobs that pay enough to live on was another major obstacle, the study revealed.
However, unlike Job Centre Plus, research showed Housing Associations have good staff availability, give friendly, personalised, constructive advice and offer hope.
Residents with property group A2Dominion found help to manage their money in the association’s DOSH programme – standing for Debts, Overdrafts and Savings Help.
Evaluated by Dr Wainwright, the one-to-one mentoring and smartphone app aimed to enhance resilience and wellbeing using techniques similar to those used by the NHS, such as brief interventions.
The Ask David app, piloted as part of the programme, offers a newsfeed of information and links, together with a direct messaging hotline to a DOSH mentor.
The programme started in the London Borough of Ealing in 2013, and with support of the Money Advice Service's What Works Fund expanded into Oxford and Spelthorne in Surrey, with a mentor working in each of these three areas.
During this expansion period, in which Ask David was developed and introduced, 900 residents were referred to DOSH – 32 of which were surveyed by the Brunel team in 2017/18 to assess how effective the programme is, comparing them with a control group of 24.
The research findings showed a strong, statistically significant improvement in financial capability for residents on the DOSH programme, which worked to help residents keep up with their bills and credit commitments, boost their confidence in budgeting and managing their finances, improve their financial knowledge and in doing so their wellbeing.
Most residents were positive about the support, with 68% feeling their DOSH mentor gives them helpful financial advice.
Dr Wainwright’s research has also been used in the wider social housing sector.
Yarlington Housing in Somerset used it to increase its investment in training for 80,000 residents and Northwards Housing in Manchester modified its business planning and invested an extra £30,000 to extend services for hard-to-reach residents.
Project last modified 11/12/2023

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/research/projects/wrexham-firm-decked-out-with-brunel-research:
Ecodek is a Wrexham-based manufacturer of sustainable, durable decking, whose products can be found everywhere from London’s Olympic Park to Dubai’s Jumeirah Beach Walkway.
Underpinning Ecodek’s innovative products is research from Brunel University London’s Professor Mizi Fan.
Founder of Ecodek
Ecodek’s decking is made from 98% recycled waste materials, and is 100% recyclable.
The company sends only 2% of its waste to landfill and strives to get that number to zero.
Each year the company manufacturers over a million metres of decking, recycling the equivalent of 100 million 4-pint bottles of milk in plastic, and locking away up to 600,000 kilograms of CO 2 each year.
Prof Fan’s long-standing relationship with Ecodek helped the company develop the technology needed to produce a consistent and reliable product from a wood and plastic composite, which is now available in a wide variety of colours, styles and lengths, and is being used on more than 6,000 projects worldwide.
The product can now be found in a number of famous places, including the Old Bailey, the Royal Wharf Docklands, and London’s Olympic Stadium.
Since 2014, Ecodek has grown massively, and today runs four production lines, 24 hours a day, and employs over 50 staff, including a dedicated research and development team, who are now using Prof Fan’s research to develop new product ranges including facades, decking support beams and sound barriers for motorways.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/research/projects/transforming-the-literary-landscape:
Over the past decade, The Brunel Centre of Contemporary Writing (BCCW) has been driven by a clear vision – to bring together some of the country’s leading writers and academics to explore and improve society through literature and the written word.
Where many of Brunel’s successful REF submissions focussed on a single strand of research or partnership, BCCW aimed to demonstrate how the team had collectively changed their industry, making it more inclusive, more diverse and more reflective of 21st century Britain.
It wanted to show how the team, working to a shared philosophy, had not only changed the kind of works we were reading and enjoying, but had begun to change the very institutes that hold the balance of power in the literary world.
View on YouTube
Alternatively view the content on YouTube
“I think what brings us all together is that we are interested in making an intervention into society, that we believe in social change, that we believe in giving representation to underrepresented voices, and that we believe that a really healthy literature society is one where it is pluralistic, where everyone has a chance to tell their stories and to reach as wide an audience as possible,” said BCCW’s Prof Bernadine Evaristo.
In 2019, Prof Evaristo was cast into the global limelight as the first black woman and first black Briton to win the Booker Prize, joining a list of famous recipients that includes the likes of Salman Rushdie, Kazuo Ishiguro and Hilary Mantel.
Based on extensive research, her novel, Girl, Woman, Other, has already sold over a million copies in the English language and been celebrated for telling the story of twelve characters whose backgrounds have traditionally been underrepresented in contemporary literature.
The book gained an army of influential fans, including former US President Barack Obama, who named it as one of his favourite books of the year.
“That means that a lot of people in this country who are not from the communities I'm writing about have read the book, and are reading a book that’s an experimental text,” said Professor Evaristo.
“And I think that is incredibly rewarding.
Because if, before the Booker, you said to these people, “you know, this is a book, it's about black British women, it’s experimental and it's called a fusion fiction,” they might not have wanted to pick it up.
But because it won the Booker, they picked it up, and then found, actually, that it's something that they can read and enjoy.”
Mainstream success for members of the BCCW has helped propel them into influential positions within some of the country’s most important institutions, where they’ve able to start to transform things from the inside.
The team currently includes Prof Daljit Nagra, the first BAME chair of the Royal Society of Literature, who immediately pursued ‘over-representation’ by appointing 60 BAME fellows, Prof Benjamin Zephaniah, who won a BAFTA for the UK’s first mainstream poetry show, and Costa Book of the Year Winner Dr Hannah Lowe, whose work with the National Trust helped the organisation better understand its historical ties to China.
“We view this idea of Transforming the Literary Landscape and emphasis on this combination of theoretical analysis of contemporary culture and studies, and the practical responses to that in the form of literary output and institutional change on the back of that as the basis of all our research going forward,” said Prof William Watkin, Professor of Contemporary Philosophy and Literature.
“It's a clear strategy that we had, that at the end of all this, can you change something institutionally, so that it's not just us talking about it, but actually making the situation better in a way that you can demonstrate and prove.”
Contemporary Writing - The group facilitates, promotes and disseminates cutting-edge creative, critical and socially-engaged work within English Studies and affiliated fields.
Tweets by @EnglishatBrunel Please accept all cookies to view this content.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/research/projects/cruel-family-courts-exposed:
It was uncomfortable viewing.
One July evening last year, about 400,000 Channel 4 viewers switched on to disturbing scenes of four police forcibly removing small children from their bedrooms in a night-time raid.
Still in their pyjamas, the terrified children were kicking and screaming as police took them from their mother’s house to go to live with their father.
Why?
The officers were carrying out an order by the family court.
Powerful stuff.
Those were the opening scenes of a harrowing exposé by the broadcaster’s flagship news programme, Dispatches , in its episode Torn Apart: Family Courts Uncovered .
The show, two years in the making, drew a massive response, generating reams of national news coverage.
It was shortlisted for the British Journalism Awards 2021.
Family courts and domestic abuse specialist, Dr Adrienne Barnett, was interviewed on the show.
Programme-makers used online surveys to ask people working in family courts and people using them about their experiences of the courts.
More than 4,000 people responded, making it the largest-ever survey of family courts.
Dr Barnett, a senior lecturer in law at Brunel University London and former barrister with over 25 years’ experience of family law, was commissioned to prepare the reports on the surveys and is analysing the qualitative data.
Dispatches ’ Torn Apart is only one example of how Dr Barnett has changed public opinion, shaped the political agenda and changed laws and legal practice to help domestic abuse survivors and their children.
Dr Barnett played a pivotal part in Women’s Aid’s Child First campaign, which sparked an emergency Government review to ban abusers from cross-examining their victims in court.
Aimed at preventing avoidable child deaths and making family courts put children first, the campaign also brought changes in practice to make family courts safer for survivors and children.
Child First stemmed from the charity’s Nineteen Child Homicides report (2016) which highlights the tragic stories of 19 children and two women who were killed by domestic abusers where there was unsafe child contact.
It draws extensively from Dr Barnett’s study, Contact At All Costs?
Domestic Violence and Children’s Welfare .
Judges and professionals did not understand the scale and seriousness of domestic abuse, Dr Barnett’s research reveals, especially when it involves coercive and controlling behaviour.
They made poor and dangerous judgements about risk and prioritised contact between children and parents who live away, in spite of their abuse convictions, as that haunting opening Dispatches sequence goes to show.
In May 2019, the Ministry of Justice (MoJ) announced an inquiry into how the family court protects children and parents in private law children cases involving concerns about domestic abuse.
To assist the inquiry, the MoJ commissioned Dr Barnett to prepare a review of the available literature on these issues.
The findings showed that abuse is systematically minimised, leading to traumatic court processes, inadequate assessment of risk and unsafe child arrangements, with allegations being ignored or disbelieved, children left unheard and abusers exercising continued control through repeat litigation.
The government immediately announced a 'major overhaul of family courts to protect domestic abuse victims'.
The Justice Minister
The changes occasioned by the MoJ panel report and literature review were widely heralded in the national media as the most sweeping overhaul of the family courts to protect victims of domestic abuse.
Project last modified 12/10/2023

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/research/projects/extreme-modelling-statistical-research-fix-for-difficult-to-predict-situations:
One of the factors that resulted in the financial crisis of 2007–8 was that some financial firms took on too much risk and made risky investments.
Their approach to risk management had, it seems, been far from normal.
And their understanding of financial risk hadn’t been normal in a statistical sense, either.
The ‘normal distribution’ is what appears when we plot graphs of people’s weights, or stock price movements, or anything else where most measurements are clustered around the middle, with fewer at the extremes.
It’s a bell-shaped curve with ‘tails’ at either side, and models the data – fits its general pattern, enabling predictions – so well and so often that it’s well known to statisticians, scientists and bankers alike.
“For years, financial risk analysts always assumed that the distribution of financial returns was the normal distribution or a symmetric distribution,” explained Brunel statistician Prof Keming Yu.
“But when they were looking at what had gone wrong in the financial crisis, they realised they hadn’t been modelling the tails well enough.”
The data in these tails was where the biggest stock price movements could be.
The tempting area where the biggest risk was, which could make people a lot of money – and sometimes big losses.
But, it turns out, the normal distribution didn’t model the data well enough in these outer regions.
The tails were a different shape to normal.
They were a bit fatter, and this meant the analysts’ decisions weren’t so well-informed.
“So that’s the reason why they knew they needed a new technology to identify the risk,” said Prof Yu.
Yet a year before the crisis hit, he had organised an international workshop and given a presentation* on what ended up being a big part of the solution: Bayesian quantile regression, which Prof Yu and his co-authors had been the first to explore.
This is a way to model relationships between data, focusing on splitting it up into quantiles, which are portions of percentages.
Giving an illustrative example, Prof Yu said: “Regulators have become more concerned about the protection of financial institutions against catastrophic market risks, otherwise the value of an investment will decrease due to movements in market factors.
The difficulty of modelling these rare but extreme events has now been carried out by extreme statistics methods.
“In finance risk management, the value at risk, or VaR, is a standard measure of the riskiness of financial entities or portfolios of assets.
VaR summarises the distribution of possible losses by a quantile, a point with a specified probability of greater losses.
For example, if the 95% one-month VaR is $1 million, this means that there is 95% confidence that over the next month the portfolio will not lose more than $1 million.”
The Bayesian part of Prof Yu’s method means it factors in what we know from previous data, such as the top 1% of stock price movements over recent weeks.
We can learn from recent history, statistically speaking.
“In the tails of distributions, there isn’t much data for analysts to analyse, which makes their decisions even riskier,” Prof Yu added.
“That’s why Bayesian inference is important.
It’s particularly powerful for smaller quantities of data for making better decisions.” And his method is useful for distributions other than normal ones – different shapes of graphs that also have the same tails where it gets difficult to make predictions or draw conclusions.
In the audience at Prof Yu’s presentation was a senior research statistician from SAS, the organisation behind the statistical software of the same name that nowadays is used by millions at more than 80,000 business, government and university sites in 150 countries.
Shortly after the financial crisis, the software incorporated a Bayesian quantile regression package, based on Prof Yu’s regression models.
And in 2014 it was updated to include Yu’s new and more advanced MCMC algorithm (standing for Markov chain Monte Carlo), a new development in this research area.
This improved risk-based decision-making for its worldwide users, and enabling high-dimensional data analysis.
The People’s Bank of China, one of the world’s largest public companies, has certainly benefited from the SAS Bayesian quantile regression package.
It has allowed them to improve how they determine the relationship between financial risk and return, and every corporate decision that can lead to profits is based on Prof Yu’s model of risk assessment due to its accuracy.
In 2015 the bank used Prof Yu’s algorithm to make corporate decisions on 20,000 business cases, worth £110 million.
Better decision-making contributed to an increase in the bank’s profits of around 12% year on year between 2014 and 2018.
But the SAS Bayesian quantile regression package isn’t just for the financial industry.
Commenting on the impact of Prof Yu’s research, staff from SAS said that “the Bayesian inference methods have been attracting increasing interest within the pharmaceutical industry at various stages of the research, development, manufacturing, and health economic evaluation of new healthcare interventions.” The benefits include robust and powerful tools for dealing with issues in clinical trials, they added, such as those involving progressive diseases, in which the distribution tails are often a different shape to normal.
Other applications include extreme climate or environment analysis, because climate studies that focus on averages cannot model climate change well enough.
Prof Yu’s models have also been used in engineering through his collaboration with TWI, the research and technology experts in materials joining and engineering processes.
He helped them predict where buried pipes, such as water pipes, would rust and fail.
“Pipeline corrosion occurs on both the inside and outside of pipes, reacting to the substances carried by them as well as external conditions.
It’s an expensive problem to put right if left untreated,” Prof Yu said.
“Once the corrosion area of a buried pipe reaches a threshold, the pipe needs to be dug out and replaced, but it’s difficult to predict if and when the threshold value is reached.
So I worked with TWI to treat the threshold value as a special quantile to develop regression methods, making predictions a little easier.”
TWI’s Chief Executive, Prof Aamir Khalid
*Prof Yu presented at and organised the International Centre for Mathematical Sciences workshop on ‘Quantile Regression, LMS and Robust methods in the 21st Century’, held from 19–23 June 2006 in Edinburgh and funded by the UK’s Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council and the London Mathematical Society.
Mathematical and Statistical Modelling - Established in 2021 the Centre spotlights the transformative role of mathematics and statistics in innovative projects, their impact in real-world applications and in adding societal and economic value.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/research/projects/putting-working-class-actors-centre-stage:
Award-winning documentary The Acting Class spotlights the class divide in the creative industries, focusing on the barriers for young working-class actors.
It features big-name actors like Christopher Eccleston, Maxine Peake, Julie Hesmondhalgh and Samuel West alongside struggling young actor Tom Stocks.
The film spells out how the odds are stacked against people from poorer backgrounds wanting to break into the elitist performing arts.
Most acting jobs are based in London, where living and accommodation cost more than the rest of the country.
Most of the work is gig-based, forcing actors to work several jobs at once to get by.
And if a dream role does come along, they then have to quit the job that may be hard to replace when the role ends.
This, along with audition and drama school fees, makes it much harder for working-class people to gain a foothold in the business.
But it also limits the richness of the storytelling, characters and lives portrayed and variety of people and communities represented.
Made by Brunel University London's Professor Michael Wayne and Dr Deirdre O'Neill, the 2017 feature-length documentary won best UK Feature at the London Labour Film Festival.
It was sold on DVD, had more than 40 public screenings along with talks, and was backed by a lobbying campaign in collaboration with The Equality Trust and Just Fair, which raised awareness of the inequities in the profession among MPs.
The film-makers also worked closely with the actor’s union Equity, which held screenings and talks across its local branch network, helping push the question of class up the union’s agenda.
And in 2019, it set up a new ‘Class network’ to campaign on to help everyone get a fair chance in arts and entertainment.
The Acting Class made socio-economic inequity in the profession a talking point across several spheres.
Its well-known Brit actor cast boosted its impact on audiences and the media.
Julie Hesmondhalgh mentioned the film on Radio 4’s Thinking Aloud , and the directors were interviewed about the film on BBC Radio Leicester before a full-house screening at the Leicester Phoenix when the British Film Institute (BFI) launched its ‘Workforce Diversity in the UK Screen Sector’ report.
It also screened at the BFI Southbank as part of the BFI’s ‘Working Class Heroes’ weekend event.
Of course, the issues The Acting Class raises reach far beyond acting, the performing arts and creative industries.
The class divide, or socio-economic inequity, is part of a wider and ongoing debate about how unequal opportunities scar British society from top to bottom.
As Maxine Peake says in the film, Britain is ‘rotten to the core’ with it.
View on YouTube Vimeo
Alternatively view the content on Vimeo
Project last modified 22/11/2023

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/research/projects/21st-century-poachers-how-intelligence-experts-are-helping-save-the-rhino:
It’s a rather sad fact that in the 21st century, killing rhinos and pillaging their horns is big business – especially given that the main driver is often men half a world away desperately seeking a little boost to their faltering ‘prowess.’
But still, year on year, rhinos are tracked, shot and mutilated in their hundreds, with the World Wide Fund for Nature suggesting that only around 27,000 non-captive rhinos still exist today – just 5% of the number that existed a century ago.
So, can we beat the poachers before it’s too late?
Whilst conservation efforts around the world are helping boost local populations, the animal’s numbers remain dangerously low globally, with complete eradication in the next few decades still a distinct possibility.
“The starting point is to realise that there are no wild rhinos and very few wild elephants left in Africa,” says Dr Kristian Gustafson, a Reader in Intelligence and War at Brunel University London, who has been working with the NGO African Parks on tackling the problem.
“They have been poached so badly that they almost all exist in national parks and protected areas.
So rather than treating it as a conservation problem, we need to make it about guarding assets that the local government owns, because effectively all these animals are in government owned preserves."
Historically, poaching had been treated as a local crime problem, with authorities more focused on catching those who had killed a rhino than working to prevent the rhino from being killed in the first place – an issue Dr Gustafson put down to a misunderstanding of who is doing the poaching.
“Historically, we’ve treated the people who live in the national parks as a problem.
We’ve said, 'well, there's 20,000 people living in this park, so that's 20,000 potential poachers',” said Dr Gustafson.
“But tracking a rhino is hard and dangerous work.
There are plenty of big animals in the parks that will do you harm, including the rhinos themselves.
So, the actual poachers are a very narrow group of specialists, who move around all of Africa.”
Dr Gustafson and his research team proposed to the parks that the key to tackling the poachers was to stop treating them as petty criminals, but rather sprawling, well-armed and well-funded organised crime gangs, who rely on a small number of highly trained specialist hunters to do the actual poaching.
“In the past, the parks treated poaching as a kind of a conservation, animal husbandry problem.
But we felt it’d become a security problem – a security problem amenable to treatment by improved sharing of information and intelligence between national parks,” he said.
“They needed to act like a nation-state might and run collection networks around the things they were trying to protect.
So, talk to the locals.
Treat the local population living in the parks as part of the solution, not part of the problem.
It was one of the biggest steps that came through our research.
And it’s now changing the way parks pursue poachers.”
An example Dr Gustafson pointed to was the poacher’s use of poisoned watermelons.
The teams learned that there was a poaching group that were using the poisoned fruit to kill elephants – information which was then shared with other parks so that could investigate any reports of groups buying up watermelons.
By adopting this kind of intelligence-led approach, some parks were able to reduce their poaching incidents from over 50 per year to zero, whilst others increased poaching arrests by 200%.
“What we have achieved is a sustainable solution that African parks can manage themselves – they don't need us to come in and tell them how to do it,” said Dr Gustafson.
“We’ve developed some specific methodologies as experts at the university, and provided some strategy and training, but it’s the rangers in the parks executing the work.
There will be further ups and downs, but I think the parks now have the edge.”
Intelligence and Security Studies - As an inter-disciplinary research centre, established to deal specifically with intelligence issues, policy and institutions, to promote and develop social science and policy-oriented approaches to intelligence.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/research/projects/see-less-how-to-help-a-billion-breakups:
Facebook – the sprawling tech giant now known as Meta – has become a ubiquitous part of many of our lives, providing the platforms we use to connect with our friends and families, find the people we’re yet to know, and keep track of those we used to.
As the firm behind products such as WhatsApp, Instagram and Facebook, Meta finds itself uniquely involved in the intimate relationships of billions of people, playing a part at every step, from the early blossoming of the relationship, to the wedding planning and baby photos, and the eventual abrupt public declaration that the whole thing is over and was probably never meant to be in the first place.
How active Meta and its founding parts have been in peoples’ relationships has evolved over the years, with a significant milestone coming in 2015, when the company introduced the option for people coming out of a romantic relationship to “ See Less ” of their former partner on Facebook.
The feature meant that you could stop seeing updates from the other person, without having to go through the awkwardness of ‘unfriending’ them and removing them from your online life altogether.
The creation of the See Less feature was championed within Facebook by its Compassion Team, who said they were influenced by a study from Brunel’s Dr Tara Marshall when considering how the company should handle the breakdown of an intimate relationship between two of its users.
Dr Marshall’s paper , described by the Compassion Team as “100 per cent must read,” showed that keeping tabs on your ex led to greater distress over the breakup, more negative feelings and sexual desire, lower personal growth, and a greater longing for the former partner.
However, it also showed that those who remained friends with their ex on Facebook displayed fewer negative feelings and less sexual desire, and didn’t long for their ex quite so much as those who had unfriended, or been unfriended.
The Compassion team said that introducing the See Less feature served two of the needs identified by Dr Marshall – it allowed the user to only see their ex-partner’s updates on their own terms, and it stopped content about the ex being shared with them in an unplanned way.
In October 2015, a pilot of the See Less button was rolled out to 5 per cent of American Facebook users – around eight million people at the time – and by March the following year, over 3 million people had engaged with the ‘break-up flow’ that contained the feature.
Following the successful trial, Facebook rolled the See Less button out to its 2.7 billion users, with hundreds of millions of people using the feature to control whose life interacts with their own.
News of Facebook’s new feature was covered by the BBC, The Guardian, and the New York Times, and whilst it's continued to evolve since its introduction, Dr Marshall’s study is now written into the DNA of how relationship breakups are handled online.
Project last modified 12/05/2022

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/research/projects/sensing-our-need-for-authentic-experiences-of-cities:
Dr Monica Degen
Dr Monica Degen's research has shaped new ways of thinking and has informed new working practices for museum curators, educators, architects and urban planners, who have benefited from her understanding of how sensory and time-related dynamics inform urban design, and the crucial role sensory experiences play in framing people's attachments to places.
"Since the 1980s, urban living has become much more of a financial asset across the globe," said Degen, an urban cultural sociologist at Brunel.
"So there's a real drive for cities, from Sao Paolo to Lagos and from London to Paris, to redevelop their city centres into more interesting places to live in and enjoy.
And people want to come into cities to be surrounded by a pleasant and exciting environment, lit up at night, and filled with engaging events and experiences."
But this redevelopment can cause tensions because of the way power relations work in cities.
For example, as parts of east London become gentrified, the fried chicken shops where young people get together to eat and socialise are targeted for closure by councils, who replace them with coffee shops serving a more middle-class clientele and allow landlords to demand higher rents.
One set of smells and noises is replaced by another deemed to have a higher value.
"Once we start recognising how we evaluate public spaces and the social life they promote through the ways we sense the city – the volume of buildings, the smell of traffic or trees in a park, other people talking and brushing past us – we realise that the senses really matter in urban life because they structure how we relate to our surroundings and each other," Degen said.
Viewing cities in this way was the driving factor behind research projects Degen led from 2013, starting with a project funded by ESRC, the UK's Economics and Social Research Council, which analysed the ways in which digital visualisations have changed the design process of cities and their future planning.
These are the depictions produced by architectural studios which, her research shows, tend to be selective and narrow in the social life and uses they portray.
Between 2015 and 2017 Degen was funded by AHRC, the UK's Arts and Humanities Research Council, to set up an EU-wide network of urban museum curators, urban planners and academics, and which led to a range of new approaches to researching sensory and emotional relations with the city, such as sketching sensory experiences, conducting evocative interviews and analysing social media.
These approaches are summarised in a free online toolkit to support museums curators, architects, urban professionals and the general public.
This toolkit has been used to redesign London's Charterhouse Museum interiors and to develop their public engagement programme, which enabled them to win Heritage Lottery Funding.
The museums' community engagement programme now puts sensory activities to the fore as a way of making it more likely that hard-to-reach groups would visit the museum or take part in its events.
Other museums that have benefited from Degen's research, incorporating sensory experiences in their curatorial practices and the design of new museum buildings, include the Museum of London, Cologne City Museum and the Centro de Cultura Contemporanea Barcelona.
The Museum of London will move to a new site in the coming years, involving the renovation and redesign of large parts of Smithfield meat market and the surrounding streets.
According to the head of the New Museum of London, Degen’s workshops with staff and her research of the area resulted in the incorporation of sensory–temporal considerations in parts of the museum's Interpretation Masterplan, such as the design, experience and usage of the main museum’s entrances.
Balancing tourist desires with the needs of locals is key for Barcelona’s City Council, who used the research methodology from Degen’s toolkit when remodelling the Ramblas, the city’s famous pedestrian boulevard.
“Pre-Covid, there were 20 million people a year visiting Barcelona, which is great financially, but locals feel pushed out of their public spaces,” Degen explained.
“The council has been thinking how they can redesign the Ramblas so that locals can also enjoy it, and so it doesn’t just become a tourist attraction.
Their feasibility studies have been informed by my way of mapping these places sensorially and emotionally.”
Tweets by https://twitter.com/SensoryCities Please accept all cookies to view this content.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/research/projects/making-the-beautiful-game-fair-play:
Hundreds of thousands more girls and boys now enjoy the fun, life lessons and all-round health and social benefits of playing football together, thanks to decades of research into mixed football.
Until 2011, Football Association (FA) rules forced girls and boys to play single-sex soccer from their tenth birthday.
That led many young players to drop out of the game, often because local communities simply didn’t have enough players to form single-sex teams.
For the girls, that cut short many a promising sporting career and denied many the health and social benefits playing football brings.
Boys meanwhile missed out on friendship, the chance to develop different technical skills and strategies, teamwork and learning to listen to other players on pitch.
Now there is no national age limit for mixed-gender youth football.
And as social attitudes shift, the FA is beginning to rethink its ideas about adult mixed football, and international football bodies are paying attention.
Brunel sports sociologist Dr Laura Hills’ research into mixed-gender football directly set up five far-reaching changes in national policy, lifting the age limit for girls and boys to play together from U11 to U18
Rachel Pavlou, National Women’s Football Development Manager
When 10-year-old Minnie Cruttwell in 2006 wrote to then Sports Minister Tessa Jowell, complaining how the ‘sexist rules’ were about to kick her out of Balham Blazers and Battersea Youth Centre , things started to happen that would change UK football forever.
After Jowell met Minnie with the FA, the FA in 2007/8 asked Dr Laura Hills and her team to study its U12-U14 mixed-gender football trials.
Between then and 2019, Dr Hills completed seven funded research projects, totalling £198,000.
Both boys and girls took a lot from the friendships they made playing together and gained respect for each other as team-mates, the research showed.
Researchers of girls playing in mixed teams in boys’ leagues spoke to players, parents, coaches and officials, and found these girls had more chance to develop their skills, challenge themselves, and ultimately enjoy playing the game.
Rachel Brown-Finnis, former England goalkeeper
This research led to a string of far-reaching changes in the FA’s mixed-gender policy, which brought positive, lasting change, not only to hundreds of thousands of young players, but to the face of UK football itself.
Besides policy change, these studies brought broader social changes in attitudes to girls and sport and to relationships between boys and girls.
Support for mixed-gender football for young people has risen hugely, and on transgender issues, meaning that young people now don’t need to identify their gender to play football.
Mixed adult football also made great strides through this research.
In 2019, the FA funded a team of Brunel researchers to study its ground-breaking first mixed Soccer Aid match , broadcast live on ITV to 5.7 million TV viewers.
Playing to a stadium crowd of 40,000, four English and Brazilian veteran women players were among the football legends and celebrities playing in the match, which raised £6.7million on the night for UNICEF’s Defending Play campaign.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/research/Our-research/REF-2021/Arts-and-humanities:
When Professor Bernardine Evaristo was awarded the 2019 Booker Prize for fiction, it not only proved to be a watershed moment in British publishing, but it also marked the culmination of a decade-long collaborative effort to develop a critical-creative research culture for at Brunel.
Submitted to the English Language and Literature Unit of Assessment , the research by Evaristo and her colleagues involved key partners ranging from the UK publishing industry to the Latvian Government.
The research we submitted to the Music, Drama, Dance, Performing Arts, Film and Screen Studies Unit of Assessment included 33 books, 108 articles in refereed journals, 76 book chapters, 73 compositions, 23 performances, 6 music CDs, 9 films and 4 digital games, with key partners including Equity, Independent Dance and Fighters for Peace in Lebanon.
UoA 27
UoA 33

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/research/Our-research/REF-2021/Health-and-Life-Sciences:
Seventy-eight of these were for the Allied Health Professions, Dentistry, Nursing and Pharmacy Unit of Assessment , which benefited from 35 new posts since the last REF in 2014.
Over the assessment period, our researchers have been awarded £16.4 million of grants –  a third higher than for the last REF, and involving the NHS, the Department for Health, the World Health Organization and UNICEF as key partners.
For the Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience Unit of Assessment , our researchers have worked with key partners ranging from Facebook to the Municipal Boards of Education and Support in Japan, as part of £1.2 million of awards for research at Brunel and a further £3.1 million in awards for collaborative research with colleagues at other institutions.
UoA 03
UoA 04

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/research/Our-research/REF-2021/Physical-sciences-engineering-and-mathematics:
Most of the research falling under the Earth Systems and Environmental Sciences Unit of Assessment has grown out of international collaborations, including with the European Union.
Our research submitted as part of the Mathematics Unit of Assessment is setting the academic and intellectual agenda in relevant fields, with key partners including the People's Bank of China and TWI.
For the Computer Science Unit of Assessment , our key research partners included Deloitte and Sensyne Health, for projects funded by £9.6 million of grants.
Our submission to the Engineering Unit of Assessment was our largest, representing the work of 159 researchers and involving 187 countries.
Caterpillar, TWI, Constellium, Honeywell, Econotherm, Ecodek and Enertechnos were all key partners during the assessment period, and total funding of £133.2 million was won for our Engineering research.
UoA 11
UoA 07
UoA 12
UoA 10

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/research/Our-research/REF-2021/Social-sciences:
It encompassed Anthropology and Development Studies research with partners in India and Rwanda; Business and Management Studies research involving Greek, Bangladeshi and other partners across the globe; and Economics and Econometrics research with the Bank of England, the European Central Bank, the IMF and the OECD.
We raised £1.4 million of investment for our Education research since the last REF in 2014, and our achievements in Law include leading a Horizon 2020 project, totalling £4.78 million, on managing migration flows.
Our Politics and International Studies research involved 41 countries, from Albania to Zambia; our Sociology research income has more than trebled since 2014; and our research submitted to the Sport and Exercise Sciences, Leisure and Tourism Unit of Assessment has had impact across the Commonwealth.
UoA 22
UoA 17
UoA 23
UoA 16
UoA 18
UoA 19
UoA 21
UoA 24

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/research/Our-research/REF-2021/REF-impact-case-studies:
Total number of results: 17
Transforming the literary landscape
Caribbean pensions on a better financial footing
Sensing our need for authentic experiences of cities
21st century poachers: How intelligence experts are helping save the rhino
Business brains helping Uganda dairy farmers milk it
Helping housing associations offer better services, training and support
Wrexham firm decked out with Brunel research
Putting working class actors centre stage
New safety laws for chemicals
Making the beautiful game fair play
Problems with family courts exposed

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/news-and-events/news/articles/Top-Student-Honoured-with-Stowe-Family-and-Children-Law-Prize:
Every year, Stowe Family Law LLP presents the Stowe Family and Children Law Prize to the top-performing student in the Year 3 Children and the Law module.
This year, the prestigious award has been presented to Meletia Louka, whose exceptional academic performance and dedication to the subject stood out among her peers.
The prize, sponsored annually by Stowe Family Law LLP, has become a valuable source of motivation and encouragement for students.
It not only recognises academic excellence but also inspires future practitioners in family and children law to strive for the highest standards of knowledge and professionalism.
A spokesperson for Stowe Family Law LLP commented: “ We’re delighted to see a Brunel student take home the Stowe Prize this year.
It’s so important to give students opportunities that extend beyond the classroom.
This prize recognises academic achievement and we're thrilled to be championing future legal talent.
”
Expressing gratitude for the recognition, Meletia Louka said: "Winning this award means so much to me — it’s a reminder that the long hours of study and passion for children’s rights really do make a difference.
I’m incredibly thankful for the support from my lecturers and from Stowe Family Law for recognising our hard work."
The University extends its sincere thanks to Stowe Family Law LLP for their continued support, which plays an important role in inspiring students to excel in their legal studies and future careers.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/news-and-events/news/articles/Found-protein-that-helps-cancer-spread:
Biomedical scientists have discovered a protein called SAS-6 that controls how cells divide can stave off the spread of cancer.
SAS-6 makes cells grow more and longer cilia — tiny antennae that sense their surroundings.
These cilia activate a pathway known as YAP/TAZ, which controls genes that help tumours grow and spread to other parts of the body.
Researchers now believe SAS-6 might be a warning sign for aggressive cancers — and a new target for drugs to block metastasis before it begins.
For the first time, scientists have shown the SAS-6 protein plays a role in building tiny hair-like structures on the cell’s surface, which in turn activate signals that make cancer cells more aggressive.
“Our data uncover a novel role for the centriolar protein SAS-6 in ciliogenesis, YAP activation and cancer cell invasion,” said Brunel University of London’s Dr Barbara Tanos.
“The main cause of death in cancer patients is metastatic disease, which happens when cancer cells invade tissues far away from the main tumour,” Dr Tanos explains.
“We found that cells with increased SAS-6 levels became more invasive and that this invasion was reverted by removing cilia.”
High levels of SAS-6 make cells grow more cilia — hair-like structures that stick out from the surface and act like sensors.
The study in Life Science Alliance shows these extra cilia activate the YAP/TAZ, signalling pathway that drives tumour growth and spread.
The team investigated what happens when cells produce a version of SAS-6 that doesn’t break down.
They found the cells grew longer cilia, moved more and noticeably changed shape — becoming flatter and more flexible – all signs of an invasive cell.
When scientists blocked the YAP pathway or removed the cilia, the cancer invasion ‘reduced to almost negligible levels’.
They then found the same pattern in a real lung cancer cell line, which has high levels of SAS-6.
Removing SAS-6 in this patient-derived cell line reverted invasion and YAP pathway activation.
Because several human cancers have unusually high levels of SAS-6, the protein could potentially be used as a marker for metastatic cancer.
Understanding how SAS-6 and cilia drive cancer cell invasion could also help design novel therapies based on cilia specific signalling pathways.
“We think this gives us a new way to understand how cellular signals control cancer spread,” said Dr Tanos.
“It could lead to smarter therapies and better ways to predict which cancers will turn aggressive.”

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/news-and-events/news/articles/Ketamine-use-in-chronic-pain-unsupported-by-evidence:
The off-label use of ketamine to treat chronic pain is not supported by scientific evidence, a new Cochrane review has found.
Ketamine is an anaesthetic commonly used for procedural sedation and short-term pain relief.
Ketamine is also frequently prescribed off-label to manage chronic pain conditions such as nerve pain, fibromyalgia and complex regional pain syndrome.
It is one of several NMDA receptor antagonists — a group of drugs thought to reduce pain by blocking certain brain receptors involved in pain signalling.
The review, conducted by researchers from UNSW Sydney, Neuroscience Research Australia (NeuRA), and Brunel University of London, examined 67 trials involving over 2,300 adult participants.
It assessed five NMDA receptor antagonists: ketamine, memantine, dextromethorphan, amantadine, and magnesium.
Results show no clear evidence of benefit for ketamine in chronic pain and identified an increased risk of adverse effects such as delusions, delirium, paranoia, nausea, and vomiting.
Evidence was rated low to very low certainty, due to small study sizes and poor methodological quality.
“We want to be clear – we're not saying ketamine is ineffective, but there’s a lot of uncertainty,” said Michael Ferraro, Doctoral Candidate at UNSW and NeuRA, first author of the review.
“The data could point to a benefit or no effect at all.
Right now, we just don’t know.”
Researchers looked at the effects across various chronic pain conditions and dosing strategies but found no clear evidence of benefit in any specific condition or dose.
Side effects were a major concern, particularly with intravenous use.
“The most common adverse events we saw were psychotomimetic effects such as delusions, delirium and paranoia, as well as nausea and vomiting.” said Ferraro.
“These effects are distressing for many patients.
Clinicians often try to balance the dose for pain relief without triggering those symptoms, but this isn’t always achieved.”
The review also found no studies that reported on two key outcomes: whether ketamine reduced depressive symptoms or opioid use.
This is notable, as ketamine is often proposed for patients with depressive symptoms or opioid tolerance.
"This group of drugs, and ketamine in particular, are in relatively common use for chronic pain around the world.
Yet we have no convincing evidence that they are delivering meaningful benefits for people with pain, even in the short term,” said Neil O'Connell, Professor at Brunel University of London, co-senior author of the review.
“That seems a good reason to be cautious in the clinic and clearly indicates an urgent need to undertake high quality trials.”
The authors hope the review will help inform patients and clinicians weighing up potential benefits and harms, and guide future research.
While more evidence is needed, this review highlights the importance of high-quality trials to understand whether ketamine has a role in chronic pain care.
“We've seen the harm that can come from taking medicines developed for acute pain and applying them to chronic pain, opioids are a prime example.
Now we're seeing a similar pattern with ketamine,” said co-senior author James McAuley, Professor at UNSW and senior researcher at NeuRA .
“As opioid prescribing is slowly reduced, there’s a growing demand for alternatives, but we need to be careful not to rush into widespread use without strong evidence.”

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/news-and-events/news/articles/Scientists-map-TBs-global-evolution:
Study finds eight genetic variations in TB bacteria linked to different world regions — breakthrough could improve vaccines and treatments.
Bioscientists have discovered eight genetic clues in TB bacteria that show how the disease evolved alongside humans.
It could lead to new vaccines and treatments adapted for different geographic regions.
The study, in Communications Biology, reveals that a protein called PPE50 appears in eight distinct versions across global TB strains — with each variant tied to a different part of the world.
“This is the first time a TB protein has been shown to evolve in parallel with its human host populations in fine detail,” said Dr Anthony Tsolaki at Brunel University of London.
“Our approach can be used to overcome the problem of existing vaccines underperforming in some regions — and help us design new ones that don’t.”
“It gives us a blueprint for how TB has adapted to different populations over time.
This could reshape how we develop vaccines and treatments — not just one-size-fits-all but tailored to where people live.”
The team from Brunel and London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine analysed 387 well-characterised TB strains from around the world, modelling their PPE50 variants and predicting how each one might behave.
The team identified an ancestral version of the protein — called PPE50-381 — found in both ancient and modern lineages of the TB strains.
This makes it a rare molecular ‘bridge’ between early and globally dominant strains.
The paper coins a new term — “phylogeographic-associated protein” (PAP) — which means there is a genetic pattern that mirrors where the disease spreads — and gives insights into how TB adapts to different host populations.
It suggests the bacterium has changed in step with the people it infects — in different places, over thousands of years.
People often talk about TB ‘strains’, notes Dr Tsolaki.
But what really matters is lineage — the bigger genetic branches that show how the bacteria evolved and spread.
When the team looked at this family tree, one protein stood out.
PPE50-381 shows up in both ancient and modern lineages, which makes it unique.
It’s like a molecular time traveller — a version of the protein that’s survived through thousands of years of evolution.
“As far as we know, it’s the first time anyone’s tracked a TB protein like this across the full sweep of the disease’s history.”
Tuberculosis (TB) is still one of the world’s deadliest infectious diseases, with an estimated 10 million cases and 1.3 million deaths a year.
There remains an urgent need for effective vaccines and improved treatments to one day eradicate this ancient disease.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/news-and-events/news/articles/Brunel-University-of-London-partners-with-UK-civil-servants-on-real-world-policy-challenges:
Academics from Brunel University of London are again contributing their expertise to government policy through the Open Innovation Team’s Policy Fellowship Programme – now expanded with a record number of fellows for 2025.
25 civil servants from 15 departments across government have been selected for the 2025 programme – up from just nine last year.
Of those, 5 have been matched with researchers at Brunel, working together on live policy challenges in areas including machine learning, AI, and biosecurity.
Run by the cross-government Open Innovation Team (OIT), the Policy Fellowship offers part-time mentoring support from academic experts to help civil servants answer a specific policy question over the course of six months.
Fellows are matched with mentors from the OIT’s five partner universities: Brunel University of London, the University of Essex, Lancaster University, the University of Surrey and the University of York.
Dr Cigdem Sengul, Reader in Computer Science at Brunel, is supporting a fellow from the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra) on the AI-driven modernisation of the assessment process for Common Health Entry Documents (CHEDs) related to imports.
The initiative aims to enhance biosecurity, reduce manual intervention, and ensure data privacy and accountability.
"AI offers significant potential to improve efficiency in public sector operations, but its use must be grounded in robust frameworks for data privacy and accountability," said Dr.
Sengul.
Other Brunel academics supporting civil servants under the scheme this year are Dr Lu Gan and Prof Tatiana Kalganova in Electronic and Electrical Engineering, Prof Philip Davies and Dr Kristian Gustafson, in Social and Political Sciences and Brunel Design School’s Prof Marios Angelides.
The OIT was established in 2016 to bring external expertise into policymaking, helping officials across departments engage with leading thinkers, generate ideas and evaluate impact.
“This is a fantastic way for the world-class research at Brunel to plug straight into the policy needs of government,” said Professor Justin Fisher, Director of Brunel Public Policy.
“The OIT Fellowship Programme puts academic research at the heart of policymaking and gives our experts the chance to inform real-world decisions.
The scheme chimes perfectly with the aim of Brunel Public Policy – to use our world-class research to inform and enhance public life”
This year’s cohort includes civil servants from departments such as the Cabinet Office, the Department for Work and Pensions, and HM Revenue and Customs, working on everything from the impact of AI on trade and national security, to open data policy.
Brunel students and early career researchers may also have the opportunity to engage with the fellows and gain insight into how research can shape public policy.
For more information about the Open Innovation Team and its Policy Fellowship Programme, please visit: https://www.gov.uk/government/organisations/open-innovation-team

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/news-and-events/news/articles/Teenagers-are-choosing-to-study-Stem-subjects-its-a-sign-of-the-times:
Mike Watts is a Professor of Education
A-level results in 2025 show the increasing popularity of Stem (science, technology, engineering and maths) among students.
For students taking three A-levels – the majority – the most popular combination of subjects was biology, chemistry and maths.
The subject with the greatest rise in entries from 2024 is further maths, followed by economics, maths, physics and chemistry.
Maths remains the most popular subject, with entries making up 12.7% of all A-level entries.
Conversely, subjects such as French, drama, history and English literature are falling in exam entry numbers .
There is considerable incentive for young people who may be looking beyond school and university to the job market to study Stem.
Research has found that Stem undergraduate degrees bring higher financial benefits to people and to the public purse than non-Stem subjects.
Many of the world’s fastest-growing jobs need Stem skills.
These include data analysts, AI specialists, renewable energy engineers, app developers, cybersecurity experts and financial technology experts.
Within Stem itself, science alone is a broad church that spans astronomy to zoology and all letters of the alphabet between.
Add to this the many variations of technology, engineering and maths and the range of subjects and specialisms is enormous.
It might come as no surprise, then, that young people have considerable scope in the possible careers and employment they might follow in life.
From accountancy to the environment, medical engineering to computer technology, etymology to vulcanology, the possibilities are vast.
There is little doubt that this very broad arena is attractive as possible employment.
What’s more, maths, engineering and the sciences are now vital parts of careers that might have once seemed unrelated.
It was once the case that the division between arts and science was seen as unbridgeable: you were firmly on one side or the other.
Today this is far less evident.
Artists , in their many manifestations, are almost by default material scientists.
Architects, photographers, musicians, video-makers, sound and lighting technicians are (arguably) technical engineers.
Landscape gardeners are environmentalists, chefs are food scientists.
Everyday Stem
Stem affects everyday life at all levels.
Wearing a smart watch to track our health and fitness, as so many of us do, requires analysis of data, averages and percentages.
We need maths skills to navigate our personal finances.
Following directions means programming a Satnav.
Young people take their attitudes, advice and directions from a multitude of sources.
Concern about the environment may lead teens to consider careers in areas such as ecology or environmental engineering.
The ubiquity of social media apps and the tech companies that run them raises awareness of the use of computer science or tech skills.
And leaving aside Instagram, TikTok and other social media, Sir David Attenborough’s TV series Blue Planet prompted a surge of interest in marine ecology and plastic pollution.
Nor are young people immune to social influences more broadly.
In more diffuse ways, peers and parents are also influential in shaping career choices, as are science centres, museums, botanical gardens, planetariums, aquariums, environmental centres, city farms and such like.
Then there are teachers and schools.
Positive experiences in school Stem prompt further study.
There is increasing evidence that individual project work, industrial placements, role-model scientists, school outreach and class visits all play an important part in promoting career intentions and aspirations.
One important factor here is imbuing students with a positive Stem identity .
When young people think they are good at Stem subjects and are able to be successful, they are much more likely to choose a Stem career.
The upshot here is that, as the world changes, and changes quickly, so does the realisation that Stem is an essential and invaluable dimension of life and that career prospects are varied and available at many, many levels.
It seems little wonder that students have to come to see this and are enrolling in study and employment in greater numbers than before.
This article is republished from The Conversation under a Creative Commons license.
Read the original .

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/news-and-events/news/articles/The-car-finance-scandal-proves-that-the-financial-sector-still-has-trust-issues-that-need-to-be-sorted:
Professor Alper Kara is Head of Department of Economics, Finance & Accounting
The car finance scandal could have ended up costing UK banks and lenders up to £44 billion in compensation payments.
But after the latest court ruling , the expected bill has been reduced to less than £18 billion .
That still counts as an expensive loss of course.
And it may or may not be enough to compensate the millions of motorists thought to have paid more than they needed to for car loans.
But as well as the financial hit taken by both sides, the whole affair has come at a great cost to the relationship between the public and the financial sector.
An industry still grappling with trust issues has once again been accused of long-standing practices that cost consumers dear.
Under the now-banned “discretionary commission arrangements”, car brokers were allowed to increase the interest rate on car finance agreements and receive higher commissions as a result.
But customers weren’t necessarily told this at the time, and the deal may have seemed like a standard finance agreement.
The practice was widespread until 2021, when it was banned by the UK’s financial services regulator .
Before that, consumers were often unaware that brokers had both the power – and incentive – to manipulate the cost of their borrowing.
The result is that millions may have overpaid for car loans, sometimes by thousands of pounds, without ever knowing.
While the Supreme Court has now clarified the legal boundaries of the case, the fact that such practices were widespread for years raises serious ethical concerns.
For the scandal is yet another reminder of the fragile relationship between financial institutions and their customers.
Most people might expect that loan agreements will reflect market conditions – rather than be at the discretion of a salesperson keen to maximise their own commission.
Research shows that trust is fundamental to the proper functioning of financial markets .
In financial services, it depends on transparency, fairness and clear communication .
Discretionary commission arrangements violated all three of these concepts.
In some ways, the case bears similarities to the payment protection insurance (PPI) scandal, where customers were sold policies designed to step in if they were unable to repay loans because of unemployment or illness for example.
Both PPI and the car loans involved financial products being sold under conditions that consumers might not have fully understood, and both relied on misaligned incentives between lenders and borrowers.
They also both exposed how a lack of transparency can lead to large-scale consumer harm .
Yet in the case of car finance, the court did not order compensation for the majority of affected borrowers.
One claimant won his case , but the court stopped short of declaring all such commission arrangements unlawful by default.
Nonetheless, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), the financial regulator, has launched a review into historical car finance commission practices.
Estimates suggest lenders could still face a bill of as much as £18 billion in redress.
This wouldn’t match the £38 billion paid out over PPI, but it’s still substantial.
The industry is also likely to face class action lawsuits and broader scrutiny .
Accounts and accountability
The scandals over car finance scandal and PPI both point to a fundamental issue within the UK financial retail sector – that when the goals of finance companies are not aligned with the best interests of customers, mis-selling becomes the norm rather than the exception.
Research on the PPI scandal for example, reveals fundamental flaws in how products were sold and regulated.
And one of the most troubling aspects of car finance is that discretionary commission arrangement models were in use for years.
Yet despite the clear potential for consumer harm, the FCA stepped in only in 2021.
This delay in turn reflects a broader problem with how financial regulation operates in the UK.
Much of the enforcement seems to be reactive.
Intervention typically follows consumer complaints, investigative journalism, or court rulings, rather than being driven by proactive oversight.
The FCA has acknowledged this delay and plans to consult on a redress scheme by October 2025, with compensation payments potentially starting in 2026.
While this may not lead to immediate compensation for everyone affected, but it exposes yet another chapter in the UK’s long history of financial mis-selling and weak consumer protection.
The case also exposes the limitations of “ principles-based regulation ”, a system where regulators set broad rules (or “principles”) for firms to follow, rather than detailed requirements.
Research shows that such regulatory models may appear flexible but can also result in inconsistent enforcement and a failure to address harmful practices swiftly enough.
An alternative is a more rules-based system, where detailed requirements clearly set out what firms can and cannot do.
But while this model can reduce ambiguity, it may also limit flexibility and innovation.
The challenge for regulators is finding the right balance.
The priority now must be clear action .
The car finance industry – and indeed the wider financial services sector – must recognise that trust cannot be rebuilt with compliance alone.
Transparency, fairness and ethical conduct must become the norm, not the exception.
For regulators, this is a chance to move toward a stronger form of supervision – especially in markets where intricate financial products and conflicts over incentives are commonplace.
For the public, the scandal is a reminder to remain vigilant, because when finance becomes too complex, it often becomes unfair.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/news-and-events/news/articles/Why-are-westerners-so-reluctant-to-eat-seaweed:
Steven David Pickering is an Honorary Professor, International Relations .
Seaweed is one of the few foods that can credibly claim to be good for both people and the planet.
So why don’t westerners eat more of it?
It’s rich in vitamins , minerals, omega-3 fatty acids and fibre.
It grows without fertilisers, pesticides or fresh water, and requires no farmland.
Some species even capture carbon from the atmosphere and help counter ocean acidification .
From an environmental and nutritional standpoint, seaweed seems like an obvious choice for a sustainable diet.
Yet in much of the west, it remains a fringe ingredient, appearing far more often wrapped around sushi in a restaurant than in a household’s weekly meals.
My team has been investigating this gap between seaweed’s potential and its place in everyday diets.
Our aim was to find out why people in some countries eat seaweed regularly and why others do not.
Even actor Samuel L.
Jackson has recently been promoting the virtues of seaweed snacks sourced from reefs beneath offshore windfarms.
But seaweed snacks are far from mainstream, especially in countries like the UK.
Some of my computational social science students worked with the Europe-wide seaweed association North Sea Farmers to develop a campaign to encourage people in the Netherlands to eat more seaweed.
They quickly realised that before trying to persuade people to eat more, it was important to understand the reasons they might not be eating it already.
This question was the focus of our new study surveying people living in both the UK (where seaweed is rarely eaten) and Japan (where it is a daily staple).
By comparing the answers, we could separate cultural familiarity from other social and psychological factors that might influence consumption.
We didn’t just ask whether people eat seaweed.
We explored how often they eat it, how easy they think it is to buy, how likely they are to eat it in future, and how healthy they believe it to be.
We also looked at their education, gender, age, political orientation, willingness to take risks, ethnic background in the UK, and levels of trust in institutions .
These factors are often linked to openness to new foods and could help explain differences between countries.
Some results were not too surprising.
Japanese respondents ate seaweed far more often than their British counterparts, found it easier to buy, and were more willing to eat it in the future.
In both countries, people who were more willing to take risks, including trying unfamiliar foods, were more likely to eat seaweed.
But the really interesting differences lay in who those seaweed-eaters were.
In the UK, consumption was higher among ethnic minorities and university graduates, and it tended to appeal more to those on the political left.
In Japan, it was more common among women and those on the political right, reflecting its place as a traditional food rather than an alternative one.
Trust in government, scientists or social media played a smaller and less consistent role, and the patterns varied between countries.
In Japan, trust in government was linked with seeing seaweed as healthy, while in the UK there was no similar link.
These contrasts probably reflect how seaweed is framed in each country’s media and cultural narratives.
The way forward
Seaweed is not simply another fashionable superfood.
Its potential role in sustainable food systems is supported by strong evidence .
It has a low environmental footprint, can be cultivated at scale, and can improve the nutritional value of other foods when used as an ingredient.
However, our research shows that making seaweed more available or promoting its health benefits will not automatically increase its use.
In the UK, familiarity is a major barrier.
People may have access to seaweed products yet still avoid them if they do not feel part of their cultural food landscape.
In Japan, where familiarity is high, the challenge lies in ensuring younger generations keep eating it as diets become more westernised.
For countries with little tradition of eating seaweed, our research suggests the way forward is to integrate it into familiar dishes, use clear labelling and recipe ideas, and present it as an attractive and approachable option.
Public figures, as Samuel L.
Jackson has shown, can play a role in normalising it.
In countries with a strong seaweed tradition, there is room for innovation to keep the ingredient relevant and appealing in changing diets.
Addressing global environmental challenges requires more than good science.
It requires understanding people’s habits, values and motivations, and finding ways to work with them to create change.
If seaweed is to move from occasional novelty to a regular part of diets in countries where it is unfamiliar, the evidence suggests that cultural connection will be as important as nutritional value or environmental benefit.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/higher-and-degree-apprenticeships/programmes/nursing-associate-higher-apprenticeship:
The Nursing Associate is a new and exciting role in health and social care developed by the NHS.
The Nursing Associate is a highly trained healthcare professional delivering safe, effective and responsive nursing care across a broad range of health and social care settings.
The Brunel Nursing Associate Apprenticeship Programme aims to produce Nursing Associates who can deliver high quality, person-centred care underpinned by a breadth of knowledge, skills and attitudes which allow them to work across a range of ages from early life to end of life.
The programme integrates the Nursing & Midwifery Council Standards of Proficiency for Nursing Associates, (NMC, 2018) and the core domains of the Nursing Associate Apprenticeship Standard (Institute of Apprenticeships and Technical Education, 2019).
Apprentice Nursing Associates will study whilst they work in order to complete a Level 5 Foundation Degree, qualifying as Nursing Associates who will work under the supervision of a registered nurse.
The programme is designed to ensure an equal balance of theory and practice delivered through practice based and classroom based learning.
Apprentice nursing associates will complete 2,300 hours of theoretical and clinical training across the programme (NMC, 2018).
University based teaching will take place on day release delivery throughout the academic year.
As well as learning at their main place of employment apprentice nursing associates will spend 675 hours in alternative placements ensuring over the course of the apprenticeship that they develop a wide range of clinical skills across a wide range of settings.
Apprentices are required to spend 20% of their contracted hours off the job in training or assessment activities.
Apprentice nursing associates will be required to complete 1,150 hours of theoretical learning achieving 120 academic credits at level 1 and 2 respectively.
The End Point Assessment is carried out at the end of the training period when the employer is satisfied that the employee has demonstrated that the trainee has met the gateway criteria required.
Protected Learning Time
Protected learning time is designated time in which apprentices are supported to learn.
The NMC set out the requirements for the protected learning time required during this apprenticeship within the ‘Standards for pre-registration nursing associate programmes,’ (2018).
Employers are required to give written assurance that apprentices will be released for the following protected learning time during the apprenticeship programme:
More information on the NMCs’ Standards for pre-registration nursing associate programmes is available at https://bit.ly/2ZHjy0R
This module introduces apprentices to:
Apprentices will also plan, conduct, evaluate and report on a small service improvement project.
In this practice module, apprentices will:
At the end of the apprenticeship an Education and Skills Funding Agency registered end point assessment organisation, tests the apprentice to confirm that they are occupationally competent.The end-point assessment comprises of an observation including question and answer session as necessary and a professional discussion.
This provides apprentices with a showcase opportunity to provide evidence of their knowledge, skills and behaviours developed throughout the apprenticeship.
Further information on the end point assessment is available at: https://bit.ly/31Sq1cn
This apprenticeship programme offers a flexible opportunity for existing and newly appointed health and social care support workers to develop their skills and knowledge and further their responsibilities within health care settings.
The apprenticeship has been designed in partnership alongside our partner NHS Trusts; this close collaboration ensures that the learning and teaching strategy is responsive to work force changes in nursing and health care practiceThe programme is suitable for the development of existing Health Care Support Workers who have demonstrated the capabilities and commitment to develop towards a nursing role.
This apprenticeship can also be used to support recruitment of new employees, such as those with, a Level 3 apprenticeship in Senior Healthcare Support Worker, a BTEC Level 3 in Health and Care, or equivalent.
Your Apprentice Nursing Associate will have on-going support from an Academic Tutor and a Practice Link Tutor for the duration of the programme as well as receiving guidance and support from the Practice Assessors, Practice Supervisors and Academic Assessors during clinical placements.
A named nursing academic and apprenticeship manager are able to guide you through the contractual process and will provide support and advice throughout the programme.
A named academic nurse will meet with the apprentice nursing associate and practice staff every twelve weeks in order to review the trainee’s progress.
We welcome applicants with equivalent qualifications and industrial experience (relevant to the subject area), who will be assessed on an individual basis.
Successful Apprentice Nursing Associates will gain an accredited Level 5 Foundation Degree from Brunel University London.
Successful completion of the course will allow apprentices to register with the Nursing and Midwifery Council, (NMC).
Foundation Degree Science (FdSc) Nursing Associate
More information about how the role is regulated is available on the NMC website https://bit.ly/3gmcqOd
This apprenticeship standard has been developed in conjunction with the Nursing and Midwifery Council and a variety of NHS organisations to ensure the content and its assessment meet the needs of employers, both today and in the future.
The flexible programme has been designed to deliver real impact to organisations as it enables apprentices to put their newly acquired knowledge and skills into
The apprenticeship supports employers to:
At Brunel University London we understand some of the challenges in developing and retaining highly skilled employees, so we are delighted to be offering this Nursing & Midwifery Council approved Foundation Degree.
We focus on the skills and experience you as employers are looking for in order to meet the challenges of delivering a high quality modern health service.
We provide a comprehensive support programme through our Professional Development Centre, which include workshops, webinars, networking events and much more.
By joining Team Brunel your apprentice nursing associate will study and learn with academic experts who are at the top of their field and passionate about their subjects.
The apprentice nursing associate will develop the skills for evidence-based practice and will be able to adopt problem-solving approaches in the work place.
We will introduce confidence in our apprentice nursing associates to ensure that they are able to use their own clinical and professional judgment to influence the delivery of nursing care.
Our London campus community provides everything the apprentice nursing associates require to support their studies, with some of the best equipment with excellent facilities that mirror the world of work.
We have more than 1,400 study spaces, 500 PC’s, group study rooms and silent study areas across the campus, plus 24-hour access to our Library.
We provide world-class sports facilities,’ a diverse Arts Centre Students Union, prayer facilities, all of this within easy reach of central London.
Over 110 countries are represented on campus, creating a vibrant and diverse international community.
Whilst studying at Brunel University London apprentice nursing associates will be based in the College of Health, Medicine and Life Sciences.
The College specialises in professional programmes and courses that enable graduates to make a real difference in the world around them.
We have a long and successful history of providing programmes for health and social care professionals.
Brunel’s pre-registration Physiotherapy programme is the largest in London and South East England.
The Occupational Therapy Programme at Brunel is one of the largest, longest established and most highly regarded programmes in the world.
In fact, we are the original ‘London School of Occupational Therapy’, founded in 1934.
Through Brunel’s key strategic partnerships with local NHS Trusts we aim to make Brunel a key contributor of health research in the UK.
The Nursing Associate Apprenticeship Programme offered at Brunel will produce Nursing Associates equipped with the knowledge, understanding, skills, attitudes and behaviours required to work alongside registered nurses and health care assistants to deliver and evaluate hands on care in a modern health care service.
We aim to combine a thorough professional education with academic excellence and have a substantial record of research innovation and publication, which is reflected in the quality, and relevance of our teaching.
We have a proud tradition and distinguished reputation for working with over 1,700 businesses
Boosting the skills of the workforce to help improve economic productivity
Degree apprenticeships designed in partnership with employers and professional bodies

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/applicants/undergraduate-courses-how-to-apply:
How to apply through UCAS
What to expect

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-fees-and-funding:
As a full-time undergraduate student, you will have two main types of expenses at university - tuition fees and your living costs.
Find out more about tuition fees
Government student finance packages
We offer more than 100 scholarships every year to help international students
Part-time, vacation work and placements
Awards and allowances for extra help towards your living costs
Pay your tuition and accommodation fees online by direct debit or credit card

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/scholarships:
We offer a range of scholarships to our offer holders.
You’ll need to complete an application for some of our scholarships and for others you’ll be automatically considered.
Scholarships and bursaries for the 2025/6 academic cycle will be confirmed shortly.
Contact the scholarships team at scholarships@brunel.ac.uk or check out our Scholarship FAQ page.
If you are eligible for more than one scholarship or bursary, you will be awarded the scholarship or bursary with the highest monetary value.
Please check each terms and conditions page below for further information on the criteria.
If you are applying for a scholarship or discount and have been asked to submit evidence along with your application, please do so in a timely manner.
If your application is incomplete, the scholarships team will not be able to assess your application.
Each individual terms and conditions will advise you on how evidence should be submitted.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/schools-and-colleges/widening-access/mature-students:
We believe that mature learners offer an invaluable contribution to our university and bring a wealth of life experience to the classroom.
You’re usually considered as a mature student if you’re aged 21 or over when you start your undergraduate degree.
As a mature student, you’ll become part of our vibrant community and join hundreds of other mature students who call Brunel their home.
We’re committed to helping you make the most of your time here.
We have our Widening Access Officer, Karen Western, who can work with you and offers individual support and guidance with your university application.
There are also dedicated teams at our Student Services, Study Support and Professional Development Centre departments who will help you during your studies.
After graduation, you'll become a member of our alumni family, and will be able to take advantage of a range of benefits and support we offer to our graduated students.
Returning to education can feel like a big step.
You may also have other commitments outside of university and be balancing your studies around work, family or caring responsibilities.
We realise that, as a mature student, you may not have standard qualifications, and that’s okay.
There’s lots of support for you at Brunel and your path to higher education could be easier than you think.
We recognise the diverse range of skills and attributes you may have gained through work, previous education or other life experiences.
If, however, you need to top up your qualifications, our foundation courses can help prepare you for further education and allow you to progress directly onto one of our undergraduate courses.
Applying for one of our degrees is the same for all students, regardless of your age.
However, we understand that, as a mature student, you may find the application process a little more complicated.
This is why we have a dedicated widening access officer, Karen Western, to help take the stress out of applying to university.
If you'd like to get personalised support with your application and admissions process, or just have questions about applying to Brunel, please reach out to Karen by emailing karen.western@brunel.ac.uk or widening-access@brunel.ac.uk .
If you’d like to apply for one of our undergraduate courses, you’ll need to apply via UCAS .
For more information about how to apply click here .
We appreciate that studying at university is a huge financial commitment.
There’s various support to help you fund your studies.
You can apply for student finance as a mature student.
The amount you get depends on various factors - please check the government website for full details of what you may be entitled to.
Depending on your personal circumstances, you may also be eligible for additional government support from council tax discount to variable financial support .
As a Brunel student, you’ll be able to apply for a TOTUM card (the new NUS Extra card) which offers a range of discounts across a number of retailers.
There are also lots of companies who offer student discounts for variable products and services.
If you decide to commute rather than live on campus, you can get 1/3 off most train fares with a Railcard .
You can save 30% on Travelcards and Bus & Tram Passes with the 18+ Student Oyster photocard .
We also have parking available on campus - you can apply for an annual parking permit or use pay and display .
Each year we offer 10 Life Long Learning Bursaries to mature students who might otherwise be unable to undertake their undergraduate study.
The bursary covers the tuition fees for the duration of your course.
We also have a range of other scholarships and bursaries available to our students.
Over 400 are given out each year to help with tuition fees and/or living costs, whilst at university.
If you have children, we can help with childcare costs too.
You can access discounted early years childcare close to the Brunel campus.
We know that sometimes unexpected events can happen.
If you find yourself struggling financially as a mature student, you can apply to the University Hardship Fund for extra support.
After joining Brunel, you will have the opportunity to become a Widening Access Student Ambassador (paid part-time work).
There are also many other opportunities for part-time work, both on and off campus.
Brunel's Job Shop within our Professional Development Centre is here to help you find something suitable.
For many of our mature students, the idea of completing assignments and writing an academic essay may feel rather daunting - especially if it’s been a while since you’ve been in education.
We want to support you as best we can, so we’ve created a series of sample lectures and workshops to help get you ready for university and make you feel more confident about studying at Brunel.
Before you arrive, you’ll probably have already had a lot of contact with our admissions team and widening access officer, Karen Western, to help prepare you for life at Brunel.
Karen will be on hand from the moment you start your application to offer any guidance and support you need; from completing forms to answering any queries you may have.
You’ll have the opportunity to attend pre-sessional induction events before starting your studies at Brunel.
At these events, you’ll have the chance to get to know other mature students ahead of starting your course, as well as attending informal talks from our support services.
One of them you might be eligible for is our HeadStart programme .
This runs before Welcome Week and is both an introduction to the academic study skills you’ll need to succeed at university and an opportunity to meet Brunel staff who offer different support services you can rely on while studying with us.
View our ‘after you have applied’ pages for additional information on what to expect once you've applied for one of our courses.
Our Student Services will be there to ensure you have a supportive environment whilst studying with us.
The Student Centre will help you with a wide range of administrative enquiries and support services through your student journey from registration to graduation.
Our Student Wellbeing team provides individual and group support to help you overcome certain challenges so that you can achieve your university goals.
For help with housing, finances, information on local childcare, and general wellbeing, our Student Support and Welfare Team is available for advice and guidance during your time at university.
We have an adviser dedicated to supporting mature students.
You’ll also benefit from our Academic Skills (ASK) service which will support by helping you to develop the skills needed to learn independently and thrive academically, whatever your level or subject.
It will help you with developing your study, writing, maths and numeracy skills, and many others.
You’ll have access to our Professional Development Centre throughout your studies and three years post qualifying.
They provide help and guidance to support with finding your placement, part-time student jobs and volunteering roles.
Additionally, they provide services like career advice and employability courses, job interview preparation, help to start your business and learning a new language.
In year 1, eligible students can join the Brunel Summer Internship Programme.
This scheme offers you the opportunity to gain eight weeks relevant paid work experience during your first summer break.
In your second or third year of study, eligible students can take part in Brunel Professional Mentoring , which links students with a business mentor.
Our students' union is also there not just to provide you with advice in case you need it, but they organise lots of social and sports activities you can join.
Their Mature Student Society is a great place to make connections.
The society offers a platform for mature students at Brunel to network and support each other academically, as well as providing opportunities for socialising.
Visit our campus life pages to explore life at Brunel.
After you graduate, you'll become a member of our alumni family , and you will have access to our unique community to help grow and enrich your professional network.
You can also take advantage of a range of benefits and support that includes access to our online alumni network, free careers support, discounts on further study, access to facilities on campus, and many more.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/news-and-events/events/postgraduate:
There are currently no events.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-fees-and-funding:
A Postgraduate Master's Loan can help with course fees and living costs while you study a master's course
Professional and Career Development Loans (PCDL), The University Hardship Fund and support for students with disabilities
Many postgraduates fund their course with savings or family support.
Find out more about Government grant-awarding Research Councils, sponsorship and employer-funded study
Awarded to research students or exceptional academic performance

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/applicants/postgraduate-courses-how-to-apply/postgraduate-courses:
Find the course you would like to apply for using our Course Finder .
On the right-hand side of the page, you’ll find the 'Apply' button if the course is currently open for applications.
You can then complete our application form through our application portal on eVision.
If this is the first course you’ve applied to at Brunel, then click the ‘New User’ button at the top of the page to register on our portal.
If you have applied before or want to return to an application you have started then simply log in with your username and password.
We recommend that you apply as soon as possible for your chosen course, as courses in high demand often reach capacity and may need to close early or stop recruiting.
Some courses, including (but not limited to) Occupational Therapy (Pre-Registration) MSc, Physiotherapy MSc, Physician Associate MSc, all Brunel Business School courses, all PG Economics and Finance courses, all Computer Science courses and PGCE teaching courses may have earlier application deadlines, early deposit payment deadlines or may stop recruiting early in the application cycle, due to limited capacity.
After these recommended deadlines, applications will be accepted only if there are spaces on the course and there is sufficient time to progress your application (e.g.
interviews, portfolios if required and the visa process for international students).
We will aim to make decisions on applications within 4-8 weeks of the application being submitted.
Depending on the time of year you submit your application, it may take longer to process during peak application points in the cycle.
Please ensure that your application form is as complete as possible at the time of submission (including scans of your qualifications and any other relevant documents) to avoid unnecessary delays.
You'll be asked to provide the following information:
You'll be asked to submit supporting documents electronically, so you can upload scanned or photographed copies of the documents.
Current final-year Brunel undergraduates are able to complete our fast-track process .
If you're an international or EU applicant applying through one of our registered agents, they may be applying on your behalf through our online agent facility.
To find a Brunel University London registered agent in your country please check our specific country pages .
Our Postgraduate Brunel Business School courses typically receive a high number of applications.
Places will be allocated on a first come, first served basis.
If you apply or pay your course deposit or meet your offer conditions after the Brunel Business School has reached capacity we may defer your application to the next available entry point.
We recommend that you apply early and pay your deposit when requested, in order to secure a place on the course.
We would like to draw your attention to Section 7 of the Student Contract , which requires applicants to pay any course deposit fees when due.
PGCE applications for our teacher eduaction courses are made through DfE Apply .
Remember these courses have different deadlines, check DfE Apply for the details and support for completing the application.
Social Work MSc, Registered Nurse MSc and Physician Associate MSc applications are made through UCAS .
UCAS provides full guidance for completing your application form on their system.
The UCAS deadlines apply for Social Work MSc, Registered Nurse MSc and Physician Associate MSc.
Brunel Pathway College works in partnership with Brunel University London to provide you with an alternative pathway to study certain postgraduate courses at Brunel.
EU and International students who do not meet the entry requirements to study certain courses at Brunel, will be offered the opportunity to study at Brunel Pathway College.
To apply for a course at Brunel Pathway College, complete our online application form .
Before you submit your application, please check you have the following details:
If you want to test the water of postgraduate study before jumping in, or simply want to follow up an interest without committing yourself to a master's degree, the Associate Student Scheme could be for you.
You can choose from over 100 modules on offer each year, and study alongside full and part time students.
If you decide to register formally for a master's degree or intermediate award at a later date, you can take with you whatever credits you have accumulated.
Details of CPPD modules in the following subjects can be found on our website:
For advice about applying for Associate modules in other subjects please email admissions@brunel.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/research/Research-degrees/How-to-apply:
Use the search tools below to find doctoral research opportunities in your area of interest, or browse our expertise to find the right fit for you.
Research areas with funding for PhD students
Find the supervisor you wish to work with below, and get in touch with them to discuss your interest in joining their research area.
They will welcome the opportunity to have a chat about your proposed topic and provide feedback for your research statement, which forms an essential part of the application process.
Some supervisors are looking for PhD students to join their current activities or topics of research, and you can browse these topics below too.
Browse a list of staff by keyword, subject, department or college
The Postgraduate Research Offices provide administrative support to doctoral researchers
You can explain your proposed areas of research in a statement of generally 1000 words.
Please note that Law requires 3000 word research statement.
This is an important part of your application and you can contact your proposed supervisor for feedback to help you finalise your statement.
We recommend that you include the following:
Your outline will not bind you to a specific research topic or project.
If you are accepted to study on a PhD/MPhil programme with us, you may refine the scope of your project, hone your research question(s), your hypotheses and the research methods with the help of your designated supervisory team.
It may also be the case that your research questions and/or focus will change as your studies progress.
The online application link is available on each programme page.
Find a full list of PhD programmes on our courses page .
While completing the online application please make sure you have the following information to hand:
When you access the online application, you will be given the opportunity to submit electronically the documents required as part of your application, shown in the table below.
These supporting documents can alternatively be posted to the Admissions Office (clearly referencing your application reference number, which will be emailed to you when you save or complete the online application).
Find out about the cost of your studies and any bench fees which may be applicable in your research area.
Studentships, loans, scholarships, prizes and further fee reductions.
Whether you choose to live in our affordable on-campus accommodation or commute from home during your studies, you’ll feel welcomed by our community and all the amenities and conveniences of one of the greatest cities in the world
We are running a range of online events including webinars and social media Q&As.
Register here

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/higher-and-degree-apprenticeships/programmes:
Approved by the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) and on successful completion registration with the NMC to practise as a Nursing Associate in England
Approved by the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC), this apprenticeship equips you with the skills and knowledge to practice as a Registered Nurse in England
For further information, please e mail: enquiries.policejobs@sscl.gse.gov.uk
Become a police officer in London's Metropolitan Police Service, and embark on an exciting and rewarding career like no other
With over 1,335 academic staff across a broad range of disciplines, we can help you create a new degree programme to support your business needs.
Get in touch
Apprenticeships are a fantastic way to gain a degree whilst pursuing a career that you are passionate about
Learn more about your apprenticeship induction event

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/research/Research-degrees/PhD-Studentships:
Find below a list of currently available fully-funded PhD studentships.
We encourage all students to contact the supervisor or the alternative contact person for more information and an informal chat to discuss the process of applying and preparing your research statement.
Hua Zhao
Home Students Hua Zhao
Zhongping Que
Home Students International Students Zhongping Que
Isaac Chang
Home Students Isaac Chang
Chamini Mendis
Home Students Chamini Mendis
Hari Nadendla
Home Students Hari Nadendla
Research and development of H2 engines - studentship
Development of high performance and highly impurity-tolerant recycled Al alloys
Development of natural-ageing-resistant, heat-treatable lean aluminium alloys for automotive applications
Prediction of Mechanical Properties of Extruded Aluminium Profiles Using Machine Learning and Microstructural Insights
Understanding crush behaviour of recycled 6xxx Aluminium alloys subjected to different thermomechanical treatments
Best practices for minimising dross formation during melting of scrap aluminium
Our funded studentships become available at different times of the year.
Please keep checking our page regularly to see the latest funded opportunities.
We also advertise all our funded studentships as soon as they become available on the @BrunelResearch twitter account.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/research/Research-degrees/PhD-Topics:
Find below a list of currently available self-funded PhD topics.
For more information on how to apply click here.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-study/graduate-school/Support-for-doctoral-researchers:
The Graduate School is committed to supporting your professional and career development throughout your doctorate.
Our doctoral researchers have access to a range of free personal, professional and career training and development opportunities through our Researcher Development Programme (RDP).
The RDP helps support doctoral researchers in developing the skills they for their doctorates and beyond.
We offer development opportunities in three main areas:
Skills needed to do your research
Skills needed to disseminate your research
Skills needed to develop your research and career
A dedicated Researcher Careers Consultant provides tailored support for Brunel Researchers through one-to-one confidential appointments, career development workshops and events to explore career options.
We co-ordinate a number of university-wide opportunities for doctoral researchers to:
This is in addition to funding, scholarships and prizes that are co-ordinated by the Postgraduate Research Offices within your college.
We also provide a number of social events, including drop-ins and afternoon teas.
The Graduate School has a number of physical facilities available for our doctoral researchers, such as a common room, quiet study area, and kitchen, in addition to space provided by the colleges and departments.
Find out what's available for our doctoral students

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/research/Research-degrees/Research-degree-funding:
Brunel offers a number of funding options to research students that help cover the cost of t heir tuition fees, contribute to living expenses or both.
Most popular of these are Studentships.
These are usually available for a specific, already existing research project with a particular supervisor.
They cover the cost of the tuition fees and provide a stipend towards your living expenses .
Students can also apply for research funding through Doctoral Training Programmes, where the research areas are more open and students are often invited to propose their own research topics.
The UK Government is also offering the Postgraduate Doctoral Loans for eligible students and there is some funding available through the Research Councils.
Many of our international students benefit from funding provided by their governments or employers.
Brunel alumni enjoy tuition fee discounts of 15%.
Find out about our latest funded PhD projects here.
PhD loans for eligible students residing in England
For Home and International Students
Funding from UK research councils
Explore external funding , particularly the Research Councils, as well as other support.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/research/Research-degrees/Research-degree-progress-structure:
Research degrees evolve in different ways according to discipline but the table below provides some indicators what progress might look like at each stage of study for full time students.
Part time students will have up to 6 years to complete their research degree.
Candidates for research degrees will normally be required to present themselves for a viva voce examination within three months of the date of submission of the thesis.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-study/graduate-school:
Learn about research opportunities for students

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/news-and-events/events/postgraduate/webinars/brilliant-conversations:
As a top 40 research-intensive university, Brunel teams up with global partners to tackle big issues like climate change and health inequality.
By studying a master's degree at Brunel, you can work with our inspiring academics to turn these challenges into opportunities.
All of our webinars have ended but you can still watch the recordings in your own time.
How can we achieve sustainable aviation?
From classroom to career: What are the AI skills that make you work-ready?
Design for a better future
How Brunel students can contribute to medical advances in clinical trials?
The growing need for social and healthcare workers
How is AI shaping the future of work?
What is the role of civil engineering in combating climate change?
Can sustainable energy deliver net zero for the UK by 2030?

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/international/fees-and-funding:
Brunel offers more than 100 scholarships every year to help international students from over 70 countries.
Some awards are worth up to £7,500 a year to help partially fund university fees and living costs.
Brunel has a range of scholarship packages and works in partnership with several scholarship organisations and bodies including Chevening, The Commonwealth Scholarships and Santander Mobility Awards.
At Brunel, we recognise that studying in another country is a big financial commitment.
These pages provide information on paying your tuition fees, scholarships and other sources of funding, as well as an overview of the banking system in the UK.
We also have helpful tips for managing your money and links to useful websites.
The fees for each course are listed on its course page.
Some courses will charge additional fees for things like accreditation exams for a professional body.
A general breakdown of fees by school, and information on fees in previous years can be found on the undergraduate and postgraduate finance pages.
This depends on a number of factors.
If you are not sure whether you can be classed as a home student the UKCISA website has useful advice.
Brunel will only assess in detail an applicant’s fee status after an offer is made.
If you are made an offer and there is a question about your fee status we will send you a fee status questionnaire.
If you need to apply for a Student visa to study at Brunel, you will need to meet the Finance requirements in the visa application.
This is to show that you have enough money to support yourself while you are in the UK.
In addition to the first year’s Tuition Fees, when applying for a Student visa for Brunel University London, you must show you have living costs of £1,334 per month for each month of your course (to a maximum of nine months, or £12,006 ).
If you have applied to live in on-campus accommodation, the maximum amount you may deduct from the living costs part of your visa application’s Finance Requirement will now be £1,334 .
We therefore recommend that students do not pay more than £1,334 to the University for accommodation before arriving in the UK.
Instead you should retain further accommodation payments in your bank account, to support your visa application.
Please start planning in advance to make sure you will have enough money in your bank account for your Student visa application.
For more information please see our Immigration web pages .
Beyond this you should ensure that you budget sensibly.
Find out more about budgeting your money while at university.
For a full list of Scholarships, please go the Scholarship page

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/international/living-in-the-UK/living-costs:
Our guide will help you plan ahead and budget accordingly, so you know exactly what you need to cover your costs.
Your living expenses may vary depending on your personal spending habits.
* All monthly utility, Wi-Fi, basic insurance and bedding costs are included in accommodation fees.
When you apply for a Student visa, you must currently show that you can afford living costs of £1,483 for each month of your course.
See here for the most up-to-date accommodation charges .

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/international/visas-and-immigration:
If you are an international student then it is likely that you will need a visa to study at Brunel University London.
If you are not sure then you can use the 'Do I need a visa?' service on the UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) website for more help.
For all undergraduate, postgraduate, research and most English Language courses at Brunel you should typically apply for a Student visa , which covers the whole duration of your course.
Please note that we can only sponsor Student visas for full-time courses at Brunel.
We will not sponsor Student visas for part-time study.
We hope that you should find the answers to any questions on these pages.
Please also refer to our Frequently Asked Questions page.
However, if you are not able to find the information that you need, please contact us .

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/international/applicants/how-to-apply-international-students:
How to apply

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/international/applicants/after-you-have-applied-international-students:
Log in to your MyApplications portal

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/international/yourcountry:
Meet our staff around the world
We offer around 130 international scholarships each year and some awards are worth up to £6,000 a year

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/international/events-in-your-country:
We regularly travel throughout the world to meet students.
This is a great opportunity to speak to a Brunel representative about our courses, scholarships and funding opportunities, the application process and life on our one London campus.
We would love to meet you at an upcoming event.
Please check back in near future for a list of upcoming events.
View information about your country .

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/international/language-centre:
Click on the video link above to watch our Head of Pre-sessional Programmes, Oliver, talking about what you can expect from taking a course with us, including how a Pre-sessional course is structured and delivered, as well as some of the other services the Language Centre offers Brunel students.
We very much look forward to seeing you in one of our courses soon and helping you to achieve your academic goals!
Choose from full-time and part-time English courses
An opportunity for Brunel students, graduates and members of the local community to learn a language.
It provides free English Language support to all current Brunel University students who have English as a second language.
Everything you need to know about the exam and how to sign up.
Are you interested in studying with us?
Join one of our webinars.
We provide free courses and one -to-one support
All start dates and fees for our English courses
Watch a video in which two former Brunel Language Centre students share their experiences of the courses and how they helped support their academic progression and success.
"My first online learning experience was exciting.
It could be said that this 6-week pre-sessional course is the most useful English course I have ever taken.
Thanks to my teachers for their teaching and encouragement, I have improved my English significantly, especially my academic writing skills."
Come and meet us at our free one-hour webinars and have the chance to win prizes worth up to £50!
Get in touch with any questions you have

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/brunel-pathway-college:
Brunel Pathway College is your streamlined route into Brunel University London.
Students who are unable to meet the direct entry criteria at the university are invited to apply for the College, offering multi-level teaching in the heart of the Uxbridge campus.
Flexible entry allows across postgraduate and undergraduate level study, including Foundation, First Year and Pre-Masters into a huge selection of prestigious university degree programmes.
Click here to see the range of foundation courses available.
Based on our Brunel campus, west London.
Start in: January, May and September

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/life/accommodation/living-on-campus:
Find out how to apply for on-campus accommodation
Take a campus tour to find out all about life at Brunel and visit our on-campus accommodation
Browse our Halls of Residence
If you have any question, we'd love to hear from you

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/international/living-in-the-UK:
International students have the opportunity to work collaboratively, discover how different cultures address global issues and take experiences learnt in lectures straight into the workplace.
Celebrating different cultures is integral to life at Brunel.
Every year the University hosts the One World Week festival, to celebrate our diverse community.
Brunel provides everything students need on one campus.
Brunel has a lively atmosphere and a very strong sense of community, where making new friends is easy.
Activities and social events are at the heart of campus life.
There are 39 different international societies, 20 different academic societies and an exciting calendar of on-campus cultural and interest activities to experience.
Socialising away from the campus is simple too – Uxbridge town centre is only a short bus ride away and is packed with shops, a multiplex cinema, bars, restaurants and a nightclub.
To find out more about our student societies, clubs and activities visit: www.brunelstudents.com/activities

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/life:
If it’s activity you’re looking for, then you can enjoy one of over 150 sports clubs and societies run by the Union of Brunel Students.
With all of this at your fingertips, you’ll be spoilt for choice when catching up with friends!
Want an area to just chill out and relax?
Look no further than the beautiful green spaces around the campus.
You’ve got the best of both worlds with great travel links too – just 20 minutes from Heathrow airport and 40 minutes from central London.
Rest assured – we’ve put measures in place to make you feel as safe as possible in the current situation and not let it impact your student journey.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/life/library/UsingYourLibrary/Booking-rooms-and-resources:
You can book a group study room or Bloomberg terminal up to 3 days in advance.
Remember to check in to keep your group study room booking.
Click the link in the confirmation email or scan the QR code in the room to check in.
You can check in up to 30 minutes before your session starts or 15 minutes after the start time.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/life/library/Mission-and-Values:
The communication was excellent, the customer service was excellent, the reception and staff were very helpful.
A really positive experience.
Describes what we will do for you as a library customer and what you need to do to help us to run the Library more effectively.
We set out below various service standards for our different services and functions.
Brunel's Open Access and Research Data management policies
The Code of Conduct outlines what is expected of you and your behaviour as a student at Brunel

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/life/library/Visitors:
Brunel Library offers a range of different memberships for anyone wishing to join the Library.
Please check the categories below for information about how to join the Library.
Please remember, all members must present a Brunel ID card upon entry.
We are unable to provide access to anyone without a valid Brunel ID card.
If you have lost your card you can purchase a new one at the library for £12.
Students and staff from libraries participating in the SCONUL Access scheme can join the Library for free.
All SCONUL members can:
Use the library space during our visiting hours
In addition, some SCONUL members can borrow up to 6 books at a time.
This service is available for:
Please note that SCONUL members are not able to log on to the Brunel network via Wi-Fi or networked computers.
Additional services including the Click & Post service, Scan & Send and Inter Library Loans, are not available to SCONUL members.
In accordance with licensing restrictions, access to many of our electronic journals and databases is restricted to current students and staff.
However, we support the eduroam service.
You can register for this with your home institution and use this service via your laptop to access your own institution's electronic resources.
Further details can be found on the Eduroam website.
Complete the SCONUL application form
Wait for a confirmation email from your home library
Once you have received a confirmation email you can apply for access to Brunel Library.
Please note, as with all other memberships, there is a £12 charge to replace lost cards.
Brunel University London Alumni can join the Library for free.
As a member of our alumni community, you can:
Borrow up to 6 items (including books and CDs, visitors are unable to borrow DVDs due to licensing restrictions) at a time
Please note that Alumni are not able to log on to the Brunel network via Wi-Fi or networked computers.
Additional services including the Click & Post service, Scan & Send and Inter Library Loans, are not available to Alumni.
Complete the visitor form
Wait until you receive an email confirming your membership
Bring your alumni card, photo ID and address proof to the library during visitor hours to collect your card
Retired Brunel University London staff can join the Library for free.
As a retired member of staff, you can:
Please note that retired staff are not able to log on to the Brunel network via Wi-Fi or networked computers.
Additional services including the Click & Post service, Scan & Send and Inter Library Loans, are not available to retired staff.
Bring your leavers letter, photo ID and address proof to the library during visitor hours to collect your card
We welcome organised visits from school and college groups wanting to refer to our Library resources at the University campus.
We are keen to offer you a range of options for your visit to best suit the needs of your group.
To find out more contact us on: library@brunel.ac.uk
We currently offer 2 types of external memberships for members of the public.
£50 per year
Use the Library space during visiting hours
£80 per year
Please note that members of the public are not able to log on to the Brunel network via Wi-Fi or networked computers.
Additional services including the Click & Post service, Scan & Send and Inter Library Loans, are not available to members of the public.
Visitors can use the library between the visitor hours listed at Opening hours - Using the Library - LibGuides at Brunel University Library .
Bring your photo ID and a separate proof of home address to the library during visitor hours to collect your card
If you are an academic visitor to Brunel and have already been issued with your Brunel ID card, please ask the School that you are visiting to provide us with written confirmation of your access requirements and we will set up your membership.
Staff of Hillingdon Hospital can join the Library for £5.
As a staff of Hillingdon Hospital, you can:
Please note that staff of Hillingdon Hospital are not able to log on to the Brunel network via Wi-Fi or networked computers unless they have a Brunel network account or an affiliate account.
Additional services including the Click & Post service, Scan & Send and Inter Library Loans, are restricted to current staff and students.
Academic and support staff, Postgraduate and Undergraduate students from University of London instituitions not covered by the SCONUL scheme can access our Library .
All members can:
In addition, some members can borrow up to 6 books at a time.
Honorary Fellows can:
When collecting your Brunel Library card please bring a letter confirming your fellowship.
Brunel University London is a member of eduroam (education roaming via Jisc Connectivity ).
This service enables members from participating higher education institutions to connect to their home networks using Wi-Fi-enabled devices while they are visiting Brunel.
Please ensure you register for this service with your home institution before your visit.
For the avoidance of doubt, except for academic collaborators during their time at Brunel, other categories of visitors are not permitted to log on to Brunel network via Wi-Fi or a networked computer.
Due to licensing restrictions, we are currently only able to provide remote access to electronic resources to Brunel students and staff.
However, visitors to the library who possess a valid pass will be able to access certain electronic resources, via the library catalogue kiosks on each floor, provided the licences permit "walk in" or guest access.
If a licence does not permit guest access then visitors will see a message stating that access is denied.
To avoid disappointment, you should check with the e-Library team to see if a licensed electronic resource would permit guest access or not before you apply for a visitor's pass (please give at least one working day's notice).
The following resources do not permit guest access: Bloomberg, Refinitiv Workspace, Fitch Connect, FT.com, LexisNexis products, Mintel products, O'Reilly Safari, Passport, SAE Journals and Technical Papers, Westlaw.
Finally, our Alumni members now have access to one resource, JSTOR (through a subscription to the Arts & Sciences I to IX collections and to the Health & General Sciences collection only, paid by the Alumni Office).
Please sign on to the Alumni Portal for access, see: https://www.brunel.ac.uk/alumni/ Brunel-Alumni /Alumni-benefits .
Items on JSTOR which are not included on the subscription may be purchased via JSTOR for individuals - see JPASS - individual subscriptions to JSTOR .

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/life/library/UsingYourLibrary:
Take a video tour of the Library
More about loan periods, allowances and charges
Check for service announcements and scheduled maintenance periods
Discover databases, e-books and e-journals and more
How to get the best out of databases, reading lists, finding books, finding journal articles
Find out about our Click & Collect service
Accessing resources provided by other libraries
Find out more about our Click and Post, Freepost Returns and Scan and Send services
Visit our online resource to find out more about your Library
Access reading lists for your course
Accessing the Library as a visitor or Brunel graduate
More about using self-service printing
Help for distance learners, part-time students and placement students
"I receive consistently high levels of customer service by the Brunel Library team."

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/life/library/SubjectSupport:
All academic departments at Brunel  have a named Academic Liaison Librarian (ALL).
This service is provided by the Library Academic Services Team, which offers support to students and staff including our digital and information literacy programme, LibSmart.
Contact your librarian for help and book an appointment for advice on resources and referencing
Library workshops and services to support your academic practice, information literacy and employability skills
Guidance on citing, and referencing styles and tools
Find the best resources for your discipline
Where to look for high quality information
The session was very informative and useful; I got a better understanding about ways to find journals.
Would recommend to all students!

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/life/library/Summer-Support:
Are you studying over the summer?
Brunel Library is here to help.
We're open 7 days a week providing access to books, resources, subject guides, workshops, live chat, click and post and everything you need to make the most out of the summer.
Many of our services are available to those studying remotely
Take a break from study and check out our range of "reading for pleasure" ebooks
You can still contact us any time in a variety of ways

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/life/library/Open-Text-Books:
Open Educational Resources (OER) are learning, teaching and research materials in any format and medium that reside in the public domain or are under copyright that have been released under an open license, that permit no-cost access, re-use, re-purpose, adaptation and redistribution by others.
( UNESCO, 2019 )
Open textbooks are one form of Open Educational Resources (OER), academic books published digitally with an open licence that allows them to be freely used, shared and, in some cases, modified.
These resources are written by academic and expert authors in a range of subject disciplines.
Open textbooks are published on web-based platforms that allow for creation, adaptation, export and distribution.
Open textbooks can be incorporated into reading lists, either in whole or in part, to complement the existing published resources provided by the Library.
They offer the potential for a more customised, inclusive and accessible reading experience.
Brunel Library is exploring the use of open textbooks, and their application for teaching and learning at Brunel.
We are one of the earliest UK universities to join the Open Education Network , an international community of universities, colleges and schools working together to promote and enable the adoption and creation of OER in education.
Our guide to 'Open Educational Resources for Teaching and Learning' below details where to look for examples of open textbooks in your discipline and provides further information on the permissions, attribution and use of these types of resources:
You can also contact the Library team via our Open Textbooks email .

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/life/library/ORR:
We support the University's commitment to open research by managing scholarly publications and data, offering expert services for scholarly publishing, open access archiving and research data management.
Find out about BRAD and BURA, open access archiving and REF
Learn how to manage, protect and share research data in line with University and funder policies
Apply for Gold Open Access funding and learn how to comply with REF and funder open access mandates
Information about external funder, subject and data repositories
Find out how to deposit your thesis in BURA - the University's research archive
Find out about available tools to help you maximise the reach and visibility of your research
Ensure attribution with your unique identifier
Guidance for research, education and administration
Brunel researchers - it's #lovedata20 week!
If you want to show your data some love and you are wondering where to start - check out our guidance pages

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/life/library/ArchivesAndSpecialCollections:
Archives and Special Collections include Brunel’s institutional archives, including those of our predecessor colleges, and the British and Foreign School Society (BFSS), alongside a range of special collections covering social history, transport history, and literary collections.
The University Archives chart the history of Brunel University from Acton Technical College in 1928 through Brunel College of Technology in 1957 and finally to Brunel University in 1966 and the merger with West London Institute for Higher Education in 1995.
The BFSS Archives date from the early nineteenth century to the present day.
The Maria Grey College Archives contains the records of the college from its origins in 1876 to its incorporation to form the West London Institute of Higher Education in 1976.
The Archives of Shoreditch College date from its origins in the 1900s when London County Council set up a scholarship scheme for pupil teachers in handicraft through to its merger with Brunel University in 1980.
Check out our new Instagram page

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/life/library/UsingYourLibrary/disabled-students:
Brunel Library aims to make its services, collections and the information it provides accessible to all.
If you have any queries or feel you may require further support, please contact us at library@brunel.ac.uk .
Please register with the Student Wellbeing team and give permission for your details to be passed on to the Library so that the additional services below can be made available to you.
Loan periods and account limits for certain Library resources will be extended.
You may authorise a nominated person to borrow items on your behalf.
The nominated borrower needs to bring personal ID and a letter of authorisation from you in order to register and borrow books for you.
Please speak to a member of Library staff at the Library Help Desk if you require this service.
This service, where a member of staff photocopies the items you require on your behalf, is available at the same price as self-service photocopying for Library users with disabilities, mental health or specific learning differences.
To request this service, please visit the Library Help Desk or email us.
The timescale for delivery will be agreed at the time of request.
Student Wellbeing are able to add print credit to your online account.
Please note that items may only be photocopied in accordance with copyright law.
Materials produced by the Library (subject guides, database guides, etc.) can be photocopied onto coloured paper on request.
Please speak to a member of Library staff at the Help Desk, or email us if you require this service.
If you are having difficulty accessing specific online documents from databases or websites, you may request an electronic copy of the article.
Please note, this service is only offered when the Library already subscribes to the item in question or the information is freely available on the internet.
To make a request, please contact your department's Academic Liaison Librarian , providing as much information as possible, eg: author, year, article title, journal name, volume and issue, as well as the name of the database, e-resource or website if known.
Where PDF versions are unavailable, your Librarian will liaise with you as to the most appropriate electronic format, seeking advice from the Student Wellbeing team if necessary.
For additional help on how to access our resources and services, please speak to any member of staff at the Library Help Desk or contact your Academic Liaison Librarian.
Alternatively you may email or contact us by telephone on +44 (0)1895 266141.
There is sloped access down to the Bannerman Centre ground floor and double automatic doors at the building entrance.
Entry to the Library itself is via University card activated gates, one of which is extra wide to accomodate wheelchair users.
Two lifts provide access to every floor of the Library.
Height adjustable tables are located throughout the Library.
Please ask a member of staff if you need assistance locating one.
The Student Wellbeing team maintains a list of equipment available throughout the University on its website.
A range of equipment, as well as training and support in its use, is provided by the Assistive Technology Centre (ATC) to help you with your studies.
The site AccessAble lists key buildings and details their accessibility.
Further assistance can be sought by booking an appointment with a Student Wellbeing disability or mental health advisor by emailing studentsupport@brunel.ac.uk or visiting the Student Centre.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/life/library/Online-learning:
The Library has several online modules to support your learning.
You can explore our Welcome Guide to introduce you to the services and resources of the Library, develop your academic referencing skills or gain an understanding of plagiarism in the context of assessment.
These modules are self-led, so you can learn at your own pace.
Complete them unit by unit, or just go straight to the part of the resource you are interested in.
To start the resource, select the title below to be taken to Brunel’s Brightspace VLE to learn more and open the module.
Learn the skills to avoid plagiarism in your work
Gain understanding of the reasons for referencing, when and how to cite and reference

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/life/library/news-and-events/Announcements/Bank-Holiday:
The Library will be closed on Bank Holiday Monday, 25th August.
Online 24hr virtual support will still be available:
Customer Services - Contact us - LibGuides at Brunel University Library

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/life/library/news-and-events/Announcements/Library-Catalogue-Upgrade-Jul2025:
We will be upgrading our Library Catalogue to the most recent version on Wednesday 2 July at 20:00BST.
The Library Catalogue will therefore be unavailable for up to six hours and you will not be able to access 'my account' services or to search for resources via the Library Catalogue.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/life/library/news-and-events/Announcements/Summer-Exams-Support-Guide-2025:
Discover how Brunel Library can support you with your Summer Exams by checking out our updated Assessment Support guide .
It contains handy tips and advice on accessing resources and using study spaces.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/life/library/news-and-events/Announcements/247-Resumes-for-May:
We'll be resuming 24/7 access to the Library from Monday 5 May 2025 to provide students with additional access to study spaces during the Summer Exams.
The Library will open at 9am on Monday 5 May and going straight into 24/7.
Our Help Desk service will also be available on the Bank Holiday Monday from 9am to 7pm to help you find and access resources.
We will remain open 24/7 until the final day of exams on Friday 23 May 2025 when we'll close at 7pm and return to our regular opening hours (9am - 7pm on weekdays, 12pm - 7pm on weekends).

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/pdc/work-placements:
You can find us in the Professional Development Centre (Bannerman Centre) or contact us via email at placements@brunel.ac.uk .
Take a look at what our placement students got up to on their Mechanical Engineering placement.
(BSc) UG Biological Sciences
Have a look at our student placement profiles
Find out how you can work with our students and recruit for placements

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/pdc/careers:
Learn how to improve your CV, LinkedIn profile, cover letters and applications
Feel confident during your interviews, assessment centres and psychometric tests
Learn how to research companies and search for live vacancies
Get expert one-to-one advice on building your future career
Our ‘Careers Pick n Mix’ will help you create a winning graduate CV, ace those important online tests & assessment centres, smash your graduate interviews and help you land a dream graduate job!
If you’re not quite ready to apply for graduate roles yet, our videos can help you think a little deeper about the kind of role you’d like and which careers would suit your unique skills and strengths.
We’ve also got tips on how to build resilience and keep going until you find a role that’s right for you
Continue to build your employability skills even if you're staying at home
Build the skills employers look for with Ready, Brunel+, BSIP, and professional mentoring
We're still here for you after you finish your degree -  up to 3 years after graduation
“Highly skilled, very welcoming team.
My careers consultant is beyond brilliant...
puts me at ease whilst emphasising the challenges ahead.”
Get advice on job hunting in the UK
Find out how we can help you progress into your chosen area
Our students share their stories
Follow us for the latest news, opportunities and events
Get in touch if you have any questions
Book an appointment and find out how we can help you as a current student or recent graduate

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/pdc/Job-shop:
Find out about paid part-time opportunities on campus
Find out about paid part-time opportunities off campus
Make a difference while building new skills and experience

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/pdc/entrepreneur-hub:
Kick-start your entrepreneurial or freelance journey with us through upskilling, developing your early-stage idea or launching your venture.
Find out how the Entrepreneurs Hub supports students and alumni
Explore our upcoming events and workshops!
We run and support a variety of competitions with prize funds ranging from £10,000 to £60,000
Use our tools to help your research
Start making money from your skills as a freelancer
Be inspired by Brunel student and graduate entrepreneurs
From Hong Kong
Follow us to find out how we support Brunel staff, students and alumni with their start-ups

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/pdc/modern-languages:
We offer our students, graduates and members of the local community the opportunity to learn a language.
You can develop and expand your communication skills and gain a competitive advantage in the global job market, our courses are free to current Brunel students
You'll have the chance to learn either Korean, British Sign Language, Arabic, French, German, Italian, Japanese, Mandarin, Russian and Spanish.
Click here to find out more and about how to apply
Find out how you can apply to learn a language for free

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/pdc/volunteers:
Take the first step towards creating a positive impact by clicking here to explore all the current volunteering opportunities available.
Find out how you can achieve a Brunel Volunteers Award
View our big events in our calendar
Record your volunteering hours by completing the online time-sheet
Volunteer in school
Read our students' experiences with volunteering
Find out more about the different opportunities that your Union offer
See how staff can volunteer too
Easy access to innovative volunteers and a wide range of on campus events
Opening hours: Mon-Fri 10am-4pm Brunel Volunteers Hamilton Centre Brunel University of London UB8 3PH Phone Number: 01895 265 988 brunelvolunteers@brunel.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/pdc/careers/Skills-programmes-and-awards:
Today’s employers are looking for candidates that can show they have skills beyond their degree.
The Brunel+ Award is designed to give you recognition for non-academic activities during your time here at Brunel.
Simply record what you do in three of four categories (Global+, Campus+, Wellbeing+, Professional+) to earn points.
Collect enough points and you will receive a Bronze+, Silver+ or Gold+ Award to demonstrate to employers that you are a well-rounded candidate with skills beyond academia .
The READY programme is a framework for new students to take on a unique challenge as part of a team and is designed to instil the attitudes, attributes and skills essential for employability.
This programme will develop transferable skills benefiting your time at Brunel and easing the transition from education into employment.
For more information visit our Ready Programme page or contact ready@brunel.ac.uk .
The Brunel Summer Internship Programme offers eligible students the opportunity to gain eight weeks relevant paid work experience over their first summer break.
This is open to all eligible first year undergraduates, from any course .
Please contact a member of the BSIP team at bsip@brunel.ac.uk and view our internships page for more information.
Brunel Professional Mentoring is one of the Widening Participation (WP) schemes and initiatives delivered by the University's Widening Participation team.
The programme has two strands of career-focused mentoring.
Both strands draw on experienced professionals from private and public sector employers.
Home UK Level 2 and 3 undergraduates from widening participation backgrounds and under-represented ethnic minorities are eligible to apply.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/pdc/contact-us/contact-us:
Here's some more information about what we do, and how you can get in touch:

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/work-for-us/benefits-of-being-part-of-our-team:
We offer a variety of benefits, activities and development opportunities to ensure you excel in your role and enjoy your time working with us.
We believe our vibrant and attractive campus environment and excellent benefits provide a great place to work.
Brunel is located in Uxbridge, West London, which is easily commutable from London, Heathrow and the surrounding areas with tube, train and bus links as well as being easily accessed by car via the M4, M40 and M25.
From 29 August it will fall in the ULEZ.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/work-for-us/why-brunel:
Since 1966, Brunel has championed innovation and advancement, pioneering sandwich degrees, and giving students the academic education and professional and personal skills they need to succeed in their future.
In that time, we have increased our student population from just 866 to over 14,000 and introduced successful degree programmes in everything from anthropology to aerospace engineering; business management to healthcare sciences.
Brunel continues to develop research and research-led teaching that meets the needs of industry, the NHS, government and the third sector, while giving our international and socially-mobile students the opportunity to apply their knowledge for the benefit of society.
In the spirit of our namesake, Isambard Kingdom Brunel, excellence, innovation and entrepreneurialism is at the heart of everything we do.
Brunel's research is world-leading, with highly cited papers and a significant grant income.
Programmes are developed in partnership with industry and we are committed to a culture of collaboration that truly meets the global challenges of the 21st century.
Brunel is well-established within the top quarter of research universities in the UK according to the Research Excellence Framework 2014, with a number of areas of study considered world-leading and internationally excellent for their research impact, including engineering, public health, sports science, art and design, politics, and environmental and earth sciences.
The University, which has the 13th largest income from Innovate UK, has a number of high-profile projects, including:
Find out more about research at Brunel
We attract just under 80% of our students from London and the South East, including from some of the most deprived communities.
These students do well with us, and Brunel is ranked in the Economist’s top ten for boosting graduate salaries.
This is testament to our outreach activities and successful widening participation programme, which brings more than 4,000 visitors to the campus every year and we work with students from under-represented groups throughout their time with us.
Our undergraduate student population is 11% overseas and 40% overseas at the Postgraduate level.
Our students have the advantage of a rounded education that takes them to the cutting-edge of their subject through research-led teaching and work-based learning.
They are encouraged to embrace innovation and entrepreneurship; and are developed for success in the workplace, so that they can step out of full-time study and into employment with the wide range of skills they need to succeed.
We actively encourage our students to consider studying abroad as part of their degree too, taking advantage of the 30 partner universities we have across the globe.
Brunel works closely with more than 8,000 companies, many of which support our students through placement opportunities, mentoring and graduate employment.
93% of our undergraduate students are in employment or further study six months after leaving, and Brunel produces 2.2% of all senior management professionals in the UK – the 10th top ranking university.
Brunel is leading the way with our approach to digital exam and assessment, winning a prestigious Advance HE Collaborative Award for Teaching Excellence in 2019.
Over 2,700 students sat exams with their own laptop this year through our Bring Your Own Device (BYOD) scheme.
Find out more about education innovation at Brunel .
We are proud of our wonderful London campus , home to a thriving, connected community of students, staff, partners and alumni, embracing diversity and celebrating a culture of mutual respect.
The campus has benefited from £400m of investment in the past decade.
That commitment to the best teaching and research facilities is set to continue with several high-profile developments in the pipeline, among them a £50m centre for teaching and learning.
Our sports facilities are the finest university facilities in London and our vibrant arts programme brings culture to the campus for staff, students and the local community.
Complementing our new, modern buildings, are our original buildings, many of which are protected by law as fine examples of sixties brutalism.
Over the years this unique architecture has made us a popular location for filming TV and movies - everything from A Clockwork Orange to The Sweeney, Inspector Morse, Silent Witness and Spooks.
We have a Met police-trained security team on campus 24 hours a day, seven days a week to look after our students and staff.
Brunel is officially one of the very best green spaces in the country, having received the Green Flag Award in 2019 for the third year running.
Campus map
Find out more about our commitment to the Environment: https://www.brunel.ac.uk/about/environment/home
Brunel is committed to promoting equality, diversity and inclusion and seeks to engage all university members in promoting a positive and fully inclusive work environment.
We welcome applications from all sections of the community.
To have a look at the different experiences of our staff please click here.
Brunel is an accredited Disability Confident employer .
You can read our Equality and Diversity statement here

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/work-for-us/Be-part-of-our-community:
We are really proud of our community at Brunel, and providing a fair and inclusive place to live, work and study continues to be at the heart of everything we do.
We welcome applications from across the community based on the right criteria for the job.
You can find out more about our staff community by reading our Equality, Diversity & Inclusion annual report .
Our aim is to adopt a whole university approach to making Brunel a fairer and more inclusive place, with social justice at its heart.
We want to build a culture and community that is kind, committed to fairness and open to change.
You can read our policies here .
In our commitment to removing any barriers or institutional and structural social inequalities to success, we have:
We recognise there is much to do and are working towards the Race Equality Charter.
Specialist staff networks and support groups representing different groups with different needs are open to staff across the University.
These networks promote and support mental health and wellbeing of our colleagues at work and at home:
We are committed to providing a trans-inclusive environment for all our staff, students, partners and visitors, which supports trans, non-binary and people with other identities.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/life/study-support:
The Brunel Library is at the heart of the campus.
It holds a collection of approximately 400,000 books and an increasing collection of e-resources to support your studies here.
You’ll have access to wi-fi across campus and in halls of residence, Microsoft Office, 24-hour PC labs and a network email account.
The Computer Centre can help you with any internet connectivity issues, logging onto the intranet, resolving network issues or accessing your Brunel network account.
The Student Centre provides a range of administrative services and support to all students.
The Student Centre should be your first port of call for any administrative enquiries including registration, finance, student letters, visa applications and much more.
The Academic Skills service specialises in teaching all Brunel students the skills needed to learn independently and thrive academically, whatever your level or subject.
If you’re getting ready to start university, Brunel Headstart helps to prepare you for studying in higher education.
We'll give you an idea of what is expected of you at university, resources on independent learning and academic writing, as well as advice videos from Brunel academic staff and students.
We’re committed to providing support to young people in the care of a local authority who aspire to go to university.
We offer advice and support on how to apply and, once you’re enrolled, give you every assistance to achieve your degree.
This support also extends to young people with a background in other forms of care, who have been privately fostered or are estranged from their families .

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/life/study-support/computer-services/IT-Kiosk:
Connect to Wifi@Brunel or eduroam
Reset your network password
Complete your network account task
studentID@brunel.ac.uk
Add credit to your printing account
Software available to you
Call +44 (0)1895 265 888
Email itservicedesk@brunel.ac.uk
Visit IT Support Desk, ground floor of Bannerman.
Monday - Friday 9am -5pm
CEDPS: cedps-it@brunel.ac.uk
CBASS: cbass-tecs@brunel.ac.uk
CHMLS: chmls-computing-services@brunel.ac.uk
Useful contacts
Academic Skills (ASK)
Library
Taught Programme Officer (TPO)
WiseFlow: WISEflowhelp@brunel.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/life/study-support/computer-services/media-services:
Our Media Services team provides a wide range of services and facilities to support teaching, learning and research.
Audio Visual Services - 01895 265507

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/life/study-support/computer-services/accessing-the-network:
All our students and staff members are entitled to their own Brunel Network Account.
This account provides you access to Wi-Fi, email and many more services.
During the online enrolment/registration process, new students joining us will be given a Brunel Network Account to access Wi-Fi, Brunel PCs, timetables, Brightspace and all other support systems available.
To activate your account, first you need to complete the ‘My Brunel Network account’ task on eVision .
More information can be found here .
You can reset your password via our password portal .
Staff must have a personal email address in CHIME to access this service.
If you are still having difficulties visit the IT Support Desk on the ground floor of the Bannerman or email itservicedesk@brunel.ac.uk
Your Brunel Network account is automatically created once all the details have been entered into CHIME.
This automated process will detect if a CHIME record relating to starting in coming 14 days, our system will automatically create a network account
After the system creates a new starter’s network account, an automated email is sent to the Line Manager containing the username and instructions on how the new starter can create a password.
If you have not received an automated email and believe you should have, then contact itservicedesk@brunel.ac.uk quoting the name and Main Resource ID of the new starter for investigation.
To set up your password for the first time or to reset it, visit our password portal .
A network Account with limited resource access may be provided if you are the University, working for or on behalf of, or collaborating with Brunel on university business.
Your sponsor can organise an account through the Affiliate Management Portal, our self-service website.
Eduroam is an international network which allows students, researched and staff from participating institutions to obtain internet access across campus.
Contact your own institution to find out whether you have access to this service.
If you do, visitors can login with their home university login credentials.
Connect to Visitor@brunel Wi-Fi whilst on campus by self-registering on the portal.
Select visitor@brunel from the list of available networks on your device, select visitor and then enter your name and email address and agree to the T&Cs.
If you are attending an event, an event code may be available for you to use during your time at Brunel.
This and instructions will be provided to you by the conferencing team or event coordinator.
Email: itservicedesk@brunel.ac.uk
Phone: 01895 265888
Visit: IT Support Desk in the Bannerman Centre, Ground Floor
Monday - Friday 9am - 5pm

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/life/study-support/computer-services/webmail:
We provide all students and staff access to their Brunel Microsoft 365 emails from any device, using Office 365 webmail or the Outlook app.
This is automatically generated when your Network Account is activated.
You can download the whole Microsoft 365 package including the Outlook app using your Brunel Network account details.
To use Outlook on your phone, download the Microsoft Office app from the store on your device.
Students: Your email username will be [student_number]@brunel.ac.uk, e.g., 01234567@brunel.ac.uk and your password is your Brunel Network account password.
Staff: Your email username will be [network username]@brunel.ac.uk, e.g., abcde@brunel.ac.uk and your password is your Brunel Network account password.
Alumni: If you are an alumnus, your email username will be [student_number]@alumni.brunel.ac.uk, e.g., 01234567@alumni.brunel.ac.uk .
If you are a student or staff, you can reset your password via the Brunel Password Portal .
Staff must have a personal email in their CHIME account.
If you are an alumnus, you can reset your password using the Micrsosoft Password Portal .
You will need to enter your Office 365 username (e.g., 1234567@alumni.brunel.ac.uk ) under User ID.
You can also contact Alumni support and they will assist you with your password reset
Visit: I T Support Desk in the Bannerman Centre, Ground Floor

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/about/administration:
Brunel University London rules and regulations can be found below:
As a public authority, the University must comply with the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act which allows anyone to request a copy of recorded information that we hold (subject to certain exemptions).
Some of the information covered under the Act must be provided proactively.
This is disclosed in our Guide to information (PDF).
Click here for more information relating to Brunel’s commitment to free speech.
In addition to the contractual information sections contained in the undergraduate and postgraduate prospectuses such as course descriptions, financial and general information, students will be subject to the terms and conditions stated in our offer letters and our University's Statutes, Council Ordinances and Senate Regulations and all of our rules, policies and procedures from time to time in force.
The Summary of Terms and Disclaimer contain important information which all students are advised to read before accepting an offer/registering.
Summary of terms
The University is committed to managing its records as outlined in the Records Management Policy .

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/about/administration/information-access:
Information law is a broad area of law that covers how organisations use information in their businesses.
Information can take a variety of forms including commercial information that relates to a business and how it operates or personal information about people.
Information law spans across a number of different pieces of legislation and the University has a dedicated team in place to ensure we comply with our legal obligations in this area.
A brief summary of the core information laws is provided below.
You can find more information by clicking on the appropriate links.
The Freedom of Information Act 2000 promotes openness and accountability across the public sector by providing members of the public with a right of access to recorded information held by public sector organisations (public authorities).
The Environmental Information Regulations (EIR) 2004 also provide public access to environmental information held by public authorities.
The University is classed as a public authority for the purposes of FOIA and EIR.
We have obligations to publish information about our activities and to respond to requests for information.
The make a request, see our Freedom of Information page .
Data Protection Act (DPA)
When we collect, use or store personal data about you, we have to comply with UK data protection laws which are currently the Data Protection Act 2018 and the UK General Data Protection Regulation (UK GDPR).
These laws set rules around how organisations can use your data by putting in place data protection principles that they must follow.
The UK-GDPR also provides everyone with a range of rights to ensure that they have greater control around how their data is managed.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/about/administration/information-access/Freedom-of-information-statistics:
In line with best practice recommendations set out in the Freedom of Information Code of Practice , we publish quarterly statistics showing our performance on handling requests for information made under the Freedom of Information Act 2000 (FOIA) and Environmental Information Regulations 2004 (EIR).
Contact foirequests@brunel.ac.uk or see our guidance for requesters for more information on how we manage our freedom of information obligations.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/alumni/Awards-and-Certificates:
21/07/2025 - Due to Summer Graduation our response times can be up to 30 working days and we will answer your query as quickly as we can (on a first come first served basis).
We would please ask that you do not send multiple communications for the same request.
Request your initial or replacement certificate here
Award, certificate and transcript verifications
This is a formal degree transcript that provides a full record of your university achievements.
Only available for undergraduates who enrolled on a full program of study in September 2012 and onwards
An official record of your academic achievement whilst studying at University.
Includes a breakdown of all modules taken and results attained
Once awarded, you can check your conferral date in eVision in 'my course'/'view award'
Requests cannot be prioritised and are dealt with on a first come first served basis
Are we your awarding body?

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/about/administration/information-access/data-protection:
The purpose of data protection laws are to protect the rights of individuals with respect to the processing of their personal data, and to ensure that organisations which process personal data do so in line with the data protection principles.
In the UK the data protection legislation is implemented by two seperate laws.
The UK GDPR and the Data Protection Act 2018 all organisations have to comply with both.
At Brunel University London, we have a dedicated team that monitors how the university complies with the legislation and ensures that our use of personal data is in line with our legal obligations.
The links below provide relevant information about our compliance with the data protection legislation.
If you have any questions or concerns, you can contact our data protection team by emailing data-protection@brunel.ac.uk .
If you require confirmation of your degree or other awards , you should email your request to the Awarding Team .
If you wish to apply for admission to the University , you should email your request to Admissions .
Data Protection Officer Brunel University Kingston Lane UXBRIDGE UB8 3PH Email data-protection@brunel.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/life/supporting-you/student-complaints-conduct-and-appeals/Student-Misconduct-Academic-Non-Academic-and-Fitness-to-Practise:
Fitness to Practise is governed by Senate Regulation 14 - Fitness to Practise .
The University’s regulations on misconduct apply to all students registered with the University or registered for a qualification offered by the University, irrespective of their mode or place of study, and to graduates.
Concerns about a student’s academic conduct are dealt with through the Academic Misconduct Procedure ; concerns about a student’s non-academic conduct are dealt with through the Non-Academic Misconduct Procedure .
A range of sanctions is available where allegations are proven.
The University has rules relating to student conduct, whether academic or non-academic.
Ways in which these rules may be breached are shown in Senate Regulation 6.
Examples include, but are not limited to:
The University publishes guidance for Staff and guidance for students on contract cheating and takes a hard-line where there is evidence contract cheating has taken place.
If the University thinks you have breached the regulation, an investigation into your conduct is likely to commence.
The University has a range of penalties available if a student is found to have breached the regulations.
Indicative penalties are shown in Appendix A of the Academic Misconduct Procedure and Appendix A of the Non-Academic Misconduct Procedure .
In exceptional cases, where the University considers there may be cause to consider the revocation of an award or distinction that has already been conferred (whether or not the person upon whom it has been conferred is a current or former student), action may be taken under Senate Regulation 13 - Revocation of degrees and other awards and other distinctions.
The University's Student Code of Conduct and Brunel Community Pledge set out the ways in which the University expects its students to behave and conduct themselves whilst at Brunel to ensure that we can keep the community a safe and secure place for all of its members.
A breach of the behaviour set out in the Code of Conduct may constitute an act of non-academic misconduct.
Watch this short video created by Media students Sophie Long and Ralph Clarence Bersamin to find out more.
Certain programmes which lead to professional qualifications require students to demonstrate appropriate behaviours which indicate that they are suitable to practice in a particular profession.
Students on such programmes are normally required to adhere to a code of practice or standards.
Such programmes include social work, nursing and teaching.
You will be advised if this applies to your programme of study.
A list of relevant programmes is also shown in Appendix 2 of the Fitness to Practise procedure which sets out the way in which such cases are handled.
Failure to maintain appropriate standards may result in your fitness to practise being brought into question.
If you are found to be unsuitable you may be required to withdraw from your programme of study.
The University reserves the right to inform the professional body in such circumstances.
Details of the appeal process are shown in the following procedures available here: Senate Regulation s
A student is entitled to submit a request to appeal on one occasion only against a decision made under SR6 or SR14 by:
Students wishing to appeal should complete a form setting out the grounds for the appeal (see the appropriate procedure document), as follows:
You are strongly advised to seek the advice of the Union Advice Service before submitting a request to appeal.
If you require further information for academic misconduct please email: conduct@brunel.ac.uk and for non-academic misconduct please email: investigating.officer@brunel.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/about/administration/governance-and-university-committees/senate-regulations:
For copies of any relevant regulations prior to the current academic year, please contact the Minute Secretary to Senate .

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/life/supporting-you/student-complaints-conduct-and-appeals/complaints:
The University welcomes the views of its students.
It recognises however that there may be occasions when a student is dissatisfied with an aspect of their experience at the University.
You can provide feedback and have issues addressed through Student Representatives at Departmental and College committee meetings.
Refer to your College Handbook for further information about how to raise concerns with your Student Representative.
You’re encouraged to raise issues informally with administrative or academic staff within your Department, for example, with their Tutor.
Departmental Senior Tutors have responsibility for pastoral issues within the Department and can be approached concerning most matters.
Each College also has an Associate Dean (Student Welfare) who can be approached about any concerns.
Students can also raise their concerns using the University’s Complaints Procedure if they are dissatisfied “…about a university’s action or lack of action or about the standard of service provided by or on behalf of the University”.
The Complaints Procedure cannot be used to appeal against a decision of a Board of Examiners, and students should instead refer to Senate Regulation 12 .
Students wishing to use the University’s Complaints Procedure should read the Complaints Procedure and the accompanying Guidance Note, before raising their complaint.
For students who have submitted a formal complaint before 1 September 2015, please refer to the Archive , to access the applicable complaint procedure for their complaint.
Please also contact the Student Complaints Officer if you require further information.
Once you have reached the end of internal procedures available to you in regards to your complaint, you will be issued with a Completion of Procedures letter.
This will give you the option to go to the Office of the Independent Adjudicator, an external, independent body who may be able to review your complaint.
Completion of Procedures letters and the Office of the Independent Adjudicator
Feedback is obtained through the consideration and resolution of formal complaints submitted to and outcomes received from the Office of the Independent Adjudicator for Higher Education (OIA).
Student Complaints Monitoring Process
If you think you are being bullied, harassed or discriminated against by other students or University staff you should refer to the Bullying and Harassment Policy and the Bullying and Harassment Policy Guidance which explains how to raise concerns and the support available.
You can use the University’s Mediation Service to resolve complaints and concerns with other University students or staff.
This is a free, confidential and impartial service aimed at resolving concerns quickly and informally.
The Union Advice Service (UAS) in the Union of Brunel Students can provide independent and impartial advice to students about how to address any issues or concerns that they may have during their time here.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/about/admissions/admissions-policy:
This policy describes the principles and processes which are used to select and admit new students to Brunel University London with the potential to succeed in their chosen disciplines and contribute to the University’s strategic aspirations.
We are committed to ensuring that all applications are treated fairly, equally and transparently in accordance with the principles set out in this policy document.
The policy covers admissions to all Undergraduate, Postgraduate Taught and Postgraduate Research awards.
It covers all study modes including full time, part time and distance learning.
The admissions policy and procedures comply with relevant legislation including the requirements of the Competition and Markets Authority, the Quality Assurance Agency’s Quality Code Chapter B2, B6, B10, B11 and the Schwartz Recommendations for Good Practice.
The University’s operations in this area aim to be transparent, clear, fair and consistent in their application.
Overall responsibility for the University’s admissions and recruitment activity lies with the Provost .
All applications to any course at the University will be through the Central Admissions Office under the direction of the Head of Admissions.
Members of the Admissions Office are responsible for the operational aspects of the admissions process and academic Admissions Tutors in Departments and Divisions have designated responsibilities at programme level.
You can download a copy of the Admissions Policy and Procedure which contains policies regarding:

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/admissions/professional-course-requirements/Medical-Questionnaire-Declaration-of-Health-Pre-Course-Occupational-Health-Questionnaire:
The Medical Questionnaire or Pre Course Occupational Health Questionnaire addresses your general health and any medical condition that might prevent you from practising your chosen profession.
If you have a disability that you would like assistance with, you can declare it directly to our Disability & Dyslexia service, who will help make provision for any adjustments that you might require, you should also declare this on the Pre Course Occupational Health Questionnaire .
The Pre Course Occupational Health Questionnaire is completed online via a external Occupational Health company and will include a Pre-Course Health Questionnaire and confirmation of your immunisation history.
I nstructions will be sent to you by email once you hold an Unconditional Firm offer of a place.
You are required to complete the Pre Course Occupational Health Questionnaire before you can register on the course.
If you do not complete the questionnaire by the required date, your registration will be delayed.
This will impact completion of your course and delay your placement opportunities.
As part of the admissions process for professional programmes such as PGCE in Education, Occupational Therapy, Physiotherapy, Social Work, Physician Associate, MBBS, Nursing, Art Psychotherapy, Dramatherapy and Cross Cultural Physiotherapy, it is important that the University receives comprehensive information concerning a student’s health and fitness, to ensure as far as possible that the student is in the best position to commence upon and benefit from such a course of study.
Studying for and working within these professions can be demanding -  intellectually, emotionally and physically – and requires the student to meet prescribed standards of performance  that support eligibility to eventually register and practice as an education, health or social care professional.
Outlined below are the principle reasons why we require you to make a full declaration of your health status and needs.
This will enable the University to meet its obligations to you as a student, to the health and social care professions it is educating you for, and to other students and the general public.
Please read this information carefully and complete the attached health declaration as fully as possible.
For pre-registration programmes students are expected to attend 100% of the practical / tutorial / seminar sessions in academic modules and 100% of placement modules throughout their course of study; this is considered essential to developing safe practice.
However, it is recognised some students, due to exceptional circumstances may not always meet this target.
In such circumstances decisions will be made on an individual case by case basis.
This does not preclude students with disabilities or other identified needs from studying for these awards.
Instead it is important to plan reasonable and timely adjustments to enable such students to meet these demands.
Students on all professional courses are required to participate in roles such as patients or clients for some practical and experiential group work sessions.
All students are fully informed of procedures before any sessions and during Induction week they are required to sign a summary consent form, but again, if there is any potential that a health issue might impact upon such participation it is important that the University is aware as early as possible.
All students will be required to spend a minimum of 1000 hours involved in placements, in either hospitals or within the wider community.
As such, they may come into contact with clients who have infectious conditions or with clients who are vulnerable to infections that students may be carrying.
Although students are required to provide evidence of immunisation status as part of the admissions process, broader health information is important in order that we might identify any further need to protect students and/or vulnerable groups if necessary.
As soon as a student enrols onto a health or social care professions programme (e.g.
Initial Teacher Education, Nursing, SCPHN, Occupational Therapy, Physiotherapy, Cross Cultural Physiotherapy, Physician Associate, Social Work, MBBS, Art Psychotherapy or Dramatherapy), he/she becomes subject to the Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct of the relevant profession, for the duration of the programme and the rest of his/her professional career.
These codes require the highest standards of personal conduct, honesty and integrity, in academic, professional and personal life, and also the ability of a student or practitioner to make insightful and appropriate judgements about their abilities to undertake the responsibilities required of them.
There may be circumstances where, through no fault of the student’s, these demands are difficult to meet due in part to a health condition, and therefore advance notification of health needs can assist the University in identifying and supporting the student in such circumstances.
Updated 10 January 2025

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/about/administration/equality-and-diversity/home:
Brunel University London has a vibrant, rich and dynamic population of staff and students from all over the world.
Equality, Diversity and Inclusion strongly underpins our core values outlined within our Strategic Plan.
Although there is a legal case for equality, we strongly believe in the moral case too.
It is our intention to support the development of a culture where all may live, study and work without encountering prejudice or discrimination because of their gender, race, disability, sexual orientation, religion, belief or age.
We have a vital role to play in preparing our learners to be successful in their life and work in a world which is increasingly diverse and interconnected.
We aim to promote equality and inclusive practice throughout the campus environment and in the experiences we offer to our diverse community.
We develop and implement policies and practices that show our commitment to inclusion, and challenge implicit bias and prejudice across all aspects of our work.
Our Equality, Diversity and Inclusion objectives can be found in our Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Strategy 2021-24 .
If you have any comments or queries regarding the equalities pages or you need a copy of any of the documents featured on any of our equalities pages in print, braille or another language, please contact us.
Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Office Brunel University London Uxbridge Middlesex , UK UB8 3PH
diversebrunel@brunel.ac.uk (Student Equality and Diversity Office) edi@brunel.ac.uk (Staff Equality and Diversity Office)

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/life/supporting-you:
The Student Centre is your first point of contact for a wide range of administrative enquiries and support services, here to help you through your student journey from registration to graduation.
The Student Centre has three teams help you:
The Student Adviser team are multi-skilled and cross-trained with generic knowledge that crosses departmental boundaries.
They handle in excess of 100,000 enquires a year ranging from lost ID cards to finance/funding enquires to name just two.
The Immigration team provide assistance in specialist immigration advice to enrolled international, exchange and study abroad students, their dependants and graduates of the University.
The Student Support and Welfare Team are available to offer support and guidance on a range of personal, welfare and financial issues.
They are here to help you access support that is right for you; you can make appointments through this team to access the Counselling and Mental Wellbeing Service and Disability and Dyslexia service.
To request an appointment, please use the portal where you will find the right categories to choose from to book an appointment
They also run Well@Brunel, the University’s wellbeing campaign -  so look out for competitions, initiatives and events throughout the year!
The Student Wellbeing provides individual and group student support services to help Brunel student overcome certain challenges so that they can achieve their university goals.
These services are accessed via the Student Support and Welfare Team based in the Student Centre.
The APPTS accredited Counselling and Mental Wellbeing service can provide you with advice and support on both new and long term mental health difficulties to help you get the most out of your student life.
The team can also offer short term 1-2-1 counselling which can help you work on immediate problems, developing healthy coping techniques, gaining understanding of underlying issues and, if necessary, developing a longer-term treatment plan.
Joining a peer support group or group sessions lead by one of our trained staff can help you to manage stress, whilst mindfulness or cognitive behaviour therapy can help build stronger coping skills and  help you manage relationships.
Disability Services support inclusive learning and teaching, allowing you to study as independently as possible while at university.
Equality and Diversity strongly underpins our core values outlined within our Strategic Plan.
Brunel University London values inclusiveness and supports the development of a culture where all may live, study and work without encountering prejudice or discrimination.
Together we can create a University community where diversity is recognised, valued and celebrated.
We proactively advance equality and inclusive practice throughout the campus environment and in the experiences we offer to our student community.
We develop and implement policies and practices that challenge stereotypes across all aspects of our work.
Such a culture and the consequent sustainable programme of change will benefit everyone at Brunel.
We provide support and guidance on a range of equality and diversity issues.
If you feel you are being treated unfairly or discriminated against, being bullied or harassed, we can help you access support that is right for you.
The Public Sector Equality Duty requires universities and other public authorities to:
The protected characteristics referred to in the duty are; age, disability, gender reassignment, marriage and civil partnership, pregnancy and maternity, race, religion or belief, sex and sexual orientation.
At Brunel our Equality and Diversity Strategy supports our University’s vision and reflects its values, as expressed in our Strategic Plan.
Our strategy goes beyond legal compliance as we aspire to achieve excellence in equality and diversity in all that we do.
The University is committed to promoting equal opportunities and seeks to advance equality through:
We want to promote an environment where all can work and study freely, happily, safely and respectfully.
To help us achieve this, we have the below policies and procedures in place.
Policy:
Guidance:

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/about/administration/governance-and-university-committees/council/council-ordinances:
Powers and functions of the Council
Council Membership
3.
Conduct of Elections to Council
4.
Meetings of Council and Standing Orders
5.
Council Committees
6.
Appointment of Chair of Council and Deputy Chair of Council
7.
Scheme of Council Delegation
8.
Senate
9.
Financial Regulations
10.
Fees, Bursaries and Scholarships
11.
Pro Rectors
12.
Appointment of the Rector and the Pro Rectors
13.
Appointment of Senior University Officers
14.
Members of the University
15.
Honorary and Emeritus Awards
16.
Code of Practice to Ensure Freedom of Speech
17.
Procedures for the Investigation Research Misconduct
18.
The Auditors
19.
Appeals by Students
20.
Interpretation of Ordinances

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/About-this-website/eVision-accessibility:
This accessibility statement applies to eVision .
This website is run by Brunel University London.
We’ve also attempted to make the website text as simple as possible to understand.
We know some parts of this website are not fully accessible:
If you find any problems not listed on this page or think we’re not meeting accessibility requirements, please email SITS Data Management at sdm@brunel.ac.uk .
If you find any problems not listed in the compliance section of this page, or think we’re not meeting accessibility requirements, contact us using the above contact details.
This website is partially compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines version 2.1 AA standard, due to:
We work to achieve and maintain the AA standards of the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.1.
The content listed below is non-accessible for the following reasons:
Non-compliance with the accessibility regulations
We are currently auditing our website and, if relevant, will list here any areas that we believe it would be a disproportionate burden to make fully accessible.
This website was last tested on 16/Jan/2020.
The test was carried out by Brunel University London.
We tested against a representative sample of pages on the platform evision.brunel.ac.uk
Brunel University London is working to ensure that evision.brunel.ac.uk is fully accessible.
We are currently undertaking a review of our website and once the audit has been completed, we will finalise a remediation plan.
Staff responsible for content on the website, have undertaking training in producing more accessible content and improving content already on the site.
This statement was prepared on 3rd April 2023 .

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/About-this-website/accessibility-careers-pages:
We know some parts of this website aren’t fully accessible: PDF documents are not fully accessible to screen reader software.
If you need information on this website in a different format like accessible PDF, large print, easy read, audio recording or braille, please email hrsystems@brunel.ac.uk .
If you find any problems that aren’t listed on this page or think we’re not meeting accessibility requirements, email hrsystems@brunel.ac.uk .
Body worn portable induction loops are available from Student Wellbeing (email wellbeing@brunel.ac.uk or telephone 01895267045), for use by Brunel students.
For all general enquiries you can contact us by phone on the following number: +44 (0)1895 274000 .
PDFs don’t meet accessibility standards – for example, they are not be accessible to screen reader software operating within the browser.
PDFs are instead available via a download link.
We will seek to make our PDFs accessible where possible, as the technology used on our site develops in future.
In the interim we will use MS Word docx documents for all new content in place of PDFs.
This statement was prepared on 06 August 2024.
It was last reviewed and updated on 23 August 2024.
This website was last tested in July 2024 against the WCAG 2.2 AA standard using findings from our internal testing and using the Silktide: Web Accessibility and Quality Assurance platform.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/About-this-website/Website-disclaimer:
The material made available through this Brunel University London website is for information purposes only and cannot be used and/or relied upon for any other purpose.
Brunel University London makes no representations or warranties of any kind, either express or implied, as to the completeness, accuracy, reliability, suitability or availability of this website or the information, products or services contained in these pages or their fitness for any purpose whatsoever.
Any reliance you place on such information is therefore entirely at your own risk.
Whilst every effort has been taken to ensure the accuracy of the information in these pages, their content is naturally subject to change.
It is the responsibility of the user/reader to check the accuracy of relevant facts before entering into any financial or other commitment based upon them.
In no event will Brunel University London be held liable in contract, tort (including without limitation negligence) and/or breach of statutory duty for any direct, indirect, special, incidental or consequential loss or damage (including but not limited to any loss of data and/or economic loss and/or loss of profits) arising out of or in connection with the use of this website or the information contained therein.
Within this website you are able to access and link to independent third party sites which may feature information which is of interest to you.
Brunel University London has no control over the subject matter, content and/or availability or otherwise of such sites and as such, assumes no responsibility whatsoever in respect of such site(s).
The inclusion of any links does not necessarily imply a recommendation or endorsement of the views expressed within in them, by Brunel University London.
Please advise us if you consider any third party links to be inappropriate, illegal or offensive.
Brunel University London reserves the right to remove such links if in its sole opinion Brunel University London believes it to be inappropriate, illegal or offensive.
Every effort will be made to ensure that this website runs without any problems or interruptions, however Brunel University London will not be liable for and takes no responsibility for this website being temporarily unavailable due to technical or other reasons.
Unless otherwise explicitly stated, all information contained within this website belongs to Brunel University London and is copyright Brunel University London, irrespective of whether a copyright symbol and/or statement is present.
All trademarks are hereby acknowledged by you as belonging to Brunel University London.
The University asserts its moral rights to the information contained within this website.
Any requests about use of Brunel University London copyright material should be addressed to the maintainer of the page by using the page feedback link that is found at the bottom of every page on this site.
Brunel University London will, upon notification, consider removing any material open to legal objection pending investigation.
In all matters relating to this website the applicable law shall be that of England and Wales.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/About-this-website/Work-Allocation-Model-accessibility:
This accessibility statement applies to WAMS (Work Allocation Model System) .
If you find any problems not listed on this page or think we’re not meeting accessibility requirements, please email Strategic Planning at Planning@brunel.ac.uk .
This website was last tested on 19/Apr/2023.
We tested against a representative sample of pages on the platform WAMS .
Brunel University London is working to ensure that wam.brunel.ac.uk/wams is fully accessible.
This statement was prepared on 30th May 2023 .

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/about/people:
The governing body of the University
Our independent and elected members

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/about/administration/governance-and-university-committees/council/council-members:
Vineta Bhalla is a doctor and senior global public health leader with policy, strategy and implementation experience in the United Kingdom, Singapore, Australia and the World Health Organisation.
She specialises in health system redesign for integrated care and population health.
Vineta was the Director of Community and Out-of-Hospital Care Programme at the NHS TDA until December 2015, having previously worked at the University College London Hospitals NHS Trust.
She is currently Clinic Lead for Deloitte UK-Middle East.
Vineta also serves on the Board of London Northwest Healthcare NHS Trust.
She chairs the London Northwest Healthcare Charity and the Joint Digital Care Record Programme for NW London.
Vineta has received various honours and awards during her career, including Public Service Medal and National Day Honours from the Government of Singapore for her leadership in the fight against the SARS epidemic and for her role as the National Director of Hospitals for Singapore.
Vineta was recently appointed as a Senior Editorial Advisor to the journal, Internal Health.
She has served as a Fellow with the Institute of Global Health Innovation, Imperial College London and the NHS Staff College.
Sharon Blackman is Managing Director, Head of Legal Services for Citi.
She is an Employed Barrister (England & Wales) and NY Attorney Sharon heads the legal team supporting Citi’s Services business globally and serves on the Legal Management Committee (LMC).
She is Chair of the Bank of England FXJSC legal subcommittee and a member of the global steering committee for Citi’s Black Heritage network.
A mother of three, she is also a founding member of the Inhouse Pro Bono Group, trustee and playing member of the Croydon Symphony Orchestra, member of Brunel University Council, Corporate Advisory Board member for Urban Synergy and the Patchwork Foundation and BACFI representative on the Bar Council’s Race Working Group.
In 2021 Sharon was listed in Cranfield’s Women to Watch 2021, became a Bencher of Lincoln’s Inn and was recognized in the Queen’s Birthday Honors with an OBE for services to the financial sector.
Janet Dean is an experienced Executive Director, Non-Executive Director and Chair who has advised local authorities, national agencies and partnership organisations on strategic change and development in the fields of housing, regeneration and economic development, health, social care, and education.
Since 1996 she has had a successful senior career as permanent and interim Departmental Head, Executive and Non-Executive Director in local government, housing association and arms-length companies, health bodies and independent charities and higher and further education.
Her past appointments include Non-Executive Director of the Yorkshire and Humber Strategic Health Authority, and of Barnsley Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, Governor of Sheffield Hallam University and Non-Executive Director of Metropolitan Housing Trust.
She is currently a Governor of York College, chair of The Arts Society Ebor, a Director of Mount School Estates Ltd, and a Trustee of the Orkney Wireless Museum.
Janet is also a writer and runs writing workshops, courses and retreats.
Professor Delpy is Emeritus Professor of Medical Photonics in the Department of Medical Physics and Biomedical Engineering at University College London (UCL).
He originally studied physics at Brunel University, then spent two years working for Darchem Ltd, an engineering company, before going to UCL to work on the development of sensors for use in newborn infants.
He spent 35 years at UCL developing techniques for the physiological monitoring of infants and adult patients.
He is best known for developments of NIR Spectroscopy and Imaging of brain oxygenation.
Many companies have marketed devices developed by him and his team.
At UCL, he was head of department for seven years, followed by seven years as Research Vice Provost.
In 2007 he left UCL to become the CEO of the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council, stepping down in 2014.
He was then Chair of the Defence Scientific Advisory Council from 2014 to 2017 and Chair of the Strategic Advisory Board for the UK National Quantum Technologies Programme from 2014 to 2019.
He is currently a member of the Home Office Science Advisory Council and Honorary Treasurer at the IoP.
Professor Delpy is a Fellow of the Royal Society, the Royal Academy of Engineering and the Academy of Medical Sciences and is a member of many advisory committees for universities, professional institutes and national academies.
Mark Garrett is Chief Strategy Officer at Ricardo PLC having filled several other roles during his 21 years there including the leadership of both the European and US technical consulting divisions.
Prior to joining Ricardo, Mark spent 14 years in various powertrain-related roles in the Rover Group, including at the BMW Engineering Centre in Munich.
Mark is a Chartered Engineer and a Fellow of both the Institution of Mechanical Engineers and the Royal Academy of Engineering.
Mark is also the non-executive chairman of Secured by Design Limited.
Ms Hunt is the Director of the Royal Institution.
Ms Hunt was previously Head at Notting Hill and Ealing High School, GDST.
She holds a BSc (Hons) in Physics from Imperial College London and a PGCE from the University of Oxford.
Ms Hunt began her career in 1982 as a Teacher at The Cherwell Upper School in Oxford.
After a variety of teaching posts in Australia and France, she returned to the UK in 1991, joining Putney High School as a Teacher of Physics.
She moved to Wimbledon High School a year later, progressing to Head of Sixth Form in 1996 and to Head of the Faculty of Sciences in 1998.
Following a secondment to Goldman Sachs in 2000, Ms Hunt assumed the position of Deputy Head (Director of Studies) at St Paul’s Girls’ School.
She assumed her previous role as Head in 2008.
Ms Hunt stepped down from her role as Head at NHEHS in August 2016.
She plans to spend more time sailing, skiing and improving her French, and is looking forward to having the time and the opportunity to develop other aspects of her professional life, including her new role on the Brunel University London Council and existing commitment to the Royal Institution.
David was educated in Bristol and the University of Lancaster where he read history and politics and completed a PGCE at Birmingham University.
David taught history and politics in a number of Grammar Schools in Kent and Buckinghamshire.
In 1992 David was appointed Deputy Headteacher at Goffs School, a large comprehensive school in Hertfordshire which specialised in languages.
In 1998 he was appointed to the Headship of The John Warner School.
The school was rated as “outstanding” by OFSTED in 2011.
OFSTED described the school as “a rare example of a transformation that has been sustained over time”.
Grades increased from 5A*-C from 13% in 1999 to 98% in 2012 and at the same time had more than doubled the number of pupils on roll from 565 to around 1250.
The school held Investors in People Gold Standard and Champion Status together with Customer Service Excellence with complete compliance in all areas.
David was a National Leader of Education until 2014.
He served on the board of a major national charity promoting financial education in schools (PFEG) until its merger with Young Enterprise.
David also piloted a major project supporting language teaching in primary schools on behalf of the Göethe Institute.
He has also done extensive work in promoting the teaching of modern languages, including German, speaking at conferences and events, contributing to a number of videos and also meeting with German politicians to discuss the English education system.
He has also given evidence to the APPG on the importance of teaching languages.
David is a highly supportive member of the local Chamber of Commerce and is deeply involved in a number of projects and served as a Patron of the Chamber of Commerce.
David has a special interest in financial education for school children and has given evidence to the All-Party Group at the House of Commons and spoken at the Gleneagles Conference sponsored by Goldman Sachs
Additionally, David holds or has held the following posts:
Professor Andrew Jones is an inter-disciplinary social scientist with a background as an economic geographer.
He has held a number of successful leadership roles in higher education, including Dean of School of Arts and Social Sciences, Vice-President (Research & Enterprise) and latterly Deputy President at City, University of London.
He is a Fellow of the Academy of Social Sciences, the Royal Geographical Society and the Royal Society of Arts and has held a wide variety of roles for UKRI, including as a member of REF2014 and REF2021 panels.
He is a trustee of the Campaign for Science and Engineering (CaSE), and was previously of the Academy of Social Sciences.
Professor Jones’ interest in issues of globalisation has seen him contribute to studies in the fields of political science, sociology and management studies.
His research focuses on the global economy, including firms, governing organisations and the activities of key individuals.
His research has been particularly interested in how the activities of organisations relate to the ongoing development of a globalised economy.
In relation to this he has investigated the working practices of staff in large 'global' organisations and how they use information technology, travel and mobility strategies; the nature of global knowledge management and the way in which local contexts and places shape competitiveness.
Past projects include the globalisation of investment banking, consultancy and legal industries as well as the role played by specific cities as locations for these industries.
In 2004 he authored a study for the UK Government's Department for Education & Skills on the nature and significance of 'gap years', leading to a further long-term project examining overseas youth volunteering projects.
This work explored the impacts on volunteers and, to a lesser extent, host communities of gap-year volunteering across the globe including schemes in Tanzania, Guatemala, Belize, Australia and Vietnam.
A particular focus was how the kinds of soft skills developed in voluntary work are relevant to the way young people gain certain important skill-sets and abilities in an increasingly global job market.
Professor Jones' recent research has returned to business services, and considers in particular how globalisation in these industries is caught up in the rise and development of emerging economies in Asia, and most recently in achieving service sector led economic growth in Latin America and the Caribbean.
He also continues to work on the role of service industries in the green economy, and their important contribution to a low-carbon global economy.
Chris Maw is a former partner at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP where he led the West London office for a number of years and had wider responsibility for the Firm's private equity and private company markets across the South East of England.
Since retiring from PwC, Chris has focussed on acting as a Trustee for various organisations, including The Dartington Hall Trust and The Forum Trust, as well as being the Chair of West London Business and being involved in supporting and advising a number of privately owned businesses.
He is an Honorary Fellow of Brunel University London.
Prof Palmer sjoined as Chair in October 2022.
He st udied physics at the University of Sheffield before launching a distinguished academic career, notably at the University of Warwick, where he held roles including Pro Vice-Chancellor for Research and then Provost and Deputy Vice-Chancellor.
His research has spanned condensed matter physics, medical physics and non-destructive evaluation and has led to the formation of three spin-out companies in conjunction with research students.
His research into ultrasonic investigation of osteoporosis was recognised with the naming of a train on the East Coast Main Line – the Professor Stuart Palmer.
More recently he has chaired the Council of Cardiff University for six years and was Visiting Professor at Queensland University of Technology.
He has chaired or served on a wide range of committees for HEFCE and EPSRC, and is currently the Honorary Treasurer of the European Physical Society.
Ms Rosingholm is a Venture Partner at Dreamstake Capital, a London based accelerator for technology start-ups.
She is on the Board of Aid:Tech, a fintech company delivering development aid through blockchain digital identity, and Quarkonics, an AI driven technology solutions company.
Ms Rosingholm was previously an Executive Director at J.P.
Morgan Investment Bank, and has studied in Norway, France and North America.
She is a graduate of l’Ecole Superieure de Commerce de Paris (ESCP, Grande Ecole) and has completed the General Management Program, Executive Education, at Harvard Business School.
Ms Rowlatt was Chief Analyst and Chief Economist at the UK Department for Transport and the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills, and has held various other Government director jobs.
Her current roles include Vice Chair of the Central and North West London NHS Foundation Trust, Council member of the National Institute of Economic and Social Research, member of the Government of Jersey Fiscal Policy Panel, and Associate of Frontier Economics.
Chris joined Brunel in 2009 as the Laboratory Manager for the School of Sport and Education.
Chris is currently the Services Manager for the College of Health, Medicine and Life Sciences, where he is responsible for all their technical and financial services, their infrastructure and business continuity and emergency preparedness.
Before Brunel, Chris held Associate Lectureship positions at the Universities of Portsmouth and Winchester, in biomechanics and human physiology respectively.
Outside of academia, Chris serves as an officer in the Royal Naval Reserve.
Initially trained as a Warfare Officer, he has since transition to an educational specialist role as a Training Manager, including instructing and assessing at the world-famous Britannia Royal Naval College in Dartmouth.
During the national Covid-19 crisis, Chris was called into full-time service, providing strategic advice and military planning to the Thames Valley’s Local Resilience Forum.
Additionally, he served as a strategic advisor to the South East’s Deputy Director of Public Health at Public Health England.
Claire Turner is an interdisciplinary scientist with a BSc in Chemistry and Biochemistry from the University of Natal and a PhD in Biochemical Engineering from UCL.
Her aim is to enable all our students to have an excellent education and student experience irrespective of their background and circumstances.
She is very interested in innovations in pedagogy and how we can use these in improving the student experience.
She was previously at The Open University where she taught Analytical Science, and interdisciplinary science.
Her research is focussed around the analysis of volatile organic compounds, applied to diverse field as non-invasive disease diagnosis and environmental monitoring.
Ms Waltham is an experienced real estate litigation Partner at Gowling WLG (formerly Wragge Lawrence Graham/ Wragge & Co) which she joined in 2003 having previously been a Partner at Hogan Lovells between 1998 and 2003.
Prior to this Ms Waltham was a Solicitor at Lovell White Durrant, Oppenheimers and Linklaters.
A graduate in Law from King’s College London, Ms Waltham was a Trustee at Our Sorority and is a mentor for students at her alma mater.
Jonathan joined Brunel in September 2023 from the University of Keele, where he was Pro Vice-Chancellor and Executive Dean of the Faculty of Natural Sciences.
Whilst at Keele, Jonathan was the strategic lead on a collaborative partnership with Harper Adams University to develop the UK’s 9th Vet School and the only joint Vet School in the country.
He also led work on equality, diversity and inclusion, transforming Keele’s Foundation Year programme, interdisciplinary education and research, and oversaw £42million capital redevelopment of science teaching and research facilities.
Jonathan has over 30 years’ experience working on infectious diseases and the biology of human and animal pathogens.
He continues to play an active part in science policy in the areas of food safety and security.
Prior to Keele, Jonathan worked at University of Liverpool for 11 years where he held several roles including Head of Department of Infection Biology, helping lead the university’s submission for REF 2014.
Previously Jonathan spent 14 years working in Scotland at the universities of Glasgow and Edinburgh where he helped develop pioneering techniques for the identification of proteins which enable pathogens to enter and colonise the body.
An alumnus of Keele, where he gained a joint honours degree in Chemistry and Biology and a life-long commitment to the value of interdisciplinary research and education, Jonathan also holds a doctorate from the University of Aberdeen.
Allison Wiseman is a nurse and academic.
After qualifying as a nurse at Kings College Hospital she completed a BSc Nursing, MSc in Applied Studies in Education and Training and a Doctorate in Clinical Practice whilst working as a Critical Care Nurse and Nurse Educator.
Her aim is to strengthen academic and professional services colleagues’ influence through advocating professional development, well-being, and career advancement opportunities.
She wants to contribute Council’s purpose in creating a supportive environment where all stakeholders feel valued and motivated –and innovative opportunities for collaboration with other institutions and organisations are facilitated.
She was previously at the University of Surrey where she held a number of posts including Head of Continuing Professional Development Programmes before coming to Brunel University of London to become Programme Lead for the MSc Physician Associate programme.
Allison is currently Division Lead for Nursing.
Her research is focussed around pedagogical development, including Interprofessional Learning and Simulation Based Learning.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/about/contact-us.aspx:
Not sure who to contact?
Call us at +44 (0)1895 274000 and we'll put you through to the right person.
Already at Brunel?
If you're a current student, you can find assistance on BruNet, our student intranet .
If you're a staff member, please visit the staff intranet for the resources you need.
If there is an emergency, call our Security Team at 01895 255786 .
Our Security Team is available to help 24 hours a day, seven days a week, throughout the whole year, both on and off campus.
Whether you’re considering applying or you've already submitted your application, we’re here to answer your questions.
Find the relevant contact details and ask away.
Plus stay in the loop by registering for updates.
Ask us any questions about our courses , modules, course fees, timetables, entry into year 2/3, or anything else you want to know.
Phone: +44 (0)1895 265 599
E-mail: enquiries@brunel.ac.uk
Already applied to Brunel?
Contact our Admissions Team with any queries you have about your application.
Phone: +44 (0)1895 265265
E-mail: admissions@brunel.ac.uk
If you're an international student heading to Brunel , you're bound to have lots of questions.
From visa queries to accommodation and English language courses, we have the experts to guide you.
If you're interested in pursuing a PhD , reach out to the relevant specialist team for guidance and assistance.
Financing can be a key factor in planning your university studies.
Check out our wide range of scholarships, bursaries, and fee discounts .
E-mail: scholarships@brunel.ac.uk
For all your accommodation needs – whether you're looking to live on-campus or off-campus - a member of our team will be there to help you.
Phone: +44 (0)1895 267100
E-mail: bca@brunel.ac.uk
Interested in studying one of our professional courses?
Students accepted onto a professional course require a number of checks to be completed before they can register.
Disclosure & Barring Service (DBS) e-mail: dbs@brunel.ac.uk
Immunisation checking e-mail: brunel@ohworks.co.uk
Joining us soon?
Do you have questions about enrolment or registration?
Want to know about your first steps at Brunel ?
We’re here to help.
Phone: +44 (0)1895 268 268
E-mail: registration@brunel.ac.uk
Considering an apprenticeship ?
We're here to answer your questions.
Phone: +44 (0)1895 265193
E-mail: apprenticeships@brunel.ac.uk
Discover more about our online courses .
Contact us with your questions.
Phone: +44 (0)20 353 51404
E-mail: study@online.brunel.ac.uk
Our support is customised to meet your specific requirements.
We can assist you with funding applications, coordinate accommodations in campus housing, and provide various other services.
Feel free to reach out to the Student Wellbeing Team for assistance.
Phone: +44 (0)1895 268268
If you’re looking for support for your students , please get in touch.
Events, talks, visits or general advice – we’re here to help.
Phone: +44 (0)1895 267267
E-mail: schoolvisits@brunel.ac.uk
Contact us for press enquiries, media visits and filming opportunities.
We can assist with providing expert comments and information about academic research.
Phone: +44 (0)1895 266867
E-mail: press-office@brunel.ac.uk
From sporting facilities to the library - many of our extensive facilities and services are available to the public.
Our Brunel Library offers a range of different memberships to the wider community.
Find out more about how to become a member.
Phone: +44 (0)1895 266141
E-mail: library@brunel.ac.uk
We offer gym membership and hire of a range of sports facilities to the general public.
From facilities to support we work in partnership with businesses.
If you're a business, organisation, or member of the local community interested in collaborating on innovative projects , get in touch with our External Engagement team.
Visiting Brunel?
You can stay over in our Lancaster Hotel , or book a table in the restaurant.
Phone: +44 (0)1895 268006
E-mail: lancaster-suite@brunel.ac.uk
Brunel's conference and hospitality services offer fantastic venues, catering services, accommodation and tailor-made packages for any occasion.
Phone: +44 (0)1895 266000
Are you an employer looking to recruit staff or train existing employees?
Become part of Brunel's apprenticeship programme .
From local SMEs to international organisations, our Professional Development Centre can help you connect with, engage and employ our talented students and graduates .
Phone: +44 (0)1895 265546
E-mail: employer.engagement@brunel.ac.uk
Brunel University London Kingston Lane, Uxbridge, Middlesex UB8 3PH

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/about/information/financial-statements:
Our financial statements and all the related explanatory files can be found in these PDF documents:
Financial Year 2023/24
Financial Year 2022/23
Financial Year 2021/22
Financial Year 2020/21
Financial year 2019/20
Financial year 2018/19
Financial year 2017/18
Financial year 2016/17
Financial year 2015/16
Financial year 2014/15
Financial year 2013/14
Financial year 2012/13
Financial year 2011/12
Financial year 2010/11
Financial year 2009/10
Financial year 2008/09
Financial year 2007/08
Financial year 2006/07
Financial year 2005/06
Financial year 2004/05
Financial year 2003/04
Financial year 2002/03
Financial year 2001/02
Financial year 2000/01
Infographic for financial year 2018
Infographic for financial year 2016
Infographic for financial year 2015
Infographic for financial year 2013

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/about/information/student-fees:
Your fees pay for more than just your tuition.
Find out what they were used for in the 2019/20 academic year.
By choosing to study here, you are making a significant financial and time commitment to Brunel University London.
In return, we are committed to ensuring that you receive value for money and an education which will set you apart as a global citizen fully equipped to apply your knowledge, understanding and skills in the workplace.
We do this by offering:
Tuition fees make up 58% of the University’s total income.
The rest comes from funding councils, government and research grants, donations and from our accommodation and catering services.
Student fees from UK and EU students are being funded by the government backed Student Loans Company.
What your fees cover
While we prioritise spending on academic departments and research institutes, tuition fees also contribute to our core costs, including:
Breakdown of expenditure by activity
Breakdown of expenditure by cost type
Depreciation represents the annual effect of spreading the cost of the University’s capital assets (such as buildings and equipment) over their economic life.
The interest cost is a fixed annual cost of servicing the University’s long term borrowings which financed the construction of the student residences on the campus during the last decade.
Fees for UK and EU students are set by the UK Government, and undergraduate tuition fees have been limited to £9,250 per year for all UK and EU citizens since 2017/18.
The government also provides grant funding for high cost subjects and for research.
EU students are currently eligible for home fee status and for financial support.
The fee status of EU and EEA students starting courses at UK universities from 2021–22 has not yet been determined by UK governments, although Brunel will be charging the equivalent of 'Home' fees for the 2021/22 academic year.
Brunel attracts around 20% to 25% of all its students from countries across the world, so we ensure our fee levels are competitive with other international institutions that offer comparable high quality courses.
The majority of tuition fees are set in three bands – currently £14,800, £16,200 and £18,000 – fees are reviewed each year.
For a detailed breakdown of fees, discounts, advice and support click here .
Universities still get some government funding for UK and EU students but not for international students from outside the EU.
International student fees are therefore higher to reflect the full cost of your education.
We provide extra regulatory and support services for international students, for example, help with immigration and English language support , and these costs are reflected in the fees we charge.
As a charity, we don't have any shareholders or owners so any surplus we make is invested back into the University for improvements to our IT systems as well as campus facilities and services.
You can read a more detailed analysis of the University’s most recent financial results and position, and a narrative on the University’s operating activities including its teaching, research and charitable/public benefit initiatives, in the Strategic Report section of the University’s Financial Statements .

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/brunel-medical-school/Interviews:
MMIs will start in November 2024 for international students and in February 2025 for UK students.
The MMIs will be conducted online with candidates and examiners participating remotely.
An online interview pack will be provided to invited candidates in advance to explain the process.
Each candidate will be assessed at 6 mini-interview ‘stations’, each designed to assess a different attribute, blueprinted to Good Medical Practice .
MMIs are very similar to face-to-face MMIs in terms of content, so you can expect some of the familiar questions to appear.
You can also expect to have the same number of question stations.
But the actual delivery is different.
Instead of you physically moving from station to station, you remain seated and move 'virtually' to different online rooms to answer your questions.
You will need to be skilful regarding the delivery of a MMI as a slightly different approach is needed.
We recommend that you follow these guidelines and do some of your own research in order to be fully prepared.
Practice being interviewed online.
Practice with a friend or family member, record it, and then be honest with yourself and analyse how you performed, and ask your friend/family member to provide feedback on how you came across on video.
You will discover it is quite different to speaking to someone face-to-face.
Be yourself.
We are looking for more than just someone you can recite information they have rehearsed.
We want to hear from you and understand why you want a career in medicine.
Please contact our enquiries team
BMS-Admissions@brunel.ac.uk
+44(0) 1895 268083

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/brunel-medical-school/why-study-medicine-at-brunel:
Our MBBS programme is designed by international experts in medical education to incorporate evidence-based approaches to learning, and is delivered using effective developments in pedagogy and digital technology to maximise participation, engagement and interactivity.
The School will transform medical education and healthcare practice through education, research in combination with multidisciplinary community engagement.
Brunel medical graduates will care for their patients and communities with kindness, professionalism and teamwork.
University ranking
During your medical studies at Brunel you will undertake a wide range of clinical placements.
Here you will not just be observing, you will have the opportunity to apply your clinical knowledge and develop your skills to real life clinical situations.
“I value how Brunel Medical School empowers its medical students by integrating clinical experience into the syllabus much earlier than other universities.
This means, that right from term one, we work with GPs to maximize our clinical experience.”
Shrutikaa from Canada
“I really enjoyed meeting new people from all over the world.
The diversity and early placements are the things that really motivated me to come to Brunel.”
Chinaza from Nigeria
If you already have a degree in a subject related to Medicine you can apply for the MBBS programme.
Please see our entry requirements for more information.
MBBS students learn in small groups of 5 to 6 people facilitated by academics and enhanced by the use of TBL-enabled software.
TBL fully engages all students in their learning, resulting in easier assimilation and retention of knowledge.
TBL also gives more freedom to students in that they are able to pace much of their study load, and often work where and when convenient.
And what's more, TBL makes learning fun!
TBL is a modern approach that departs significantly from the traditional lecture-based learning and Problem-Based Learning (PBL) which gives you control over your learning.
The curriculum quality is rigorously evaluated by experts, and the team aspect of TBL develops peer-to-peer learning in an engaging way as well as your all-important communication skills.
We are all familiar with the challenges that the COVID-19 pandemic has imposed on the world, and the terrible cost in lives, loss of well-being and hardship.
New challenges are likely to emerge and we want to prepare you to face these challenges with skills to remain up-to-date with latest advances in medical research and clinical applications to deliver person-centred care.
You will discover the significance of prevention, public health, rehabilitation and other aspects of clinical medicine on a global scale.
Your training will prepare you to serve clinically needs anywhere in the world.
An exciting element of our MBBS in Medicine is the application of your clinical knowledge and skills in our local communities.
Furthermore, person-centred care also involves looking after healthy people and the whole community to guide people of all ages towards adapting a healthy life style and reduce risks of avoidable diseases.
The valuable experiences gained locally can be applied to benefit communities around the world.
On arrival you will be allocated to a ‘House’, which you will remain part of for the duration of the course.
You will have a House Tutor, who will support your personal, academic and professional development through a structured series of individual and group House meetings.
Brunel Medical School has 5 Houses:
"I was intrigued by Brunel’s unique and innovative approach to teaching, as well as the strong support system they offer to their students, which put me at ease as an international student moving to a new country alone for the first time.”
Anna from Japan
You will enjoy a campus life-style with all your daily needs within easy reach, and will avoid the need for commuting, except when you are in clinical placements.
Central London is within easy reach, and from the campus you have easy access to the countryside, the rest of the UK, Heathrow and the whole wide world.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/brunel-medical-school/pioneering-learning-and-teaching:
We take a contemporary and innovative approach to teaching medicine at Brunel Medical School.
Our curriculum is team-based, patient-focused with an emphasis on ‘Technologies for Health’ preparing you for emerging and modern approaches for patient care.
An exciting element of the course is how we teach anatomy.
You will learn the structure and function of the human body in our purpose-built Clinical Anatomy Suite.
You will be taught by clinicians and academics in modern facilities which include ‘smart’ classrooms, video-enabled clinical communication suites and simulated hospital wards.
You will benefit from the use of interactive manikins, to hone your clinical and teamwork skills on campus.
Bringing depth, efficiency and flexibility to your learning
Our curriculum is being produced by academics and clinicians working in partnership to integrate the latest insights of medical science with clinical practice.
By embedding digital technologies, we will ensure that our curriculum delivery is agile and adapted to the challenges of an ever-changing scientific and clinical landscape.
You will be able to access our digital platforms from your laptop, mobile phone, or tablet 24/7 at a time and place that suits you.
Our platforms will provide integrated support for all aspects of your learning experience, including timetabling, access to online resources, virtual microscopy, use for classroom learning, feedback, workplace-based assessments, peer interactions and student support.
This approach will facilitate your learning, whether taking place in your own accommodation or home, on campus, whilst travelling or in the healthcare setting.
We have established expertise in Team-Based Learning (TBL), our main method of classroom instruction.
Through this highly engaging, interactive, ‘flipped classroom’ approach, you will prepare for your TBL sessions using our bespoke online course materials and then work in together in small teams to think through relevant science and medicine-based questions, facilitated by expert academics and clinicians.
The TBL process, with its underpinning digital learning system, will provide you with on-going feedback to guide your learning; enabling your teachers to tailor their teaching according to the needs of the class.
It will also provide learning analytics to help the school identify students who may need more support, and to continuously improve the way our curriculum is delivered.
This approach develops your communication skills through working with your team colleagues and when addressing the whole class to explain your ideas.
In this way TBL also enhances your listening skills and leadership potential.
Digital health
Our digital health curriculum is one of the many ways that our MBBS programme will prepare you for the future of medical practice, both in the UK and globally.
As well as being a tool to enhance your learning, you will also learn about the use of digital technology in healthcare practice.
Digital health already pervades every aspect of medical practice, from the doctor-patient consultation, to choosing and interpreting AI-facilitated diagnostic tests, making a diagnosis and prescribing safely.
Our modern curriculum will equip you with the core competencies to progress in your medical career.
We are among the few medical schools in the world to use TBL as a significant method for classroom instruction.
We intend to utilise the experience and expertise of our existing community of TBL practitioners to support the development of the MBBS curriculum.
TBL sessions will be run by experienced TBL facilitators who will be joined by medical and health professionals (Content Experts) in the subject area being taught.
This creates a highly interactive and collaborative learning environment for our students.
In TBL, students carry out some pre-study and then come together with their team.
They first assess their own knowledge before working in their team – learning together.
Students collectively solve clinical problems by applying their knowledge to real-life medical situations.Students are assigned to a team of six students at the beginning of the academic year and will remain in their team for the whole year.
This will allow strong bonds to be created so that peer-to-peer learning can be maximised.
TBL also helps prepare students for their clinical placements in hospitals starting in Year 3; equipping students with the knowledge and communication skills required to thrive confidently in the clinical environment.
Benefits of Team-Based Learning at Brunel Medical School
• Allows students to develop interpersonal skills (e.g.
teamwork, communications and problem-solving skills), which are essential in the healthcare profession
• Helps develop students’ ability to work in multi-cultural and diverse teams
• Provides an opportunity to apply previously acquired scientific and medical knowledge to real-life clinical cases
• Enables continuous and timely feedback, both from the Content Experts and team mates.
• Encourages students to become independent learners and engage in pre-study materials in order to make a good contribution to their team.
Team-Based Learning phases
Phase 1: Preparation
Students, on their own, study course content outside of class either by online/offline reading, or listening to/watching high pre-recorded lectures.
Phase 2: In-Class Readiness Assurance Process
2a) Individual Readiness Assurance Testing (iRAT)
In class, students independently complete a short multiple-choice (Single Best Answer, SBA) test on their preparation study.
These tests contribute to the evaluation of student performance.
Students are expected to attend all sessions in person.
If necessary, some changes to this approach may be brought in, for example in response to pandemic issues.
2b) Team Readiness Assurance Test (tRAT)
Students share and discuss their answers with their team members and together agree on the correct answer.
A Leader (team spokesperson) is selected to report back on the team responses.
2c) Class-wide discussion
Content Experts, provide clarification on questions that students have found particularly difficult or problematic, addressing knowledge gaps before progressing to the next TBL phase.
Phase 3: Application
Finally, again working in their teams, students collectively solve clinical problems by applying their newly acquired knowledge to real-life medical situations.
It is here that the Content Experts together with the TBL facilitator encourage classroom discussion to help draw conclusions and to strengthen the learning of the session.
Phase 2 and 3 tasks are conducted using TBL-enabled software.
4) Peer Review
Students will be encouraged to give and receive constructive feedback from their team mates; an essential skill set required in the work place where health professionals are expected to work with teams from several disciplines.We have developed a process which allows students to highlight the positive behaviours of their peers and also develop the skills to provide constructive feedback to their peers.
What we expect from our students
• Students are expected to attend all TBL sessions, in-class
• There will usually be two full days of TBL sessions per week during each term in the first two years of the course
• Students will be allocated a half-day time-tabled time to do their preparatory work prior to each TBL session
• Students will be expected to dress appropriately and professionally in class and on-line as they should consider themselves members of the health profession right from the start of the MBBS course
• A professional approach is important as students may be interacting daily with clinicians, academics, patients and other health professionals.
Anatomy, the study of the structure of the body, is a key part of medicine.
At Brunel Medical School (BMS).
Anatomy is presented in a modern technological advanced learning environment that offers a variety of learning resources including human specimens and imaging facilities like ultrasound.
The teaching is facilitated by expert teachers with clinical and academic backgrounds.
Over the first two years of the MBBS, you will study the anatomy of the different systems of the body, learning to identify and describe parts of the body and how these parts work together.
Anatomy helps you build your knowledge of the language of medicine which you will employ in all facets of medicine.
Clinical Anatomy Suite
The learning and teaching of anatomy takes place in our purpose-built Clinical Anatomy Suite which has been designed for a modern medical curriculum.
The suite has ten tables, each with its own large wall mounted digital display screen.
Task lights at the tables, screens to separate the room into different sections and acoustic ceiling panels that buffer sound ensure an ideal teaching and learning experience.
Display cabinets showcase anatomical models that are used in during the sessions.
The Clinical Anatomy Suite also incorporates disability accessible feature at a table, enabling accessible teaching and learning for a wheelchair user.
Practical teaching
The teaching of anatomy is hands on, using the human specimens, anatomical models, ultrasound equipment and a variety of radiological images.
There is an emphasis on the clinical application of anatomical knowledge, facilitated by an experienced team of expert teachers with clinical and/or anatomical backgrounds.
At BMS, as part of the anatomy sessions, there are opportunities to visualise the structure of the body in the living using ultrasound.
The ultrasound sessions are guided by experienced clinicians and academics and supported by a technical team.
The practical teaching in the Clinical Anatomy Suite is linked to Team-Based Learning that takes place in other parts of the MBBS.
Plastinated specimens
At Brunel Medical School you have the unique opportunity to learn anatomy using plastinated human specimens which have been professionally dissected to display the structures of interest.
These human specimens have been freely and generously donated by individuals for the education of students.
The human specimens are a precious and unique resource entrusted to us that we use with gratitude and respect.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/brunel-medical-school/facilities:
Brunel Medical School
Brunel’s Quad North building is the home of the Medical School - located in the heart of the campus close to all the main student amenities.
The newly refurbished 2 nd floor features state-of-the art learning and teaching facilities.
The Medical School includes:
Anatomy Centre .
A new facility created to enable the learning and teaching of anatomy in an environment that embraces modern technology while keeping human specimens as the key learning resource.
The anatomy suite houses plastinated specimens that display a wide range of anatomical structures and features, from whole bodies to isolated organ systems.
You will work in teams and study the human specimens under the guidance of teachers with scientific and/or clinical backgrounds.
There are also radiologists guiding you through the assessment of clinical images obtained through a range of modalities such as X-rays, computerised tomography scans, MRI and ultrasound.
Two Clinical Skills Laboratories.
Clinical skills learning and teaching will cover all key skills that you will need at the start of your clinical career: basic infection control practices, measurement of vital signs, checking blood glucose, venepuncture, cannulation, suturing, injections, examining eyes and ears and basic life support.
Communications Skills Centre.
The Centre includes 18 consultation rooms where teams will learn to interact with simulated patients and real patients under the supervision of clinical teachers.
You will develop your communication skills and learn to take histories for a range of medical conditions.
Team members and staff will provide real time feed-back and opportunities for supervised role play of clinical scenarios.
Two simulated hospital wards .
The wards offer a teaching environment where you can train safely and develop your clinical skills in preparation for interacting with patients on clinical placements.
You will be taught in small groups and will learn how to conduct clinical examinations.
There will be opportunities for you to book the space to practice with fellow students.
Student Social Space.
You will benefit from your own social space and comfortable lounge area where you can relax and interact with your peers, away from the learning environment.
The social space is equipped with a kitchen and games facilities.
Student Support Office.
This is the first port of call where you can go whenever you have a query about the School, the course, the University or your well-being.
Our friendly and knowledgeable staff are available to answer queries and to direct you to the most suitable on-campus support system.
Team-Based Learning (TBL) Studio.
Our state-of-the-art TBL studio is situated close to the Medical School building.
The studio is designed specifically for TBL with high-tech sound and visual equipment strategically placed around the learning space.
We use customised round tables to optimise student engagement and interaction, and the learning is enhanced by the use of TBL-enabled software.
Please note that Physician Associate students have access to smaller TBL rooms on campus.
Back to Brunel Medical School subject page

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/brunel-medical-school/clinical-placements:
Your clinical placements will be located in a range of hospitals, general practices and community health settings.
You will have access to a diverse patient population across Greater London and the South East of England.
This patient exposure will provide you with the depth and breadth of experience needed to become a knowledgeable and competent junior doctor.
Secondary Care and Mental Health clinical placements are available in local hospitals – some of which are internationally renowned.
Here you will be taught by senior clinicians and have the opportunity to explore different specialties, from cardiology to surgery, general practice to paediatrics and more.
In addition, you will have a small number of clinical placements in the community and continuous rotations in Primary Care.
When it comes to student training, our partner hospitals have extensive experience.
Because the hospitals collaborate closely with nearby universities, you may encounter medical students from Oxford, Imperial, UCL, St George's, or Southampton while on placement.
West London NHS Trust is one of the most diverse providers of mental health, community and social care in the UK.
3,982 staff care for people in hospital and in the community, helping them to recover and go on to lead full and productive lives.
The Trust provides care and treatment for more than 800,000 people living in the London boroughs of Ealing, Hammersmith & Fulham and Hounslow, delivering services in the community (at home, in GP surgeries and care homes), hospital, specialist clinics and forensic (secure) units.
The national, specialist and forensic services include:
The teaching Trust has a growing research portfolio, working with academic and industry partners.
Dr Mostafa Shalaby
BMS Director of Undergraduate Education
The Trust provides high quality clinical services to over half a million patients a year, including over 94,000 Emergency Department attendances and employs over 3,500 staff.
The services are provided from both Hillingdon Hospital and Mount Vernon Hospital.
Hillingdon Hospital, very close to Brunel University London and Heathrow Airport, is the only acute hospital in the London Borough of Hillingdon and offers a wide range of services including accident and emergency, inpatient care, day surgery, outpatient clinics and maternity services.
Mount Vernon Hospital located in Rickmansworth has a modern Diagnostic and Treatment Centre.
With its spacious and contemporary design, the Mount Vernon Treatment Centre constitutes a new two-storey building and the existing Princess Christian Unit.
The new buildings house four state-of-the-art operating theatres to carry out elective surgery plus outpatient services.
Curious about clinical placements at Hillingdon Hospitals?
Discover all the details you need by visiting their page.
Saiqua Raoof  MBBS, FCPS, FRCPCH, MSC MEED
Paediatric Consultant at the Hillingdon Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust
"It is an exciting time for us at Hillingdon Hospital to become a part of a new medical school.
We already provide excellent education and training to our students from Imperial College London.
We look forward to developing a strong and lasting relationship with Brunel University and providing a high quality educational experience to students from BMS.
We extend a very warm welcome to medical students from Brunel University London.
I graduated from Pakistan and have been working in the NHS for the last 18 years.
My special interest is medical education.
I will be coordinating and supervising BMS clinical placements for years 3-5 at Hillingdon hospital."
Frimley Health NHS Foundation Trust provides NHS hospital services for around 900,000 people across Berkshire, Hampshire, Surrey and south Buckinghamshire.
As well as delivering excellent general hospital services to local people, the Trust provides specialist heart attack, vascular, stroke, spinal, cystic fibrosis and plastic surgery services across a much wider area.
There are three main hospitals - Frimley Park in Frimley near Camberley, Heatherwood in Ascot and Wexham Park near Slough.
The Trust is proud to host the Defence Medical Group South East at Frimley Park with military surgical, medical and nursing personnel working alongside the hospital's NHS staff providing care to patients in all specialties.
Dr Ruchit Patel
Dr Jaita Mukherjee.
Royal Brompton and Harefield hospitals is one of the leading specialist heart and lung centres in Europe.
In February 2021, Royal Brompton and Harefield hospitals became part of the internationally renowned Guy’s and St Thomas’ NHS Foundation Trust .
The Trust works from two main sites - Royal Brompton Hospital in Chelsea, West London and Harefield Hospital near Uxbridge.
Their clinicians and allied health professionals are known throughout the world for their expertise, standard of care and research success.
The specialist hospitals provide treatment for people with heart and lung disease, including rare and complex conditions.
The Trust carries out some of the most complicated surgery, and offer some of the most sophisticated treatment that is available anywhere in the world.
Achievements include:
Research plays a vital role at both the hospitals.
Dr Anthony Barron, Consultant Cardiologist, Director of Undergraduate Education and Clinical Educator at Brunel Medical School - MBBS BSc PhD FRCP
"Harefield and Royal Brompton Hospitals are proud to work with Brunel Medical School and look forward to welcoming clinical students to our hospitals from 2024.
We have a very special patient mix and are very excited to share our expertise with a new generation of future doctors ."
Derval Russell, Harefield Hospital Director, Heart, Lung and Critical Care Clinical group, part of Guy’s and St Thomas’ NHS Foundation Trust - BSc, MSc
"We are thrilled to be collaborating with Brunel Medical School.
Royal Brompton and Harefield Hospitals have a long history of excellence in healthcare education, and we are dedicated to training tomorrow's clinicians.
The establishment of a new medical school supports our ambitions to provide the highest quality of care and enriched learning environment, ensuring the best experience for our patients and students."
The Trust provides specialist NHS services in mental health, community and sexual health covering a wide area of west London and into the home counties.
The majority of the services are provided in the community, which means treating people in their homes or from clinics close to home.
In this sense the Trust is a very modern part of the NHS with a strong focus on better integration and coordination of care, delivered as close to home as possible.
The Trust also provides healthcare in prisons in London and the surrounding areas.
Dr Ruchit Patel
Consultant Psychiatrist - Central and North West London NHS Foundation Trust.
"I am delighted and humbled to be working in collaboration with an exceptionally dedicated and hard working team within Brunel Medical School, thriving to offer a gold standard of undergraduate medical education and clinical placements to students from across the world."
West Hertfordshire Teaching Hospitals NHS Trust provides acute healthcare services to a core catchment population of approximately half a million people living in west Hertfordshire and the surrounding area.
The trust also provides a range of more specialist services to a wider population, serving residents of North London, Bedfordshire, Buckinghamshire and East Hertfordshire.
The trust has three main sites – Watford General Hospital, St.
Alban’s Hospital and Hemel Hampstead hospital.
The main teaching site for medical students will be at Watford Hospital.
The Trust has close links with Watford Football Club, situated on the left to the hospital grounds at Watford General Hospital.
Watford is well connected by fast trains to central London which takes only 17 mins.
Senan Devendra MD FRCP
Consultant Physician in Acute Medicine and Endocrinology - West Hertfordshire Teaching Hospitals NHS Trust.
"We are looking forward to providing an excellent learning experience for Brunel medical students during their clinical years.
The hospital recently achieved Teaching hospital status which reflects our long-term commitment in providing a high standard of education.
As an organisation we strongly believe we can achieve excellent quality in patient care by investing in education."
The Confederation, Hillingdon is made up of 43 GP practices in Hillingdon and was created to enhance the delivery of health services to the local population.
The Confederation services is delivered from the existing GP practices within Hillingdon.
Royal Berkshire NHS Foundation Trust is one of the largest general hospital foundation trusts in the country and the main provider of acute and specialist care services for west Berkshire.
With six sites, the Trust employs approximately 5,500 staff and serves a population of around 1,000,000 people.
We provide acute medical and surgical services to Reading, Wokingham and West Berkshire and specialist services such as cancer, dialysis and eye surgery to a wider population across Berkshire and its borders.
Daniel Johnson BM BCh MRCP MMATH
Elderly Care Consultant - Royal Berkshire NHS Foundation Trust
"The Trust has an excellent record in medical education.
The team are excited to be welcoming students from Brunel Medical School.
The hospital has excellent educational facilities, a motivated team of educators, and hope to offer an outstanding training experience to BMS clinical students."
Primary Care
During Phase 1 (years 1 and 2), you will be attached to a local primary care General Practice, with teaching sessions in the same Practice every 2 weeks from the very first term.
You will learn about the system of healthcare in the UK, experience multi-professional teamwork, develop foundational skills in doctor-patient communication and contribute to community health projects
Primary and Secondary Care
During Phase 2 and 3 (years 3, 4 and 5) you will spend the majority of each academic year on placements, rotating through our different clinical partner organisations.
You will not just be observing, you will also have the opportunity to apply your clinical knowledge to the care of patients, under the supervision of clinician educators – doctors from different specialty backgrounds who also have a teaching role for Brunel medical students.
The clinical placements will be in both primary care and in our affiliated NHS Trusts.
These NHS Trusts include many outstanding hospitals providing outpatient and inpatient care to patients with a wide range of health conditions, and also community services delivering care close to home,  and in specialty areas including mental health.
Each of our partner NHS Trusts will have a Director of Undergraduate Education appointed by Brunel Medical School to ensure Brunel medical students have a high-quality and responsive student experience when on placements.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/brunel-medical-school/Student-Support-and-Well-Being:
Our aim at Brunel Medical School is to make you feel welcome, supported, safe and at home on our international campus.
We offer a comprehensive advice and guidance service from the admissions process and your arrival in London, throughout your degree until your graduation and progression into your career as a doctor.
Our service starts with support on arrival at Brunel University London and will continue by steering you through the challenges you may face such as adapting to a life away from home, to studying in a new country and possibly in a new language and coming to terms with a foreign culture which might be puzzling or overwhelming.
Our student support is delivered by Brunel Medical School’s Student Support and Well-Being Team and gives you access to all Brunel’s Student Services in addition to the services and support tailored specifically to MBBS students.
The Brunel Medical School Student Support and Well-Being Team is your first point of contact for all the services available to enhance your journey through the medical school.
The team will help you identify resources available directly through the medical school or through the University and ensure you are appropriately supported if any issues arise.
The team will also provide resources, organise events and offer advice to help you improve your well-being, and quality of experience at Brunel Medical School.
Our office is located in the Medical School building (Quad North Room 229).
Team members
Head of Student Support – Dr Katherine Smith
Student Support and Well-Being Manager – Mrs Debbie Dyson
Student Support and Well-Being Officer – Emma Bolton
Student Support and Well-Being Officer - TBC
Services on offer include:
House Tutors with learning coach role
Peer Mentor
Brunel Medical School careers advice
Support for USMLE and MCCQE exams
Clinical placement support
Tailored support services specific to international students
Events for MBBS students to enhance their experience
Brunel University student services.
All Medical School students will be allocated a ‘House’, which they will remain part of for the duration of the course.
Each student will be allocated a House Tutor, who will support their personal, academic and professional development through a structured series of individual and group House meetings.
The House Tutors will have a learning coach role, to encourage you to reflect on your development and progression by achievement of personal goals.
Your House Tutor will be available to advise on academic matters and help liaise with the School’s Student Support and Well-Being Team, who can help you locate the relevant professional services either in the School or University.
Each House has a Senior House Tutor who is responsible for their respective House.
Dr Robert Menzies, Senior House Tutor
Consultant Anaesthetist
Q.
What is the name of your house and what do you know about the person whom the house is named after?
Our House name is Alexander Fleming.
Alexander Fleming almost needs no introduction as the pioneer of Antibiotics.
What impresses me most about Fleming are his modesty and integrity.
He was very open about the “accidental” discovery of the first antibiotic and his tireless work to take this discovery into production.
What are you looking forward to most about being a House Tutor at Brunel Medical School?
I am very much looking forward to seeing how the students progress and evolve into amazing young doctors.
Obviously having been through the process myself, I’m keen to make the learning process for these students seamless and manageable.
What does your role as Senior House Tutor involve?
The Senior House Tutor role involves looking after a small group of trainees, but also having an overview of the House and its identity and activities.
The Senior House tutor has a role to make sure that all its members have a sense of belonging and an environment that supports them with not only their learning, but also their well-being.
Can you tell us a little about yourself and any relevant work experiences e.g.
roles at other universities and research interests?
I currently work as a Consultant Anaesthetist in the NHS, but I also have a strong interest in Education.
I hold the role of Clinical Tutor in my current hospital, where I am responsible for the postgraduate learning for over 200 junior doctors.
I am currently an Honorary Lecturer at Royal Holloway, University of London and I have a post graduate certificate in Medical Education from Cardiff University.
Outside of work I am a keen runner, cyclist and skier.
Our first cohort is incredibly diverse and international!
– how do you think this will benefit the students?
Having met quite a few of the students now, I have been so impressed by how well the students have settled into their new home!
The array of cultures is amazing and the suggestions for house activities have been so varied, largely driven by the huge diversity amongst students.
They all appear to be very supportive of one another and recognise the importance of this support when living and studying away from home, family and friends.
Professor Piyal Sen, Senior House Tutor.
Medical Director and Consultant Forensic Psychiatrist - Chadwick Lodge, Elysium Healthcare, Visiting Professor - Brunel University London, Visiting Academic - Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and Neurosciences, London Chair - Special Committee on Human Rights, The Royal College of Psychiatrists.
Channi Kumar House.
Professor Channi Kumar was a professor in perinatal psychiatry who came to the UK from India at a young age, worked for the NHS and after doing his training at The Maudsley Hospital, London, worked for The Maudsley and set up the first ever unit of perinatal psychiatry at the Institute of Psychiatry, the academic wing of the Maudsley.
After his death, the mother and baby unit at King’s College Hospital is named after him.
He represents the thousands of Black and minority ethnic doctors who primarily came from Commonwealth countries and made a huge contribution to British Medicine.
I am most looking forward to spending time with the students in my house, not only to assist with their academic activities, but also with any extra curricular activity in which they might be interested.
Medicine is not just about the science, it is also about humans and humanity and I particularly look forward to helping my students explore their humanity.
My role as senior house tutor involves helping each student to achieve their individual fullest potential and also to function as a team to learn a skill which is very important in medicine.
My personal role involves overseeing the whole process, liaising with the house captain and other students in house leadership roles to ensure all the needs of the house are met and also being the tutor for 6 tutees.
I did my basic medical training and my initial psychiatric training in Kolkata, India.
Prior to that, my schooling was in Kolkata as well.
I have been thrown into leadership roles right from childhood, acting as house captain for my own house in school and almost 4 decades later, we still discuss the highs and the lows of what our houses achieved when we get together as schoolfriends!
I want the BMS students to develop that kind of spirit.
When I went to medical school, I was elected President of the Student’s Union and understood the importance of leadership and organisation in medicine, particularly the art of motivating and inspiring others.
One of my favourite activities continues to be organising reunions for my own school and college, bringing them together from various parts of the globe.
With regards to professional roles, I work as Consultant Forensic Psychiatrist and Medical Director, running a department of 11 doctors in a 116 bedded psychiatric unit.
I am also a visiting Professor at Brunel University, maintaining research links with the Centre for Cognitive Neuroscience (CCN), Brunel University, as well as with the Institute of Psychiatry, the academic wing of the Maudsley, where I did my research prior to joining Brunel.
My areas of research interest are personality disorder, cultural psychiatry and medical ethics.
I am particularly interested in research on marginalised groups, like asylum seekers and refugees.
I have experience of taking part in medical student selection, both at King’s College School of Medicine as well as Buckingham University.
I am also an MRCPsych examiner for the Royal College of Psychiatrists.
I have a strong interest in Human Rights and am currently the Chair of the Special Committee of Human Rights, Royal College of Psychiatrists.
I also lead in the delivery of the Professionalism, Ethics and Law (PEL) curriculum for Brunel Medical School, delivering TBL sessions as a content expert.
With regards to other experiences and interests, I am keenly interested in debating and dramatics.
During my college days, I was the Assistant General Secretary of the Calcutta Debating Society, organising and speaking in public debates, and also acted in English and Bengali plays on a semi-professional basis with theatre groups, travelling to other cities in India for the performances.
This helps me immensely in my current professional career, where I have to appear in court as expert witness and be cross-examined by lawyers and barristers.
In many cases, my name has appeared in the media as expert witness for a high profile trial.
I also have an interest in films, and for a while was one of the film reviewers for the British Medical Journal (BMJ), reviewing films of interest to doctors and medical students.
I continue to present talks, not only at academic conferences but also to medical school societies on topics of interest, like asylum-seekers and refugees.
I have also given evidence to All-Party Parliamentary Committees on the mental health issues in this group, and spoken to the media as spokesperson for the Royal College of Psychiatrists.
I consider the diversity and international nature of the first cohort to be incredibly exciting.
As someone with an interest in human rights, I have always personally had a global outlook.
As someone who arrived in the UK as an immigrant and fell in love with the global population of London, I relish the opportunity to train our students to be genuine world citizens.
Medicine is in many ways a global speciality, I have friends who have started their training in Kolkata, India, but now practice in India and all over the world, not only in the UK, US and Australia, but also places like Papua New Guinea and even Congo.
Medicine is their passport to global citizenship, it makes them feel at home wherever they go, and they are respected for their knowledge and humanity.
For our students, to start off with such an incredibly diverse and international peer group, they are very fortunate.
Hopefully, it will train them very well for their future practice, whether it is in their countries of origin, in the UK or any other country which they choose to make their home.
I am thus very excited about the possibilities and potential benefit to students.
Dr Jean Potter, Senior House Tutor
Macmillan Consultant in Palliative Care, Clinical Lead for End of Life Care.
Cicely Saunders House.
Dame Cicely Saunders is internationally recognised as the founder of the modern hospice movement.
She pioneered in the field of palliative care, binding patient centred care, research and teaching together.
She trained as a nurse, social worker and then doctor.
She epitomises lifelong learning, multidisciplinary working and how to successfully realise one’s vision.
I was lucky enough to meet her when studying for my PhD at Kings College London.
It was very special to share a pot of tea with her as I attempted to explain my thesis!
Most definitely meeting and getting to know the students.
I know they have come from many walks of life and I am interested in gaining their perspectives on the world and how they can contribute to this marvellous field of medicine.
I vividly remember the highs and lows of being a medical student and of being a doctor in training.
These experiences have fed a longstanding interest in lifelong learning, wellbeing, resilience and professionalism.
I hope very much to support students to find and develop their own abilities and strengths because these will enable them to flourish through medical school and for many years beyond.
Can you tell us a little about yourself and any relevant work experiences?
I studied Medicine at Imperial College, Sociology at University College London, and undertook my PhD – studying the prevalence, identification and natural history of neuropathic pain of various aetiologies - at Kings College London.
Following my general medical hospital training, I spent three years in Clinical Oncology before finding my passion in Palliative Care.
I have been a Consultant in Palliative Care for 15 years and during this time I have undertaken many roles aligned to this specialty, developing and delivering new services and supporting and teaching multidisciplinary specialist and generic staff.
I was a lecturer on the Palliative Care and Policy MSc at Kings College London for several years, as well as establishing the Therapeutics in Palliative Medicine Course at the Royal Society of Medicine.
We all have so much to learn from each other!
It’s a fantastically fertile environment.
I have no doubt students will make lifelong friends and colleagues, and in doing so create a supportive network across the world.
That’s just so wonderful.
Dr Anthony Barron, Senior House Tutor
Clinical Educator
Dorothy Hodgkin.
She was a British chemist and the only British female to win the Nobel Prize for chemistry.
She was crucial in identifying the molecular structure of penicillin, vitamin B12 (for which she was awarded the Nobel Prize) and insulin.
She was a graduate of both Oxford (undergraduate) and Cambridge (PhD) universities and achieved incredible things in a male dominated specialty at that time, and all whilst living with Rheumatoid arthritis, a condition that caused her significant disability.
Close interaction with students one-to-one to help them develop as learners and ultimately as the doctors of the future.
I already hold a supervisory and educational role for junior doctors at my hospital at am excited to use this experience for Brunel students, especially at a point in their training when they will be full of enthusiasm for the future ahead.
Alongside the role as a House Tutor for 6 students this year, I also hold more responsibility for the other 16 or so students who have as their Tutor one of my colleagues.
Part of my role will be supporting these colleagues, especially the two clinicians who have less time to commit to Brunel alongside their clinical duties than me ensuring they have someone to come to with questions on how to manage their students.
The Senior House Tutor will lead on establishing the house culture, the uniqueness that will make us Dorothy Hodgkin House, supporting students in leadership roles within our house and helping guide the sense of community that we all hope will give our students a feeling of home away from home.
I have been a consultant cardiologist at Harefield Hospital for 6 years.
We are a specialist heart and lung hospital.
I specialise in heart failure (patients with weakened hearts) and cardiac imaging (scans of the heart).
I also hold the position of the Royal College of Physicians Tutor for Harefield Hospital, a supervisory role looking after the education and welfare of junior doctors in the physician specialties.
I also mentor the Physician Associates at Harefield, who are a relatively new staff group, some of whom graduated from Brunel!
Like our students, our patients are incredibly diverse and international.
I'm sure we can all benefit (students and staff) from greater day to day interaction with people from different backgrounds and cultures.
When our students start to see patients it will help them treat the person in front of them holistically, having a greater appreciation of what makes them unique, which can only be beneficial.
Dr Senita Mountjoy, Senior House Tutor
Head of Curriculum Development, General Practitioner
Brunel Medical School will guide you through your medical studies, whether you intend to enter the UK Foundation Programme or return to your home country after graduating.
We will help you in researching and understanding the requirements for practicing medicine in your country.
We will also work with you to identify any additional resources and support you may require to meet the requirements.
Support for the United States Medical Licensing Examination (USMLE) and the Medical Council of Canada Qualifying Examination (MCCQE)
The School will offer guidance on the USMLE and MCCQE assessments.
The careers adviser will discuss individual needs, and provide advice on approved preparatory resources, including review texts, practice question banks and online courses.
Please note that access to USMLE and MCCQE examinations will be available at the time when the first cohort graduate.
Guidance on your visa application and compliance with the UK Home Office
The transfer of a Tier 4 visa status to a Tier 2 visa for Foundation Training posts.
A range of events will be organised by Brunel Medical School throughout your educational journey to help you meet your classmates and fellow House mates, find out about new cultures, and you can join a range of social activities organised in collaboration with the Brunel Student Union.
Prior to starting the course - If your level of English does not meet the entry requirements of the MBBS, you will be offered the chance to attend an English language course at the Brunel Language Centre.
The Centre runs pre-sessional English courses lasting from 6–50 weeks, depending on your needs.
As you progress through your Medicine course, the Centre offers free academic English support through group courses and one-to-one consultations.
This means you can continue to develop your skills in academic writing, reading, listening, discussion, pronunciation and presentation skills.
Medicine specific language classes : An important part of the teaching programme are our subject specific classes.
There are English language sessions dedicated to the field of medicine which brings together students who will be studying similar courses.
The focus here is on the skills and vocabulary needed for the health sector.
Students also get the opportunity to visit interesting London venues to explore the discipline outside of the classroom.
If you require English language support during your study, you have the opportunity to attend English classes at our Brunel Language Centre.
The Brunel Medical School Student Support and Well-Being team can direct you to central student services, which provides individual and group student support to help students overcome certain challenges so that they can achieve their university goals.
This includes counsellors, study skills tutors and access to the assistive technology centre.
Brunel University London has a vibrant, rich and dynamic population of staff and students from all over the world.
We provide support and guidance on a range of equality and diversity issues.
Access to our ‘ Brunel Buddy’ system in your first year.
Our ‘Buddies’ are trained Brunel students who use their own personal experience of being a new student to answer your questions and let you know about available support services at Brunel.
Supporting medical students with mental health conditions (gmc-uk.org)
Support for International students
Brunel’s Student Support Services
Tel: +44 (0)1895 266435
Email: BMS-Support@brunel.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/brunel-medical-school/Meet-our-team:
Brunel’s Medicine MBBS is delivered by distinguished academics, clinicians and scientists.
Our staff work together to provide the latest insights into medical advances and clinical practice.
Our medical school draws in talent and experience from over 100 staff members from across academia and professional services.
At Brunel Medical School we foster innovation and curiosity – informed by clinical practice.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/brunel-medical-school/Vision-mission-and-values:
Advancing medical education and healthcare practice for a changing world; driven by science, technology and humanity.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/brunel-medical-school/Brunel-Medical-Society:
Brunel Medical School students have the opportunity to become a member of the BMS Medical Society (BMS MedSoc); an all-inclusive student run group, designed to support our medical students and help make the most of their time at Brunel.
BMS MedSoc organises various activities and events over the year including monthly speaker events, fun social activities related to medical knowledge, culminating with the annual MedSoc Ball!
Being a BMS MedSoc member is rewarding as well as being a great way to gain experience and invaluable skills for life as a doctor.
“MedSoc is bringing our students inspiration, support and fun outside the curriculum but still related to medicine.
We hope to broaden our view of medicine and think out of the frame of exams and textbooks while at the same time adding a lot of colour to our life as medical students.”
Carolyn Chia-Yu Liu - BMS MedSoc President
1 st Wednesday 13:30 – 14:30
London Anatomy Cup Preliminary Round by T&OSoc and MedSoc @ Bann213
14th Tuesday 10:00 – 10:30
How to make the most out of GP placement by GPSoc @ Bann213
14th Tuesday 17:00 – 19:00
Trivia Night by SurgSoc @ Loco’s
21 st Tuesday 18:30 – 19:30
Paediatric experience through nursing to medicinje by Dr Saira Hussain by PaedsSoc @ Online
22 nd Wednesday 18:00 – 19.30
Introduction to A&E by Dr Neeraj Malhan by A&ESoc @ QDNT234
28th Tuesday 17:30 – 19:30
Watch Party “Seahorse: The Dad Who Gave Birth” by Ob&GynSoc @ LECT106/108
Instagram
brunelmedsoc@gmail.com

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/brunel-medical-school/MBBS-term-dates-202425.aspx:
Term
Start Date
End Date
1
23 September 2024
13 December 2024
2
6 January 2025
11 April 2025
3
5 May 2025
24 July 2025

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/brunel-medical-school/Electives:
In Year 5 of the MBBS (after your final exams), you will have a 7-week elective period incorporating 5 weeks of clinical placement and 2 weeks of vacation.
Your elective may take place either in the UK or abroad.
This is an extremely exciting part of your education in which you will be able to choose and experience medical practise in a completely different setting.
It is not mandatory to go overseas because you can experience different social backgrounds, cultures, and medical conditions in the UK.
Indeed, many regions of the UK are truly diverse, offering you new social and clinical areas to explore.
Brunel’s clinical elective is intended to broaden your cultural experience of clinical practice and to enable you to engage actively in patient care ahead of your first post as a Foundation Year 1 (FY1) Doctor.
It is possible that you may feel this placement is outside your comfort zone, nonetheless it represents valuable preparation for the challenges ahead.
The elective placement is self-funded; the university does not pay for travel or lodging.
The cost will vary depending on the location; for example flights, insurance, health checks and vaccinations will add to the cost.
Students seeking a more cost effective elective frequently look to the UK.
Overseas electives are permitted if students pass the final year examinations on their first attempt (prior to the elective).
Students who fail to pass the final assessments of the MBBS  will need to retake the assessments to graduate and begin their first job.
Consequently, elective periods for those who must retake assessments are typically shorter and limited to a UK-based placement.
The Medical School will ensure compliance with health and safety requirements are in place - for example, immunisations, insurance, communication, accommodation, and expectations around clinical practice (skills competence and application).
*Please note, it may not be possible to secure a placement in every country, for example USA.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/brunel-medical-school/Casper-Pilot:
All applicants applying to the Medicine MBBS at Brunel University London are invited to complete Casper as part of a Pilot with NHS England, during the 2023/2024 admissions cycle.
Taking the Casper test does not confer any advantage over students who have not taken it.
Casper is a standardised, online assessment that measures the types of competencies and attributes that are important to succeed in the programme and in a medical career.
In participating in the Casper Pilot, you are contributing to our efforts to further enhance fairness and objectivity of our selection process.
Casper : 90 - 110 minute online, open-response situational judgement test.
How to complete Casper:
In order to take Casper, you will need a laptop or desktop computer with webcam and audio capabilities and a reliable internet connection.
You will need to create an account on the Acuity web site before beginning Casper.
You will be asked to show a Government-issued photo ID (English/French) for account validation and your email address should be the one you use for your application to Brunel Medical School.
Important: To account for identity verification and payment processing timelines, ensure that you register for your test at least 3 days before your preferred test date and time.
Last-minute bookings are not recommended
PLEASE DO NOT PAY FOR YOUR CASPER TEST.
You can use the following Fee Waiver Code in Step 6 of the Reservation Process:  BRUNUKNHS-PP23
How to prepare for Casper:
Going into the test knowing what to expect is the best way to prepare for Casper!
Once you register for an Acuity Account, you can find a full 14-scenario sample test containing both the video and typed response sections that you can use to practice as many times as you like.
As it is just a practice test, your answers will not be saved or submitted for review or feedback.
You can also find useful links to prepare for your Casper test here:
Test Prep FAQ Dates and Fees
Accommodation
Submit your Initial Request Form (Parts 1 and 2) at least four weeks before your scheduled test date to ensure you get the support you need.
For full details on our accommodations policy, check out this help article.
Questions
Please direct any enquiries about Casper to the test to support@acuityinsights.app or alternatively, use the chat bubble in the bottom right hand corner of the Acuity Insights website or in your Acuity Insights Account.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/admissions/professional-course-requirements/Immunisation-Checking:
Important information: All applicants are required to confirm their immunity and vaccination information to the University.
All immunisations are mandatory.
Students will not go out on placement if they have not completed all the listed immunisations.
Covid-19 immunisations - Although our practice partners do not mandate vaccinating to healthcare staff they do strongly advise staff to have their COVID boosters - we would therefore advise you to have your COVID booster to help protect you and your patients.
Flu immunisations – you are advised to have a flu immunisation when available to protect you and your patients.
This applies to all Health related programmes.
These requirements only apply to the below courses:
This requires 3 vaccines administered over a period of 6 months.
You will also be required to have a surface antibody blood test after you have completed your three Hepatitis B vaccinations.
At least the first vaccination should be completed prior to enrolment in September.
.
You must have had a current booster within the last 10 years that will be valid up to September next year or have five documented vaccinations giving long term immunity.
If your GP can verify that you have received this vaccination via your medical records, or they are able to verify a BCG scar on your arm as proof of immunisation, then they will need to provide confirmation of this on letterheaded paper with a signature.
If you do not have a scar or vaccine confirmation in your medical records please speak to your GP about how to have a Mantoux test.
If the outcome of the Mantoux test is negative you will need to have the BCG vaccination.
If your GP can verify by your medical records that you have received two vaccinations or you have immunity due to having had either the Measles or Rubella virus, they will need to provide you with evidence of this.
If immunity for either both or one of these cannot be confirmed by your medical records you must have a blood test to confirm immunity and your GP must provide evidence of this immunity once you have received your results.
If your medical records verify that you have had the virus and are therefore immune, your GP will need to provide you with evidence of this.
However, if immunity cannot be confirmed by your medical records you must have a blood test.
If your blood test result is negative you will need to have the varicella zoster vaccine.
The below blood tests are required in addition to the above immunisations if you are studying the Physician Associate or Medicine Programme.
The additional blood tests are to check immunity for Exposure Prone Procedures.
Occupational Health is a specialist field concerned with the effect of health on work, and the effect of work on health.
Students admitted to the MBBS programme are required to obtain Occupational Health clearance.
This is to ensure that you are fit for all aspects of the course, identify anyone who will need support in advance, and to decide the most appropriate kind of support.
OH Works is an Occupational Health service responsible for your health clearance.
OH Works will also be responsible for your Occupation Health during your time at university.
All offer holders are asked to complete an online health questionnaire.
The health questionnaire is the first part of the clearance process and you will not be allowed to enrol on the MBBS programme if you have not completed it.
The questionnaire will be released by OH Works so please monitor emails and respond immediately to avoid delays with your enrolment on the programme and clearance for clinical placements.
Please note that you have a duty to provide truthful and accurate information to OH Works.
You should declare any health condition or disability that could affect your ability to study or undertake clinical placements.
Any failure to do so may result in the offer of a place being withdrawn or reconsideration of your fitness to continue on the programme.
The Medical School will make reasonable adjustments for students with disabilities.
The second part of the health clearance process is to ensure you have undergone blood screening and received the vaccinations as recommended by the DH.
You will not be fully cleared until we are certain that you have had the necessary vaccinations and blood tests.
Please ensure that your vaccination history is recorded with dates of administration.
You will need to request your vaccination history from your General Practitioner, doctor or Family Physician.
You must provide documentary evidence and upload this information when submitting your health questionnaire.
All medical documents, including vaccination records, must be translated into English, date-stamped and certified.
Allow time in advance to ensure that this form is returned before the deadline.
It is your responsibility to ensure that this reaches OH Works by the deadline.
The vaccinations required are the following:
The blood screening tests required are the following:
NOTE : These blood tests are to test your immunity levels to hepatitis B, hepatitis C and HIV, which are Blood Borne Viruses (BBVs).
The results of these tests will determine whether you have clearance to perform Exposure Prone Procedures (EPPs).
These blood tests will only be accepted from a verified laboratory in the UK, so students who have not had BBV tests performed in the UK will have these performed during the OH Works pre-planned clinic once they have enrolled.
When you have enrolled on the MBBS programme at Brunel, you will be required to attend a mandatory OH Works pre-planned clinic on campus to complete your occupational health clearance.
At this visit, you may have:
(1)    Vaccinations, if the required vaccinations have not been performed or the appropriate documentary evidence has not been submitted and/or
(2)    Blood tests for BBVs, if you do not have documentary evidence of tests done in a UK laboratory
(3)    Referral to an appropriate professional for further assessment in the event of a health condition or disability
Please note, attendance at this OH Works pre-planned clinic is essential to ensure you complete OH clearance in accordance with Department of Health (DoH) guidance.
If you are unable to attend you must inform the university and OH Works immediately.
Failure to attend may result in delays starting clinical placements and may result in you being withdrawn from the programme.
The vast majority of students are fit for the course and the Medical School is informed.
Support and/or reasonable adjustments will be offered as necessary.
Hepatitis B All prospective medical students should have at least two doses prior to starting the course.
You will have a busy timetable once you start and it can be difficult to attend appointments for further vaccination.
There is also the opportunity to learn phlebotomy skills during the first term and if you are not vaccinated, this may result in you not being able to participate.
If you are unable to obtain or complete this schedule of vaccinations prior to starting the programme, this will be done by OH Works once you have enrolled on the programme.
The preferred course for full protection is 3 vaccinations of Hepatitis B vaccine over a period of six months, with a final blood test after the third dose to check that the vaccination has been successful.
At the OH Works pre-planned clinic, a full Hepatitis B immunisation history will be confirmed and a blood test taken for Hepatitis B surface antigen and Hepatitis B antibodies.
Diptheria, Pertussis and Tetanus All students should have a documented history of five doses of DPT vaccine.
This is a combination vaccine against diptheria, pertussis and tetanus.
Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG) (Tuberculosis/TB) All prospective medical students should have BCG vaccination and will be assessed at the OH Works pre-planned clinic for documented proof of BCG vaccination or evidence of a visible BCG scar.
If you have not had this vaccination in childhood you may be able to obtain this from your General Practitioner / Doctor / Family Physician.
If you are not able to source this yourself, you will have this vaccination at the OH Works pre-planned clinic.
All students who have been living or working overseas for more than 3 months in a country where there is a high prevalence of TB may be required to have additional screening tests.
MMR (Measles, Mumps and Rubella) All students should have a documented history of two doses of MMR vaccine, which is usually given in early childhood to prevent the spread of infectious diseases or provide serological evidence of immunity to measles, mumps and rubella from an authenticated laboratory.
If you are unsure of your vaccination history, please consult your General Practitioner / Doctor / Family Physician who should be able to provide you with a booster MMR vaccination if necessary.
Chicken Pox (Varicella Zoster/VZV) If you cannot confirm a history of this disease, you will be required to have a blood test and will be offered vaccination if necessary.
Students who have had the disease diagnosed in a tropical country will also require a blood test to confirm immunity.
Other vaccinations COVID vaccination is no longer mandatory for medical students, although we strongly recommend that you are vaccinated to protect yourself and others.
Influenza vaccination , when available, is also recommended, to protect yourself and others.
If you have any queries, please contact BMS-Admissions@brunel.ac.uk
The health questionnaire forms part of your OH record.
If you have any queries, please contact brunel@ohworks.co.uk

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/international/visas-and-immigration/Making-a-Student-visa-application:
Nationals of the European Union (EU), European Economic Area (EEA) and Switzerland became subject to UK immigration control following the UK's departure from the European Union in 2021.
This means that immigration permission to enter or remain in the UK i.e.
a visa needs to be applied for (dependant on certain factors).
EU, EEA and Swiss citizens and their eligible family members who were resident in the UK by 31 December 2020 could apply to settle in the UK under the government’s EU Settlement Scheme .
You may have already applied for and obtained EU Settled Status.
If you have not obtained EU Settled Status and/or are outside of the UK, you would require a visa to enter the UK.
You will need to apply for a Student visa to study at Brunel as explained below.
If you need a Student visa to study in the UK, then we will sponsor this and provide you with a Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS).
If you are applying for a Student visa, please ensure that you do not travel to the UK before you have been granted your Student visa (which will be in a digital format).
If you enter the UK as a visitor beforehand (just using your passport), your Student visa would not be valid and you would have to leave the UK and return to 'validate' it.
You can make a Student visa application inside the UK (known as permission to stay) if you currently have valid immigration permission in most categories.
However, please note that you will not be able to make a valid application if your current visa is in one of the categories below: 1.
Visitor
Short-term Student
Parent of a Child Student
Seasonal Worker
Domestic Worker in a Private Household
Leave to remain outside the Immigration Rules.
You can apply for your visa online using the UKVI website .
You can apply up to three months before the start date of your course.
Please visit the UKVI website for details of how to apply.
You will submit your application online and may then be asked to attend an appointment at a UK Visa and Citizenship Application Services (UKVCAS) Centre .
At the appointment, you will be required to submit your biometric details (fingerprints and a facial photograph).
However, if you have made an immigration application in the UK before, you may not need to attend an appointment if you can re-enrol your biometric details using a ‘UK Immigration: ID Check' App on a mobile phone or computer.
This will be confirmed after your online application has been submitted.
If necessary, you also have the option to scan your documents as part of your application, although this can also be done prior to your appointment through the online form.
Please be aware that during the busiest months of August and September in particular, it may be very difficult to book appointments within a short time, particularly in London.
It is very important that you allow enough time to apply for your visa to enable you to register for your course in time.
Please visit our website for further details of what you need to do in order to register.
Important: Although your passport will be returned to you after your appointment, you should not travel outside the UK until you receive a decision on your application.
If you do so, your application may become invalid and you should withdraw the application if you need to leave the UK.
You must submit your Student visa application before your current visa expires.
If your visa expires more than 28 days before the start date of any new course, you must return to your home country and apply from there.
Please also note that, under current immigration rules, you can only apply to extend your Student visa inside the UK if you meet the UKVI's 'academic progression' requirements.
For example, if you have not successfully completed the course for which your current visa was issued, you may have to apply outside of the UK.
Please bear this in mind if you have needed to change courses during your time studying in the UK and need to extend your Student visa.
If you are applying from outside the UK, the UKVI website has information of where and how to apply , and the cost of the application.
The application form can also be found at the UKVI website .
If you need help with your visa application, British Council offices and the British High Commission can provide assistance.
If you are applying for your student visa in the USA, please visit our website for latest immigration updates, as there has been a significant change to how student visa applications will be handled in the USA from July 2025.
You can apply for your visa up to six months months before the start of your course and it is strongly recommended that you apply as early as you can within this period (noting you will first need a Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies as listed below).
You will be given the option to apply for your visa using a Standard, Priority or Super Priority Service.
It is expected that a decision on the application should be made within 15, 5 or 1 working day/s respectively.
The priority services have an additional cost.
Generally, if you are applying for your visa at least several weeks before the course starts, you may be advised just to use the standard service.
But you may wish to consider priority services if there is less than a month before your course starts to ensure you obtain your visa in time.
Please note that once you have selected and paid for the appropriate service, you cannot change it.
After submitting the online application, please look out for further communication from UKVI that will instruct you on the next steps to progress with the application.
This may include a need for you to attend an appointment at a Visa Application Centre and/or attend a video interview (see below).
Please regularly check your emails, including your spam/junk folders, for communication you may be sent from UKVI in relation to your application.
Important Information for 'Non-Visa Nationals' - Do not travel to the UK while a Student visa application is pending
If you are applying for a Student visa, it is very important that you do not travel to the UK before your Student visa is granted.
This would be possible if you are a non-visa national (i.e.
you are NOT of a nationality on the list at this website) as you could enter on your passport to visit for six months.
This may apply if you are a national of the USA, Canada, Australia, Japan or any EU/EEA country ( as well as many others ).
The problem with doing this is that your Student visa is not 'activated' until you enter the UK after the issue date.
If you enter the UK before the issue date of the Student visa, it will not be valid, and you can only stay in the UK for six months.
We would not be able to register you on your course if this is found to be the case as your Student visa will not be valid.
The only solution would be for you to leave the UK and re-enter on your Student visa, which would likely be expensive and inconvenient.
Please do not travel to the UK while your Student visa application is pending, even if it means you may be late for your course.
Please contact us for further advice if this happens.
Please visit the UKVI website for details of how much a visa application will cost.
In addition to the application fees, you will also need to pay the Immigration Health surcharge as part of your immigration application (see section below).
Student visas will be in a digital format - known as an electronic visa or eVisa.
You will be given information on how to access and display your eVisa when it is issued.
For example, you will need to be able to show this in order to register at Brunel University, to rent property, or to work in the UK.
Further details about eVisas can be found at: Online immigration status (eVisa) - GOV.UK (www.gov.uk) .
Information about how to prove your visa status where required is available at: View and prove your immigration status: get a share code - GOV.UK (www.gov.uk) .
Please note that if you are already in the UK with a Student visa in the form of a Biometric Residence Permit (BRP), which may expire on 31 December 2024, you will also need to create an eVisa to replace this documentation.
Details of how to do this can also be found at: Online immigration status (eVisa) - GOV.UK (www.gov.uk) .
It is very important that you take steps to set up your eVisa online once your visa is issued, certainly before you travel to the UK.
You must also keep the personal information attached to your eVisa up-to-date at all times, especially your passport details, as this is what will be linked to your eVisa when you travel in and out of the UK.
Prior to mid-July 2025, students applying from overseas would also receive an entry clearance vignette (a passport sticker) that would be valid for 90 days.
If you obtained your visa beforehand, you may still have this vignette.
Note that vignettes are still being issued for some other visa categories such as dependants.
Having a vignette in your passport doesn't change anything - you must please ensure that you have set up your online eVisa account before travelling to the UK and that you only enter the UK after the start date of the visa.
As part of your visa application, you will need to achieve 70 points to be successful.
50 points are awarded for having a valid Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) number.
The remaining 20 points are awarded for Finance (10) and English Language (10).
Brunel University can only send you a CAS once your offer has been made unconditional.
If you have a conditional offer, you will need to meet the conditions of your offer first.
Please visit the Admissions Office website for further details about the application process.
Please note that we will not issue you with a CAS if there will not be enough time for you to apply for your visa before the registration deadline for your course, so you must meet the conditions of your offer as soon as you possibly can.
The Admissions Office will send your CAS statement to you by email.
You do not need a hard copy of the CAS statement (such as a letter) because the CAS details are also electronically sent to UKVI.
You will have to input your CAS number into the onlibe visa application form and they will then be able to see your CAS when your application is assessed.
The CAS email will include the course details you need to include in your visa application such as the course dates, academic course level and our sponsor licence number.
You may not need to submit the qualification certificates/transcripts listed on the CAS when you apply for your visa, but you should keep them safe as UKVI reserve the right to request them.
Please check your CAS carefully when you receive it, and inform us if there is an error of any kind.
In most cases, we should be able to electronically correct your CAS.
We can do this by adding a 'sponsor note' to correct any of the CAS details, or we can update the tuition fees.
We will not need to issue you with a new CAS - we will confirm we have corrected the live electronic document.
The first CAS we send you is free of charge.
However, if you need us to issue you with a new CAS (for example if you decide to change courses) then there will be an administration fee of £55.
This covers the cost charged to us by UKVI.
Please note that if your visa application is refused, you will also need a new CAS if you wish to make a new visa application.
A CAS number will expire if not used within six months, so we will not issue a CAS more than six months before the start of your course.
A CAS can only be used in a visa application up to six months before the course start date (for applications outside of the UK).
Joint CAS' (covering both a Pre-sessional English and main degree course)
If you will be studying both a Pre-sessional English and a degree course at Brunel, in certain circumstances you may be able to receive a 'Joint CAS' to cover both courses.
This will enable you to make an application for a single Student visa to cover both courses.
You should receive this information when you are offered a place, but please visit the Language Centre website for further details of the requirements for a Joint CAS.
10 points are awarded for Finance.
The remaining 60 points are awarded for having a valid CAS and meeting the English language requirement.
The Finance requirement is a very important part of the visa application.
You should check your financial documents very carefully before applying, as the visa application will be refused if these are not met.
For full details of the requirements, please refer to the Student Visa Guidance .
You should also refer to the 'Financial Requirement' section of Student Immigration Rules (Appendix ST).
The finance requirement is to evidence that you have enough money to support yourself while you are studying in the UK.
You need to demonstrate that you have funds available to cover the remaining tuition fees for the first academic year of your course, as well as an additional amount to cover your living costs.
Brunel University is classified as being in London for visa purposes, so the funds that you will need to show will be higher than someone who is studying outside of London.
You must show that you have £1,483 per month for each month of your course up to a maximum of nine months .
Therefore, for most of our degree courses that are more than nine months long, this would come to a total of £13,347.
If your course includes part of a month, you must always include that month in the calculation.
Please note that this is in addition to your remaining tuition fees.
Any money that you have already paid towards your tuition fees will be listed on your CAS.
This amount of money can be deducted from the total amount that you need to show.
Any money that you have already paid towards on-campus accommodation will also be listed on the CAS.
A This can also be deducted from the funds that you need to evidence but only up to a maximum of £1,483 .
Please consider this if you have paid more than this for your on-campus accommodation at the point of your visa application.
Please note that you will still need to evidence these living costs regardless of where you may be living in the UK i.e.
even if you will live with family or friends who may cover your costs in the UK.
Please also remember that any financial documents that you use in a visa application must be in the name of yourself, a parent or legal guardian.
You cannot use the financial documents of any other family members or friends in a Student visa application.
One of the other really important things to remember about the financial requirements, if using banks statements, is that the funds must have been held for a minimum of 28 consecutive days.
If the currency being held in the relevant bank account/s is not in UK Pounds (£), it must be converted using the OANDA website , which is what UKVI will use when assessing the documents.
However, if the currency is in Syrian Pounds or Iranian Rials, the currency must alternative be converted using the FCDO Consular Exchange.
As an aside, please be aware that the living costs that need to be evidenced in a visa application may be significantly different to what you will really need to support yourself in the UK.
In recent times, the cost of living and inflation in the UK have increased significantly, and the UKVI finance requirement may not be reflective of the actual amount of money you may need to live in the UK.
Please plan your finances accordingly - useful guidance on this can be found at the UKCISA website .
Finance requirements if applying in the UK If you are applying for your Student visa in the UK, and have had permission to stay for at least one year on the date of application, you will not be asked to provide these financial documents in your application.
However, you should still maintain your finances according to the requirements, as UKVI reserve the right to request them.
Low Risk Applicants - Differentiation Arrangements
Some students do not need to evidence their finances in a visa application depending on their nationality.
This is known as 'differentiation arrangements' for 'low-risk applicants'.
It includes nationals of the EU, EEA and many other countries such as the USA, Canada, Australia China, Brazil, as well as several others.
Please refer to paragraph 22 of Appendix ST of the Immigration Rules to check if you are subject to the differentiation arrangements.
However, you should again still maintain your finances according to the financial requirements, as UKVI reserve the right to request the documentation.
Depending on what country you are from, you may need to have a Tuberculosis (TB) test before you can apply for your Student visa.
This only applies to visa applications made outside of the UK.
If the test is negative, you will be given a certificate that needs to be provided in your visa application.
This is valid for six months so you need to take the test less than six months before you intend to apply.
If you are from a country that ordinarily requires a TB test, you will not require one if the following applies to you.
You have lived for at least 6 months in a country where TB screening is not required by the UK, and you’ve been away from that country for no more than 6 months.
For full details of the requirements for TB testing including the applicable countries, please visit the UKVI website.
UKVI have set limits on the amount of time a student can study in the UK with a Student visa.
This also includes studying under the previous Tier 4 (General) visa system.
For undergraduate study, this limit is typically five years.
But in certain circumstances the five-year cap can be extended by a further eleven months.
Some courses are also exempt from the five-year limit, including medicine degrees, postgraduate degrees and PhD programmes.
A Student visa application will be refused if the time limit is exceeded.
Therefore, as part of your application, Brunel University will assess this.
Regretfully, if you would exceed the cap, we would not be able to sponsor your visa and would not issue you with a CAS.
You should also always check that you will not exceed the time limit yourself before making the visa application.
Please refer to the Student Policy Guidance for more information
You may be selected to attend an interview as part of your visa application, either inside or outside of the UK.
The interview is designed to ensure that you have a genuine intention to study in the UK and that your English language ability is suitable for you to do this.
It is likely that you will be interviewed if you are making the application overseas.
You may also be interviewed if submitting a visa application (permission to stay) in the UK, although this is less likely than if you apply overseas.
If you are invited to an interview in the UK, this may be because the caseworker requires further information about your education history and desire to study your chosen course in order to make a decision on your application.
You may be selected for an interview in the UK particularly if your previous level of UK study is the same as your new course.
What will my interview involve?
If overseas, you will be interviewed via a video-link to a UKVI officer based in the UK.
If you are in the UK, the interview will also be conducted via a video-link at a UKVI centre.
These are located in many cities across the UK.
Your interview should take place at the nearest location to where you live but this cannot always be guaranteed.
The interview will typically last around 30 minutes.
Do not be alarmed if you are selected for an interview.
This is part of the standard visa application process.
You must ensure that you attend the interview as it is compulsory unless you have a valid reason why you cannot attend.
If you need to rearrange the interview then instructions will be provided in the invite letter from UKVI.
Your visa application will automatically be refused if you do not attend without good cause.
What type of questions will I be asked?
If you are asked to attend an interview, make sure that you answer the questions as clearly and honestly as you can.
The questions will generally cover the following areas:
Your intentions to study : You will be expected to answer questions about why you have chosen to study in the UK, as oppossed to in your home country or other countries.
You will also be asked about the course you have chosen to study, and explain how and why you made the decision to study this specifically at Brunel University.
Therefore, before you attend the interview, you should think about why you specifically chose to study at Brunel instead of in your home country or at another UK institution.
What does Brunel University and our course offer that other institutions did not?
You may wish to refer to our website for information about the campus.
It is likely that you will be asked specific questions about the content and structure of your chosen course so you may wish to prepare for this by reviewing your relevant course page on our website .
Your education history : You may be asked about what you have studied in the past and how this relates to your chosen course at Brunel.
If you have previously studied in the UK, you may be asked to explain why you wish to return to the UK and how the combination of these courses support your future plans.
If there have been any gaps between your periods of study, you will need to explain these carefully.
Your career plans after you have finished studying : You need to carefully think about what you intend to do after you have finished your course and how this supports your career plans.
How can the knowledge gained on the course be applied to your intended profession?
You may be asked about how much you would expect to earn in your chosen career and how the cost of studying in the UK justifies the financial commitment you will be making in coming to study in the UK.
Your financial circumstances : The financial cost of studying in the UK is considerable, so you are likely to be asked why you have made this decision when the cost of studying in your home country or other countries may be a lot less.
Your financial details may be discussed at the interview to check that you have access to enough money to support you while you study, including tuition and accommodation fees and living costs.
Although you may have supplied the correct financial documents in your visa application to demonstrate you have the funds available (see the section on finance requirements above), you may still need to explain how any subsequent years of the course will be covered.
You will need to be prepared to answer some quite personal questions, such as how much you or your parent/s earn (if they are funding your studies) and the source and availability of your funds.
If you are being financially sponsored by your government or an international company, or are receiving an education loan, you will need to be able to provide details of this.
The interview will also be checking your ability to speak in English.
You must be able to communicate in basic English, regardless of any qualifications you may hold.
You will not be allowed to use an interpreter.
So please remember, if you are selected for an interview, please note the following points:
As part of the assessment of a Student visa application, UKVI will often want to know the reasons for any prolonged gaps in a student's studies.
If you are applying for a Student visa after a gap since you previously studied, please do not be alarmed by this.
However, you may be required to supply an explanation for any long gaps in study, for example, because of employment you may have undertaken or a change in your career plans that requires further study.
If you have had a long gap in your studies (especially if over a year), you are advised to provide a supporting letter to explain these.
This can be uploaded with your online application with the other required documents.
Please provide a clear and detailed explanation to account for any gaps in study.
As mentioned above, if you are selected for a visa interview, you may be asked questions about this.
If you are not a national of the EU/EEA/Switzerland or one of the exempted countries below, and you will be studying a postgraduate taught or research course, you may be required to apply for an ATAS certificate if you require any kind of visa to study in the UK.
Please check your offer letter carefully as this will explain if you need to obtain an ATAS certificate as a condition of your offer.
It will depend on the subject area of your course.
Each course subject is given a unique HECoS (Higher Education Classification of Subjects) code.
Courses linked to some of these HECoS codes will need an ATAS certificate, most commonly in the fields of Engineering, Biological Sciences and Computer Sciences.
Please note that the following nationalities will also be exempt from the ATAS requirement: United States of America, Australia, New Zealand, South Korea, Japan, Singapore and Canada.
EU/EEA nationals also are exempt.
If required, you must obtain the ATAS certificate before you can be issued with an unconditional offer.
If you need to make a Student visa application, you would be required to submit the ATAS certificate in your application and this will be stated on the CAS.
You also would not be allowed to register for your course without an ATAS certificate if required.
You can apply for your ATAS certificate up to six months before your course start date.
ATAS applications are made online at the ATAS website , which also provides further information about the process.
Applications typically take at least six weeks to be decided.
However, in peak times such as August and September, the processing times can increase significantly.
It is therefore very important that you apply for your ATAS certificate as early as possible before, but within six months of,  your course start date.
This is to ensure the certificate remains valid if you need to make a Student visa application.
ATAS certificates are issued only for a specific course and institution.
Therefore, if you change courses or move to another University, you will need to obtain a new ATAS certificate.
This will apply even if you change courses at Brunel University London.
You also need a new ATAS certificate if you need to extend your permission to stay (visa) in order to continue with a current course.
If you are asked to obtain an ATAS certificate in your offer, but you believe you do not need one based on the ATAS guidance, please contact the Admissions Office to clarify this.
You do not require an ATAS certificate if you have Indefinite Leave to Remain in the UK.
But please note that ATAS is required for most other temporary visa categories, including refugee status or for asylum applicants.
Students coming to the UK for relevant courses of less than six months will require ATAS, even if with a Visitor Visa .
In order to submit a Student visa application, you will have to pay an additional fee called an Immigration Health Surcharge (IHS).
Please note that this charge also applies to immigration applications in other categories.
Although it does increase the overall cost of making a visa application, the money raised contributes to the UK’s National Health Service (NHS).
This gives you the right to receive medical care while you are in the UK without any further cost.
The current fee for Student visa applications is £776 for each year that the visa covers.
For example, if you apply for a visa to enter the UK for three years, the fee would be £2,328.
The annual fee reduced by 50% (£388) if your visa covers part of a year but less than six months.
However, the full annual fee (£776) will be payable if the Student visa covers a period of more than six months, even if less than a calendar year.
Any dependant application is subject to the same charge.
All students who apply overseas for a visa of more than six months will be charged.
This includes the Short-term Study Visa .
However, students coming to the UK for less than six months do not need to pay the IHS.
This will mean that you will not be charged if your Student visa application is made for one of our Pre-sessional English courses of less than six months.
Please note that you will be charged when you extend your permission to stay (visa) inside the UK in order to undertake your main degree course.
The IHS is payable for any visa application made in the UK.
Your visa application may be rejected if you fail to pay the Immigration Health Surcharge when you apply for your visa.
However, if you pay the fee but your visa application is refused, the fee should be refunded.
For full details of the Immigration Health Surcharge, please visit the UKVI website .
There are a select few visa categories or nationalities that are exempt from the charge, as listed on this website.
In order to stand the best possible chance of making a successful Student visa application, you must ensure that you do the following:
Some students will have their Student visa application refused.
This sometimes happens because the student fails to meet the financial requirements (see section above) or supply other required documents.
Students are sometimes also refused because they fail to demonstrate that they genuinely intend to study in the UK in their interview.
What happens if my visa application is refused?
If your application is refused, you will receive written notice of this from UKVI in a letter/email.
The first thing you must do is carefully read this letter in order to understand the reasons given for your refusal.
You should then send a copy of this letter to us by email .
We can then help advise you of what your options are.
These may be:

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/international/iplc/brunelt:
To see available dates , click Make a booking and click on the first box to see drop down menu.
If you have any disability or specific learning need which may require adjustments to your test, please email us to explain what your needs are and provide supporting documentation at the time of making the test booking.
The BrunELT is suitable for you if you:
The Brunel English Language test (BrunELT) is run online.
The test fee is £78.00.
Please note, if you want to take the BrunELT a second time, you must wait 8 weeks from the date of your first test.
This is to give you time to work on your English so you can raise your grade.
If you do not reach the grade you need, you can take one of our online English courses .
Please sign up for your preferred choice of date.
Please note tests take place on a Friday afternoon (UK time) every other week.
Please note that the test can take 3 to 4 hours.
The Brunel English Language Test has been developed by Brunel Language Centre to evaluate English Language ability.
The test is well established and is available for Brunel applicants, current Language Centre students and external candidates.
The BrunELT provides an excellent opportunity for those who need to provide evidence of English Language ability in order to join a course at Brunel University London or Brunel Pathway College.
The test can also help to establish if you require any additional English Language teaching before your academic studies.
The test is currently held online throughout the year and on certain dates.
Hardware required: a computer (desktop or laptop) and a mobile device (a smartphone or a tablet), all of which must be equipped with a camera and a microphone.
Operating system: Windows 10 or Mac OS 10.11 (El Capitain).
For the best experience, use the latest version of your operating system.
Processor: 2.5 GHz Dual Intel Core i5 and higher.
Memory: 4 GB RAM or more.
HDD: 10 GB of available disk space
Bandwidth Requirements (Internet connection): stable internet connection with 2.0 Mbps up and down.
Browser: Chrome, Firefox, Safari or Edge.
Plug-ins: Latest Version of: Adobe Reader, Flash and Java.
Sound Card and Speakers: Required.
Monitor/video card: Capable of at least 1280x800 resolution, 1:000:1 contrast ration; DirectX 9 or later, 128 MB graphics memory, and 32 bits pre pixel capable format.
Webcam and microphone: Built-in or external webcam and microphone required on all devices.
.NET version Windows: Some features may require .NET 3.5 or 4.6 and higher to also be installed.
DVD-ROM: May be required for installing SAS.
You will be given one essay title and you will need to write approximately 300-700 words on the subject area.
Sample question: Which aspects of English do you find easier and which ones do you find more challenging to learn?
Time allowed: 60 minutes
You will be given a short, online interview with the examiner.
You will be asked questions on subjects such as your hobbies, studies and your home country.
Sample question: Do you prefer to study online without a teacher, online, but face-to-face with your teacher and classmates or in a physical classroom?
Please explain which you prefer and why.
Time allowed: 1-2 minutes per question
This part of the test focuses on Grammar, Listening and Reading.
We will send you a login and password which you will need to log in.
There are six types of questions, and a short video will show you how the test works.
The Grammar questions include conversation jumbles, rearranging the words in a sentence, adding missing words.
In the Listening and Reading sections you will need to scroll up and down to make sure you have seen all the questions and answers.
It is important that you use a computer and a tablet which meet the technical requirements.
Do not use a smartphone.
The results are sent directly to the Brunel University London.
To take a short practice listening, reading and grammar test, click here .
Sample question:
Time allowed: 30 minutes
The best way to prepare for the BrunELT is to read a quality newspaper, magazine or journal and listen to BBC news in English .
You should try and work on increasing your vocabulary and noticing how the language is used.
The internet also provides a great source for helping you to improve your English skills e.g.
Ted Talks and British Council - Learn English .
You can also:
BrunELT is done online via Zoom.
If you are unsure if Zoom works in your country or if you have not used it before, please click here and test it before your exam.
You must have access to TWO devices with camera and wifi access!
Before you sit your test, you will need to email your ID in the form of a ‘selfie’ (picture of your face and your passport)  as shown in Picture 1 below.
Please email your selfie with your passport page clearly showing you photo, name and date of birth to BrunELT@brunel.ac.uk .
An online exam is very similar to exams which you would take inside university lecture theatres.
All exams are invigilated and any form of cheating is unacceptable.
You will need to sit at a clear desk in front of your computer, alone in the room (and not lie on your bed).
You also need a smartphone with the rear-facing camera showing you during the whole exam uninterruptedly.
If the connection is lost or the image and sound get interrupted, the exam results will be invalid.
The tests are recorded for security: recordings are stored on University drive for 7 years and are only referred to check unusual behaviour in an exam and possibly by the UK Visa and Immigration inspectors as evidence that this test has taken place.
Pictures 2 and 3 below show the necessary setup – with the full view of your head, hands and laptop.
The photo below shows the necessary setup – with the full view of your head, hands and laptop.
You will need two devices, such as a laptop and a phone and both devices must have a camera and a microphone.
At the beginning of your exam you need to turn the camera 360 degrees around your room to show that there is nobody else inside, that there are no other devices or any materials near you, even on the floor.
You need to show the invigilators that all other devices are off.
Jewellery and watches are not permitted.
Only your computer can be on the desk.
Your mouth, ears and hands must be visible at all times.
You must be wearing appropriate clothing.
Headsets can only be worn for Listening and Speaking.
Food is not permitted but you can drink water.
If you choose to use paper to write your answers, you need to take a photo immediately after the test has finished and send it to the invigilator.
If your email is sent late, the exam result will be invalid.
Make sure the batteries of your devices are sufficiently charged and/or plugged-in as both devices will have their cameras on during the whole exam.
You will receive your results 1 week after you have taken the test.
Your results will be sent to the email address you provided in the online application (please note that, unfortunately, we cannot give results out over the phone).
Test results will be invalid if there is no or interrupted camera footage.
Depending on your application status, we will inform you of one of the following:
If you have already applied to Brunel (or Brunel Pathway College) and your BrunELT results meet the required level for your course, we will inform you of this and update your records to show you have met the English condition.
If you have reached the required English level for your course, you still have the opportunity to attend the 6-week Pre-sessional course to further develop your English skills before you start your academic course.
If you have fallen slightly below the entry requirements for direct entry and you already hold IELTS with a minimum score of 4.0 with 4.0 in each sub section, you may be able to join one of our English courses.
If this is not the case, we will advise you on how to proceed.
Please note that if you have fallen below the requirements and you do not hold IELTS with a minimum of 4.0, you can still be placed on an appropriate pre-sessional course if you apply for the 'online only' option.
If you only wish to study English, please apply for an English course or email language.centre@brunel.ac.uk .
The BrunELT (£78) is only for students applying for a degree course.
As well as testing on the Brunel campus, we also offer you the opportunity to take the BrunELT in selected countries.
In previous years we have run tests in Bahrain, China, Egypt, Hong Kong, South Korea,Taiwan, Thailand and Turkey.
There are currently no scheduled tests, please check again later.
The format of the BrunELT Travel Test differs slightly to the structure of the test we offer on Brunel campus.
The test includes three sections: Reading, Listening and Writing.
A written text, where you have to demonstrate your understanding by answering comprehension, vocabulary and reference questions.
Time allowed 30 minutes
You will be required to listen to an academic lecture and show your understanding by answering a number of questions related to the lecture.
The test is divided into two sections.
Before the lecture begins you will receive the question paper for Parts A and B.
You will be given 5 minutes to read the questions and think about the kind of answers you are expected to give.
Part A: You will fill in gaps with numbers or words as you listen to the lecture.
The questions in Part A test your ability to understand and note down discrete facts.
You should write the exact words of the lecturer
Part B: You are required to answer a range of question types.
You may be expected to decide whether statements are true or false, sometimes justifying your answer.
You may also have to answer open questions, multiple choice questions and questions about steps in a process.
You need to answer all the questions in Part B while you listen to the lecture.
In this section of the test, you need to demonstrate your understanding of key ideas and processes and your ability to select key information, while discarding irrelevant facts.
You can use your own words or the lecturers words
Time allowed 20 minutes
You will be given a choice of two essay titles, from which you need to choose one to write approximately 300-700 words on the subject area.
Time allowed 45 minutes
You will be given a short interview with the examiner.
This will be recorded.
Time allowed 5-6 minutes
The best way to prepare for the BrunELT is to regularly read a quality English Language newspaper, magazine or journal and listen to BBC news in English.
The internet also provides a great source for helping you to improve your English skills:
Test takes place fortnightly from April - September and monthly from September - April.
You can see upcoming dates on the booking form .
Test fees are non-refundable but if you cannot attend on the date originally booked, you can request to rearrange for another date.
If you would like to reschedule a test you have already booked, you need to contact the BrunELT team at BrunELT@brunel.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/international/English-Language-Requirements:
All courses at Brunel have an English language requirement.
This is listed on your course page under 'entry criteria'.
If you need an English test, we recommend booking one early as there can be a long wait in some areas.
You can also take our Brunel English Language Test ( BrunELT ).
English qualifications we currently accept for degree level study include those listed below.
We accept a wide range of other qualifications, so if you are unsure please get in touch with us on BLC-admissions@brunel.ac.uk
If you need to study English before starting your degree, you should take one of the following tests at an approved test centre in order to apply for a Student visa:
Find out more about exams you can take to obtain a Student visa: IELTS (Academic) for UKVI, LanguageCert International ESOL SELT , Trinity College Integrated Skills in English (ISE) , and Pearson PTE Academic .
For further details, contact us .
All international students must show evidence that they meet the English requirement for their course of study.
This applies even if English is the native language of your home country.
If this is the case, a pass at high school level which is equivalent to GCSE Grade C or above is sometimes acceptable.
Please see your country page for more information.
If you don't need to study English before your degree and don't have relevant high school qualifications, we can still accept a non-UKVI-approved IELTS from an official test centre with the required scores.
However, should you not achieve the required scores for your degree course, you will not be able to use this IELTS to apply for a Tier 4 visa for a pre-sessional English course in the UK.
In some circumstances, if you don't have a UKVI IELTS, you may be able to attend an English course with a Short Term Study visa.
Contact us for more information.
(Click to expand and see specific requirements):
IELTS
4.0+
5.5
6.0
6.5
7.0
7.5
BrunELT
40%+ (a minimum of 40% in all parts)
55% (a minimum  of 55% in all parts)
58% (a minimum of 55% in all parts)
63% (a minimum  of 55% or 58% in all parts, depending on course)
68% (a minimum of 58%, 63% or 68% in all parts, depending on course)
73% (a minimum of 58%, 63% or 68% in all parts, depending on course)
English language requirements for direct entry to Brunel are dependent on your chosen course.
View your course page for more information.
Please contact BLC-admissions@brunel.ac.uk for more information.
4.0 to 5.0
(Minimum 4 in all subscores)
(Minimum 5.5 in all subscores)
(Minimum 5.5 to 6.0 in all subscores, depending on course)
(Minimum 5.5 to 7.0 in all subscores, depending on course)
LanguageCert
45 (min 45 for each part)
60 (min 60 for each part)
65 (min 65 for each part)
70 (min 70 for each part)
75 (min 75 for each part)
B1 Achiever - Pass (min 33/50 for each part)
B2 Communicator Pass (min 36/50 for each part)
B2 Communicator Pass (min 39/50 for each part)
C1 Expert Pass (min 36/50 for each part)
C1 Expert Pass (min 39/50 for each part)
PTE Academic UKVI
43+ (a minimum of 43 for each part)
59 (a minimum of 59 for each part)
59 (a minimum of 59 for each part)
64 (a minimum of 59 or 64 for each part, depending on course)
Skills for English
B1 (Lower Intermediate)  Code: 4SB1
or
B1 Pass with Merit Code: 4SB1+
(pass for each part)
B2 Upper Intermediate Code: 4SB2 (pass for each part)
B2 + Upper Intermediate Code: 4SB2+ (B2 Pass with Merit) (pass for each part)
C1 (Expert) Code: 4SBC1 (pass for each part)
4.0-4.5 (min 4)
5.0 (min 4)
5.5 (min 5.5)
6.0 (min 5.5)
6.5 (min 6)
7.0 (min 6.5)
7.5 (min 7)
Trinity ISE
ISE I (B1) Pass in all skills
ISE I (B1)  with Merit in 2 Skills
ISE II (B2) Pass all skills
ISE II (B2) with Merit in 2 Skills + pass in 2 skills
ISE II (B2) Merit 3 Skill areas + Pass in one skill
ISE III (C1) Pass in all skills
ISE III (C1) Merit in 2 skill areas +Pass in 2 skill areas
Cambridge English: Business Certificates (BEC) suite of exams
140-159 (a minimum of 140 for each part) (previously BEC Preliminary pass/pass with merit)
160 (minimum of 160 for each part) or BEC Vantage (Grade C)
169 (minimum of 160 for each part) or BEC Vantage (Grade B)
180 (minimum of 160 or 169 for each part, depending on course) or BEC Higher (Grade C) or Vantage (Grade A)
185 (minimum of 169 or 180 for each part, depending on course) or BEC Higher (Grade B)
IGCSE EFL (English as a first language)
D
C/4
IGCSE ESL (English as a second language)
B2 First (formerly FCE)
140-159 (a minimum of 140 for each sub-score) (Pass/Pass for previous BEC Preliminary)
160 (a minimum of 160 for each sub-score) (C old test)
169 (a minimum of 160 for each sub-score, depending on course) (B old test)
180 (a minimum of 160 or 169 for each sub-score, depending on course) (A old test)
C1 Advanced (formerly CAE)
N/A
160 (a minimum of 160 for each sub-score) (D old test)
169 (a minimum of 160 for each sub-score, depending on course)
180 (a minimum of 160 or 169 for each sub-score, depending on course) (C old test)
185 (a minimum of 169 or 180 for each sub-score, depending on course)
C2 Proficiency (CPE)
160 (a minimum of 160 for each sub-score)
169 (a minimum of 160 for each sub-score, depending on course)
180 (a minimum of 160 or 169 for each sub-score, depending on course)
International Legal English Certificate - ILEC/ International Certificate of Financial English - ICFE
160 (a minimum of 160 for each sub-score) (B2 Pass)
169 (a minimum of 160 for each sub-score, depending on course)(C1 Pass)
180 (a minimum of 160 or 169 for each sub-score, depending on course)(C1 Pass)
185 (a minimum of 169 or 180 for each sub-score, depending on course) (C1 Pass with Merit)
International Education English O'level
C
Cambridge International Level 1/Level 2 Certificate in First Language English
ESOL, IESOL and SESOL
Achiever B1 (pass)
Communicator B2 (pass)
Communicator B2 (first class pass)
Expert C1 (pass)
Expert C1 (first class pass)
European Baccalaureate 7
English Language I and II grade 5.5; English Language III grade 6
English Language I and II grade 6; English Language III grade 7
English Language I and II grade 7; English Language III grade 7.5
French Baccalaureate
10
12
13
GCE
GCSE
D/3
C-A or 4-9
GCSE, IGCSE & AQA Level 1/2 English Language
C-A
GCSE combined language and literature
IB Higher and Standard A
2+
HL or SL 3
HL or SL 4
IB Higher B
HL 3
HL 4
IB Standard B
SL 4
SL 5
4.0+ (4.0)
310 (310)
5.5 (5.5)
425 (425)
6.0 (5.5)
458 (425)
6.5 (6.0)
494 (458)
7.0 (6.5)
7.5 (7.0)
510 (494)
550 (526)
Kaplan Test of English - An easy-to-access online English Language test that can be taken anywhere at any time.
Use this DISCOUNT CODE to claim a 25% discount : BRUNKRS65
Simply enter this code on this booking form to claim the discount .
You’ll receive your Kaplan Test of English Certificate within 5 working days of completing the test.
BOOK THE KAPLAN TEST OF ENGLISH HERE
For more information, read the Student Guide .
ECPE
Low Pass (a minimum of 650 for each part)
Pass (minimum of 650 for each part)
Pass (minimum of 650 or 750 for each part, depending on course)
Honors (minimum of 750 or 840, depending on course)
NATO Stanag
3333
4444
7
Password Skills Plus
Minimum 4 for each part
Minimum 5 for each part
6 (minimum 5.5 for each part)
6.5 (minimum 6 or 5.5 for each part, depending on course)
7 (minimum 7 or 6.5 or 6, depending on course)
4.5+
iBT
iBT at home
iBT paper based
49+ (min R10, L10, S16, W13)
71 (min R18, L17, S20, W17)
77 (min R18, L17, S20, W17 - depending on course)
90 (min R18, L17, S20, W17, or min 20 in all subscores -  depending on course)
98 (min 20, 23, or 25 in all subscores - depending on course)
ITP Plus for China (interviews are checked by Brunel)
460 (min L47, R48, W32)
543 (min L54, R56, W53)
580 (min L54, R56, W53)
610 (min L54, R56, W53, S55, or L59, R59, W60, S60 - depending on course)
627 (L59, R59, W60, S60, or min L63, R64, W64, S65 - depending on course)

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/brunel-medical-school/External-Funding-and-Personal-Development-Opportunities:
External funding opportunities for school leavers and graduate students provide valuable financial support to pursue higher education.
While some of these opportunities are tailored specifically for medical students, many school-leaver funding options are open to a broader range of disciplines, making them more competitive.
These funding sources can help ease the financial burden associated with tuition fees, accommodation, and other educational expenses.
Prospective applicants should explore and carefully read through these options to identify funding that they are eligible for.
Please see below some of the external funding and personal development opportunities available.
This information was correct as of 05.09.2024 date, and can be used for guidance.
If you have any questions, please contact the charities directly.
The Leathersellers Company Charitable Fund
We support undergraduate students at UK Universities whose circumstances may otherwise prevent them from achieving their goals.
Our current focus is care experienced students and former pupils of our associated schools.
(UK Students)
The Leverhulme Trust
If your parent or spouse is a grocer, pharmacist or commercial traveller, or you are employed yourself in this capacity, you could qualify for a bursary of up to £3,000 a year towards the cost of an undergraduate degree.
Royal Air Force (RAF)
Royal Air Force (RAF) : bursaries or sponsorships for university students looking for a full-time medical role in the RAF.
Royal Medical Benevolent Fund
The grant to assist students in their penultimate or final year facing exceptional hardship.
(UK and international students)
Student Health Association Assistance Fund
Funds of up to £500 to help students with disabilities to keep up with their studies.
The Victoria Foundation
Grants for students facing financial hardship to help purchase books, equipment, medical instruments and fund transport costs to hospital or elective placements.
(UK students from a WP background)
Black Heart Foundation
These are for students who are under-resourced from deprived areas (UK students from a WP background)
Sidney Perry Foundation
This only helps with second degrees where first degree was at least a 2:1.
No help in first year.
Grants up to £1,000; students must be under 35 years old at the start of the course.
(UK and Home students)
Personal support and mentoring
Amos Bursary
A programme to support British students of African and Caribbean descent, who have excelled at school and have not allowed their environments, personal circumstances, or the pressures of living in London, to cloud their vision or to hamper their dreams.
Student in Yr 12 can apply and will receive support and mentoring throughout their university studies.
In2Science
In2scienceUK exists to unlock the potential of young people from disadvantaged backgrounds and boost diversity and inclusion in the sector to ensure the UK remains at the forefront of science, technology, engineering and maths (STEM) based industries.
Social Mobility Foundation
The Aspiring Professionals Programme supports students from Year 12, lower sixth or S5 through to their first graduate job.
It's completely free of charge.
BMA Charities:
The BMA Charities Trust Fund offers grants to doctors and medical students who are in financial difficulty.
(UK students)
Sir Richard Stapley Educational Trust
These are small grants between £500 and £1200 for both UK and non UK national graduates pursuing a second degree in medicine, dentistry and veterinary studies and students studying for certain postgraduate qualifications.
The Foulkes Foundation
Grants for post-doctoral scientists taking medicine, PhD or equivalent, with intention to contribute to medical research.
(UK and international students with a PhD)
These grants for students facing financial hardship to help purchase books, equipment, medical instruments and fund transport costs to hospital or elective placements.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/life/library/SubjectSupport/Plagiarism:
Plagiarism is making use of someones's work without any form of acknowledgement.
It is taken very seriously by the University.
Use these sections below to help you understand what plagiarism is and how to avoid it.
The Library has created an online resource to help students learn more about plagiarism and how to avoid it.
The resource is available on Brightspace.
Plagiarism is defined as “To take and use as one’s own the thoughts, writings or inventions of another” (Oxford English Dictionary).
The University define it as "the knowing or reckless presentation of another person’s work or ideas as one’s own, and includes the use of published or unpublished work without acknowledging the source" (Brunel University of London, Senate Regulations, 2025) .
Plagiarism has two elements:
If you take another’s work but do not use it as your own – because you acknowledge and reference the other author or creator's work correctly – it is not plagiarism.
Three types of plagiarism have been identified:
Plagiarism can be either intentional or unintentional.
This is what most people would think of as plagiarism - ‘copying’.
Intentional plagiarism can be done for a variety of reasons:
Examples of intentional plagiarism include:
Students often do not recognise unintentional plagiarism as plagiarism ( Carroll, 2002 ).
However, it is taking another’s work and using as your own – because there is no acknowledgement of who has done the work.
Unintentional plagiarism usually occurs because of a lack of understanding about what plagiarism is, and poor referencing, citing and quoting skills.
Examples of unintentional plagiarism include:
Plagiarism covers paraphrasing as well as word-for-word copying.
Paraphrasing means employing information orginating from someone else, but using your own words with substantial changes in language, detail and organisation of the text.
If you make small changes (eg replacing a few verbs, changing an adjective, putting sentences in a different order) to another's work it could be considered intentional plagiarism.
If you substantially change the language and organisation of the material – ie you re-write the whole thing in totally your own words – but do not include an acknowledgment in the text or the full reference in the reference list, then you are still committing plagiarism.
You are encouraged to paraphase the research of others in your work as a good academic practice, but you must always acknowledge your sources with a citation and reference, as soon as you start to introduce that information.
If you need help with developing your summarising and paraphrasing skills you can contact the Academic Skills (ASK) service, who can provide support on improving your academic writing.
Collusion is a form of academic misconduct where students work together with the intention to deceive a third party.
It is defined by the University as:
"...aiding or attempting to aid another member of the University in order to gain an unfair academic advantage by
i.
The unauthorised and/or unacknowledged collaboration of persons in a piece of assessed work, and/or;
ii.
Allowing a piece of assessed work to be copied by another person or persons." (Brunel University of London, Senate Regulation 6, 2025)
So if a classmate copies your work with your knowledge, then you have committed an offence, not just the student who copied you.
Plagiarism is against University regulations and you may fail assessed work if you plagiarise (intentionally or unintentionally).
Plagiarism is cheating: it penalises honest students and degrades academic standards, degrees, and institutions.
Plagiarism is unfair: it means that those who conducted the work do not get credit for what they have done, the words they wrote, or the pictures they created.
Tutors and lecturers are able to tell if you have plagiarised, just by reading your work:
Everyone has their own writing style.
It is obvious that a section of an assignment has been copied because of the changes in grammar, words used, punctuation, etc.
Your tutors are knowledgeable about their field and will know what has been written on the topic.
They will be able to tell if you have copied from the books or articles on the reading list, or from other well known sources.
Tutors usually mark an entire class or year’s work – they will recognise if two assignments are similar.
They are also likely to have marked the previous year’s work so may be able to tell if you have copied from someone in a different year.
In addition, the University uses WISEflow /Turnitin to manage digital coursework submissions (thesis, dissertations and other course work).
When you submit your work, Turnitin checks it against documents in the database, from partner databases – books and journals etc.
and material from the internet for similarities.
When the analysis is complete, a text-matching originality report is generated and forwarded to your teacher/supervisor.
Please note that the student does not receive a copy of the originality report.
Plagiarism is a complex issue and official definitions of plagiarism and collusion can vary from one organisation to another.
Staff and students should only refer to the policy at this University to ensure consistency and accuracy.
Information on how plagiarism and collusion are defined at Brunel can be found on the Quality Assurance pages, which refer to Senate Regulation 6 .
Take the Plagiarism course on Brightspace

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/brunel-medical-school:
Brunel Medical School offers a 5-year Medicine MBBS to UK and international undergraduate and graduate students.
The Medical School also offers a 2-year Physician Associate (PA) MSc which is open to UK and international graduates.
London’s newest medical school is inspired by expert scientists and clinicians who will teach, support and mentor you.
The School aims to advance medical education and healthcare practice for a changing world; driven by science, technology and humanity.
Discover Medicine at Brunel Medical School
Discover Physician Associate at Brunel Medical School
Find out about our location, colleges, awards and more
Discover our state-of-the-art facilities at Brunel Medical School
Read our press release here
You are never more than 10 minutes away from our teaching, social and sporting facilities

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/biomedical-sciences-biochemistry-bsc:
C722
C723 with placement
30 (IB)
What's happening inside our cells?
What's happening at a molecular level?
The bringing together of biology and chemistry allows scientists to use chemical knowledge to understand biological problems.
At Brunel, we understand that your specialist knowledge should be built on a sound grounding of all the areas of biomedical sciences.
This means that your first year will cover areas such as the human body, biochemistry and research skills.
As you continue through your degree you'll study specialist areas that will teach you about the various biochemical pathways and how they may be altered during specific human diseases.
And if you change your mind about your specialist area, don’t worry.
The flexibility of our course at Brunel means that you can switch to take the general Biomedical Sciences BSc .
The Royal Society of Biology has awarded its accreditation to all of Brunel’s biomedical sciences BSc courses.
This means that you can be confident that your degree will prepare you for the working world – and your prospective employers will know this too.
You'll receive a one year’s membership as an Associate Member once you graduate, integrating you into the sector with access to key contacts and up-to-date knowledge.
In your final year you’ll have the opportunity to contribute to our research programmes in cellular and biochemical pathways, the regulation of gene expression, DNA repair and immunological responses to microbial infection and bio-informatics.
This will give you first-hand experience of real-world laboratory research and prepare you for your future career.
You'll study a range of areas relating to human health from molecular biology and genetics through to pathology and medical immunology.
The content of the programme means that you will graduate with an understanding of the main subject areas in biosciences and medically related research.
Year 1 includes cell biology, anatomy and biochemistry, alongside practical lab skills, experimental research skills and employability skills.
Year 2 introduces the biochemical and molecular processes which are altered in various human diseases, furthering your knowledge in genetic and molecular biology and introducing the pathology of diseases and immune responses.
There is also a focus on advanced laboratory skills and entrepreneurship.
The placement year will follow year 2, if opted for.
In year 3, you will have options to take a specialist module in medical biochemistry along with other options to follow your interests.
A key part year 3 will be your 'Final Year Project'.
This will be a research project, which allows you to bring together the skills developed during years 1 and 2.
This module aims to provide a broad introduction to the understanding of living organisms at the cellular level through the study of genetics, cell biology and microbiology.
This module aims to comprehensively introduce the students to the anatomy and physiology of the human body and to provide the background knowledge required to understand disease processes.
This module aims to introduce students to key chemical principles relevant to biological systems, the structure and function of biological molecules and the biochemistry of processes which support life.
This module aims to introduce students to the biochemistry of processes which support life, including cellular metabolism and its control.
Students are also introduced to medical aspects of biochemistry.
This block aims to ensure that all students have developed a good foundation in Biosciences research skills and applications, covering the central dogma of life, chemistry, physics, evolution and understanding scientific publications.
This module aims to help students develop a range of transferable, career planning and innovation skills suitable for further employment.
This module aims to provide an understanding of a range of biochemical techniques used to measure the function and dysfunction of organs and tissues for clinical research and diagnostic testing.
It will develop knowledge of the relationship between diagnostic markers and underlying pathologies.
To provide students with a deeper understanding of the field of eukaryotic genetics and genomics.
It will span from Mendelian genetics to the development of molecular genetics, genetic engineering, present day genomic technologies and the post genomic era.
This module aims to provide students with a deeper understanding of molecular biology of cell growth and division, DNA replication through to protein synthesis and the role of enzymes within prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells.
To provide understanding of the cellular and molecular pathological processes involved in the development of important human diseases and to provide their diagnoses and treatments.
This is accompanied by a a broad understanding of immunological mechanisms both in human health and disease, including innate and adaptive immunity, immune dysregulation and vaccine development.
This module teaches students to develop advanced skills in laboratory research, enabling them to produce meaningful data for statistical analysis, presentation and interpretation.
This module aims to develop recognition and awareness of skills needed to gain employment and to develop an understanding of intellectual property, business awareness and entrepreneurship.
Students will acquire general management and project management skills.
This module provides students with an understanding of embryogenesis and foetal development through the study of developmental mechanisms in model organisms and the role of stem cells in development.
This module aims to give an understanding of medically important pathogens and infectious diseases, including epidemiology, diagnosis, clinical symptoms, therapeutics, vaccination and public health importance.
This module aims to further develop students' skills in biological data analysis, to enable them to explore datasets, perform appropriate statistical analyses and produce visual graphs and displays.
Key bioinformatics tools, applications and repositories will be covered
The module aims to provide the students with experience of in-depth and independent project work.
FYP topics are related to staff research expertise and include a broad range of both laboratory-based and non-laboratory projects.
This module aims to give students an understanding of selected areas in biochemistry: steroid hormone biosynthesis and actions, cholesterol and calcium homeostasis.
This module aims to provide a detailed understanding of cancer, including the genes and molecular pathways involved in cancer development, epidemiology and diagnosis, and the use of standard and target treatments.
This module aims to develop the students’ knowledge and understanding of how cellular dysfunction leads to pathological changes associated with particular diseases.
Techniques involved in cell biology and cytopathology research are introduced.
This module aims to study a selected range of endocrine disease processes, including origins and treatment, at the biochemical and molecular level and an understanding of the importance of hormones in health and disease.
This module aims to introduce students to the principles of understanding post-genomic medicine, to explore genome organization by integrating genomic, molecular and cell biology approaches.
This integrated view of the human genome is used to understand mechanisms responsible for genome instability syndromes and other common diseases.
This module aims to give students advanced knowledge of immunology with up-to-date research in molecular and cellular interactions in the immune system, and cover applications of immunological principles to the current understanding of biological and clinical processes including cancer, transplantation, autoimmunity, pregnancy, aging, and immune intervention.
To develop understanding of biomedical studies using human data at population level.
Additional skills would include critical thinking about study design and dealing with different biases that could impact epidemiological inferences.
As a graduate in Biomedical Sciences (Biochemistry) you’ll have skills that cross over between biology and medicine.
Some of the careers you may be interested in include an analytical chemist, a healthcare scientist, forensic scientist or a toxicologist.
Whatever your future goals are, this course is focused on helping you achieve your career ambitions.
The employability teaching blocks at Brunel provide a personalised approach towards developing your skills.
You’ll work on improving your CV and your interview techniques, as well as attending careers events and carrying out research projects with academics.
Each year, we hold a Biomedical Sciences Careers Fair where you’ll have the opportunity to network with some of the biggest names in the business such as GlaxoSmithKline, Great Ormond Street Hospital, Parexel, Age UK and Royal Brompton Hospital NHS Foundation.
Five GCSEs at grade C or grade 4 or above are also required, including English Language, Maths and one Science subject.
If you are unable to meet the direct entry criteria above, you are invited to apply for a foundation course in Life Sciences at Brunel Pathway College .
When you successfully pass the foundation year, you can progress on to the Biomedical Sciences (Biochemistry) BSc.
Level 4
Your teaching will be on-campus face-to-face lectures, with in-person tutorials and in-person lab sessions.
The teaching will be supplemented with pre-recorded material.
You'll be working individually for most of the lab sessions.
In addition, all lab sessions will now be delivered as Team-Based Learning (TBL) with work to complete online before the session and TBL tasks in the lab.
There will also be data analysis tasks to be done after the lab session.
You'll be expected to attend your laboratory and tutoring@Brunel sessions.
Level 5
You'll be working on your own experiments, which you will then combine to give the final result.
This will provide a more authentic lab experience and improve your lab team-working skills.
The in-person lab sessions will be delivered using TBL.
There will be additional TBL sessions based on online labs to support your learning.
Level 6
Your final year teaching will be delivered in on-campus sessions with final year project supervisory meetings being a mix of online and in-person sessions, depending on the nature of the project.
Your coursework will be submitted via Wiseflow or Brightspace , and exams will be a mix of on-campus in-person invigilated written exams and online open book-style assessments.
Oral presentations will be scheduled as part of specific coursework either on-campus in-person or online.
Additional teaching resources and sessions
To supplement our full timetable of on-campus teaching, your learning will be supported with a range of resources on our new Brightspace Virtual Learning Environment (VLE) including videos, interactive activities, quizzes, etc.
Block leaders may offer additional briefing, revision, and/or Q&A sessions on online platforms where appropriate.
Academic contact
You'll be offered Feedback and Consultation Hours, Personal Tutoring Hours, and Project Supervision discussions in-person on-campus and via online platforms.
This will allow you to easily receive feedback, advice and guidance without having to travel to campus on a day that you might otherwise not be attending.
You'll be taught by academics who are actively involved in a wide range of world-leading research.
The four main areas of biomedical science research at Brunel are: health and disease, treatments and cures, genomic and epigenomic level, and technology and methodology.
Many of our academics have been involved in making major advances and breakthroughs in human diseases and syndromes.
This means you’ll be learning the most up-to-date scientific discoveries in a fast-moving field where our academics teach you leading-edge research through practical experience.
The biomedical sciences teaching team has created a unique teaching and assessment strategy which has been recognised in an award from the Higher Education Academy.
It will allow you to combine your learning over the course of the year and apply knowledge from different study blocks into one assessment, making your education as close to your future real-world career as possible.
We have produced thousands of scientists now making scientific breakthroughs and improving lives across the globe.
As a Brunel graduate, you will be gaining from their reputation and the reputation of the University.
You'll be assessed through a mixture of coursework and written examinations to test your knowledge, understanding, problem solving and data interpretation.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/biomedical-sciences-bsc:
C900
C901 with placement
DDM  (BTEC)
The human body runs on complex internal processes, with cells and organs functioning in incredible ways to make us who we are.
But, what happens when our health is compromised?
This dynamic biomedical sciences degree is perfect for those with a fascination of how we work and how we treat human diseases
At Brunel, we understand that your interest in biomedical sciences at this stage may be very broad and perhaps you're not ready to specialise.
For this reason, we have made our Biomedical Sciences BSc flexible.
As you continue through your degree, you can pick your own options and tailor your course to fit your interests.
The Royal Society of Biology has awarded its accreditation to all of Brunel’s biomedical sciences undergraduate programmes.
This means you can be confident that our Biomedical Sciences BSc will prepare you for the working world – and your prospective employers will know this too.
In your final year you’ll have the opportunity to contribute to our research programmes in cellular and biochemical pathways, the regulation of gene expression, DNA repair, immunological responses to microbial infection and bio-informatics.
In year 3, you will have options to follow your interests.
A key part of this will be your 'Final Year Project'.
This will be a research project, which allows you to bring together the skills developed during years 1 and 2
This module aims to develop critical thinking skills applied to the designing and planning of experimental data.
To acquire and develop a range of transferable, IT, mathematical and problem-solving skills.
This module aims to provide an understanding of the importance of molecular technologies to provide information to treat to genetic defects, focusing on treatment of diseases by gene therapy.
In depth knowledge of processes required to develop gene therapy vectors and potential side effects of gene transfer are explored.
This module aims to give students detailed knowledge of representative disease-causing organisms in terms of specific host pathogen interactions, and an understanding the multiple strategies of microbial pathogenesis including immunological, epidemiological and pharmacogenomic aspects as well as anti-microbial therapy strategies.
This module aims To develop understanding of biomedical studies using human data at population level.
Additional skills would include critical thinking about study design and dealing with different biases that could impact epidemiological outcomes.
Whatever your future goals are, your biomedical sciences course is focused on helping you achieve your career ambitions.
Whether you want to work as a Cancer Research Scientist, a Forensic Scientist or a Science Journalist – the employability teaching blocks at Brunel provide a personalised approach towards developing your skills.
Each year, we hold a Biomedical Sciences Careers Fair, where you’ll have the opportunity to network with some of the biggest names in the business, such as GlaxoSmithKline, Great Ormond Street Hospital, Parexel, Age UK and Royal Brompton Hospital NHS Foundation.
Five GCSEs at grade C or grade 4 or above are also required, including English Language, Maths and one science subject.
When you successfully pass the foundation year, you can progress on to the Biomedical Sciences BSc.
Your coursework will be submitted via Wiseflow or Brightspace , and exams will be a mix of on-campus in-person invigilated written exams and online open-book assessments.
Oral presentations will be scheduled as part of specific coursework, either on-campus in-person, or online.
This means you’ll be learning the most up-to-date scientific discoveries in a fast-moving field where our academics teach you cutting-edge research through practical experience.
As a Brunel graduate, you'll be gaining from their reputation and the reputation of the University.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/life-sciences-bsc:
LF01
LF02 with placement
Choose your favourite science subjects and build your own degree.
We offer a wide range of science subjects, including biological, environmental, psychological and sport sciences, with recent additions from our new geography course.
You’ll learn bioinformatics and statistical data analysis as well as quantitative research, giving you the skills to work with big data sets.
You can even study languages and creative writing.
You’ll graduate with a unique set of skills giving you a competitive edge in the workplace.
Watch this video to find out more about the course.
In year 1 you’ll learn a foundation of life sciences including biochemistry, molecular and cellular biology, anatomy and physiology, biological psychology and environmental sciences.
You’ll learn practical and analytical skills.
In year 2, you’ll choose your specialist subjects and learn these alongside a module of career planning and entrepreneurship.
You can choose two streams to study from the allowed combinations .
You’re also able to broaden your knowledge by selecting non-science subjects.
In your final, year you’ll continue to study your two streams with the option to choose a non-science module.
Within one chosen subject area you'll develop a research project where you’ll learn to critically analyse, evaluate, interpret and communicate science in an interdisciplinary manner across the life sciences.
Also in your last year, you'll attend research seminars from world-leading specialists relating to your chosen streams.
To give students the knowledge and understanding of ecology, evolution and biogeography to enable them to describe the biosphere and explain the form and function of ecosystems.
Students successful on this module will be able to look out of a window anywhere in the world and describe the processes that contributed to the formation of the ecosystem they can see in front of them.
This module provides a grounding in cognitive and biological psychology.
This module shows how the different areas of life sciences intersect using recent peer reviewed papers as an illustrative tool.
Ethical issues surrounding genetics, medicine and science will be discussed.
This assessment won "Most Innovative Form of Assessment" for the College at the 2019 Teaching Awards.
To develop the competencies required in basic laboratory skills, experimental design and data analysis.
To provide students with a foundational knowledge of human anatomy and physiology in relation to sport, health and exercise contexts, to raise students’ awareness of key theories, principles and processes as they apply to sport, health and exercise-related activities and to engender an appreciation of how learned theories, principles and concepts may be applied in an interdisciplinary manner.
This module aims to introduce students to important classes of biomolecules and the ways in which these molecules are involved in biomedical pathways.
This module aims to develop recognition and competencies needed to gain employment and awareness of entrepreneurial skills.
This module aims to provide an understanding of a range of biochemical techniques used for clinical research and diagnosis.
This module introduces the basics of R programming to read data and to perform simple analyses and graphs.
Students will perform the statistical analysis mastered in their first year using R.
An understanding of the evidence for, and mechanisms behind, climate change.
The module will allow students to explore data and analytical approaches to climate change and to unpick the precise mechanisms through which changes to the climate system are happening
This module aims to introduce students to: the different modes of human cognition (perceiving, imagining, reasoning, remembering, and language), to the main techniques used to study cognition, to the main empirical results in cognitive psychology, and to the main theories of cognition including historically important theories.
To develop students’ appreciation of key ontological and epistemological positions, related research paradigms, methodologies and representations of data, to develop students’ understanding of the nature of different research paradigms, and associated techniques for data collection, analysis and presentation, to consolidate and develop quantitative research skills, understandings of statistical analysis and representations of data.
To develop students’ ability to identify and frame viable research questions and appropriate methods for answering those questions, to provide the opportunity for students to create a proposal for a theoretically grounded final year project and to develop students’ understanding of research ethics and related processes.
To examine key questions and theoretical debates in developmental psychology, to discuss and evaluate methodological approaches used to study human development, to develop a critical understanding of empirical evidence and theories related to key topics in developmental psychology (e.g., social, cognitive, and biological development across the lifespan) and to cover, in depth, the BPS curriculum area of developmental psychology.
This module provides students with an understanding of pressure on Earth's ecological systems alongside the observed and predicted impacts.
This module supports students to synthesise and critically evaluate contemporary sport and exercise psychology research.
Topics covered include individual differences, exercise and cognitive function, decision-making and attention.
Students also have the opportunity to showcase their own research project, for which they collect data as part of a team.
Learn to understand environmental questions through a lens of political ecology.
The module will provide opportunities to reflect on and develop own attitudes and values in relation to the environment.
The module aims to provide the students with experience of conducting and writing up a substantial independent empirical research project in the Life Sciences.
Possible research topics will be related to areas of staff expertise and include a broad range of both non-laboratory and laboratory-based projects.
Specifically the aims of this module are to develop students’ ability to systematically investigate, using appropriate research methods, a topic related to the major stream of their studies in the Life Sciences, to cultivate in students independence of thought and the ability to find, interpret, and present material according to prescribed methods of investigation in the Life Sciences, to develop in students effective project management skills including an efficient use of resources and time and the capacity to meet identified deliverables, to ensure that students understand and meet requirements for ethical research in their Research Project, if applicable, to support students in developing effective communication skills and positive and productive professional working relationships and to support students in using appropriate technologies in research and project management.
To provide a detailed understanding of cancer, including the genes involved in carcinogenesis, epidemiology, diagnosis and treatment.
To critically evaluate theories relating to spatial perception, mechanisms underlying the control of movement and memory processes that are associated with them.
The module draws upon experimental research and cognitive disorders that affect these processes (e.g., stroke and Parkinson’s disease) and to provide a practical introduction to the measurement of perception and motor control in psychology research and their potential application in clinical groups.
To study the principles of neurotransmission, synaptic physiology and plasticity, to survey findings in psychopharmacology on the neurochemical basis of psychological disorders, pharmacological approaches to treatment, and mechanisms of action for recreational drugs/drugs of abuse and to survey findings in behavioural endocrinology on relationships between hormones and behaviour.
To provide an understanding of the molecular aspects of biology relating to human disease and its genetic basis.
How genetic diseases can be corrected using this knowledge and the molecular technologies required for treatment.
'Gene and Cell therapies and related technologies' will introduce how knowledge of the human genome gained from forward and reverse genetics and the Encyclopaedia of DNA Elements (ENCODE) enables molecular intervention for successful treatments.
Gene transfer technologies will be described alongside DNA and RNA sequence technologies to support an in-depth knowledge of the subject.
Importantly, the safety profiles and potential side effects of gene transfer will be an important focus of the taught material.
Lastly, the importance of protecting novel technologies will be taught with lectures on intellectual property for commercial exploitation.
To introduce students to the principles of understanding medicine from the post-genomic perspective.
To explore genomic organisation by integrating genomic, molecular and cell biology approaches.
To further develop the leadership and influence skills that will help students to promote sustainability or other forms of positive change within society and the environment (either individually or collectively).
To encourage innovation, entrepreneurialism, the acquisition of additional awards and professional qualifications and to engage in personal and professional development activities that will enhance students’ employability.
This module will give students an understanding of selected specialist areas in biochemistry: steroid hormone biosynthesis and actions, cholesterol and calcium homeostasis.
To study advanced immunology with up-to-date knowledge of molecular and cellular interactions in the immune system.
To apply immunological principles to the current understanding of various biological and clinical processes and mechanisms including cancer, transplantation, autoimmunity, pregnancy and aging, and immune intervention.
Teaching will include information of the current research undertaken in Biosciences.
To provide a comprehensive understanding of cellular and molecular basis of microbial pathogenesis and host-pathogen interactions.
To give students an understanding of the mode of action of drugs in the body, their therapeutic and toxic effects, as well as the way the body processes those drugs.
To encourage students to critically evaluate drug development and safety testing.
Nature-based Solutions (NbS) are defined by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) as “actions to protect, sustainably manage, and restore natural or modified ecosystems, that address societal challenges effectively and adaptively, simultaneously providing human well-being and biodiversity benefits”.
This module will examine the ecological basis for NbS and explore the possibilities for implementing NbS in the context of societal demands for security from the negative consequences of climate change.
NbS will be compared and contrasted with other types of adaptation and mitigation strategies, such as hard flood defences and carbon capture and storage and students will develop skills in identifying and critiquing a range of climate change adaptation and mitigation solutions, as well as policies that influence them.
To provide a sound knowledge of the physiological determinants of exercise performance, with a specific focus on the high-performance athlete, to engage students in a detailed study of physiological limitations to exercise and to enable students to critically assess the influence of environmental extremes on exercise performance.
Graduates from Brunel University London rank 27th nationally, and 9th in London for the salaries they earn - earning £4,300 more than the median salary across the university sector.*
You’ll graduate with a unique set of skills in communication, critical thinking, data analysis, experimental techniques, information technology, team working and time management - all of which are highly valued by employers.
A Life Sciences degree can lead to careers in:
When you successfully pass the foundation year, you can progress on to the Life Sciences BSc.
You’ll benefit from the expertise of our academics across the different subject areas.
They are actively involved in a range of world-leading research.
In biomedicine for example, our academics have been involved in making major advances and breakthroughs in human diseases and syndromes.
In psychology they are involved in research activities that benefit society at large including projects within the NHS and charities.
In sport, health and exercise sciences they have national and international reputations for their research, publications and applied work.
This means that our teaching is up-to-date and you’ll learn from scientists and experts who are current in their field.
Whatever area of science you choose to study, you can be assured of learning from experts and specialists in that area.
You’ll be assessed using a range of methods, including coursework assignments, poster presentations, oral presentations and examinations.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/clearing/apply-online:
If you already have all your results, including your GCSEs, you’re good to go - apply online today !
If you’re still waiting on any qualifications, please hold off for now.
We won’t be able to make a decision your application until all your results are in.
Call us on 01895 272273 or +441895 268352 if you're an international student.
Monday - Friday 9am - 5pm (BST)

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/aerospace-engineering-beng:
H402
H401 with placement
AAB - BBB (see specific subjects) (A-level)
DDD (see specific subjects) (BTEC)
Ranked 4th in London (Guardian University Guide 2026).
Our Aerospace Engineering BEng degree is an exciting, hands-on course developed to equip you with the knowledge and skills to meet the real world needs of the global aerospace industry.
You will be introduced to fundamental engineering subjects such as structures, materials, fluids, and maths, and gain skills in technical drawing.
You’ll then learn about the principles of aircraft design and progress to specialist subjects such as propulsion systems, and flight testing and analysis.
You’ll have access to a range of technical facilities including our aerospace/aviation laboratory, full-motion engineering flight simulator, supersonic and subsonic wind tunnels, materials and structure testing laboratory, and 3D printing in the digital fabrication workshop.
Industry standard specialist software for aircraft design is available for you to use 24 hours a day in high-performance computing clusters.
During your time at Brunel, you will benefit from guest lectures delivered by industry professionals who present a valuable insight into current, challenging topics in the field of aerospace.
There are also planned visits to engineering and manufacturing companies where you’ll see first-hand the latest breakthroughs in development and technology for future aerospace systems.
In addition, you have the advantage of Brunel’s close location to London’s Heathrow Airport for site visits as well as project opportunities, and placement and employment options.
At the end of each academic year, engineering and maths students are invited to showcase their project work at Brunel Engineers +, an event that both celebrates their achievements and gives them the chance to network with industry figures and employers.
Our BEng aerospace engineering course is accredited by both the Royal Aeronautical Society (RAeS) and the Institution of Mechanical Engineers (IMechE) (NB: we are seeking accreditation for the with-placement route).
These professional bodies ensure that your engineering degree meets the academic requirement to qualify as a professional engineer.
This accredited BEng degree in aerospace engineering can be studied full-time over three years, or four years with a placement year.
The BEng degree meets the educational requirement to become an Incorporated Engineer (IEng).
You may wish to transfer to the MEng route of study at the end of your second year, subject to meeting the progression requirement.
The MEng degree fully meets the educational requirement to become a Chartered Engineer (CEng) and involves a further year of academic study.
We encourage the placement year option.
This time in industry helps you to further prepare for the world of work and you’ll have a year’s worth of invaluable professional experience when you graduate.
If you decide to go on an engineering placement year, you will have the opportunity to work in the aerospace engineering sector.
As an extracurricular activity, there is the opportunity to be part of a student-led initiative involving the design and build of an unmanned aircraft vehicle and participating in the IMechE industry-sponsored UAS Challenge (Unmanned Aircraft Systems Challenge).
Course delivery is a well-balanced combination of theory and practical sessions.
In your first two years, you will gain solid knowledge and understanding of key aerospace engineering principles.
You’ll also develop your reflective skills and professional development planning through the professional engineering practice module.
In your final year, you move on to specialist topics such as propulsion systems and flight testing.
You will also work on your industry-relevant individual research project.
Aims: To develop students’ ability to understand and apply fundamental methods of engineering mathematics; to introduce the use of programming in engineering, and develop students’ ability to represent and solve problems algorithmically.
Aims:  To develop students’ ability to understand and apply fundamental methods of engineering  mathematics; to introduce the use of programming in engineering, and develop students’ ability to represent and solve problems algorithmically.
Aims: to develop the skills required by students studying in all engineering disciplines, thereby supporting their journey through higher education and into their professional life with the intention of maximising their employability.
Skills development in the following areas will be addressed: problem solving; personal development; professional development; career planning; basic engineering design; introductory project management; communication; working in inclusive teams; health and safety and security.
Aims: to provide a grounding in concepts of measurement and uncertainty; to provide knowledge about applied physics relations that govern engineering systems within their boundaries and via their variables of interaction and to establish the ability to define system boundaries and apply relevant, simple models.
Aims: To provide a grounding in concepts of measurement and uncertainty; to provide knowledge about applied physics relations that govern engineering systems within their boundaries and via their variables of interaction; to establish ability to define system boundaries and apply relevant simple models.
Aims: To provide a grounding in the fundamental principles of engineering mechanics; to provide knowledge and understanding of Newton’s laws and their application for the solution of static problems; to provide experience and confidence in problem-solving.
Aims: To provide a grounding in the fundamental principles of engineering mechanics – dynamics of rigid bodies; to provide knowledge and understanding of the common and important material properties for various engineering applications; to provide experience and confidence in problem-solving.
Aims: To present principles governing the mechanics of solid bodies under static condition; to present interpret and apply concepts and theories of classical engineering thermodynamics, fluid mechanics and heat transfer to engineering systems; to develop knowledge, understanding and skills in modelling and analysing engineering problems; to achieve an appreciation of laboratory instrumentation and data analysis.
The aim of this module is to enhance knowledge about application of mathematical modelling to engineering problems and to provide knowledge and understanding about various mathematical techniques that are used to solve mathematical problems relevant to engineering.
Programming techniques will also be introduced for solving mathematical models
An aerospace engineering degree from Brunel will equip you with innovative technical knowledge and transferable skills relevant to demanding careers in the aerospace, aeronautical and related industries.
Some students have job offers before they graduate.
They take up employment in fields such as aircraft and components design and manufacture, maintenance and testing, flight simulation, aviation, avionics and patent engineering.
Brunel’s high-calibre graduates are working for prestigious organisations, including: Rolls-Royce, Airbus, British Airways, BAE Systems, GE Aviation, Thales, Bombardier, Lockheed Martin and the Ministry of Defence.
Opting for the year in industry during your aerospace engineering degree often leads to a job offer from your placement company.
Brunel University London is committed to raising the aspiration of our applicants and students.
Please check our Admissions pages for more information on other factors we use to assess applicants as well as our full GCSE requirements and accepted equivalencies in place of  GCSEs.
First Year Students
The Engineering Year 1 is common to all disciplines during term 1 (Chemical; Civil; Electronic and Electrical; Mechanical; Automotive and Aerospace Engineering), providing a broad educational base and opportunities for cross-disciplinary study.
While much of the teaching will remain common to all disciplines during term 2, there will also be some opportunity for discipline-specific teaching activities.
Lectures
Lectures will be delivered using a variety of different methods.
Some will be delivered live online or in-person on-campus, while others will be pre-recorded and made available online for you to access prior to engaging in interactive in-person tutorials or seminars on campus.
Some on-campus live lectures will be simultaneously livestreamed; all live lectures, whether delivered online or on-campus, will be recorded and made available for you to review after each lecture has taken place.
Tutorials
All lecture-based modules will be supported by regular (in most cases, weekly) tutorials or seminars that will all be held on campus, allowing you to work with both staff and other students on the practical application of what has been discussed during lectures.
Laboratory classes
Laboratory classes will be held on campus.
Students will have the opportunity to perform experiments and carry out other hands-on practical activities in the engineering labs and workshop spaces.
Small group project work will also be carried out in person on campus, supported by regular on-campus interactive discussion sessions (workshops).
You'll need to come onto campus on most days to participate in all the teaching activities that make up the Engineering Year 1.
The University’s online digital assessment platform will be used for the submission of written course work.
All examinations will take place in person on campus.
Other forms of assessment, such as presentations, are also expected to be run on campus.
All other undergraduate students (year 2, 3 and MEng year)
To ensure you receive the maximum support and have the greatest opportunity to reach your full potential; the expectation is that you enrolled on these programmes and attend in-person all teaching activities including examinations that are scheduled on campus.
This will be the majority of all activities.
However, where for pedagogical reasons alternative methods of delivery are used for activities; you'll be notified and be expected to engage with the activity at the time of delivery.
Laboratory Support
Access to specialist software
Contingency
If for any reason there are access restrictions imposed on staff or students, alternative arrangements will be made and due notice given.
Our aerospace engineering degrees are delivered by world-renowned academic staff.
They are also researchers, collaborating with commercial organisations like aircraft manufacturers.
This means they feed their cutting edge research back into the course.
There will also be guest lectures from industry experts and aerospace engineering site visits.
There are opportunities to study abroad during your second year, either in Europe or at University of Iowa in the USA.
Study will combine lectures, tutorials and seminars, laboratory work, computer simulation, field work, self-study, research reports and project work.
Your progress will be assessed via assignments, presentations, design projects, technical and laboratory reports, exams and the final year major individual research project.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/aerospace-engineering-meng:
H400
H403 with placement
4 years full-time
5 years full-time with placement
AAA - ABB (see specific subjects)  (A-level)
DDD (see specific subjects)  and A-level Maths at grade A.
(BTEC)
31 (IB)
Ranked 2nd in London for early career progression in Aerospace Engineering by The Guardian University Guide 2025.
Our Aerospace Engineering MEng degree is an exciting, hands-on specialist course that has been developed to equip you with advanced knowledge and management skills to meet the real world needs of the global aerospace industry.
Then you move on to higher-level topics including advanced aerodynamics, space mechanics, and the design and analysis of aircraft and spacecraft systems.
You will also acquire specialist knowledge on current aerospace engineering topics concerning flight safety, environmental impact, and fuel efficiency.
You’ll have access to a range of technical facilities including our aerospace/aviation laboratory, full-motion engineering flight simulator, supersonic and subsonic wind tunnels, materials and structure testing laboratory, anechoic chamber for aero-acoustic experiments, and 3D printing in the digital fabrication workshop.
Our MEng aerospace engineering course is accredited by both the Royal Aeronautical Society (RAeS) and the Institution of Mechanical Engineers (IMechE) .
(NB: we are seeking accreditation for the with-placement route).
This accredited MEng degree in aerospace engineering can be studied full-time over four years, or five years with a placement year.
The MEng degree fully meets the educational requirement to fast track you to Chartered Engineer (CEng) status.
Brunel Engineers is an annual exhibition that showcases our engineering talent at its finest.
It’s a great way for you to network with leading aerospace engineering experts and show them the innovative, creative and enterprising work you have produced during your time at Brunel.
As an extracurricular activity, there is also the opportunity to be part of a student-led initiative involving the design and build of an unmanned aircraft vehicle and participating in the IMechE industry-sponsored UAS Challenge (Unmanned Aircraft Systems Challenge).
In later years, you move on to specialist topics such as propulsion systems, flight testing, advanced aerodynamics, space mechanics, and the design and analysis of aircraft and spacecraft systems.
There is also a choice of optional modules, either fluids or solids, depending on your area of interest.
You will work on your industry-relevant individual research project in your third year and your major group project in your MEng final year.
Our MEng students often have several job offers before they graduate and find themselves in the enviable position of cherry-picking their prospective careers.
For Engineering with Integrated Foundation Year progression requirements, see the course page .
Your progress will be assessed via assignments, presentations, technical and laboratory reports, group design and research projects, exams and your individual and major group projects.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/anthropology-and-sociology-bsc:
LL6H
LL63 or LL64 with placement
ABB - BBC (A-level)
DMM (BTEC)
29 (IB)
Take your knowledge of culture and society to the next level and equip yourself with a big range of practical and analytical skills for a changing world with our Anthropology and Sociology BSc .
Anthropology is concerned with contemporary issues such as multiculturalism, identity politics, racism and ethnic nationalism, changing forms of the family, religious conflict, gender, and the political role of culture.
It also addresses fundamental questions about human nature, such as: ‘What do we have in common with each other cross-culturally?’ and ‘What makes us different?’
Sociology, its sister subject, looks at the foundations of social life and the big issues in contemporary society such as inequality, racism, globalisation, and migration.
In particular, your sociology studies at Brunel will be closely related to the central and ever-increasing importance of the communications media in our culture, for example, how poverty is portrayed and the powerful influence of celebrity.
Brunel is a great choice for this combined study with lecturers from both subjects producing cutting edge research alongside their teaching, on both global issues and local problems.
This research expertise filters down into what you will learn.
In anthropology students have learnt about youth and motorcycles in Rwanda, and in sociology, about cosmetic tourism.
Choose this course and you can do fully funded fieldwork on any subject, anywhere in the world, whether it’s learning about refugees in Athens or mother and toddler groups in inner London.
Around half of Brunel anthropology students carry out a placement or fieldwork abroad, in places as wide ranging as India, Nepal, Australia, South Africa, Papua New Guinea and Jamaica.
Additionally with the fieldwork funded as part of your course, you can concentrate on your research rather than financial obstacles.
Recent UK placement destinations include the Royal Anthropological Institute, Campaign for Press and Broadcasting Freedom, Amnesty International and the Department of Health.
Alternatively, could choose a placement that’s more sociologically focussed.
Either way, you can choose to take it as two six month placements or one year-long placement.
"Anthropology has honestly challenged me to become the best version of myself and has shaped me into who I am today.
I encourage you to join our Anthropology Department here in Brunel and find yourself a new home for the upcoming years.
Your journey is just about to begin." - Iris Toska
"Unlike most subjects, this course offers a chance to apply what was learned in readings and lectures in ongoing conversation – which includes respectfully challenging the lecturer and classmates during seminars" - Candice Feddis
"I’d come to university with the expectation that I may not develop close connections with those that taught me.
I’d hear of how lecturers wouldn’t even know who we are or remember our names.
But that’s certainly not the case at Brunel.
There is an air of closeness and familiarity that runs through the Anthropology department, that makes it feel a lot more personal.
" - Tasneem Farah
"Here’s the selling point… the Brunel placement year.
I spent 3 months travelling Mexico, with my best friend.
Yep, this dreamy version of a university placement year was my reality!
In Anthropology, you can literally study anything anthropologically, anywhere.
So, on a whim with my course mate, we randomly picked Mexico.
" - Chrisyl Wong-Hang-Sun
Your first year will be an introduction to academic studies in social science, including an introduction to key theoretical issues as well as practical training in research methods, such as interviewing and participant observation.
In your second year, anthropology modules cover the history and theory of anthropology, and current issues in the fields of ethnicity, gender, religion and kinship.
Sociology topics include sociological theory, methods and contemporary social institutions.
In your final year, you can choose your own modules from a wide range of advanced options from both disciplines, alongside your own dissertation research project.
An introduction to the field of social anthropology through reviews of some classic problems and topics.
You will gain basic knowledge of the variety of human cultures as you discover the types of argument employed and forms of evidence characteristic of social anthropology.
Learn about the ways anthropologists interpret and explain systems of knowledge and belief and their ability to detach themselves from taken-for-granted beliefs and values to help them to appreciate the logic of others systems.
This module takes students on a hands-on journey from designing a research question, through reflecting on ethics, to ethnographic fieldwork and the processes of analysis and writing-up that follow.
Key themes in sociology are explored through theoretical and empirical analysis.
You will do this by examining some of the most important ideas of leading sociologists and critically engage with their theories through empirical illustrations.
This module unpacks the definition, origins, evolution and trajectory of inequality in society through multiple empirical and theoretical angles.
It also examines different manifestations of inequality including gender, income, educational and intersectional dynamics.
Finally, it explores social mobility and how the state, charities as well as labour groups work towards redistribution of opportunities and resources.
Learn about the range of key concepts, theories, and controversies in the anthropology of ethnicity, culture, nationhood, and identity.
Drawing on case studies from within and beyond Britain, it will encourage you to consider how identities are created, deployed, and contested.
This module will introduce students to core ideas in feminism via the key concepts of gender and sexuality.
It will develop students’ understandings of social structures, human cultures, and economic inequalities and political relationships.
The course will offer theoretical tools and historical insights into gendered, feminised, and sexualised socio-cultural worlds.
Gain an appreciation of the key issues in the anthropology of education and learning and an understanding, ethnographically, of how culture shapes and informs the educational and learning process an and in turn impacts social and cultural practices.
Explore key theories of ‘the body’ in anthropology and other cognate discipline through the work of scholars such as Pierre Bourdieu, Michel Foucault and Thomas Csordas.
You will also be exposed to contemporary approaches to the study of subjectivity, personhood and experience across societies and cultures.
Anthropological approaches to understanding ‘the person’ are discussed through the work of theorists such as Mauss and Hacking including contemporary approaches to the study of subjectivity, personhood and experience in formal and informal environments.
In this module we will examine many different aspects of embodiment and bodies in society, with a focus on the role of media in representing, stereotyping, and medicalising different kinds of bodies.
This module explores the concept, meaning and practices of ‘race’, ethnicity, racialization, and global racisms.
It identifies how ‘race’ and racism have evolved over time, and in different contexts - both nationally in the contemporary UK as well as in other parts of the world.
You will gain a theoretical and historical overview of the changing relationship between anthropology and international development as you learn to understand the multiple ways in which anthropological research can enhance our understanding of contemporary policies and practices in international development.
This module considers the shape of new media technologies such as iPhones – it explores how new developments in media technology have changed the basis of contemporary social life and culture.
This module will examine some of the key transformations that are taking place through digital culture.
This module explores classic anthropological themes -- such as community, class, kinship, gender, and globalisation -- through an indepth focus on a particular ethnographic region: South Asia and its diasporas.
In this module you will grasp the interplay between ethnographic observations during fieldwork and theory building during the write up process.
You will examine key cultural issues for the region, covering topics such as religion, nationalism, economics, and the interplay of politics and memory.
This module explores what anthropology can contribute to debates around global health issues.
This module explores how meanings are developed through contemporary cultural representations, practices and processes, with a focus on creativity and the creative industries sector.
It examines popular culture and the rise of the creative and cultural sector in late modernity drawing on relevant sociological, media and cultural studies debates and theories.
This module provides an advanced understanding of research methodologies, with a particular focus on data analysis.
Equipping students with an understanding and appreciation of the important theoretical paradigms that underpin qualitative and quantitative social and communications research traditions.
Furnishing students with the tools and skills required to conduct and evaluate their own empirical social and communications research.
In this module you will consider the meanings of ordinary, ‘everyday’ processes and actions in society, by examining what everyday life consists of and the relevant academic debates and theories around it.
The module will encourage you to reflect on your own everyday life through the lense of power, identity and gender in wider socio-cultural contexts.
Learn about the development of psychological and psychiatric anthropology including theories of emotion, psychoanalytic approaches, folk psychologies, culture and personality, mental health and cultural perspectives on 'madness'.
This module will introduce you to the study of childhood and youth as they are constructed and practiced in different social, cultural and economic settings.
The first section focuses on children, looking first at how ideas of childhood are constructed by adults, the second section is devoted to young people.
This module aims to provide students with a critical understanding of the main themes in the anthropology of war and humanitarian assistance.
These include the anthropology of violence, how societies respond in the aftermath of violence, the origins of humanitarianism, the concept of emergency, refugees and Giorgio Agamben’s concept of ‘bare life’.
In this topic you will be introduced to some of the key research topics in modern social anthropology, including aspects of political economy, social organisation, cultural systems, historical change, and theoretical frames through which to view them.
In this continuing module your learning will be based around three elements.
In workshops, research methods will be introduced and practised with your peers, whilst seminar sessions will deepen your understanding of the methodological, political and ethical principles of action research.
Later in the module, through extended workshop activity you will work in teams to plan a research project in response to a simulated social situation.
The dissertation enables the student to demonstrate their abilities to plan, design and execute a research project.
Explore the social & political significance of representations of national and global crises, and public perceptions of controversies.
Students analyse dystopian popular and scientific discourses that dwell on disorder and catastrophe.
Indicative content includes risk, uncertainty, globalisation, the environment, disease, capitalism.
Public understanding, perception and engagement with popular and scientific controversies and notions of crisis.
An introduction to urban sociology and will develop the students understanding of urban development, cultures, and representation.
The course will offer theoretical tools and provide practical applications for the relationship between space, culture, and social life in contemporary cities.
This module offers a historical and critical perspective on the development of theories and methods in social anthropology from around 1980 to the present day, focussing on contemporary theoretical debates and how these have shaped the discipline of anthropology.
Examine historical and current debates concerning the criminalisation of a variety of drugs.
This will introduce students to debates about the impact of the criminalisation of drugs on marginalised communities.
Students will be introduced to debates about global drug markets and the changing nature of those markets over time.
The aim of this module is to look at environment and sustainability from a multipronged perspective.
The module will help students develop a nuanced understanding about managing our natural resources.
Both top down and bottom up approaches to manage nature will be explored.
Equips students with an understanding of the key concepts in global migration including the causes and consequences of migration, national and international responses to migration and the diversity of migrant flows within a global context, using cases from both Global North and Global South contexts.
This module will explore issues raised by historical and political sociology regarding the development of the modern world-system.
In particular the course will focus upon the rise to dominance of Europe in the building of the modern world-system and the explanations offered for this.
An introduction to core concepts in social theory.
The emphasis is on concepts through which students can relate to the worlds they inhabit and the lives they live, connecting these to a broad canvas: the diversity of social existence and the sweep of human history.
The focus is on basic building blocks of social existence.
The module provides students with an understanding of how social movements occur, succeed, or fail in bringing social and/or political change.
By focusing on empirical cases, students will study the use of old and new media tools, the role of leaders and collective identity formation during the social movements, as well as governmental and international responses to these developments.
Delve into the contemporary texts that have contributed to the development of medical anthropology as you consider its innovations and how the application of anthropological research in the subject can contribute to improving medical practices.
An interdisciplinary module which explores the psychosocial underpinnings of crime and violence in the contemporary world.
It offers students the opportunity to move beyond common sense understandings of crime and criminal justice to consider the interconnected psychic, social and cultural processes involved in the development of criminal social identities.
What is the relationship between religious identity and social, political, military, or economic power?
In this module, we examine the role that religious practice and belief has played in South Asian societies from the early modern through the contemporary era.
We introduce the intersecting histories of major South Asian religions, including Hinduism, Islam, Sikhism, and Buddhism, among others.
This module will enable students to critically engage and analyse the historical and current impact of social media on social relations and contemporary culture.
It will allow students to develop a critical understanding of social media in the context of broader changes in the media landscape, and how it impacts identity, power and everyday life.
This module aims to introduce students to theoretical debates in feminism about social reproduction and care.
It will offer a broad history of such debates and update these with new theoretical interventions in this field that have arisen in recent times, particularly in the context of the pandemic.
This module will provide students with a critical overview of working in industries that draw on or are connected with sociological knowledge from direct encounters with industry professionals, companies or institutions.
Drawing on a variety of formats, the module will support students’ understanding of, competence and confidence in working independently in a professional manner appropriate to ‘sociological’ industries.
In this module we explore the theoretical and empirical debates surrounding the politics, society and economics of South Asia as a region and its place in the larger world.
We focus in particular on countries of the Indian subcontinent that were former colonies of the British Raj – India, Pakistan, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka.
We survey the Arab-Israeli conflict, covering three overarching themes: 1) Origins of the Conflict; 2) Evolution of the Conflict; and 3) Peace and its Limits.
The module covers the origins of both national movements, the development of the conflict under British rule, the major Arab-Israeli wars, peace agreements, and it ends with recent events.
In this module students will explore the role of violence and conflict in the course of eastern Africa’s modern history.
Students will gain an in depth understanding of the ways in which violence and conflict have influenced economy, society and polity in the modern era, through a consideration of broad themes, such as age, ethnicity, and resources, as well as specific case studies taken from across the region.
This module aims to provide students with a critical understanding of the main themes in the anthropology of war and humanitarian assistance.
This module introduces you to contemporary debates on race, class, and space.
You'll become familiarised with different theoretical positions, and ways in which race and class are spatially structured.
As a graduate of a three year anthropology and sociology degree, your research and fieldwork experience, which forms such a major part of our degree course, will help to set you apart from other graduates.
These placements build up fantastic experience and can connect you with organisations and people who will be invaluable when it comes to progressing your career.
Brunel graduates have gone on to work at the World Bank, UNICEF, the NHS, NGOs and charities such as Oxfam and Save the Children, as well as local government, legal sectors and the media.
Graduates have also gone on to work as teachers, journalists and research officers in the health and social sectors, and in other professions requiring knowledge of social and cultural processes.
Others go on to pursue further research degrees in anthropology and become academic anthropologists.
A minimum of five GCSEs are required, including GCSE English Language grade C or grade 4 or GCSE English Literature grade B or grade 5.
You'll be taught by world-leading experts in your field of study, and have the opportunity to interact with fellow students at London’s leading campus University.
Your programme will consist of a variety of learning and studying activities, including lectures, seminars and discussions.
You'll study six modules during two terms across the academic year (four modules and a dissertation in the third year).
Each module will have on average two to three hours of in-person contact time per week in lectures, seminars and workshops in the teaching terms.
There'll also be the opportunity for a further six hours per week to seek guidance during module lecturers’ feedback and consultation hours.
Additionally, you'll be able to seek support in individual meetings with their personal tutors, both on-campus and online.
There'll also be regular cohort meetings and student society events, at both programme and departmental level.
Field trips and excursions to support your learning will be organised throughout the year.
All lectures, seminars, cohort meetings and other social activities will occur in person on the Brunel campus.
You regularly attend these events, as sustained engagement with a learning community is a central dimension of the Brunel experience.
Online provision of some activities will be made available when it is appropriate to the learning outcomes of your programme.
You'll be taught by an internationally respected team of sociologists and anthropologists who have conducted research and fieldwork across the globe, on topics like religion, identity, witchcraft, disability, memory, nationalism, political violence, social hierarchies, race, ethnicity, and ecology.
Like most social science subjects, the course is taught through a mixture of lectures and small discussion groups or seminars.
For each module, you'll usually attend one lecture and one seminar every week.
Uniquely for a UK university, studying anthropology at Brunel will always mean applying what you have read to what you discover in real-life situations with the opportunity to conduct fieldwork experience anywhere in the world.
Assessment is typically by essay or practical assignments (for example, analysis of a short field exercise), and a dissertation of approximately 10,000 to 15,000 words based upon your own fieldwork experience anywhere in the world.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/anthropology-bsc:
L601
L602, L603  with placement
Anthropology offers a unique and powerful means for understanding cultural and social diversity in the modern world.
It considers issues which can lead to mind blowing revelations about how individuals and cultures experience life differently.
It also addresses perennial questions about human nature, such as: ‘What do we have in common with each other cross-culturally?’ and ‘What makes us different?’.
If you are intrigued by these questions and want to study a discipline that will enrich your everyday life as well as equip you for a great variety of occupations, anthropology is the right course for you.
Fieldwork is excellent preparation for work and a chance to make useful contacts and will help to add greater meaning to academic studies.
Around half of Brunel’s anthropology students carry out a placement or fieldwork abroad, in places as wide ranging as India, Nepal, Australia, South Africa, Papua New Guinea and Jamaica.
Additionally with the fieldwork now funded as part of your degree, you can concentrate on your research rather than financial obstacles.
Examples of dissertation titles based on fieldwork findings have included work in a Nepalese monastery, a South African women’s refuge, the Police Complaints Authority (on the Stephen Lawrence case), as well as in schools and charities.
Outside of classes, you can look forward to a one of the most cultural diverse campuses in the UK with opportunity to meet people from all over the world.Additionally, Brunel’s anthropological student society arrange class trips to places like the Pitt Rivers museum in Oxford, and the campus’s London location makes it ideal for exploring places like the British Museum in Central London.
"Studying here ...has been one of the best experiences of my academic life and I have nothing but endless high praises about the program.
I was so happy to have professors who were supportive, engaging and understanding, compared to my secondary school, where I often felt unheard, ignored, or discouraged for disagreeing with the material.
Like I mentioned above, at Brunel, they ask you “why do you disagree?”, and are open to discussion.
" - Rami Mroueh
Through a set of compulsory modules in your first year, you will gain a firm foundation in the central themes and debates in anthropology as you are introduced to the international work carried out by the teaching staff that explores the practicalities of undertaking anthropological funded fieldwork.
In years two and three, you will follow a pre-set group of compulsory modules according,  plus optional modules choices according to your interests.
Below is a list of the variety of modules typically taught within the subject.
The aim of this module is to introduce students to individual staff members’ regional and thematic research interests.
To that end, staff members present lectures that deal both with general themes in anthropology and very specific ethnographic problems they have experienced during their own fieldwork.
Students will get a real feel for what anthropologists do and why they do it.
The module explores the successive waves of overseas migration from Britain and Ireland to create settler societies around the globe between the early Stuart era and the First World War.
The geographical coverage concentrates on the thirteen British colonies in North America before 1776, the Caribbean, Canada, South Africa, Australia and New Zealand.
Together these parts of the world were the recipients of millions of British and Irish
This module introduces the colonial and post-colonial histories of one of the most populous regions in the world, South Asia.
We focus on key political, social, religious, and cultural movements and events in the regions that became modern India, Pakistan, and Bangladesh, and emphasise the plurality of South Asian historical experiences.
The module focuses on Australia’s connections with the wider world from the European maritime voyages to the Pacific in the eighteenth century up to contemporary times.
Major themes dealing with varied aspects of Australia’s role in the modern world have been selected for study.
This module aims to enable students to attain a comprehensive understanding of key concepts and theories in the politics and political economy of climate change.
It will provide students with resources to assist them in making informed judgments on a range of questions and debates.
Africa is one of the most misunderstood and misrepresented regions of the modern world.
More often than not, its history is presented as a long series of human disasters, conflict, and disorder.
However, Africa’s modern history is also one of resistance, and dynamic and creative responses to changing circumstances.
This module examines Africa’s multifaceted history since about 1800.
Students will be introduced to the history and the various theoretical debates surrounding the nature of street gangs and street cultural formation.
Using a wide range of criminological and empirical research, the causes of gangs and street culture, and the responses to this global phenomenon will be considered.
Examine the ways in which the globalisation of communication has transformed social, political, and economic relations.
The following themes will be addressed in this module: the state, economy, power, globalisation, nationalism, identity, digitisation, culture and consumerism, media markets, public relations and politics, and political economy of communication.
This module provides students with an understanding of the historical emergence of two of the central concepts of modern political thought: the state and revolution, or the constitution of political order and the process of fundamental political transformation.
We study the development of these concepts in some of the major events of political modernity, from the 16th to the 19th centuries.
In this module students will gain an understanding of the texts of political theorists who focus on the issue of fostering unity among the culturally diverse citizens of a modern polity.
Students will also gain an understanding of case studies that help to illuminate the difficulties of fostering unity among the culturally diverse citizens of a modern polity.
An introduction to notions of deviance in terms of othering, stigma, and criminalisation.
It will consider the changing nature of deviance, how perceptions of deviance change over time, and how these perceptions impact on individuals and communities.
Deviance will be studied through a number of different lenses that consider deviance as a part of a process of oppression but also a source of resistance.
Students will engage critically with principles and practices of sustainable development and learn to understand environmental questions through a lens of political ecology.
The module will provide opportunities for students to develop their own of attitudes and values in relation to the environment.
You are introduced to issues of urban regeneration and their impacts in relation to urban inequalities, and apply this understanding in relation initially to London and subsequently to a European city in which they undertake a field visit.
As a graduate of a three year anthropology degree, your research and fieldwork experience, which forms such a major part of our degree course, will help to set you apart from other graduates.
Brunel anthropology graduates have gone on to work at the World Bank, UNICEF, the NHS, NGOs and charities such as Oxfam and Save the Children, as well as local government, legal sectors and the media.
The Anthropology BSc at Brunel consistently ranks within the top quartile for student satisfaction for anthropology nationally.
You'll be taught by an internationally respected team of anthropologists who have conducted fieldwork in five continents on religion, witchcraft, disability, memory, nationalism, childhood and education, political violence, social hierarchies, race, ethnicity, and ecology.
Like most social science subjects, anthropology is taught through a mixture of lectures and small discussion groups or seminars.
Uniquely for a UK university, studying anthropology at Brunel will always mean applying what you have read to what you discover in real-life situations with the opportunity to conduct funded fieldwork experience anywhere in the world.
Find out about some of our students’ experiences on the Anthropology work placements page .
There are no examinations for our anthropology degree.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/automotive-engineering-beng:
HH30
HHN1 with placement
AAB - BBB (see specific subjects)  (A-level)
DDD (see specific subjects)  (BTEC)
The Brunel Automotive Engineering BEng gives students with a passion for motor vehicles the specialised expertise they need to become professional engineers in the fast-moving automotive industry.
Along with a solid grounding in the fundamentals of mechanical engineering, including maths, engineering science and design, you’ll gain an in-depth knowledge of the technical workings of current and future automotive systems.
You’ll study all aspects of automotive development and manufacture from vehicle design and performance to engine and transmission systems to materials, structures and safety.
You’ll also get hands-on practice troubleshooting engineering problems that inevitably arise during the construction and testing processes.
Your education will profit, too, by your access to the work done at our Centre for Advanced Powertrain and Fuels (CAPF) .
One of the largest and most active engine research groups in the UK, CAPF focuses on minimising pollutant emissions and improving fuel efficiency while maintaining performance levels.
Throughout your studies you’ll have use of our modern, state-of-the-art laboratory facilities , which comprise our motorsport workshop, and 24-hour access to industry standard specialist software for engineering design at dedicated computer clusters.
Our automotive engineering BEng course is accredited by the Institution of Mechanical Engineers (IMechE) .
You can choose three years full-time or four years full-time with a one-year professional placement that will allow to put what you’ve learned to use in real-world situations.
In the rapidly evolving automotive industry, demand for engineers with the technical and managerial skills to excel is on the rise.
Your Brunel BEng will give you these and equip you to play leading roles in industry and public service.
"Recognise your skill set, no matter what course you are doing, work out how you are translating that course to real life business." - Sachin Patel
"My passion for robotics and sustainable technology really came to life during my PhD at Brunel, where I focused on the intersection of advancing 3D printing and sustainable construction materials." - Dr Abdulrahman Albar
"It provided a sound technical background but more importantly the Sandwich Degree gave me more relevant industrial experience on graduation than many of my peers." - David Fowles
"Brunel provided the opportunity for me to go on an industrial placement during my course, which gave me a wealth of experience and aided in my continued employment with the company." - Matt Price
The course aims to give you a thorough understanding of mechanical engineering as well as the specialist knowledge and skills needed to work as an automotive engineer.
Work for your automotive engineering degree consists of compulsory modules and a major independent project.
If you opt for a sandwich course, you’ll go on a year’s paid placement and put your theory into practice.
Some of our students are offered jobs at the companies where they carried out their industrial placements.
Your automotive engineering degree from Brunel is highly regarded.
Many of our graduates now work in technical and managerial positions within the automotive industry.
Recent destinations include Jaguar Land Rover, Aston Martin, McLaren Automotive, Ricardo, Nissan Technical Centre Europe, Bentley Motors, Ford, BMW (Mini), Lotus Cars, Tata Motors, BP, MAHLE Powertrain, Cummins, JCB, Perkins and Delphi.
Many carry out much of their research in collaboration with motor vehicle manufacturers and leading industrial firms.
This means that your education will be at the forefront of industry knowledge.
Your course will consist of a combination of lectures, laboratory practicals, design studios and one-to-one supervision.
You’ll be introduced to the practical aspects of automotive engineering at Level 1 in the form of laboratory experiments on existing vehicle sub-systems, which then lead to more advanced laboratories at Level 2.
At Levels 2 and 3 you’ll use advance computer software in design, structural analysis and dynamics, and our laboratory facilities to run experiments you’ve designed.
Modules are assessed by combinations of coursework, project work, laboratory reports, oral presentations and short tests.
There are written examinations in May of each year.
In Level 3 all students undertake a major individual project, often involving experimental work and sometimes with industrial support.
This is worth a third of the overall marks for the year.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/automotive-engineering-meng:
HHH0
H3N1 with placement
The Brunel Automotive Engineering MEng gives students interested in pursuing careers in automobile engineering an extra year of advanced study and training that will deepen their knowledge of the subject, expand their skill sets and put them on a fast-track to becoming a chartered engineer.
As with our Automobile Engineering BEng degree, you’ll get a solid grounding in the fundamentals of mechanical engineering, including maths, engineering science and design, and an in-depth knowledge of the technical workings of current and future automotive systems.
In your final year, along with studying specialist topics taught at master’s degree level, you’ll take part in a major group project to design, manufacture and test an automotive product, typically aimed at low-carbon use.
This will give you valuable experience working in a team-based environment and on-the-job opportunities to develop your leadership and management skills, competencies sought by employers.
A current project concerns the use of mechanical kinetic energy recovery to help eliminate the feel of turbocharger lag in future fuel-efficient road vehicles.
At the end their final year, engineering and maths students are invited to showcase their project work at Brunel Engineers +, an event that both celebrates their achievements and gives them the chance to network with industry figures and employers.
Throughout your studies you’ll have use of our state-of-the-art laboratory facilities , which comprise our motorsport workshop, and 24-hour access to industry standard specialist software for engineering design at dedicated computer clusters on campus, so you’ll have the opportunity and equipment to explore ideas and tackle problems.
Our automotive engineering MEng course is accredited by the Institution of Mechanical Engineers (IMechE) .
You can choose four years full-time or five years full-time with a professional placement that will allow to put what you’ve learned into practice in real-world situations.
In an industry facing the challenges of rapidly-changing technology, heightened customer expectations and growing environmental concerns, employers are looking for graduates with the technical and managerial skills to keep ahead of the changes.
Your Brunel MEng will give you this and equip you to play leading roles in industry and public service.
The course is designed to give you a thorough understanding of mechanical engineering, specialist training in automotive engineering and a fast-track route to qualification as a chartered engineer.
Your Automotive Engineering MEng degree consists of compulsory modules and major independent and group projects.
Aim: To provide a grounding in the fundamental principles of engineering mechanics - dynamics of rigid bodies; to provide experience and confidence in problems solving.
This module aims to introduce students to the main principles of nonlinear modelling of solids and structures; nonlinear finite element analysis (FEA); and failure modes of solids and structures, including plastic collapse, fracture and buckling.
This module aims to introduce advanced simulation and modelling techniques for thermofluids; advanced experimental techniques for thermofluids and teach skills of numerically solving engineering flow using advanced modelling techniques and reporting, analysing results.
This module aims to introduce principles of actuation, sensing, and control methods.
Students will have an understanding of robot modelling overview including forward and inverse kinematics, and control methods.
Your course will consist of lectures, laboratory practicals, design workshops, individual and group projects and one-to-one supervision.
You’ll be introduced to the practical aspects of automotive engineering at Level 1 in the form of laboratory experiments on existing vehicle sub-systems, which will lead to more advanced laboratories at Level 2.
At Levels 2 to 4 you’ll use advance computer software in design, structural analysis and dynamics, and our laboratory facilities to run experiments you’ve designed.
Modules are assessed by combinations of coursework, project work, reports on laboratory practicals, oral presentations and short tests.
In Level 3, all students undertake a major individual project.
All final year MEng students participate in a team project of five to six people to manufacture and test an automotive product.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/banking-and-finance-bsc:
L130
L131 with placement
2025/6
The Brunel Banking and Finance BSc provides students with the knowledge, skills and insights needed to effectively pursue careers in banking and financial services.
You’ll get a solid grounding in micro and macroeconomic principles, accounting practices and the workings of financial markets before studying advanced topics including real estate finance, financial regulation, risk management and how banking and financial systems operate in an international context.
You’ll also gain insight into the dynamic relationship between investors, financial markets and the institutions that enable transactions between the two.
You’ll study econometrics, develop highly valued skills in data modelling, and get training in analytical packages widely used by business and financial institutions such as Bloomberg, Reuters, SAS, EViews, STATA, and R.
You can choose three years full-time or four years full-time with a one-year professional placement between years two and three that will give you the chance to apply the theoretical principles you’ve learned to a working environment.
Due to globalisation, banking and finance have become growth sectors for graduate vacancies.
The specialised skills and training you’ll get from your Brunel BSc will make you a preferred job candidate to employers across the industry.
This course is also accredited by ACCA and CIMA offering exemptions to some of their professional papers depending on your module choices.
This course is designed to give you a thorough knowledge of the economics of banking and finance.
Your banking and finance degree consists of compulsory and optional modules.
In the final year, you can choose whether to write a dissertation or take additional modules instead.
The optional dissertation project is a year-long project that you'll write under close supervision by a dedicated academic supervisor in one-on-one meetings.
This module aims to develop knowledge and understanding of the underlying principles and concepts relating to financial accounting and technical proficiency in the use of double-entry accounting techniques including the preparation of basic financial statements.
This module provides students with a firm foundation in the principles of macroeconomics at the theoretical level, which will provide the basis for further core modules at level 2 and level 3.
It aims to demonstrate the application of theory to current issues in macroeconomics.
The aim of this module is to introduce students to core concepts, methods and techniques of modern microeconomics.
The course prepares students for more advanced topics to be studied in following years.
This module aims to provide students with an understanding of the financing decisions and policy of modern corporations.
This module represents a core component of corporate finance and aims to give students a range of techniques to investigate firms’ investment decisions.
This module aims to enable students to further develop their employability and to successfully obtain a suitable placement position by introducing students to the recruitment and selection methods used by organisations, enabling students to understand the range of placement and internship opportunities available to them, and enhancing the employability of the student into the placement and internship market.
This module aims to provide students with a good grasp of both the theoretical and practical issues related to the modern financial markets and intermediaries.
The topics covered include financial system, banking, financial institutions and money.
Special attention will be given to the topics of financial crisis and the need and role of regulation.
The aim of this module is to provide mathematical tools needed to analyse economic problems, and to understand the role of mathematical modelling and how to translate economic problems into the language of mathematics.
The aim of this module is to provide students with the theoretical skills needed to understand and analyse econometric studies and the practical skills needed to construct and estimate such models.
The objective of this module is to provide students with the essential analytical tools which are used in standard economic analysis.
The aims of the module are to build on the foundations of Level 1 microeconomics and to develop analytical skills and to learn to use microeconomic tools for the analysis of economic problems which are expected to be seen in other courses of economics.
The objective of the course is to provide students with insights from economic theory which are relevant to a variety of real world decisions.
The emphasis is on applying microeconomics ideas to solve problems.
The main aims of the module are to familiarise students with the assumptions, operation and predictions of the principal macroeconomic models.
Enable students to understand current debate amongst Macroeconomists by examining the major theoretical controversies.
And to explore policy implications relating to current macroeconomic performance.
The main aims of the module are to understand forces behind long-term prosperity and fluctuations in economic activity.
To identify the role of banks, features of financial markets and labour markets, their interaction as well as consequences of the increasing globalisation for the economy.
And to explore the role central bank and government play in stabilising macro economy.
This module focuses on banking trends and operations in a microeconomic context, incorporating theoretical material with practical aspects of banking.
It helps students evaluate, in a structured manner, the effects of asymmetric information on financial markets and the economy at large.
The module will employ the Fitch-Connect database as a teaching tool as appropriate.
This module aims to introduce students to the economics of information, provide students with the conceptual and analytical tools to analyse the role of asymmetric information in the determination of market outcomes, the design of contracts, and the provision of incentives, and enable students to use these tools to analyse real world observations and practical economic problems related to the design of contracts, compensation schemes, pricing menus, and more.
This module will enable students to refine their employability skills and to learn strategies to assist their entry into the graduate job market.
This module focuses on the key aspects of regulation of the financial markets.
It investigates how and why governments and public authorities intervene in financial markets, and what the principles are that underpin the regulatory environment.
The module will consider aspects of regulation across the banking sector as well as across the wider.
The module will also evaluate the issues of coordinating regulation arising from globalisation.
This module aims to enable students to demonstrate a sound knowledge of the operation of housing finance at both a micro and macro levels.
The module will cover the behaviour of lenders and investors in the housing market in risk control and return optimisation, and regulation of housing finance.
It will also introduce the importance of mortgages and house prices at a macroeconomic level, including aspects of monetary and macroprudential policies.
The module aims to provide final-year undergraduates with the opportunity to provide evidence of their ability to independently pursue research in the area of the topics chosen by them, with the assistance of, and the recommendation by, members of the Department.
Students will be expected to develop their analytical ability and skills to conduct a general investigation into issues relating to economics and finance.
The module aims to provide students with an understanding of the principles of behavioural economics, to apply behavioural economics tools to public policy and private sector business decision-making and to interpret their findings and to engage students in critically evaluating the theories and tools of behavioural economics and finance.
This module aims to provide students with an understanding of the principles of behavioural finance and to apply behavioural finance tools to financial decision-making and to interpret their findings.
Students will engage in critically evaluating the theories and tools of behavioural finance.
The aim of the course is to offer an introduction to the theory and practice of financial engineering.
The course will examine the design, the development and the implementation of financial innovation, in addition to developing a deeper understanding of the workings of financial markets.
The aim of this course is to give students a thorough theoretical and practical guide to corporate finance.
Advanced corporate finance topics are covered including capital budgeting, cost of capital, capital structure, payout policy, raising equity capital, mergers and acquisitions, real options, working capital management, market efficiency, and corporate governance.
The material presented for each topic includes theory, empirical evidence and practical examples.
Emphasis is given to recent developments of the theory in the presence of informational asymmetries, such as the principal-agent relationship, incentives and signalling.
This module will provide an understanding of security valuation and portfolio Management within the fixed income markets.
It will explore the underlying economic and finance theory, market developments and various practical approaches to fixed income investment.
This course will examine the basic regression model before considering how models should be specified and recent developments in the time series theory.
The aim of the course is to provide students with the theoretical skills needed to understand and analyse econometric studies and the practical skills needed to construct and estimate such models.
The module aims to provide students with an understanding of the key issues in International Money, International Macroeconomics, and International Finance.
This module introduces students to the latest theories on the organisation of the firms and industries.
Practical examples will illustrate the role of each theory in current policy debates.
The focus is on recent developments in the theory of oligopoly, including the study of cooperative and non-cooperative oligopoly behaviour based on game theory.
In addition, the course covers some advanced topics in pricing and strategic behaviour.
Case studies will indicate how and why industrial economics models are valuable tools for competition policy and antitrust activity.
This course will examine the basic regression model before considering how models should be specified and recent developments in panel data methods.
This module aims to illustrate on practical examples the application of concepts and ideas of financial management, to apply statistical tools to public policy and private sector business decision-making and to interpret their findings.
It also aims to show and discuss how to conduct empirical research, work with data sources and present results in a project and to engage students in critically evaluating the theories and tools of financial markets
Our aim is to teach you ‘employable knowledge’, which can be applied to real-world situations giving you the skills you need to find the right role after you graduate.
Therefore, you’ll be well prepared for work, especially if you undertake a work placement.
Securing economics and finance degree jobs is highly competitive so we’ll support you to gain a strong foundation in the skills employers are looking for.
We offer opportunities within the Department of Economics and Finance as well as through the University’s Professional Development Centre (PDC) to help you build skills and experience.
Our graduates are employed in many fields, with roles at NatWest (Financing Futures), PricewaterhouseCoopers and KPMG, the Treasury, and the Bank of England.
Within industry, graduates are working at businesses like BP, Xerox, and Marks and Spencer.
Please check our Admissions pages for more information on other factors we use to assess applicants as well as our full GCSE requirements and accepted equivalencies in place of GCSEs
We expect you to actively engage with your learning programme in real-time.
The timetable is being constructed to produce the most efficient allocation of time for students both when they are on campus and when they are off campus.
It's someone you can discuss, in confidence, your academic progress with or any special requirements you may have.
We provide both group tutoring sessions and (if you want) one-to-one sessions.
It's expected that examination-style assessments, excepting some computer-based tests, will be held on campus, and you'll be expected to attend your examination sessions.
Please email your lecturer or drop by their office to make your booking and we'll find a time convenient for both of you.
Your banking and finance course will consist of lectures, workshops, seminars, one-to-one supervision, guest speakers from industry and site visits.
Modules are assessed by a combination of coursework and examinations.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/business-and-management-bsc:
N100
N221 with placement
Brunel's Business and Management degree course will equip you with a broad knowledge and appreciation of issues faced in the world of business.
You’ll gain the analytical, technical and interpersonal skills required to understand, analyse and address the challenges faced by today’s companies.
The components of this programme offer you a range of core skills in business and management.
This includes market economies; marketing using digital technologies; theoretical and practical characteristics of organisations; various business models and frameworks; coping with future uncertainty, and managing change.
Emphasis on this programme is on globalisation issues generated by multinational enterprises (MNEs).
As they account for over fifty percent of global output, a deeper understanding of the commercial power of MNEs will help you position yourself strategically in a competitive job market.
This programme will broaden your knowledge of business concepts as you work on real life business issues and live case studies, to develop managerial skills and enhance your career prospects.
You will also learn valuable technical skills along the way including numerical methods and how to use statistical software packages such as SPSS and EXCEL, without the need for A level maths or the overseas equivalent.
The programme includes a module on Management Enquiry to help you adapt to university study through active learning sessions on topics such as working in groups, report writing and time management.
Brunel University is also a Chartered Institute of Management (CIMA) accredited university , which means you will gain exemptions from some of their professional papers if you wish to undertake further study towards being a chartered management accountant after you graduate.
There is the option to take a year’s work placement between your second and third year.
This is an excellent opportunity to gain experience and make valuable contacts for your future career.
Key elements of business and management are explored in the compulsory modules of your first and second year.
Areas such as accounting, marketing, PR, international business, and project and operations management are also touched upon.
Your final year offers the chance to select optional modules.
Companies seeking to successfully ride the wave of the knowledge economy must always consider ideas as the most precious commodity and employees who produce them as sought-after resources.
There is increased recognition that the competitive advantage of organisations depends heavily on their ability to capitalise on their employees’ ideas.
The value of creativity as a means of enhancing communication, promoting organisational learning, as well as helping the development of new ideas, solutions and alternatives, is therefore of high importance.
With constant change becoming the accepted norm, this module also examines how organisations cope with the process and outcomes of change.
The aims of this module are to introduce students to the core concepts underpinning effective operations management, in both manufacturing and service operations settings; to enhance students understanding of the contribution of the operations function to strategy and organisational performance, foster a critical appreciation of the key operational issues faced by operations managers; and to develop analytical skills which underpin sound operations management infrastructure decision making
This module offers opportunity to examine the approaches, practices, contributions and skills involved in project management.
Responsibilities for projects involve ability to analyse business needs, design solutions, plan, test, and co-ordinate implementation, being aware of the human factor requirements and the use of computer-based information system tools.
Explore the core of business ethics, corporate social responsibility, and sustainable development.
Analyse contemporary challenges and case studies, enhancing your understanding of societal and environmental impacts.
Develop critical thinking skills to evaluate complex arguments and contested values in business.
Join us to shape a responsible and sustainable future in the business world.
This core module helps students to conduct critical appraisals of issues and controversies involving contemporary organisations and of managerial responses to these challenges.
It also provides focused support in appropriate research methods and in the effective communication of research findings in oral presentations, small group discussions and an extended written report.
This module is aimed at exposing students to various approaches to new (small) venture creation.
It is intended to help students develop entrepreneurial mindset and thinking and/or create potential business.
It highlights various aspects of small venture creation, including generating new ideas and identifying business opportunities and assessing their viability to be pursued, considering resource requirements and competition.
This module will introduce students to the issue of gender as a critical approach to the study of organizations.
The module aims to provide students with a critical insight into the impact of gender on individuals' experience of the world of work.
It seeks to introduce students to a number of gender perspectives, highlighting how each perspective conceptualises the issue of gender differently, presents a distinct account of gender inequality, and proposes different "solutions" to the "problem of gender" in organizations.
This module is designed to give students an understanding of the role of knowledge assets as a key to corporate success and particularly in relation to innovation.
It examines how organisations create, utilise and exploit knowledge in the globalising knowledge-based economy, and the wider social and economic factors affecting knowledge creation and transfer.
The module addresses critical understanding and ability in assessing the effectiveness of international marketing.
It targets principles and issues that drive markets world-wide.
Students develop insight and investigative ability concerning cross-national and cross-cultural business contexts.
Our degrees offer an optional work placement year and we’ll encourage you to take this up.
This experience in the workplace is highly valued by employers and will give you the edge when you apply for jobs.
As a graduate you’ll be equipped to enter a number job roles, including: Business Analyst, Business Development Manager, Data Analyst, Project Manager, Risk Manager, Sales Executive, and Supply Chain Manager.
You will learn Project Management, Operations Management and knowledge of strategy.
As a distinguished member of the University of London, our programme combines world-class academic standards, cutting-edge research, and a strong focus on real-world applications to provide you with a comprehensive understanding of business principles.
As a graduate, you'll have access to a prestigious global network, enhancing career prospects in international markets.
Please check our Admissions pages for more information on other factors we use to assess applicants within our grade range as well as our full GCSE requirements and accepted equivalencies in place of GCSEs.
To support your course content, Brunel Business School regularly offers research talks on key management issues and presentations by outside speakers.
Throughout the course, you'll also be expected to undertake group work and individual projects and presentations.
Additionally, if you choose a four-year sandwich course, you'll be allocated an industrial tutor who will provide support during your work placement.
Their availability will be displayed on their office doors so you can make an appointment or drop by to see them if you have any concerns about your studies.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/business-computing-ebusiness-bsc:
NI11
N1C1 with placement
On this Business Computing BSc degree course, you get to specialise in eBusiness, learning about how software and IT systems can support business transactions and drive sales.
Through a mixture of theory and real-world practice, you’ll learn how to determine a dynamic mix of processes, which allow information delivery systems and users to carry out business effectively and efficiently.
You’ll come to intuitively understand how an organisation’s information systems need to adapt to the changes and developments natural to growth and progress.
In addition to the compulsory business computing content you will learn about the underlying models and latest approaches used by companies in building successful eBusiness platforms.
Our course is designed for flexibility, so if you’re not sure which route you want to go down, you can select modules and specialise gradually during your time with us.
You can transfer between Computer Science and Business Computing up to the start of Level 2, then should you wish, you can choose a specialism up to the start of Level 3.
We know that when you graduate, you’ll be working on large projects.
That’s why one third of each year of our programmes is project-based.
On Levels 1 and 2, you’ll build a software solution in a team, and in your final year you’ll carry out an individual project.
You’ll also have the opportunity to showcase your projects at the annual Made in Brunel (Software Innovation) event, with awards presented by the likes of Cisco, Sky and Xerox.
As part of your degree course, you’ll have the chance to take a year-long work placement between your second year and third year.
We’ll support you in finding that all-important paid professional experience, in the UK or abroad.
The feedback we’ve received is that those who have taken a placement are much more likely to find a job for which their degree was a formal requirement as it gives you a competitive advantage.
Recent graduates have gone on to work for well-known names such as Accenture, Toshiba, Microsoft, British Airways, O2, and Barclays.
Our programmes are accredited by the British Computer Society, the Chartered Institute for IT, for the purposes of fully meeting the academic requirement for registration as a Chartered IT Professional (CITP).
The accreditation also allows you to apply for professional membership of the BCS after you have successfully completed your degree.
The department has been awarded an Athena SWAN Bronze, recognising our dedication to the advancement of gender equality in STEM subjects.
We now have an ongoing three-year action plan to further implement strategies and improve our practices.
As part of this endeavour, Brunel’s Women in Engineering and Computing mentoring scheme provides our female students with invaluable help and support from the industry.
This course will give you a comprehensive introduction to computing and e-business principles.
On completion, you’ll feel fully equipped and able to assess and solve computing issues that face organisations today.
The group project aims to integrate skills covered by the Year 1/Level 4 modules into a non-trivial, practical group task including a significant degree of programming and technical engagement.
It is also intended to develop confidence in technical abilities.
This module aims to provide a basic level of programming competence.
This module aims to provide a comprehensive introduction to different kinds of data and how it can be collected, stored, retrieved, analysed and then communicated to satisfy user information needs.
This module aims to develop understanding of the complex, dynamic, and emergent behaviour of information systems (IS) with particular emphasis on the way these characteristics are modelled in the modern working environment.
This module aims to provide knowledge and skills needed to model problems using mathematics and logic, to transform such models into versions which are amenable to computational solutions, and to give a basis for how to select the appropriate modelling methods and computational paradigms in order to achieve practical computational solutions.
This module aims to provide opportunities for students to apply fundamental programming concepts as a solution to non-trivial problems.
The group project aims to integrate skills covered by the Year 2 modules in a practical group task including analysis, programming and technical engagement and requires the gathering and analysis of information, production of detailed requirements statements and designs, the development and integration of data and non-trivial code, and the communication of the outcomes in clear and concise fashion.
This module aims to develop a critical understanding of usability engineering guidance and principles and how they might be applied within the design and development cycle when creating computing-related products, services and applications
The module aims to develop the knowledge and skills necessary for the design and implementation of software systems using recognised methodology, tools and technologies.
The module provides an introduction to software engineering and follows a development process from requirements and design through to implementation, creating a number of software artefacts.
This module aims to develop a critical understanding of how business processes evolve over time, identify factors influencing process behaviour, and assess the impact of changes or interventions on process performance in the context of information systems development and evolution.
This module aims to develop the knowledge and skills needed to analyse business processes, propose improvements, and communicate findings effectively.
This includes the ability to evaluate requirements, design models, and present recommendations clearly to stakeholders.
This module aims to develop a critical understanding of the diverse ways in which individuals and communities use information and communication technologies (ICTs), the benefits they aim to achieve, and the issues arising.
The module focuses on the use of ICTs in settings other than the corporation and complements the approach taken in other modules in the programme which focus on the use of ICTs in large business enterprises.
This compulsory module provides an opportunity for students to research advanced and debatable issues in Business Computing.
An advanced topic is one that is related to the area of Business Computing, will typically be a current area or issue of concern, but is not explicitly covered in this level of detail elsewhere in the course.
The final-year project enables a demonstration of an integrated approach to topics covered in the programme: analytical and problem-solving skills; defining a problem to be explored and the work to complete it; independent research and development; describing and solving a problem so it can be evaluated; adapting and applying knowledge and skills in the investigation and solution of a problem.
This optional module aims to develop the competencies and skills sets required for delivering cybersecurity solutions in practice.
This optional module aims to develop an understanding of the importance in emerging technology domains and the role of advanced research approaches to solving problems and evaluating solutions arising within HCI.
This optional module aims to provide explicit coverage of project management tools and processes in order to consolidate the project management experience experienced during the rest of the programmes.
It deals with planning, monitoring and control of a project, and the important people issues of which a project manager must be aware.
Our Business Computing graduates enjoy excellent employment prospects.
With the ability to handle the increasing demands of scientific, technological and commercial development in the 21st century, you'll be in high demand with the wide-ranging companies and organisations increasingly dependent on computer technology.
You could go on to a career such as software developer, business analyst, web developer, technical architect or helpdesk engineer.
Recent graduates have taken up roles with companies such as Accenture, BP, FDM, the BBC and Wipro.
For Brunel Foundation of Mathematics and Computing with Integrated Foundation Year progression requirements, see the course page .
Five GCSEs at grade C or grade 4 and above are also required, to include Maths and English Language.
If you are unable to meet the direct entry criteria above, you are invited to apply for a foundation course in Computer Science at Brunel Pathway College .
When you successfully pass the foundation year, you can progress on to the Business Computing (eBusiness) BSc.
Our teaching sessions, including lectures, labs, seminars, and tutorials, will primarily be delivered in-person, on campus.
There may be instances where other forms of delivery (e.g.
online) are adopted, where necessary and/or if appropriate, to enhance the teaching experience.
However, you'll be expected to attend all teaching sessions, examinations and other relevant assessments in-person, on campus.
You'll benefit academically from the highly practical teaching and socially from the group led sessions by attending them on campus.
We take an innovative, dynamic and highly participative approach to teaching.
Our lecturers often have experience of working as consultants for major blue chip companies at home and overseas.
Around 40 academic staff teach in the department.
The research that the academic staff undertake is largely applied and spans areas that include Artificial Intelligence, Data Analytics, Human-Computer Interaction, Software Engineering and Simulation.
The Department of Computer Science is a member of the Microsoft Alliance, the Apple iOS Academic Developer Programme and is an nVidia CUDA Teaching Centre.
Brunel has a strong heritage of technology and we have excellent infrastructure which includes more than 250 computers and servers for exclusive student use, all running state-of-the-art software.
Study
You will have about 12 hours a week of directed study.
Your tutors and lecturers are also happy to answer queries outside of class.
In addition, you’ll be putting in about 25 to 35 hours of private study weekly.
Lectures/Seminars
Teaching is carried out via lectures, lab work, small group-work, and one-to-one sessions.
Lectures offer a broad overview of key concepts and ideas allowing you to then pursue more in-depth study independently.
Lab work helps you develop your technical skills to build software.
You’ll do some individual work, but a tutor will be assigned to you to lead discussion on common issues, when they arise.
In the first and second years, you’ll work in small groups on computing-related problems with regular guidance from a member of staff.
These sessions enable you to develop key professional skills such as report-writing, evaluation, and communication skills.
They also ensure continuity and help you get to know your tutor, which we think is important to help you feel supported, particularly in your first year.
In your final year you’ll normally have small group or one-to-one supervision for your major project.
The department has a team of personal tutors, so there’s always someone available to discuss personal or academic problems.
If you go on placement, your personal tutor will help you set objectives and monitor your progress – and provide further support if you need it.
Assessment and feedback varies from one module to another and may be based entirely on coursework, entirely on examination or on a combination of both.
As you progress, you’ll learn how to assess the quality and value of your own work reliably too.
Level 1 does not count towards your final degree classification; Level 2 is worth a third; and Level 3 accounts for two thirds.
Your final year project is worth a third of the Level 3 marks.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/business-computing-human-computer-interaction-bsc:
NGD4
NGCK with placement
By specialising in Human-Computer Interaction (HCI), you will learn how to understand the user experience (UX), and to use the insights you gain to help build systems that better meet the user’s needs.
Through a mixture of theory and real-world practice, you’ll learn how to assess organisational problems and apply solutions.
We’ll teach you how to determine a dynamic mix of processes, which allow information delivery systems and users to carry out business effectively and efficiently.
Featured modules include software development and management, usability engineering and process modelling, e-business, and social media.
Other Web 2.0 technologies and simulation modelling also feature.
The accreditation also allows you to apply for professional membership of the BCS after you have successfully completed your degree
This course will give you a comprehensive introduction to business computing within an organisation, and human-computer interaction.
You’ll feel fully equipped and able to assess and solve computing issues that face businesses today.
When you successfully pass the foundation year, you can progress on to the Business Computing (Human-Computer Interaction) BSc.
As you progress, you’ll learn how to reliably assess the quality and value of your own before you submit it.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/business-computing-social-media-bsc:
NGDK
NGCL with placement
The Business Computing (Social Media) BSc course looks at the ways that social media has transformed how we connect and how we do business in the 21 st century.
You’ll study how the internet has rapidly evolved to accommodate services and technologies which can be used by companies as commercial tools.
In your final year, we’ll take a closer look at applications integral to supporting business such as Skype, Facebook and Twitter.
This course will give you a comprehensive introduction to computing and social media for business.
When you successfully pass the foundation year, you can progress on to the Business Computing (Social Media) BSc.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/business-computing-bsc:
NG14
NGC4 with placement
4 years  full-time with placement
The Business Computing BSc degree is a challenging course that provides highly relevant, hands-on experience.
The modules on this degree course cover a range of topics, including the basic properties of software artefacts like information, algorithms, programs, common commercial system, and network architectures.
System development approaches are also covered, including requirements capture, design methods, models, tools and techniques, implementing and testing systems, and software maintenance.
Appreciation of project management issues arising from team-based software development is a key feature of the degree.
We’ll ensure that you have a strong approach to problem-solving both individually and in groups involving model-building and analysis, applying both theoretical and empirical knowledge to make choices and find solutions.
You will also master commonly used notations and methods to reason and communicate clearly about requirements, specifications, designs and solutions.
All factors which contribute to whether a business sinks or swims.
Our programmes are accredited by the British Computer Society, the Chartered Institute for IT, for the purposes of fully meeting the academic requirement for registration as a Chartered IT Professional (CITP)  The accreditation also allows you to apply for professional membership of the BCS after you have successfully completed your degree.
Brunel’s Computer Science department has been awarded an Athena SWAN Bronze, recognising our dedication to the advancement of gender equality in STEM subjects.
This course will give you a comprehensive introduction to computing within an organisation.
This optional module aims to develop an understanding of contemporary businesses and the way that they use of information systems and internet-related technologies to coordinate their interactions with customers and business partners and to gain competitive and strategic advantage.
When you successfully pass the foundation year, you can progress on to the Business Computing BSc.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/business-management-with-entrepreneurship-bsc:
N292
N298 with placement
Entrepreneurial and innovation skills and mindset are a requisite for any businesses to succeed in today’s ever-changing world.
Whether you want to start your own enterprise, enter the family business, or drive change within a large organisation, the Business Management with Entrepreneurship BSc will develop essential skills and give you tools you need to spark, build and manage.
This programme equips you with a robust understanding and experience of entrepreneurship and management and goes beyond theoretical learning.
In your second year, you'll have the unique opportunity to create, run, and grow a real-life enterprise as part of a group project.
This immersive experience allows you to apply classroom knowledge in a practical setting, preparing you to tackle real-world challenges in the business and entrepreneurial landscape.
Through a series of specialist modules, you will develop a wide range of skills, from financial management and strategy to innovation and problem-solving.
This diverse skill set opens doors to various career opportunities.
Whether you aspire to launch your own business, contribute to an established organisation's innovation strategies, or take on roles like business development manager, management consultant, or start-up adviser, this programme prepares you for success across a spectrum of business-related careers.
You will also gain sought-after transferable skills, such as: resilience, collaboration, self-management and reflection, critical and strategic thinking, building and maintaining relationship, and leadership.
By learning through doing, you’ll hone these skills and thrive on solving social and economic problems.
Along the way, there are lots of resources available to help you to get the most out of your degree:
one to one mentorship: the programme offers a comprehensive one to one mentorship scheme that connects you with industrial entrepreneurs in your second year.
These mentors share insider best practices and provide guidance that goes beyond traditional textbooks.
Additionally, you'll benefit from the network of professionals and guest speakers from various industries who contribute to your learning experience, giving you valuable insights into the entrepreneurial and business world.
You have the option to take a work placement between your second and third year in established organisations or focus on developing your start-up business.
Previous placement employers have included: Adidas, Microsoft, British Airways, PwC and Nissan.
The Entrepreneurship and Innovation BSc degree will equip you with a broad knowledge and an appreciation of subject principles in business and management, as well as the finer points of entrepreneurial and innovation practices.
You’ll become adept in the areas of finance, strategy, Innovation, as well as understanding how entrepreneurship and innovation are nurtured within established corporate organisations.
This module aims to develop an understanding of the major issues facing marketers in the rapidly growing area of marketing using digital technologies, with particular emphasis on the organisational implications of evolving business models.
This module focuses on theories and practices related to the entrepreneurial and innovation process within established organisations.
In particular, it emphasises intrapreneurship and managing innovation in organisations, and the processes, structures and culture pertinent to the successful discovery, evaluation and implementation of entrepreneurial and innovation opportunities in established organisations.
The module aims to provide students with the opportunity to gain critical understanding of theories and contemporary approaches to business ethics, corporate social responsibility and governance in the age of globalisation, and the challenges of sustainable development and business responses to it.
This module provides students with knowledge of the economic and managerial underpinnings as well as managerial and business implications of global strategies.
It discusses theories, concepts, and cutting-edge developments in the field of international business strategy and relates them to real world firm behaviour.
Understanding the framework of analysis for how organisations manage people.
Focus on recruitment, selection process and assessment, onboarding, changing work roles and changes in employment practice.
Our program is built with input from leading academics and business professionals with the specific aim of helping you become entrepreneurs, innovators and business leaders.
As a graduate you’ll be fully equipped to:
Some of the well-known names who value Brunel Business School graduates include: Accenture, Amazon, Barclays, British Airways, Capgemini, HSBC, Jaguar Land Rover, L’Oréal, McCann, Microsoft, PricewaterhouseCoopers, and Xerox.
A minimum of five GCSEs are required, including GCSE Mathematics grade C or grade 4 and GCSE English Language grade C or grade 4, or GCSE English Literature grade B or grade 5.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/chemical-engineering-beng:
H501
H5P1 with placement
AAA - ABB (see specific subjects) (A-level)
Our Chemical Engineering BEng degree is an innovative course that has been developed to equip you with a broad range of knowledge and skills to meet the needs of the chemical and biochemical industry.
The course is internationally accredited by the Institution of Chemical Engineers.
Throughout your studies, you’ll have access to a new, modern laboratory with equipment and rigs for your experimental work.
The latest industry standard engineering software packages are available for you to use in the purpose-built computer laboratories.
Our BEng chemical engineering course can be studied full-time over three years, or four years with a placement year.
We encourage the placement year option because time spent in industry prepares you for the world of work and you’ll benefit from a year’s professional experience when you graduate.
If you opt for the placement year, you could find yourself making a difference in the real world working in energy, pharmaceutical or consumer goods.
National salary surveys consistently place chemical engineers at the top of the engineering pay scales, meaning you will be studying for a lucrative and successful career with our degree.
"Joining the chemical engineering department has helped me grow academically and professionally as I’ve been allowed to work at the Uni doing a summer internship." - Emilie Diaz
" I have been able to take on a selection of roles within my department allowing me to network with others doing my degree or similar research and development projects." - Pranay Hirani
Course delivery is a well-balanced mix of theory and practical sessions.
In your first two years, you will gain solid knowledge and understanding of key areas in chemical engineering.
You’ll also be introduced to process plant operation, control and safety through the Chemical Engineer’s Toolbox module.
In your final year, you move on to modern topics such as big data analytics and you will work on your major design project.
Aims: To provide a grounding in the fundamental principles of engineering mechanics, including statics and dynamics; to provide knowledge and understanding of the common and important material properties for various engineering applications; to provide experience and confidence in problem-solving.
The aim of this module is to provide an overview of the roles chemical engineers play both from an industrial perspective and in research in development.
The module will cover the basic principles of chemical engineering aspects, processes and their applications.
It will provide students with examples of successfully implemented industrial processes, processes under development, and open-ended challenges by incorporating principles of heat and mass balances, safety and sustainability, and finally process economics.
Brunel’s pioneering chemical engineering courses have been designed in close collaboration with the Institution of Chemical Engineers (IChemE) accreditation body to prepare you for an exciting and rewarding career in one of the fastest growing engineering disciplines.
If you are unable to meet the direct entry criteria above, you are invited to apply for a foundation course in Engineering at Brunel Pathway College .
When you successfully pass the foundation year, you can progress on to the Chemical Engineering BEng.
Engineering Year 1 (Level 4)
The Engineering Year 1 is common to all engineering disciplines during term 1 (Chemical; Civil; Electronic and Electrical; Mechanical; Automotive and Aerospace Engineering), providing a broad educational base and opportunities for cross-disciplinary study.
You'll have the opportunity to perform experiments and carry out other hands-on practical activities in the College’s labs and workshop spaces.
Small group project work will also be carried out in person on campus, supported by regular on-campus interactive discussion sessions and workshops.
The online digital assessment platform will be used for the submission of written course work.
Our chemical engineering degrees are delivered by staff with recent industrial experience.
This means you’ll be learning from an enthusiastic teaching team with deep knowledge of the chemical process industry.
There will also be guest lectures from our industrial collaborators, and site visits to process plants are arranged.
Study will combine lectures, tutorials, laboratory work, computer simulation, debates, self-study, and project work.
Your progress will be assessed via assignments, coursework, presentations, laboratory reports and the final year major design project.
In your first two years, assessment is through a combination of exams and assignments.
In your third year, assessment is assignment-based only.
This gives you the opportunity to put into practice your soft skills (such as communication and teamwork) as well as your technical abilities, so better preparing you for the work environment.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/chemical-engineering-meng:
H500
H5P0 with placement
AAA - AAB (see specific subjects) (A-level)
DDD (see specific subjects) and A-level Maths at grade A.
33 (IB)
Our Chemical Engineering MEng degree is an innovative course that has been developed to equip you with a broad range of knowledge and skills to meet the needs of the chemical and biochemical industry.
The course is accredited by the Institution of Chemical Engineers (IChemE).
This innovative approach means modern subjects are taught and delivered through flipped classrooms, problem-based learning and virtual reality.
Our MEng chemical engineering course can be studied full-time over four years, or five years with a placement year.
In later years, you move on to modern topics such as big data analytics, industrial internet of things and cybersecurity.
You will work on your major design project in your third year and your research project in your MEng final year.
The aim of the module is to introduce the key concepts of Industry 4.0 and the advances enabled by the Industrial Internet of Things.
The students will gain a comprehensive understanding of cyber security management relating to process industry, information integrity and validity, possible threats, attacks and appropriate response.
The deadline for Admissions to make offers to applicants who will require an ATAS certificate is 2nd August 2024.
This is to ensure any offer holders who need an ATAS certificate have plenty of time to obtain the certificate before their course starts.
This course is now closed to new applications for September 2023 from visa requiring applicants who will need an ATAS certificate to study the course.
This is because there will not be enough time to obtain the ATAS certificate and apply for a student visa before the start of the course
Levels 5-7
The department aims to deliver all teaching & learning activities in-person on campus to provide students with experience of building their community to help their learning and their group work which is an essential part of the Chemical Engineering degree.
Lectures will be delivered on campus in-person.
Lecture recordings will be made available online for students to access in their own time prior to engaging in interactive in-person tutorials or seminars on campus.
Lecture-based modules will be supported by regular tutorials or seminars that will all be held in-person on campus, allowing you to work with both staff and their peers on the practical application of the content delivered during lectures.
Level 5 Labs in Term 1 : these will be delivered asynchronously using online specialised software.
Supporting material will be provided to facilitate the completion of laboratory reports.
These labs will be part of the independent learning supported by tutorials in-person on campus.
Level 5 Labs in Term 2 : these will be delivered in the Chemical Engineers’ Toolbox with mandatory attendance.
The computing labs will be in-person on campus, via online tutorials, or a mix of the two as appropriate.
You'll be provided with access to the specialised software.
The Unit Operations practical sessions are to be delivered in-person on campus.
Level 6 Group Design Project: this will include regular in-person on campus and online meetings between students, supervisors and industrial consultants.
Level 7 Individual Research Projects: you may be required to work regularly on campus in the Departmental research or computer labs throughout your projects.
Assessment in each term will be in the form of in person on campus written exams, presentations on campus, and written assignments with online submission.
Your progress will be assessed via assignments, coursework, presentations, laboratory reports and the design and research projects.
In your third and fourth years, assessment is assignment-based only.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/civil-engineering-environmental-engineering-beng:
H220
H221 with placement
AAB - BBB (See subject requirements) (A-level)
DDD (See subject requirements) (BTEC)
Are you looking for a rewarding and challenging career?
Perhaps civil engineering has always interested you, or maybe you recently learned about it at school or college and now you want to learn more.
Either way, we believe that civil engineering can provide you with an exciting and rewarding career.
Civil engineers design, construction, and maintenance features of the natural and built environment and a civil engineering career will engage you in the process of solving the problems that confront communities today as well as those that will confront us in the future.
To help you fulfil that role, the Brunel team have designed a programme that will engage your creative spirit.
Our programme is designed to support your development as an effective learner, and also to equip you with the skills needed to function effectively in multidisciplinary engineering team environments.
From week one of our programme, you will be immersed in our unique interdisciplinary approach to learning.
In Year 1 you will study alongside students from many other engineering disciplines, on our common Engineering programme.
In Year 2 we will develop your core knowledge of civil engineering subjects, like: material science, structural analysis, hydraulics, surveying and more.
In Year 3 you have options.
You can choose to stay on the specialist “Environmental Engineering” pathway, swap to our other specialist pathway in “Flood and Coastal Engineering” or change to core Civil Engineering programme.
Between Year 2 and Year 3 of our programme, we have included the option to undertake a placement year.
The placement year is a great opportunity to prepare yourself for the world of work.
If you decide to undertake a placement, you could find yourself working in an office, design projects, or working outdoors, on construction sites.
We highly recommend taking a placement as it can improve your prospects of getting the job you most desire after graduating.
"I am so grateful to the university for submitting me as their candidate and the support they have given me throughout my five years of study" - Kirsty Greener
"Starting BUSAC - Brunel University Sub Aqua Club I always loved diving, there wasn't a club, I advertised got two other people our strengths and weaknesses meshed and it snowballed fast and lasted decades." - Ian Jones
In your Year 1, you will study Brunel’s unique engineering syllabus, which is taken by all engineering students at the University.
You will study alongside mechanical, electrical, aerospace and chemical engineering students as you learn about the fundamental principles that underpin all disciplines of engineering.
Year 2 will focus on the core civil engineering subjects of surveying, material science and analysis, structural mechanics, fluid and soil mechanics.
After Year 2 you can opt to undertake a year-long placement.
Year 3 of the programme will develop your knowledge of civil and environmental engineering subject areas, with modules focusing on; environmental management and pollution control, geo-energy engineering, water and waste infrastructure design, project and infrastructure management.
Aims: To develop understanding of the contemporary civil engineering profession and what being a Chartered Civil Engineer involves (focusing on the pathways and attributes, e.g.
project management, health and safety, sustainability, communication, responsibility and independent judgement) and principles of ethics; to develop fundamental skills in conceptual civil engineering design (practical problem solving, technical drawing through sketching, group project work, and communication); to integrate civil engineering design with sustainable development based on circular economy design, environmental management and societal needs, climate change adaptation and mitigation, renewable energy, and Industry 4.0, principally in the context of SDG 11 (Sustainable Cities and Communities).
This module aims to give students deeper understanding on construction materials design and applications, including their strength and limitations.
It will support students application of sustainability in engineering construction.
Aims:  To enable students to develop technical skills linked to civil engineering design and construction; to introduce students to the principles and methods of collecting, processing and ethical use of spatial data (including surveying for gathering engineering information and transferring a design to a construction site); to enable students to develop practical skills through conducting surveying activities such as setting out, use of levels and theodolites and calculation procedures and applying GIS tools for modelling and analysis of geospatial data in design, construction, and maintenance of civil engineering infrastructure.
Aims:  To develop conceptual design solutions for an engineering task from professional engineering perspective; to outline stages of project development together with client/stakeholder needs, state of the art, codes of practice, health and safety, sustainability, climate change impact and ethics; to assess sustainability issues from environmental, societal and economic perspectives and evaluate CO2 emissions for the whole-life cycle of the proposed designs, in the context of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs); to improve team working and communication skills through group work and presentations.
Aims:  To deepen students’ understanding of engineering fluid mechanics, hydraulics and hydrological processes; to enable students to apply these concepts to relevant engineering systems, in particular, flow in pipes; flow in open channels; hydraulic structures; coastal structures, energy dissipation and runoff flow estimation; to increase students’ understanding of flow generation and risks of flooding (land and coastal flooding).
Aims: To develop students’ understanding of the principles of structural design and iterative design process; to enable students to apply the principles of structural design for concrete conforming to the current codes of practice and produce details of structural elements; to develop students’ knowledge and understanding of appreciation of complexity of structural problems, the limitation of analytical techniques for structural problems, and the needs of a holistic approach to consider a range of factors to reach design solutions.
Aims:  To cover the fundamental multi-phase nature of soil; the effective stress concept, consolidation problems; to develop students’ understanding of the basic principles of soil mechanics – how soil behaviours when subject to engineering loads and construction processes; to develop students’ basic knowledge in engineering design of geotechnical system.
This module aims to enable students develop further their ability to analyse structures including statically indeterminate structures and learn the fundamental principles and the main tools for the analysis of solid body mechanics.
Aims: To develop understanding of infrastructure systems with a focus on how climate change and other global challenges affect sustainable infrastructure development; to introduce contemporary transport planning with a focus on inclusive urban street design and highway management; to introduce novel concepts on resilience-based design and assessment of critical infrastructure exposed to different stressors; to develop knowledge and understanding of different approaches to improve and adapt infrastructure systems, such as transport networks, recognising contributions to development goals including SDG 9 (Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure), SDG 11 (Sustainable Cities and Communities), SDG 13 (Climate Action).
Aims: to provide knowledge and awareness of project feasibility, management theory, construction procurement, risk management and project planning; to provide the know-how and confidence in the application of management procedures for the delivery of civil engineering projects; to develop understanding of how effective project management contributes to sustainable development such as by using SDG indicators measurable at project level- notably SDG 8 (Decent Work & Economic Growth) and SDG 12 (Responsible Consumption & Production).
Aims:  To enable students to apply civil engineering concepts and tools to analyse, model and solve problems; to help students to demonstrate a comprehensive knowledge and understanding of projects, including financial and business management; to foster students to develop creative and innovative civil engineering solutions, recognising contributions to SDG 8 (Decent Work and Economic Growth), SDG 9 (Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure), SDG 11 (Sustainable Cities and Communities), and SDG 12 (Responsible Consumption and Production).
Aims: To give experience in the planning and conducting a major civil engineering project; to consider the wider implications of the research, including those related to health and safety, sustainability, equality, diversity and inclusion and also the environment and economy, align with SDG4 (Quality education) and SDG5 (Gender equality); to exercise application of analytical, numerical and/or experimental methods in the analysis of a civil engineering problem; to review the results, develop self-direction in finding solutions and draw conclusions; to prepare a professional-standard technical report, with appropriate references and context provided, as well as critical analysis and conclusions; to apply and improve transferable skills; to give due consideration to research ethics.
Aims: To provide an advanced understanding of water and wastewater treatment and infrastructure design; to develop design skills including client brief interpretation, treatment option analysis, technology selection, and plant layout design; to develop an appreciation of sustainable water management and engineering, principally in the context of SDG 6 (Clean Water and Sanitation), SDG 14 (Life Below Water), and SDG 3 (Good Health and Well-being); to obtain an appreciation of the need and opportunities to reuse wastewater.
This module aims to enhance comprehension of the contemporary energy landscape and the hurdles encountered by the energy sector, emphasising a critical grasp of the energy trilemma.
Additionally, it introduces key concepts, theories, and engineering designs related to geo-energy technologies, encompassing energy generation, storage, and waste management.
The overarching goal is to foster an understanding of the pivotal role played by geo-energy engineering in achieving climate objectives, acknowledging its contributions to Sustainable Development Goal 7 (Affordable and Clean Energy), Goal 9 (Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure), Goal 11 (Sustainable Cities and Communities), and Goal 13 (Climate Action).
Aims: To develop technical knowledge and management skills for informed environmental decision making related to pollution and solid waste; to introduce the fundamentals of environmental science (basic chemistry and microbiology) in the context of civil engineering, assuming no prior knowledge; to introduce the challenges of contaminated terrestrial and aquatic sites and solid waste engineering, including risks to human health and the environment, and design for containment or remediation.
Graduates from our Civil Engineering programmes will be capable of addressing the needs of society and business; able to deploy appropriate engineering methods and technologies; skilled in solving complex engineering challenges; competent to work with the environment in a sustainable manner; effective in mitigating climate change impacts on infrastructure and human society.
This degree is accredited by the Joint Board of Moderators (JBM), comprising the Institution of Civil Engineers, Institution of Structural Engineers, Institute of Highway Engineers, the Chartered Institution of Highways and Transportation and the Permanent Way Institution on behalf of the Engineering Council as fully meeting the educational base required for an Incorporated Engineer (IEng) and partially meeting educational base required for a Chartered Engineer (CEng).
Five GCSEs to include grade C or grade 4 in English Language and Maths.
When you successfully pass the foundation year, you can progress on to the Civil Engineering BEng.
Our course delivery includes a combination of theory, practical sessions and project work.
Early in the programme, you will be introduced to industry-relevant software tools and start using the software to solve engineering problems.
Field trips throughout the course will allow you to observe how engineering projects are designed and implemented.
Assessments will include individual and group assignments as well as exams.
Group projects will provide you with opportunities to learn how complex engineering problems are solved through the combined application of specialist knowledge drawn from a range of different subject areas.
Later years of the programme will continue the use of mixed teaching and learning techniques.
An integrated design project will give you an opportunity to develop skills in the design of solutions to more complex civil engineering problems.
Research, independent learning and critical analysis skills will be further developed when you complete an individual dissertation project
As our programmes are accredited, we include a wide range of learning outcomes that are essential for a career in Civil Engineering.
Our assessment strategy is designed to ensure that you are provided with more than one opportunity to achieve a learning outcome at each level of the programme.
The strategy also ensures that most learning outcomes are assessed at least once at each level of the programme.
As a general strategy, most modules include both coursework and examination methods of assessments.
We use “student reps” to gather feedback about the course.
You will be engaged in electing your own rep, who will then attend departmental meetings to report your feedback and contribute to discussions with the programme management team, exploring ways to further improve the courses we offer.
You will also be able to express your views about every module you study, through our ‘YourVoice’ survey, which is conducted at the end of each teaching term.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/civil-engineering-environmental-engineering-meng:
H222
H223 with placement
AAB - ABB (See subject requirements) (A-level)
Civil engineering can offer you a career that can literally change the world.
Civil engineers design, construct, and maintain features of the natural and the built environment, skills that help solve the problems communities face today, and prepare for those that will confront us in the future.
Inspired by these challenges, Brunel has designed its Civil Engineering BEng programme.
It will engage your creative spirit and support your development as an effective learner, while equipping you with the skills needed to thrive in multidisciplinary engineering team environments.
Throughout your degree you will study in a range of sector-leading labs and be taught by a unique team of highly experienced civil engineering academics from across the globe.
After a broad-based first year studying a range of engineering disciplines, in Year 2 we focus on core knowledge of civil engineering, such as material science, structural analysis, hydraulics and surveying.
In your third year you can either stay on the main civil engineering programme, or choose one of our two specialist pathways in environmental engineering or flood and coastal engineering.
Then the fourth, master's year deepens your knowledge and skills in areas such the use of AI in engineering and advanced methods of water process engineering.
Between your second and third years you can undertake a placement year – a great opportunity to prepare yourself for the world of work.
You could find yourself working in an office, design projects, or working outdoors, on construction sites.
Year 3 of the programme will develop your knowledge of civil and environmental engineering subject areas, with modules focussing on; environmental management and pollution control, geo-energy engineering, water and waste infrastructure design, project and infrastructure management.
In Year 4, you will learn about the use of artificial intelligence in civil engineering, deepen your understanding of climate change and geo-environmental engineering, study advanced methods of water process engineering and further improve your knowledge and skills in project management
Aims:  To provide students with a qualitative understanding of different types of internal actions (stresses and strains), in structural members associated with different external loads; to enable students to determine the profile of elastic stresses and strains in structural members, establish relationships between complex states of stresses and strains, determine critical stresses and strains and check them against failure criteria; to provide students with knowledge of instability in structural elements subject to compressive load and determining the critical load.
This module will enable students to learn the fundamental principles in artificial intelligence including data analytics, machine learning and deep learning; to enable the students to further develop their ability to artificial intelligence techniques to solve problems relevant to civil engineering, especially within the contexts of SDGs such as SDG11 (Sustainable cities and communities), SDG6 (Clean water and sanitation), SDG9 (Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure); to enable students to develop programming skills.
Aims:  To build understanding of climate change science and associated threats to society and the environment, with knowledge of options for adaptation and mitigation in the civil engineering sector; to promote innovative design solutions to challenges involving climate change and natural resources, such as sustainable water resources engineering, with recognition of contributions across all SDGs but SDG 13 (Climate Action) in particular; to promote holistic engineering practice through life cycle analysis of complex infrastructure systems.
This module will help students understand how civil engineers can work with, enhance and protect the environment.
It will help students develop skills in managing complex information and problems.
This module is designed to provide a comprehensive understanding of circular water principles and their practical implementation within the water sector.
It aims to cultivate a deep understanding of the water supply industry, emphasizing the responsibilities of both suppliers and users under the Water Regulations and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), particularly SDG 3 (Good Health and Well-being), SDG 6 (Clean Water and Sanitation), SDG 9 (Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure), SDG 11 (Sustainable Cities and Communities), SDG 12 (Responsible Consumption and Production), SDG 13 (Climate Action), and SDG 14 (Life Below Water).
Students will develop a skill set encompassing client brief interpretation, sustainability, circularity, option analysis, technology selection, and design.
Furthermore, students will acquire skills in applying integrated approaches to the water-energy-food-ecosystems nexus, along with engineering methods for measuring and assessing circularity and sustainability in the water sector.
This module allows students to work in a team to give experience of design practice and civil engineering design through undertaking a large multidisciplinary project aligning with SDG17 (Partnership for the goals) .
The module aims to develop the necessary skills in design project management and planning.
It also aims to enable students to apply these skills in diverse situations.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/civil-engineering-beng:
H208
H209 with placement
In your final year you can either stay on the main civil engineering programme, or choose one of our two specialist pathways in environmental engineering or flood and coastal engineering.
Year 1 Brunel’s unique Common Year 1 syllabus is taken by all engineering students at the University.
Studying alongside mechanical, electrical, aerospace and chemical engineering students, you’ll learn about the fundamental principles that underpin all engineering.
Year 2 The focus moves to the core civil engineering subjects of surveying, material science and analysis, structural mechanics, fluid and soil mechanics.
Year 3 Your knowledge of core civil engineering subject areas develops further, encompassing computational analysis techniques, structural analysis and design, geotechnical engineering, project and infrastructure management.
Aims: To develop students’ knowledge and understanding of how structures and structural elements respond to loading actions; to enable students to conduct different methods of structural analysis including elastic and inelastic analysis methods, and to develop the ability to choose the appropriate models and methods for different structural scenarios; to develop the ability of the students to understand and apply concepts and theories of structural analysis to design and to verify the structural response using conceptual design, approximate analysis and numerical methods, especially in the context of SDG9 (Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure); to develop students’ competencies in using computational analysis methods for structural analysis.
Aims:  To further develop students’ understanding, and application, of the key principles of limit state design; to introduce students to the principles of preliminary design and structural analysis of structural steelwork; to develop students understanding of how forces are transmitted through a structure, and the consequences for analysis and design; to introduce students to the principles of buckling in steel beams and columns; to consider the design implications for rehabilitation and refurbishment of existing steel buildings; to introduce students to the key principles and activities for the design of timber structures to Eurocode 5.
This includes understanding the orthotropic nature of timber, the joint behaviour and the design of beams; to develop students' understanding of the consequences of design choices on the associated environmental impact, and introduce methods of accounting for these impacts, with recognition of contributions to SDG 11 (Sustainable Cities and Communities), SDG 12 (Responsible Consumption and Production), and SDG 13 (Climate Action).
This module aims to develop students’ understanding of the basic principles of seepage, consolidation and shear strength of soils.
It will introduce students to rock mass strength, slope stability, bearing capacity and foundations.
Graduates of our Civil Engineering BEng degree are able to:
Some on-campus live lectures will be simultaneously live streamed; all live lectures, whether delivered online or on-campus, will be recorded and made available for you to review after each lecture has taken place.
These will be run using a variety of formats, including on-campus in-person exams, on-campus presentations, and written reports with on-line submission.
On-line presentation might be used in instances where this would be deemed appropriate.
Our civil engineering degrees are delivered by a diverse team of academic staff.
This means you’ll be learning from a teaching team with both scientific knowledge and industrial experience.
There will also be guest lectures from our industry partners and civil engineering site visits.
Study will combine lectures, tutorials and seminars, laboratory work, computer modelling, field work, self-study, research reports and project work.
Your progress will be assessed via assignments, presentations, technical and laboratory reports, exams and the final year major research project.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/civil-engineering-meng:
H2P0
H2P1 with placement
Then the fourth, master's year deepens your knowledge and skills in areas such as advanced design, advanced materials and higher level project management.
In your first year, you'll study our unique common engineering syllabus, which will ensure you start you engineering programme with strong understanding of fundamental principles of mathematics and science, that underpin all engineering disciplines.
In year 2, you'll gain knowledge and understanding of the core civil engineering subjects of surveying, material science, structural mechanics and design, fluid mechanics and hydraulic analysis.
Year 3 of the programme will further develop your knowledge of core civil engineering subject areas with further learning of computational analysis techniques, structural analysis and design, geotechnical engineering, project and infrastructure management.
In Year 4, you'll study advanced materials and retrofitting, advanced structural design and computational analysis techniques, as well as deepening your knowledge and skills in project management.
This module will give students advanced theoretical knowledge in Finite Element Analysis, Structural Design and Design of Components; to equip students with the ability to use FEA for the purpose of structural analysis and design; to provide the skill on the use of a contemporary CAE package for structural design, component design and FEA align with SDG9 (Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure).
This module aims to further broaden and deepen of students’ knowledge of the range of advanced construction materials, low carbon, low energy and low environmental impact construction materials, and to introduce students to the principles of structural retrofitting technology and structural retrofitting design with advanced construction materials.
This module aims to enhance the student’s perception on the dynamic behaviour of deformable bodies.
It will develop the student’s knowledge on Structural Mechanics by focusing on the Dynamic properties of the Structural Response.
It will introduce novel concepts of earthquake mitigation.
All other undergraduate students (year 2 and 3)
Lectures/Tutorials/Seminars
These will be delivered in-person on campus.
Laboratory sessions (computer labs and physical experiments) will also all be delivered in-person on campus.
Site visits (and/or field work)
These will be run physically at their designated venues.
Support resources
All on-campus teaching and learning sessions will be recorded and made available on the University Virtual Learning Environment (VLE), Brightspace .
Supporting learning materials will be made available to students on the University VLE prior to and/or after teaching sessions.
Benefits
All the recorded sessions will be made available to you to catch up on missed content.
The recordings will also benefit you as and when, you need to clarify or strengthen your understanding of content of teaching’s sessions covered.
Learning materials made available in advance will help you prepare well for up-coming sessions, and also support your self-directed and independent learning activities.
You'll have opportunities for active learning, including in-group activities on campus for laboratory sessions, discussion-based sessions in seminars, etc.
The teaching/assessment approach will be balanced, so as not to overload you with intense clusters of assessments and deadlines.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/computer-science-artificial-intelligence-bsc:
G701
G700 with placement
Brunel's computer science graduates' earnings rank in the top 15 in the UK according to the government's latest LEO data.
Handling large amounts of data efficiently and quickly is becoming an increasingly important aspect of computing; businesses need to understand trends in data which will allow them to make informed and timely decisions.
Artificial intelligence (AI) and the techniques it embraces provide opportunities for this to happen and to make sense of big data.
Qualified graduates with the skills and ability in AI to take advantage of these opportunities are in great demand.
Brunel’s Computer Science (Artificial Intelligence) BSc, will expose you to the foundations, theory and practical aspects of computer science and AI.
You’ll gain a good understanding of computer science and a grasp of the important elements of a computer system.
You’ll also learn how to build different types of software, from web-based systems to mobile solutions.
By specialising in AI you’ll develop a range of techniques which can be applied in software to solve complex problems.
AI is inherent in modern games, financial trading systems and medical systems and enhances the software solutions in each of these areas.
You’ll be confident in your knowledge of the nature, diversity and limitations of software artefacts (or programs) that display apparently intelligent behaviour, understand a range of machine learning paradigms, and be able to apply them to the production of innovative and useful artefacts.
Our course is designed for flexibility, so if you’re not sure which route you want to go, you can select modules and specialise gradually during your time with us.
You can transfer between Computer Science and Business Computing up to the start of Level 2, then, should you wish, to choose a specialism up to the start of Level 3.
Our programmes are accredited by the British Computer Society, the Chartered Institute for IT, for the purposes of fully meeting the academic requirement for registration as a Chartered IT Professional (CITP).
The accreditation also allows you to apply for professional membership of the BCS after you have successfully completed your degree.
You’ll gain a solid grounding in computer science and the integral elements of a computer system, before specialising in AI and the ways it can be applied.
This module aims to develop an understanding of a set of useful data abstractions and algorithms, to stimulate students' critical thinking and develop their ability to choose appropriate algorithms in solving practical problems and implementing them in software.
This module aims to investigate issues and motivations involved in creating applications that make use of the networking facilities provided by the Internet or corporate Intranets, as well as the impact that the underlying operating system has on such applications.
This module aims to develop knowledge and comprehension of various valuable data structures and algorithms, to stimulate critical thinking and enhance skills in evaluating the trade-offs involved in selecting the most suitable algorithms for specific purposes.
This compulsory module provides an opportunity for students to research advanced and debatable issues in Computer Science.
An advanced topic is one that is related to the area of Computer Science, will typically be a current area or issue of concern, but is not explicitly covered in this level of detail elsewhere in the course.
The aim of this module is to introduce the key concepts, principles and fundamental methods of artificial intelligence, and to develop your skill in analysing of problem requirements, applying appropriate artificial intelligence methods to defined problems, and evaluating the effectiveness of the adopted approach.
This optional module aims to critically examine the use of a complex and heterogeneous mix of digital media in the delivery of entertainment content and the creation of games.
In addition, the module aims to provide a practical understanding of how such content is utilised in the development of console, mobile and web-based entertainment and gaming systems.
This optional module aims to investigate the impact that network systems, the internet or corporate intranets, have on the development of advanced networked computing applications.
This optional module aims to provide a grounding in topics that directly influence the quality of software, an understanding of key artefacts that inform software quality from a process and product perspective (in particular, the use of and application of software metrics), and to articulate the state-of-the-art in terms of topics such as software patterns, service-oriented engineering and security issues.
Our Computer Science graduates enjoy excellent employment prospects.
You might start out as a general analyst or programmer, or join a consultancy firm.
These are often the first steps towards setting up your own business.
Recent graduates have gone on to work for household names including Microsoft, IBM and Toshiba.
For Brunel Mathematics and Computing with Integrated Foundation Year progression requirements, see the course page .
When you successfully pass the foundation year, you can progress on to the Computer Science BSc.
Overall the exam-to-coursework ratio is about 60:40.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/computer-science-cybersecurity-bsc:
I100
I101 with placement
In today's interconnected world, our software systems, devices, and data are constantly connected to the internet, bringing with it the significant risk of cyberthreats and cyberattacks.
Cybersecurity, the practice of protecting systems, networks, and software from digital attacks, has become crucial.
On the Computer Science (Cybersecurity) BSc degree course, you’ll gain a good understanding of computer science and a grasp of the important elements of a computer system before specialising in Cybersecurity.
You’ll develop a thorough appreciation of computer systems and learn essential cybersecurity techniques to mitigate threats, reduce disruptions, and minimise the costs associated with security breaches.
Cybersecurity graduates have a wide range of careers open to them.
Perhaps you’ll start by becoming a Cybersecurity analyst, architect, consultant or programmer in an organisation.
Such roles may be a useful grounding for later setting up your own business in the area.
Our course is designed for flexibility, so if you’re not sure which route you want to take, you can select modules and specialise gradually during your time with us.
As part of your degree course, you’ll have the chance to take a year-long work placement between your second year and third year.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/computer-science-digital-media-and-games-bsc:
G450
G451 with placement
Digital media and gaming applications are at the cutting edge of user experience technology.
The Computer Science (Digital Media and Games) BSc is a flexible course that provides graduates with the knowledge and skills to design creatively and commercially.
This specialist degree course will help you understand the nature, diversity and limitations of software artefacts (programs) targeted at the entertainment market and apply your skills to implement and develop your own.
In addition, you’ll acquire in-depth knowledge of algorithms, design, programming and testing techniques.
By the end of the course, you’ll have confidence in your knowledge of common system and network architectures and system development approaches, requirements capture, design methods, models, tools, and techniques.
You’ll become well-versed in implementing and testing systems and software maintenance.
Key to this course is cultivating a reflective approach to project management issues arising from team-based software development.
All our degrees emphasise acquiring knowledge and skills to develop your new understanding creatively and professionally.
Although this is an academic degree, the course balances theory with real-world practice in information and computer management.
You’ll work your way up to specialising in digital media and gaming, while gaining a solid grounding in computer science and the integral elements of a computer system.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/computer-science-network-computing-bsc:
G424
G423 with placement
Networks are what make up much of the modern-day working world as we become more connected both as individuals and as organisations.
But with network connectivity (including cloud computing) comes a heightened requirement for security and privacy.
On the Computer Science (Network Computing) BSc degree course, you’ll gain a good understanding of computer science and a grasp of the important elements of a computer system before specialising in network computing.
You’ll learn to specify, design, code, modify and test different types of software, from web-based systems to mobile solutions, in a contemporary programming paradigm.
All of this will be done using an appropriate commercial grade development environment and associated database tools.
Network computing graduates have a wide range of careers open to them.
Perhaps you’ll start by becoming a general analyst or programmer in a consultancy firm.
This is often just the first step towards setting up your own business.
You’ll work your way up to specialising in network computing.
As you progress through the course, you’ll develop in-depth knowledge of the challenges and ways distributed information systems work and use your skills to implement and develop them.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/computer-science-software-engineering-bsc:
G601
G602 with placement
As the amount of digital information increases, major institutions in sectors such as finance and medicine rely on robust structures that can grow and adapt.
By specialising in software engineering, you’ll focus on how to build high quality systems which will be easier to maintain and develop as the requirements of the system change and available technologies evolve.
The techniques involved include testing, service-oriented architectures, and refactoring.
On the Computer Science (Software Engineering) BSc degree course, you’ll also learn how to build different types of software, from web-based systems to mobile solutions.
In the final year you’ll take compulsory modules in advanced computer science and choose optional modules that interest you in a variety of compelling areas.
This specialist degree course allows you to display an in-depth knowledge of the management, organisation and execution of large-scale software design and development activities including reuse and integration.
You’ll gain an excellent understanding of computer science and grasp the important elements of a computer system before moving on to large-scale software engineering projects.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/computer-science-bsc:
G402
G407 with placement
On Brunel’s Computer Science BSc course, we’ll help you gain the ability to develop software solutions to business problems.
This exciting degree course is also increasingly using technologies such as drones and robots in coursework and projects.
"I specifically chose Brunel because it was positioned perfectly in an area of London that did not have too many distractions, while also having my course taught at a very high level." - Sani Yusuf
"The placement course provided me with a fantastic platform - the work experience helped me get a job immediately after graduating" - Guy Taylor
"Brunel gave me a foundation in how technology works and an ability to teach myself" - Kennyth Harris
"My work experience helped me stand out of the crowd." - Natasha Morrison
You’ll learn enough about hardware to make the most of its potential using your own software designs and theoretical foundations, gain a good understanding of computer science, and grasp the important elements of a computer system.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/computer-science-bsc-copy:
GH56
GH5P with placement
AAB - BBB (See specified subjects) (A-level)
DDM (See specified subjects) (BTEC)
30 (See specified subjects) (IB)
Our Computer Systems Engineering (Artificial Intelligence) BEng degree is a forward-thinking programme designed to equip you with the skills and knowledge required to design and develop both hardware and software for computer and Artificial Intelligence systems.
From the outset, you’ll be introduced to the foundations of computing and engineering, gaining a solid understanding of computer hardware, software, and artificial intelligence.
You’ll study programming and computer architecture before progressing to more advanced technologies and devices.
In your final year, you can tailor your learning by choosing specialist subjects such as AI systems, machine learning design tools, autonomous systems, and the Internet of Things.
You'll have access to modern technical facilities, including GPU-powered computers, electronics laboratories, and control laboratories—enabling you to bring your designs and experiments to life.
Dedicated computer clusters offer industry-standard engineering software to support your studies.
Our BEng course can be completed in three years full-time, or four years with an optional placement year.
We strongly encourage the placement year option.
This experience provides valuable insight into the professional world and gives you a competitive edge with a year’s worth of real industry experience.
Placement opportunities are available in leading technology and engineering companies across sectors such as computing, robotics, automation, manufacturing, and digital services.
"There is a strong collaboration culture [at Brunel]; everyone wants to help and support you, from students to staff alike.
It’s a very inclusive and diverse culture, you just fit in." - Humam Jumaa
"My placement year has really helped me progress in terms of technical skills and areas of expertise" - Lorenzo Cucurachi
"Brunel helped me in developing the ability to take on a challenge, supported by a great mentor" - Anthony Bitar
"The Careers team at Brunel is amazing.
They helped me a huge amount in presenting myself professionally in interviews and on my CV" - Mohammed Khan
Brunel’s Computer Systems Engineering (Artificial Intelligence) course is designed to produce graduates who are creative, knowledgeable, professionally minded, and able to think with perspective.
The programme equips students with the knowledge, understanding, and technical and cognitive skills needed to work and conduct research in computer systems engineering and artificial intelligence.
Focusing on embedded systems, computing, the Internet of Things (IoT), and autonomous systems, the course prepares graduates to design, integrate, and develop cutting-edge technological solutions in computer engineering and AI.
It offers a coherent and structured curriculum that fosters problem-solving abilities, professional growth, and transferable skills essential for success in the field.
The sandwich programme further enhances students’ understanding of the industry and supports both professional and personal development through real-world experience.
This teaching module aims to provide students with an introduction to different kinds of data and the means by which it can be collected, stored, retrieved, analysed and then communicated in order to achieve the goal of satisfying user information needs.
Aim: To develop students’ understanding of the contemporary electronic and computer engineering professions, and their understanding of what being a Chartered Engineer involves.
This includes developing student’s expertise in understanding and designing basic digital electronic systems.
The module provides a grounding in concepts of measurement and uncertainty; to provide knowledge about applied physics relations that govern engineering systems within their boundaries and via their variables of interaction and to establish the ability to define system boundaries and apply relevant, simple models.
This module introduces the technological underpinnings of the internet and discussion of key internet working hardware and software technologies.
Students will study the basic principles of computer system architecture design and operation, and will become acquainted with main interpreted programming languages.
To provide students with basic level of programming competence while developing their analytical, practical and design skills.
The aim of this module is to develop students’ ability to understand and apply fundamental methods of engineering mathematics that are relevant to computer systems.
This module aims to present a comprehensive introduction to the design philosophies, fundamental constructs and operational principles of sequential computer architecture, and to develop an understanding of computer architecture from an engineering perspective.
This module aims to develop knowledge and understanding to successfully appreciate, create and manage different networks depending on the various needs of the hosting environment, and to develop knowledge and understanding of the fundamental issues and methods for maintenance of data security in servers and networks, and in particular of internet traffic.
Aim: To develop an understanding of digital systems from a hardware implementation perspective; to develop students’ appreciation of fundamental algorithms, roles, limitations of CAD tools used in digital systems design and their limitations; to give a practical insight into the design, implementation and testing of digital systems.
This module aims to reinforce and develop microcontroller based engineering design, personal and transferable skills appropriate to students' scheme of studies.
Aims: to develop an understanding of computer architecture from an engineering perspective; to develop the underlying knowledge and skills appropriate to today’s systems and interfacing including the study of microcontroller system design, circuits and transducers to which the microcontroller must interface, and the embedded system programming in assembly.
This module aims to provide a foundation and understanding of the architecture, concepts and key issues involved in the design and development of object oriented software systems and applications, and to introduce the processes and techniques employed in their construction and to develop the necessary software skills to deliver such applications using modern high-level object oriented languages.
This module aims to develop understanding of the business aspects of engineering enterprise and the provision of value through enterprise operations, and to enhance student preparedness for work placement and employment.
This module aims to introduce the principles of computer control and sensors and gain skills in automation and control.
Students will develop knowledge and skills in developing and applying artificial intelligence and machine learning algorithms, techniques, and methodologies.
The project aims to provide students with the opportunity to design, execute, report and demonstrate a substantial individual project in a professional manner, and to further develop their communication, planning, time management, research and development skills and initiative.
This module aims to illustrate and develop an understanding of the various engineering, scientific and economic tradeoffs necessary in the design and implementation of embedded systems, and to provide familiarity and experience with a range of architectural techniques, design methodologies and their applications and suitability for some embedded systems such as FPGAs.
The module aims to develop understanding of managing key processes and projects in engineering with a specific focus on principles / techniques for managing the quality of engineering systems.
This module aims to introduce the key concepts of intelligent processing systems and skills required to develop intelligent software applications.
Students will gain hands-on experiences through learning, applying and implementing intelligent systems.
This module aims to introduce students to the major technologies and abilities required to develop autonomous networks and autonomous vehicles and understand the dependence of autonomous systems on autonomous networks.
This module aims to develop knowledge and understanding of Internet of Things (IoT) technologies and methods with which IoT-enabled devices communicate and exchange, compute and visualise data gathered using the range of sensors and actuators available to them.
A Computer Systems Engineering (Artificial Intelligence) degree from Brunel will equip you with the design, analytical, and creative skills needed to take a leading role in fast-evolving technological industries.
As artificial intelligence continues to transform a wide range of sectors, this degree will prepare you to make meaningful contributions to its development and application.
Graduates will be well-positioned for careers in both general computer systems engineering and specialised AI engineering roles, focusing on the creation of functional AI systems across diverse domains.
The degree also provides a strong foundation for those wishing to pursue postgraduate or PhD study in artificial intelligence.
When you successfully pass the foundation year, you can progress on to the Computer Systems Engineering BEng.
Our teaching sessions, including lectures, labs, seminars, and tutorials, will be delivered in-person, on campus.
Our computer systems engineering degrees are delivered by an expert team of multidisciplinary academic staff.
Their teaching is research-led, so the newest technologies are fed into the course.
Study will combine lectures, seminars, small group tutorials, laboratory and workshop sessions, computer programming, self-study and project work.
Your progress will be assessed via coursework assignments, presentations, technical and laboratory reports, exams and the final year major individual project.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/computer-systems-engineering-beng:
GH57
GH6P with placement
Our Computer Systems Engineering BEng degree is a modern course that has been developed to equip you with the knowledge and skills needed to design and build hardware and software for computer systems.
You will be introduced to computing and engineering and gain knowledge on computer hardware and software.
You’ll learn about programming and computer architecture and then progress to advanced computing technologies.
In your final year, you can choose specialist subjects like autonomous systems, artificial intelligence systems, and the internet of things.
Access is available to modern technical facilities including computer, electronics, and power and control laboratories where you’ll work on your experiments.
The latest industry standard engineering software packages are available for you to use in dedicated computer clusters.
Our BEng computer systems engineering course is accredited by the Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET) .
This professional engineering institution ensures that your engineering degree meets the academic requirement to qualify as a professional engineer.
This accredited BEng degree in computer systems engineering can be studied full-time over three years, or four years with a placement year.
If you decide to go on an engineering placement year, you will have the opportunity to work in an engineering or technology company.
Course delivery is a combination of theory, practical sessions and project work.
In your first two years, you will gain solid knowledge and understanding of computing and engineering.
You’ll also learn to work as part of a team through the engineering design group project.
In your final year, you will study advanced computing technologies.
You will also work on your individual project on a topic of your choice.
Graduates from Brunel University London earn £2,900 more than the median salary across the university sector.*
A computer systems engineering degree from Brunel will give you the design, analytical and creative skills to play a leading role in the dynamic and rapidly expanding technological industries.
Opting for the year in industry during your degree often leads to an offer of a computer engineering job from your placement company.
Brunel’s closeness to the highest concentration of the UK’s information engineering and telecommunications industry – in London and along the M4 corridor – means our placement and careers network is second to none.
Our graduates have gone on to work for high-profile multinational organisations including:
Computer systems engineering offers varied careers paths in a fast-growing professional field.
A degree in computer systems engineering will set you up with the knowledge and skills to develop next generation computer systems.
*Longitudinal Employment Outcomes 2023
For new students - Level 4:
Engineering Year 1 is common to all disciplines during term 1 (Chemical; Civil; Electronic and Electrical; Mechanical; Automotive and Aerospace Engineering), providing a broad educational base and opportunities for cross-disciplinary study.
The BEng Computer Systems Engineering programme shares most modules with Engineering Year 1.
Some will be delivered live online or on-campus, while others will be pre-recorded and made available online for students to access prior to engaging in interactive in-person tutorials on campus.
Some on-campus live lectures will be simultaneously livestreamed; all live lectures, whether delivered online or on-campus, will be recorded and made available for students to review after each lecture has taken place.
All lecture-based modules will be supported by regular (in most cases, weekly) tutorials or seminars that will all be held on campus, allowing students to work with both staff and other students on the practical application of what has been discussed during lectures.
You will have the opportunity to perform experiments and other hands-on practical activities in the College’s labs and workshop spaces.
You will need to come onto campus on most days to participate in all the teaching activities that make up Engineering Year 1.
The online digital assessment platform will be used for submitting written coursework.
All exams will be run in-person on campus.
For returning and new students at Levels 5, 6 and 7:
All lecture-based modules will be held on campus, allowing you to work with both staff and other students on practical applications.
All laboratory classes will be held on campus.
You will need to come onto campus on most days to participate in all the teaching activities

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/creative-writing-ba:
W800
W801 with placement
4.5-6 years part-time
Our Creative Writing BA course has been designed to inspire high levels of creativity, initiative and originality in the design, production, interpretation and analysis of creative writing along with a chance to develop interdisciplinary projects.
You will be taught the key genres of creative writing by some of the most talented and original writers working today.
Between them, they’ve published over 100 books, produced countless scripts for TV, radio and film, and won umpteen awards.
The teaching team includes renowned authors like Bernardine Evaristo, Hannah Lowe and Max Kinnings.
From week one you’ll write and interact with your peer group of creative writers.
You will share ideas and give constructive feedback to others on their creative work.
In your first year you’ll gain a solid grounding in how to write fiction, drama and poetry, and study world literature.
You can choose a variety of subjects in your second year such as journalism and screenwriting.
In your final year, the Creative Industries module helps you consider your career options and shape your future.
Your final year Special Project will allow you to specialise in your chosen field and choose from a wealth of specialist options.
We invite many successful authors to give guest talks covering different aspects of creative writing.
Industry expert speakers include book publishers, screenwriters, poets and broadcasters.
You have the advantage of Brunel’s close location to London, the literary capital of the UK.
You’ll benefit from trips to the British Library, Shakespeare’s Globe and West End theatres.
Our BA in creative writing can be studied full-time over three years, four years with a placement year, or part-time over six years.
This time helps you to further prepare for the world of work and you’ll have a year’s worth of invaluable professional experience when you graduate.
If you decide to go on a creative writing placement year, you could find yourself working at magazine publishers, film production companies, or even the London Screenwriters’ Festival.
Some placements lead to jobs on graduation.
You’ll have the opportunity to get your work published before you graduate.
At least one anthology of creative work is produced each year, curated and edited by our creative writing students.
We run many literary events including performance showcases, film screenings, and a student-led e-magazine, so there will be many ways for you to share your creative work.
"Studying a variety of subjects and gaining work experience in different industries helped me build a unique stack of talents.
" - Aldo Scott
"Studying at Brunel has made me realise how much I enjoy writing and how after studying it for 3 years I don’t want to stop!
" - Thomas Willet
"The course at Brunel is full of lecturers that work (or have worked) in the industry, which is invaluable for learning what a writing career is really like." - Matt Luke
In the first year you will start building a portfolio of your creative writing.
You will follow your interests in the second year and master the craft of creative writing in your final year.
English is studied in all three years.
Your final year major project is an in-depth study of a creative writing topic of your choice.
The purpose of this module is to enable Creative Writing and English Literature students to develop a grounding in effective writing practices and core competencies of textual production.
Students will develop an understanding of the different stages of textual production, from prewriting, research, planning and outlining, to drafting, feedback and editing, polishing and submission, as well as an understanding of core writing mechanics.
This module will enable students to explore and practice the differing conventions of textual production in a variety of areas of academia and the creative industries, from non-fiction modes such as the academic essay, critical and reflective writing, to screenplays and fiction manuscripts.
This module focuses on the key skills of critical and close reading, as central to the study of literature.
Learning the skills necessary to read at a higher level, including the interpretation and analysis of literary texts, is a core competency for students of English literature.
The central aim of this module, therefore, is to enhance and develop students’ engagement with primary and secondary texts.
Students will learn how to analyse and interpret complex texts in various genres, making use of the established techniques and approaches of the discipline.
Students will engage with the idea of critical reading as a practice-based and culturally-informed act that must be learned and developed.
Teaching is shaped around the goal of developing students’ “reading resilience”, that is, the ability to read, discuss, and write about, varied and challenging texts with confidence.
Through discussion, group workshops, lectures and individual tasks, students will become proficient in working with literary and rhetorical texts, learning skills that are essential throughout the degree.
The module forms a foundational aspect of the degree programme, benchmarking skills such as time management, evidence-based analysis, and close reading.
This module is designed to introduce students to the core elements and skills necessary for writing fiction.
Aided by close reading and discussion of fiction by published writers, students will develop knowledge and understanding of core elements of the craft, such
as character, setting, plot, dialogue, as well as key skills such as understanding audience, showing rather than telling, and writing to a specified word-count and brief.
Students will practice these core competencies and also learn how to workshop their prose, developing skills for the giving and receiving of constructive feedback to enable redrafting of works-in-progress.
Students will reflect upon their inspirations, reading and the development of their craft.
This module is designed to introduce students to the core elements and skills necessary for writing poetry.
Aided by close reading and discussion of poetry by published writers, students will develop knowledge and understanding of core elements of the craft, such as the poetic line, working in form and free verse, sound and voice, as well as key skills such as concision and redrafting.
Students will practice these core competencies and also learn how to workshop poems, developing skills for the giving and receiving of constructive feedback to enable redrafting of works-in-progress.
This module aims to introduce students to the study of World Literature, introducing key critical approaches and engaging with texts from contrasting cultural locations.
Students will learn about rich and varied world literary traditions and forms; acquire theoretical perspectives; build a world literary critical vocabulary; engage in debates about the meaning and role of world literature and reflect on creative practice and literary production in world contexts.
This module aims to introduce students to the study of the literature of London, introducing key critical approaches and engaging with texts from a range of cultural backgrounds.
Students will learn about London’s rich and varied literary traditions and forms; acquire theoretical perspectives; build a literary critical vocabulary; engage in debates about the meaning and role of London in literature and reflect on creative practice and literary production in relation to London’s diverse past and present.
This module will introduce you to the practice of creative journaling.
You will explore the different ways this practice can support your personal and professional development as creatives.
You will critically analyze the creative journals of writers, musicians, and artists, and keep a weekly creative journal, experimenting with different approaches and techniques for documenting and reflecting on their creativity.
It’s important in the film and television industry to consider whose stories are being told, who is in creative roles behind the camera and how people are being represented.
This module will explore identity politics and consider theory such as feminism, queer theory, postcolonialism and disability studies, among others.
We will consider how certain identities are portrayed onscreen both historically and now.
Developing a reflective mind and ways to think and discuss music
Learning to write about it with knowledge and critical depth
Understanding how music is made; its forms and structures
Experiencing music from a diverse range of musical genres
Comparisons of approaches across a range of styles and genres from Gregorian chant to Aphex Twin
Developing a clear and appropriate vocabulary for critical discussion and writing
Understanding the function of the music and its context in society
This module aims to help you think about your future and take proactive steps towards realising your aspirations after university.
At the heart of this module are four professional development activities, which you will be selecting, completing, and reflecting on.
These could range from gaining work experience in a field that interests you, to volunteering, learning a language, completing business or skills development courses, publishing a website or articles on a blog, or gaining editorial or media production experience.
You are encouraged to think creatively: providing that each activity is developmental for you and your tutor agrees, the sky is the limit.
This module examines the shifting status of genre fiction in the late nineteenth, twentieth, and twenty-first centuries by exploring a range of genres (Detective, Gothic, Science Fiction, Fantasy, and crossovers between these).
Besides gaining an understanding of some of the key thematic and formal conventions of these genres, and how these have changed over time and with respect to shifting social and political contexts, you will gain an understanding of the critical public sphere that exists beyond academic institutions.
Beyond academia, there is a world of reviews, blogs, conventions, and festivals relating to books.
Therefore, while this module will cover the academic study of genre fiction and require you to write a conventionally structured and referenced academic essay, it will also branch out to consider this wider context by looking at some reviews and debates from the public sphere and require you to write a review of your own.
The short story is one of the most powerful and satisfying forms of writing to produce.
This module focusses on writing and understanding intricate masterpieces in the short story form.
We read a wide variety of powerful short stories together—by writers from across the globe, from the mundane and the moving to the strange and experimental— looking closely to help understand what techniques make them so effective, and how we can develop individual approaches to writing our own original stories in response.
The exact structure changes each year, but some of the topics covered previously included: subverting and updating traditional fairy-tales; stories with unusual approaches to time; Weird Tales of the impossible and unexplainable; flash fiction; climate change fiction.
This module focusses on three popular and enduring genres—horror, science fiction, and fantasy— which provide endless fascination for readers and practitioners alike.
We will explore these genres via lectures, seminars (including writing workshops) and the study of classic and emerging writers from each genre.
At the end, you will have written a body of work in each genre, with a core understanding of their key features.
The module has featured discussion of writers such as Stephen King, Chuck Palahniuk, Angela Carter, Gwyneth Jones, William Gibson, Octavia Butler, Gabriel Garcia Marquez, Brandon Sanderson, and more.
Sub-genres and styles discussed include space opera, Grimdark, urban fantasy, utopian/dystopian fiction, cosmic horror, body horror, and weird fiction.
This module will allow you to explore a range of life writing practices such as memoir, autofiction, the personal essay, the lyric essay, confessional poetry and more in a safe and supportive environment.
You’ll be inspired by a range of contemporary writers such as Rebecca Solnit, Ocean Vuong, Maggie Nelson, Patricia Lockwood, Nina Mingya Powles and others.
You’ll consider the ethics of life writing such as writing about family, and draw on your own experiences, interests and passions throughout.
This module looks at a range of twenty-first century fiction originating from Africa, Asia, Latin America, the Middle East, and the Caribbean, to explore diverse experiences of inequality in an era of globalisation.
It interrogates a range of novels, stories, and poetry in light of theoretical concepts drawn from world-literary theory and materialist feminism, asking whether and how socially committed fiction can challenge the overlapping oppressions of contemporary times.
The purpose of this module is to study the interrelation of genre – the novel – and period – the nineteenth century.
Through the chronological study of a representative selection of five texts, the module will introduce the key generic elements of the nineteenth-century novel, and chart changes in their deployment over the course of the century.
Particular attention will be paid to Realism and Gothic.
In addition to narrative form, a range of social and cultural contexts will be suggested as a means of accounting for, and understanding, textual features.
Stress will be placed throughout on close textual analysis.
In this module we study the literature of the early twentieth century with particular emphasis on those authors who attempted to break away from received norms of literary style and content.
As well as providing an overview of the defining textual features of modernism, the module is concerned with the interrelation of text and context, seeing modernist literature as both of, and self-consciously ahead of, its historical moment.
We will take into account transnational and cross-cultural contexts, including discussions of the decline of empire, World War I, trauma, the expatriate experience, the legacies of slavery, changing attitudes to feminism, sexuality, class, and shifting constructions of identity.
The political events of the late eighteenth century – the American War of Independence, French Revolution, and Napoleonic wars – dramatically changed the lives, ideas, and aesthetics of the Romantic Britain.
Evolving from the mid 1770s to the mid 1820s, the period we now call Romanticism signalled a profound change in the form and content of literature, breaking away from the neo-classical conventions of the Augustans which had dominated much of the eighteenth century, and turning to the regional, folkloric, and numinous traditions of British and European literatures.
Working in a range of genres, including the novel, pamphlets, poetry, and philosophical, satirical, and travel writing, Romantic writers responded to a set of urgent, ethical, aesthetic, and environmental changes.
In the module we consider the ‘first generation’ (Wordsworth, Coleridge, William Blake) and ‘second generation’ Romantics (Shelley, Byron, and Keats), and important political writers such as Edmund Burke, Thomas Paine, Mary Wollstonecraft, and William Godwin.
Alongside these now-canonical names we read a diverse range of women and Black writers who contributed just as significantly to key Romantic debates: Anna Aikin, Anna Laetitia Barbauld, Ottobah Cugoano, Ouladah Equiano, Hannah More, Ann Radcliffe, Mary Robinson, Ignatius Sancho, Mary Shelley, Helen Maria Williams, Dorothy Wordsworth, Phillis Wheatley, and Anne Yearsley.
The aims of this module are:
This module introduces students to a range of contemporary British and Irish fiction, developing knowledge of the variety and complexity of contemporary writing and its relation to social and cultural context.
The module examines texts which employ a range of themes, forms, and styles.
It asks what we mean by the term ‘contemporary’ and encourages analysis of the relationship between texts and the historical moments in which they are produced and consumed.
Postcolonial writing often comes out of difficult circumstances.
Writers studied on this module sometimes risked everything to publish what they needed to say.
These are the new pioneers of Literature in English whose works would inspire and define the writings of the future.
A central focus of the module is to get to grips with the key concepts encountered in postcolonial studies, which have been developed to investigate the phenomena of colonialism and resistance, multiculturalism and globalization, racism, and Islamophobia.
Using these, we will be exploring the works of a series of important and fascinating writers.
The texts which we will be studying show a variety of different perspectives on colonialism and its legacies, including those of imperialists and the peoples they tried to suppress.
The module introduces students to the professional practice and theory of screenwriting for film and television.
Although the short film is the main focus of study, the classic, feature length narrative fiction film, television drama, and films from alternative and non- narrative traditions will also be considered.
The module is substantially practice-based.
All students will write an original screenplay to a maximum length of 10 pages.
Students will also produce supporting documents, such as a Story Proposal, Beat Sheet, and Scene Outlines.
The module also requires students to analyse films and scripts – including their own and contemporaries’ – from a screenwriting perspective.
Students will produce analyses of key features of films and screenplays and write the screenplay for a short film.
This module is designed to build upon foundational skills and knowledge acquired on the first-year poetry module.
You will continue to write in increasingly exciting new ways to
liberate the poet within.
You will also expand your awareness of work that is being produced in the current world of UK poetry, the manner in which new mediums and technologies are being employed, and the manner in which this work might challenge previous conceptualisations and traditions in the field.
In conclusion, you will acquire crafting tips while trying out traditional and innovate ways to write.
There is no expectation of a house style.
Your own approach to poetry based on what you will have learned is all that is required.
Be excited by your own work, and I (Daljit) will be excited in turn to read it.
This module is double-weighted and is your chance to pursue your own creative project with support from a supervisor.
You’ll meet regularly with your supervisor to plan, draft, and edit your work, and there will also be Zoom sessions to support your learning throughout that focus on planning, researching, carving out time to write and more.
Some students write the opening chapters to a novel and submit this along with an industry standard synopsis, having researched potential agents and publishers.
Others submit poetry pamphlets, screenplays, collections of short stories, illustrated children’s books, YA novels, interactive fiction projects and more.
This module is focused on your professional development.
It will enable you to understand the creative economy and the ways in which people develop careers within it.
You will be able to plan your own career after graduation, to identify your goals and write the documents you will need to achieve them.
Members of the Creative Writing department at Brunel along with visiting speakers will help you to become familiar with the creative industries through which writers reach their audience.
By exploring all areas of your professional development, we will enable you to make a career plan for the next five years, to identify the opportunities and skills you will need and to research the choices you will make in the immediate future.
This module aims to expand your understanding of all aspects of contemporary fiction.
It will give you a solid grounding for your longer future creative writing projects, and also give you a chance to read and discuss a variety of fiction genres.
You will analyse a range of fiction from a craft perspective which will deepen your understanding of how novels are constructed, and you can then apply this knowledge to your own fiction writing practice.
Topics under discussion will also include the specific techniques involved in making your own writing more compelling such as story structure, characterisation, point of view, setting, and dialogue.
This module enables students to explore and develop the theory and professional practice of contemporary screenwriting.
By the end of the module, students who participate in weekly assignments will produce a marketable pitch deck/series bible for a film or TV project, along with the first 15-20 pages of the script.
The module is substantially practice-based and requires students to analyse screen works and scripts (including their own and peers’) from a screenwriting perspective.
This module gives an introduction to the field of psychology, exploring the basics of human behaviour and mental processes, important contributions to the field of psychology and the different approaches and goals of the various therapeutic orientations.
Additionally, the module will introduce students to the field of creative writing for therapeutic purposes, including personal practice while studying examples of writing that illustrate the links between creativity and therapeutic outcomes.
Some dramatherapy and art therapy techniques will be used during the workshop, although the primary focus is creative writing.
This module is structured around three ‘case studies’, each focused on a specific aspect of Victorian literature and culture:
The aims of the module are:
This module considers twentieth century and contemporary writing in dialogue with feminist waves and movements as well as relevant theory.
It focuses primarily on the Second and Third Waves of feminism, but with a broad recognition of First Wave influences and debates about an emergent Fourth Wave in the contemporary period.
Feminism’s relationship to related and other gender/sexual equality movements will be considered along the way, most particularly in connection with LGBT perspectives and masculinity studies.
Each week of the module brings theory into dialogue with literature pertaining to feminist perspectives, with an emphasis on women’s writing.
The module considers key concepts, such as patriarchy, desire, social and biological claims about gender/sex, and intersectionalism.
It pays close attention to the interrelationship between literature and activism, reflecting on the text’s potential to register and remediate the patriarchal order.
An indicative reading list might include theorists such as
Simone de Beauvoir, Betty Friedan, Patricia Hill Collins, Judith Butler, Susan Faludi, Chandra Talpade Mohanty and Rebecca Walker.
Literary texts will address the range and diversity of multiple feminisms as articulated from the 20th century to the present, with attention to the pluralisms and diversification of feminisms.
This module will introduce third-year students to the early modern interaction between Christians and Muslims, viewed from the perspective of both.
It will introduce students to these interactions via English drama.
It will explore how post-Reformation England learned to redefine itself as a Christian nation and how it dealt with increased trade and negotiations with Muslim nations.
Main topics of study are:
This module aims to develop your critical, cultural and aesthetic awareness of Post-War and Late Twentieth-Century Fiction by examining the work of both established and more experimental writers.
The module focuses first on the sensibilities of the postwar period before exploring the emergence of the ‘postmodern’ as a way of understanding later twentieth century experience.
It concludes by exploring the experimental fiction of three leading British writers, Ian McEwan, Angela Carter and Jeanette Winterson.
Two particularly influential late-twentieth century theorists are encountered in detail, Jean Baudrillard and Judith Butler.
This module aims to develop students’ awareness of the representations of violence within modern culture.
We engage with a variety of cultural materials—literary, visual, conceptual and technological—to ask a series of questions as regards the role of violence and coercion in our culture and everyday lives.
The module is split into two parts.
Part one, Bioviolence and Biopolitics looks at biopolitical theories of power, force, violence, coercion and exclusion.
The second, Discourses of Coercion 2015-2020 applies the theory to case studies taken from events on the last five years or so such as #Blacklivesmatter, Grenfell Tower, and Coronavirus.
Focusing on Austen’s work in relation to adaptation, this module explores the forms of fiction she inherited as a young writer – the novels of Frances Burney and Ann Radcliffe – and how she adapted these models to her own work and concerns.
It then considers how Austen was adapted in her turn, in a number of extremely popular films and series, to think about how the late eighteenth century ‘courtship’ and marriage plots continue to be reinvented through to the contemporary period.
Texts may include: Radcliffe The Italian 1796, Austen Northanger Abbey (1803/ 1818), Frances Burney Evelina, or the History of a Young Lady's Entrance into the World (1778), Austen Lady Susan (1794/1871), Austen Pride and Prejudice (1813), Robert Z.
Leonard d.
Pride and Prejudice (1940), Simon Langton d.
Pride and Prejudice (1995), Sharon Maguire d.
Bridget Jones’ Diary (2001), Chris Van Dusen’s Bridgerton Season 1 (2020).
The module examines Ireland’s rich literary tradition via key historical touchstones including the Easter Rising of 1916, the Troubles in Northern Ireland and the rise and fall of the Celtic Tiger.
Theorised discussions of the meaning of Irish identity, intersections with colonialism, the Irish language and the worldwide diaspora will be framed via readings of poetry, novels, short stories, autobiography and drama.
The principle aims of Writing Ireland are:
A creative writing degree from Brunel is your passport to a wide range of career destinations within the literary and creative industries.
Our graduates are working in the arts, publishing, journalism, advertising, marketing and teaching.
They have successful careers as novelists, journalists, screenwriters and travel writers.
Others opt to follow Brunel’s career-focused MA in Creative Writing.
£7,150 part-time
£15,300 part-time
Module teaching across the programme (lectures/seminars/tutorials) will take place in person on campus, and will be supported by the provision of asynchronous materials (e.g.
lecture recordings etc.).
Other activities, including dissertation drop-ins, personal tutor meetings, assessment workshops, guest speaker events, and one-to-one tutorials may take place in person or online, as appropriate.
We'll endeavour to take into account student preferences when arranging these activities, as well as other practical considerations, with an eye firmly on providing an excellent student experience at all times.
Students are advised to purchase core texts from module reading lists, although copies are also available via Brunel Library.
In addition, academics will share samples of texts in the class so core texts may not be essential for all modules.
Our creative writing degrees are delivered by professional writers.
This means you’ll be learning from staff who are publishing work and have high-level experience, knowledge and expertise in the creative industry.
They'll support, encourage and coach you to become a brilliant writer.
Study will combine lectures, group seminar discussions, tutorials, writing workshops, practical performance sessions, group research sessions, guided independent learning, and field trips.
Your progress will be assessed via essays, coursework portfolios, journals, group practical exercises, individual and group presentations, and the final year project.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/criminology-bsc:
L311
L312, L313 with placement
Studying criminology at Brunel means you are taught by academic staff who are actively engaged in criminological research further enriching the substantial and supportive learning resources on offer to you.
The criminology department at Brunel recognises and emphasises the importance of theory that is based on evidence and encourages you to engage in critical evaluation of concepts of crime and deviance.
This critical approach nurtures lively debate, and we encourage you to develop independent opinions based on a wide range of theoretical and methodological perspectives, employing both quantitative and qualitative data in considering the processes of criminalisation and victimisation over space and time.
As critical criminologists, you will be encouraged to engage in debates about race, gender, migration, social harms, green criminology and a wide variety of other current topics.
Whilst being furnished with the necessary research training in both quantitative and qualitative data collection and analysis to engage with and challenge debates as they evolve.
The programme sets out from a broad multi-disciplinary Social Sciences content at FHEQ Level 4 where you will be studying alongside sociology students in some modules as well as on criminology specific modules and then to a more focussed disciplinary content at FHEQ Level 5, and more specific thematic content at FHEQ Level 6, where students are encouraged to personalize their studies through their choice of a range of advanced optional modular blocks.
Criminology combined with Sociology is ranked 4th in the country for average positivity and 1st in London.
Our Criminology students gave an average 96% positivity rating (National Student Survey 2025)
"My time at Brunel was the most rewarding.
I put in the work and saw the results.
It has benefited me both professionally and personally." - Courtney Thompson
Criminology at Brunel takes a critical approach that is reflected in the range of subjects that seek to challenge notions of crime and deviance through a number of intersecting lenses such as gender, migration, sexuality, race, ethnicity and urbanisation.
Brunel offers a wide range of contemporary subjects such as cybercrime, crimes of the powerful, gangs and social harms.
These supplement more established criminology debates such as the part played by the media in shaping notions of criminality and the demonization and moral panics that are attached to youth.
We recognise the importance of theory and practical application of theory and with that aim we prepare our students with the tools needed to carry out vigorous research and the opportunity to take up placements with a number of organisations.
The vitality of criminology at Brunel is designed to instil students with the knowledge and study skills required for post graduate study should they chose or a wide variety of career options.
A critical introduction to what is understood by ‘crime’ and ‘criminology’.
This will involve thinking about the different social, legal, and cultural understandings of crime and social harm, as well as the origins and the history of the discipline of criminology.
Students will explore a range of different case studies to enable you to understand the complexities of criminal behaviour, criminal justice responses, and their social and political contexts.
Case studies will include high profile crimes and/or offenders, criminal investigation and prosecution, miscarriages of justice, protest and resistance, and high-profile investigations into the work/conduct of criminal justice agencies.
In addition to providing an overview of traditional criminological theories about why and how crime occurs, the module also explores why and how we control and punish.
The module will explore changing models of punishment, surveillance, and control.
In doing so, the module will explore different forms of punishment, the rationales behind them, and how they may be experienced differently.
Students will be introduced to the critical role of the media in the criminalisation and marginalisation of some communities.
Representations of crime and deviance will be considered through the prism of various forms of media such as television, social media, music, gaming, news, and the image.
Students will develop an understanding of the structure and history of the main institutions of the criminal justice system.
We will explore debates and controversies related to the CJS and to assess them in relation to their impact upon marginalised communities using a variety of lenses, including but not limited to ethnicity, race, gender, migration status, economic status, and class.
This module enables students to better understand their lived social environment, by focusing on the concept of ‘Global London' through multiple approaches derived from the Department of Social and Political Sciences.
Topics include migration, security, urban development, crime, and the politics of public space.
This module will enable students to use intersectional perspectives to develop their understandings of crime, deviance, victimisation, social harm, and justice in a global context.
The module will explore contemporary criminological theories and debates, with a particular concern for those from the Global South and/or relating to wider global contexts.
This module will consider the history of youth crime and youth justice.
It will furnish students with a sociological and criminological understanding of contemporary issues relating to youth crime, providing both a practical and critical understanding of young people's involvement in crime and deviance and the various responses to youth crime by the criminal justice system.
An introduction to the key theoretical perspectives surrounding mental health and offending, it ensures students are familiar with the key legislation, policy, and practice in this area.
This will enable students to critically question the relationship between mental health and offending, and support them to critically evaluate the key debates and controversies in the field.
The module will introduce students to criminal justice policies and practices that relate to victims and enable them to think critically about who we consider to be a victim.
Students will also be introduced to the field of victimology and explore the how victims are characterised, their experiences of the criminal justice system, and broader societal responses to victimisation.
This module furnishes students with an overview to the field of national security intelligence.
It also examines in greater detail intelligence collection, analysis, counterintelligence, covert action, and other selected topics.
An independent piece of research, which may be empirical, policy-based, or theoretical.
Students will be allocated a supervisor and also provided with a series of workshops and drop-in sessions to help support the independent and specialised study.
Develop wider employability skills and understanding of professional practice related to a degree in criminology.
Students will also be introduced to a number of areas of employment related to criminal justice practice to encourage them to think about their future career pathways and professional development.
This module will examine the relationship between capitalism and sex through a number of theoretical lenses which explore how sex intersects with the generation of profit.
Using both historical and post-modern examples students will be encouraged to engage critically with debates around traditional and postmodern forms of sex work and the impacts of feminism on those debates.
This module introduces students to a number of questions concerning notions of home and housing in contemporary society, and how sociologists and criminologists should confront these issues as they occupy a central place in political, public, and mediated debates.
It explores sociological and criminological debates around housing and the home, looking at the relationship between self, society, and state.
Equipping students with a critical understanding of the socio-legal context of key aspects of the criminal law in England and Wales.
These include violent and sexual offences, homicide, drugs and healthcare choices, public safety, property and security and disorder.
This module aims to address a series of empirical questions regarding the causes, conduct, and consequences of campaigns of terrorism in the modern world.
It provides students with an understanding of a series of key debates in the social science literature.
Encouraging students to consider the extent to which the current situation in South Africa is a product of the colonial era, postcolonial circumstance, or Africa’s deeper past.
It will familiarise students with the main developments in Africanist and South Africanist historiography and encourage students to study South African history from both an Afro-centric and European perspective.
The module introduces students to diverse notions and theories of social justice, and to the emergence and development of environmental justice movements.
It enables students to explore how environmental justice claims are made in relation to substantive issues at different scales of analysis.
Students can expect to have an array of employment opportunities across the public, private and voluntary sectors.
This might be in different sectors of the criminal justice system, such as prisons and probation services.
But it might also be in a number of related services such as drug and alcohol support services, youth services, victim support services (increasingly in areas of child protection, internet safety, prevention of radicalisation and extremism), as well as other third sector organisations and community-based services.
Critical criminology is an excellent grounding for students who are thinking of a later conversion course that allows them to practice law.
It also provides them with the critical thinking skills sought by third-sector organisations that challenge issues of human rights violations in areas such as migration, incarceration, and protest both in the UK and internationally
As criminology graduates, they will also have career opportunities in different policing roles: in a range of police services, border security, the National Crime Agency, and numerous others including the private sector security services.
Criminology graduates will also have opportunities for further study at the postgraduate level in related disciplines at Brunel as well as in other HE institutions.
We recognise the importance of being taught by tutors engaged in research, and the curriculum adopts a variety of methods that reflects the expertise of individual lecturers.
We believe that learning is a social activity – students are encouraged to share knowledge, discuss ideas, and aid each other in their intellectual development.
We view learning as interactive and co-constructive and situate teaching as a guided conversation rather than a simple instruction to students.
Teaching and learning will normally take place in a variety of contexts and may include the following formats:
Assessments will be varied but always relevant to the nature of the activity/enquiry being carried out and to the expected outcome – which may involve presentation of research, written essay, portfolio work and group participation.
Assessment will be through a variety of means to evaluate different skill sets:
Students’ knowledge and understanding of learning outcomes will be studied via a range of assessment practices.
This mix simultaneously will enforce a broad and comprehensive coverage of the Programme themes and the more selective, creative and skills-oriented form of understanding that will come from particular blocks.
Knowledge and understanding of practice-based, research-oriented outcome will be assessed by means of reports of skill-oriented work (as with research methods) at FHEQ Level 4 and 5, and the final year dissertation at FHEQ Level

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/design-bsc:
W248
BSc: W249 with placement
AAA - ABB (A-level)
The Guardian University Guide 2024 ranks Brunel design graduates top in the UK for career after 15 months, while government figures also show Brunel design graduates rank no.1 for graduate earnings in the UK.*
Get a visual overview of this exciting programme by watching our colourful short video.
Design at Brunel is all about realising fantastic ideas in the real world.
Our Design degree is focused on developing your commercial awareness, technical skills and ability to innovate, meaning you can develop physical and digital products that both look good and work well.
There is a lot of project-based learning to test your skills and you’ll see the outcome of your design from concept to making the actual product.
This means you’ll be able to build a great portfolio of your best-quality projects, academic and industry briefs, and case studies during your studies.
You’ll have workshop training and will use industry-standard equipment and software to develop quality hands-on skills to become a competent designer.
You’ll have access to dedicated design studios, digital sketching, extensive prototyping workshops, and electronics and digital fabrication labs.
The practical knowledge you gain is transferable to the industry and provides a head start for your future career as a designer and design thinker in the modern world.
Our design course can be studied 3 years full-time or 4 years full-time with placement, starting in September.
The placement year helps you to prepare for the world of work and you’ll have a year’s worth of invaluable professional experience when you graduate.
Our students have worked in both small innovation start-ups and multinational organisations such as Adidas, Chanel, Jaguar Land Rover, Philips, Disney and Lego.
Our students have the opportunity to study abroad.
You could spend a term or a year in one of our partner universities via our exchange programme: Politecnico di Milano in Italy; Delft University of Technology in The Netherlands, San Francisco State University in USA and Institut Superieur de Design, ISD Bubika in France.
New exchange opportunities are being developed with India, Canada and China.
Made in Brunel is a unique, student-led initiative that showcases our design talent at its finest.
Each year our students run a series of industry and community events leading up to the Made in Brunel exhibition.
This annual showcase is a highlight of the London design calendar and promotes the incredible work our students produce to the creative community, and is a great way for our students to network with design professionals and potential employers.
If you are interested in turning a product or technology idea into a business after you graduate, we are in partnership with the Central Research Laboratory (CRL), a design incubator for start-ups.
You’ll have access to meeting rooms and work space as well as prototyping facilities.
A team of in-house professionals will guide and support you at each stage and a number of our previous entrepreneurial students have successfully commercialised their products.
The BSc Design programme is fully accredited and recognised by the Institution of Engineering Designers (IED), the premier professional body representing engineering and product designers.
* Longitudinal Employment Outcomes (LEO) 2022
The first two years of your design undergraduate degree will contain a balanced blend of creative and technical subjects; with mechanics, electronics and digital design.
In your third year, you move on to more specialised areas and you’ll be introduced to the human-centred design process and advanced design for sustainability, enabling you to identify alternative design solutions.
The MDes year features further specialisation and research-led design.
Aim: To enable students to familiarise with the design process and engage with the broader context of design research methods, their application within visual, market, user-centred, inclusive and other design fields.
To also understand design’s ethical position and the relationships between societal, economic and environmental dimensions in global and local contexts relating to design decisions.
Aim: To enable students to have an appreciation of visual literacy in the context of design and visual expression, appreciating the context of visual thinking and to develop visual thinking techniques and processes through a variety of media.
To help students develop foundation skills in visual communication, graphic communication, visualisation, design and the use of computer-generated media methods.
To introduce students to the basics of computer-based design methods and techniques including model representations, geometric sketches, constraints, and 3D features.
To develop understanding and skills required to produce computer generated digital models, technical drawings, material simulation and rapid prototyping approaches within a CAD environment.
Aim : To provide students with a solid foundation in electronic engineering and mathematics, including an in-depth knowledge in electronic components in terms of their functionality and applications.
To also provide working knowledge in computer software to simulate and solve electronic circuits and associated mathematics.
Aim : To introduce basic concepts and methods of engineering mechanics including statics and dynamics, relevant to the analysis of existing products using mathematical elements that underpin engineering mechanics.
To enable students to make informed judgements about load, product geometry, mechanics of materials and energy considerations.
Aim: To enable students to develop the fundamental knowledge of materials science and materials engineering, properties for various materials, the selection process and manufacturing methods.
To also help students to establish links between materials, production volumes and manufacturing processes in product design.
This module enables students to develop their ability to use methodologies to conceive, explore, develop, evaluate, synthesise, realise, externalise and communicate the design of products and solutions through virtual modelling and simulation.
By tackling design challenges through innovation, they systematically apply design process tools within a variety of contexts, with consideration to design, engineering and manufacturing issues.
The module offers the opportunity to develop students’ critical awareness, understanding and skills to think and communicate visually across all stages of the design process including branding, design, usability and function.
The module enables students to gain knowledge and understanding of the fundamental elements of digital design and digital product prototyping through theory lectures and guided project work.
Students will study digital applications that helps in the creation of digital experiences for consumers for a specific digital product or service applying principles of User Experience design and interaction design.
The module introduces students to concept such as sustainable development, key environmental issues, Life Cycle Analysis etc.
Students carry out a streamlined environmental review of a product in the earliest stages of the design process.
Students will gain an in-depth knowledge of product eco-design and design for circular products, and to be able to apply these approaches in practice.
This module enables students to develop capabilities relating to personal innovation and creativity, to enhance entrepreneurial thinking and manage innovation.
Students will be introduced to the concepts and relevant theories of innovation and entrepreneurship, while instilling their importance during the introduction, growth and survival of new products, services and businesses.
The module will help students to develop awareness of the range of suitable manufacturing processes for key materials such as plastics and metals, by also considering the manufacturing constraints and potential defects.
To better identify the design rules necessary to avoid product quality issues and to establish the proper links between virtual prototyping in CAD, physical prototyping, scaled production volumes and efficient assembly/joining methods.
This module enables students to research and define the requirements of a self-defined or industry-based project.
They will demonstrate the comprehensive skills acquired through their academic programme and apply these to define a Design opportunity.
Students will demonstrate a deep level of knowledge of the design and innovation process and develop individual specialisations and creative differentiation.
From the insights and definition gained during their major project research module, students will combine all the skills acquired during their course to develop an innovative design proposal though iterative design thinking, human centred design, digital and physical design and sustainable principles.
Students will critically develop and evaluate technical and ergonomic opportunities evaluating them using robust qualitative and quantitative techniques.
The module aims to provide a working knowledge of interaction design, user experience and user interface principles.
Students will be introduced to various interaction design approaches and design tools including participatory and co-design techniques.
Students will participate in the critical evaluation of digital products and develop appropriate methodologies, processes and techniques for creative data and systems visualisation.
This module provides an environment for students to develop and demonstrate skills and knowledge in the application of microcontroller interfacing techniques, to understand theoretical and code-related principles associated with embedded systems and to design dedicated electronic and electromechanical embedded systems that can be transferred to their major project and that can be used for prototyping products of commercial quality.
This module enables students to tackle sustainability challenges by shaping production-consumption systems (product-service system design, design for circular systems), individual behaviour (emotionally durable design, design for sustainable behaviour) and collective behaviour (design for social innovations).
Students will analyse a complex sustainability challenge, identify critical issues and apply a combination of design for sustainability approaches to address the challenge.
This module offers the opportunity to develop advanced design innovation methodologies and approaches that enable a broader understanding of the current and future contextual issues facing our world and identify creative solutions that respond to real human needs.
The module combines design process, brand re-positioning, detailed product visual language, product family image and the production of high-quality visual appearance models.
The module enables students to develop a detailed knowledge of human factors and helps students to integrate cognitive, physical, and affective human factors when considering the design of products and services.
Through project work, students will identify areas for improvement and through a Human-Centred Design approach, demonstrate the ability to identify design solutions that meet and exceed the user requirements.
This module will develop students’ ability to analyse the stress distribution of a component both theoretically and using Finite Element Analysis (FEA), the ability to analyse the structure, dynamics and mechanisms of products theoretically and interpret and present the results to optimise a design.
Students will develop technical and analytical skills in the real-world of product design.
To help you prepare for the world of work, we’ll encourage you to take the placement option, incorporating a year spent in industry.
This means you’ll have a year’s worth of invaluable professional experience and networks when you graduate.
Our students have worked on placement for both small innovation start-ups and multinational organisations.
On our previous product design course, graduates were highly valued in the industry, working for established companies, including Disney, Dyson, JCB, Jaguar Land Rover, Philips and Cambridge Consultants.
All applicants are required to attend an interview including a portfolio review as part of the selection process before a formal offer is made.
The majority of teaching and learning activities will be delivered in person on campus.
However, a few modules may offer an option for you to attend online, and some modules may provide pre-recorded content for you to engage with prior to on-campus activities such as in-person seminars, face-to-face interactive sessions and/or face-to-face tutorials.
On-campus teaching and learning activities allow you to make the most of the Design facilities available on campus, e.g., workshops, computer rooms and the dedicated studios.
In-person teaching and learning activities also help encourage you to integrate into the Brunel Design School community and connect with students from other year groups and other programmes.
Teaching and learning content (e.g., lecture slides) will be available online via the University Virtual Learning Environment, Brightspace .
The majority of assessments will be submitted via the University digital assessment platform although a few may require in person attendance on campus.
Our design degrees are delivered by a passionate multi-disciplinary academic and technical team, including practising designers and graphic communication experts, mechanical and electrical engineers, and computer and materials scientists, and our lecturing staff are research or professionally active.
This means you’ll be learning from enthusiastic teaching staff with real industry experience, and who have been making their ideas a reality through design for many years.
Study will combine lectures and other tutor-led activities such as group tutorials, lab sessions, computing sessions, manufacturing workshops, and guided independent study.
Class sizes depend on module, but all core modules are split up into around 40 people per group.
Independent learning is key, and the amount of credits in a module represents the amount of time you will be expected to put in.
For example, 40 credit modules require 400 hours of work across the year which equates to 12 hours per week, typically three of which will be in lectures and the remaining nine in self-directed study.
You will receive your timetable in advance of the course starting.
Your progress will be assessed via assignments, coursework, presentations, individual and group design projects, lab reports and case studies, exams, and the final year major design project.
Marked work and feedback will be returned to students within three weeks of submission.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/design-mdes:
W2P1
MDes W2P2 with placement
The Guardian University Guide 2024 ranks Brunel design graduates top in the UK for earnings after 15 months, while government figures also show Brunel design graduates rank no.1 for graduate earnings in the UK.*
The programme follows the same first three years as BSc Design, with an additional fourth year that raises the qualification to master's level.
Our design course can be studied 4 years full-time or 5 years full-time with placement, starting in September.
The MDes Design programme is fully accredited and recognised by the Institution of Engineering Designers (IED), the premier professional body representing engineering and product designers.
Students will develop a critical understanding of sustainability transitions and how these processes require intertwined changes at multiple levels (technology, society, economy, legislation).
Students will then learn how design can be used to foster sustainability transitions, by applying a range of techniques to co-create and envision future sustainable socio-technical systems, and define the changes needed to support these radical transformations.
The purpose of this module is to provide students with a profound understanding of design research methodologies, methods and tools, fostering the enhancement of critical thinking and investigative skills essential for independent design projects.
Acquiring the relevant knowledge and skills in research enables students to formulate and execute well-focused design projects, leading to the successful realisation of practical design outcomes.
The major project offers the opportunity to investigate a global challenge both systematically and creatively.
Students will be encouraged to define a design opportunity and develop this through to a viable proposal.
They will apply all design and development skills acquired throughout the programme to demonstrate a systematic understanding of innovation and new product development informed by professional industry standards.
This module develops a strategic approach to managing design projects through a critical understanding of the key principles of design strategy and entrepreneurship.
Students will develop skills to facilitate a shared vision among different stakeholders involved in complex projects and plan and evaluate a business model including factors such as political, social, economic, technical, branding and marketing.
This module develops an in-depth and systematic understanding of human-centred design principles for diverse user populations, focusing on inclusive design and social innovation.
Students will develop creative skills when engaging with diverse stakeholders for co-creation and inclusion using a range of tools and techniques to make informed decisions on complex and unpredictable design issues, considering equality, justice, and social sustainability.
This study block aims to help students develop self-driven learning skills and the life-long learning mindset.
Students will develop the ability to identify and utilise relevant resources to support their own learning effectively and the skills to gain knowledge through focused inquiries and interactions with professionals.
Students will independently develop a critical awareness of new and emerging technologies for digital and physical product design applications.
They will have the opportunity to conceptually understand and contextualise new technologies relative to the past, current and future innovation trends and exploit these in near and distant design future scenarios, communicating conclusions clearly to specialist and non-specialist audiences.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/digital-design-bsc:
H6W2
H6WG with placement
The Guardian University Guide 2025 found that Brunel's Design graduates have the second best career prospects in the UK.
Get a visual overview of this exciting programme by watching our short video.
Our Digital Design BSc degree is a modern, hands-on course that combines digital technology and creative design.
It has been developed to equip you with the knowledge and practical skills to create, design and develop interactive and engaging digital products, services and experiences, and 2D/3D graphical content.
You can see real examples of the kind of work you'll produce by viewing this showreel of project work by students graduating in 2024 .
Professional and transferable skills required for working in the creative digital industries are developed throughout each year of the course.
Our modern, industry standard digital media facilities include a green screen and post-production studio, motion capture, photography, and sound studios, 360° VR and up to 12K cameras, lenses, motion controllers and lights, and a dedicated render farm.
You'll have independent access to exclusive PC and Mac computing workshops and benefit from the latest industry standard specialist software for graphic design and image/video editing, 3D animation, game development, and rich interactive content creation.
There's also the opportunity for you to use our immersive virtual environment laboratory.
There are guest lectures covering lots of different digital media topics and the visiting lecturers provide industry insight and advice on how to structure your portfolio and showreels.
Speakers include creative and design directors, user experience designers, 3D graphic supervisors, as well as mobile and web developers.
Visits are arranged to design agencies, TV and photography studios, and post-production houses.
There’s also the opportunity to go to conferences and this is your chance to build networks with key industry experts.
In addition, you have the advantage of Brunel’s close location to London for trips to exhibitions celebrating the creative industries.
The course can be studied full-time over three years, or four years with a placement year.
If you decide to go on a digital media placement year, you will have the opportunity of working in the ever-growing creative industries.
The end-of-year highlight is the degree show .
Exhibiting your creative work at this event is a great way for you to connect with leading creative technologists and showcase your talent.
To see some 2023 final year students discussing their end of degree projects, watch this short video .
Brunel’s digital design course is fully accredited and industry recognised by ScreenSkills, the industry-led skills body for the UK’s screen-based industries.
It carries the ScreenSkills Select quality mark which indicates that it is best suited to prepare you for a career in the screen industries.
Brunel’s digital media courses are the only courses accredited by ScreenSkills in the areas of design, animation and VFX within London and the South East.
From day one, you will start building a strong portfolio of your creative work ready for industry.
The course is focused primarily on interactive practical skills supported by subject knowledge, theory, and live project briefs provided by our industry collaborators.
In your final year, you will work on your individual major digital design project which could involve the design of a web or mobile app.
Provides the fundamental JavaScript programming that covers foundation of interactive digital media development.
It teaches important concepts, students will find in every coding language, such as variables, arrays, functions, objects, classes, control flow and events.
In this module, the student will understand key programming technical in interactive media.
Engages students with the different aspects of the creative industry landscape in the UK, covering, Digital Design 3D and VFX.
Students will take part in independent research into an area of interest in the creative industry, as well as visit a creative industry agency or meet industry guest lecturers and start building a personal networking of design industry professionals.
An introduction into bringing your designs to life by making them move.
Adding style and character to your graphic design and branding, to create engaging content for all your screen based media.
Gives an opportunity to explore digital photography and video production and how they can be combined to create compelling visual content.
Utilises professional studio-based practice using industry standard equipment and studio facilliites.
In addition to production aspects, post production for video and photography is also introduced.
This module explores applications of creative digital technologies, investigating artefacts involving technologies such as: AI, Interactive Games, Web and IoT and Virtual/Augmented/Mixed Reality.
In so doing, it introduces the theory and practice of UX and interaction design for designing creative digital artefacts and develops supporting knowledge and skills for Web design and development to creatively promote the designed digital artefacts.
This module explores asthethics and design associated with a range of final visual and audio outputs, for example branding, web, video, motion, sound, mobile, social media and direct marketing.
Students work with external companies and engage with research and design work through milestones to help them produce a final output for the company in a group project.
This module introduces technical and artistic aspects of 3D computer graphics.
Students will learn how to create 3D models, apply textures and lighting.
Use creative thinking to produce their 3D.
The module also develops the students’ skills in design, research, documentation and project management.
Students will use various tools and techniques to explore the possibilities of 3D Design.
This module teaches students how to create engaging animation.
Use of cinematography concepts such as camera angles and lighting to enhance the visual impact and mood of their work.
Use of animation principles such as timing, spacing, easing, and squash and stretch to create expressive animation.
Use motion capture and rigging techniques to animate 3D characters.
This module is an opportunity to explore some specific topics and disciplines for digital designers.
Each week we take a different subject related to the various areas and fields of specialism within digital design.
Using a mixture of lectures and workshops, both individually and within groups, students can explore and practise a particular skill set, paying particular attention to their own work and development as a designer.
The module ustilizes a range of industry standard tools for advanced animation using motion capture.
From simulation and FX such as particle dynamics, physical dynamics, cloth simulation, fluid simulation, fire and smoke to crowd simulations.
Students will learn motion capture pipeline.
Character rigging and integrating motion capture with a digital character.
Post-processing of motion capture and enhancing animation
The module aims to help students further develop their creative design and prototyping knowledge and skills with the key creative technologies of Artificial Intelligence and Games.
A practical component will involve designing and prototyping a digital artefact using one or both creative technologies of Artificial Intelligence and Games.
The module explores the use of AI techniques in games and the use of games technology within the digital media context.
A digital design degree from Brunel will prepare you for creative roles in the rapidly expanding digital media industry.
Brunel’s location close to the large concentration of creative industries in and around London means that there are a variety of job opportunities available.
Our graduates take up posts as UX and interaction designers, web and mobile designers/developers, 3D graphic artists and designers, digital video editors, post-production engineers, game designers/developers, and digital campaign managers.
Many become self-employed, either as freelance designers or by setting up their own companies.
All applicants are required to provide a portfolio as part of the selection process before a formal offer is made.
All workshops and seminars and the vast majority of lectures will be delivered in-person and on-campus with an expectation of on-campus attendance.
Some sessions might provide pre-recorded content for you to engage with prior to on-campus activities, such as in-person workshops.
Lecture slides and recordings, workshop and seminar materials and other sources will be available online via the University’s Virtual Learning Environment, Brightspace .
The vast majority of reading material, e.g.
books and journals, will also be available online with full-text access.
On-campus teaching and learning activities allow you to make the most of facilities available on campus, e.g., workshops, computer rooms and the dedicated studios.
The course is assessed entirely by coursework with online submission and feedback.
Our digital media degrees are delivered by a multidisciplinary teaching team.
This means you’ll be learning from staff with experience in the digital industry as well as staff from academia including researchers.
They will encourage individuality and support you to create innovative work.
Study will combine lectures, industry-led seminars, workshop and studio sessions, presentations, case studies, field trips, and group and individual project work.
Your progress will be assessed via coursework, individual and group practical studio assignments, demonstrations and presentations, essays, and the final year major multimedia project.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/economics-and-accounting-bsc:
LN14
NL41 with placement
Brunel’s accredited Economics and Accounting BSc equips you with the practical and analytical skills needed for a successful career in accountancy, finance, or banking.
You'll develop strong conceptual and quantitative abilities, alongside industry-relevant professional competencies that employers value highly.
Our graduates have gone on to thrive in leading global organisations such as KPMG, PwC, NatWest, HM Treasury, and the Bank of England.
As part of the prestigious University of London federation, Brunel offers access to an extensive network of resources and opportunities, provided by one of the world’s most renowned academic institutions.
Recognised as a leading research university, you'll benefit from our strong research culture and innovative teaching, which combine academic excellence with real-world application.
Located in London - one of the world’s major financial hubs - Brunel provides a strategic gateway to global career opportunities.
With our focus on professional development and employability, this degree is your launchpad to a rewarding future in the financial sector.
This degree offers a comprehensive curriculum, covering diverse economics topics alongside financial accounting, financial management, and management accounting.
You will develop skills in critically evaluating and appreciating the importance of the accounting and finance function within organisations particularly in connection with business decision making.
Students will learn how to: prepare a set of essential financial statements for a business, prepare information for business planning - such as budgets, prepare information for decision making using techniques such as cost, volume, profit analysis and investment appraisal techniques.
The aim of the course is to provide students with a review of statistical methods applied in economic analysis and in the analysis of financial and accounting data, the theoretical skills needed to understand and analyse quantitative and qualitative data, and the practical skills needed to construct and estimate relevant models.
To develop knowledge and understanding of the process of carrying out an audit or assurance engagement and its application in the context of the professional regulatory framework.
To develop knowledge and understanding of the concepts of sustainability and sustainable development, as they apply to the accountancy and auditing professions, and how they inform future accounting/auditing practice
At Brunel, we aim to provide you with real-world, employable knowledge that prepares you for a successful international career.
Being part of the prestigious University of London federation means you gain access to an extensive range of resources, support networks, and opportunities that enhance your educational journey and professional development.
London's status as a global financial center offers a strategic advantage, connecting you to top employers and creating unparalleled job prospects.
Additionally, we offer practical experience through placements and support via the Department of Economics and Finance, as well as the University’s Professional Development Centre (PDC), ensuring you stand out in the competitive job market.
Our graduates have excelled in roles at leading organizations such as NatWest (Financing Futures), PricewaterhouseCoopers, KPMG, the Treasury, and the Bank of England, as well as within multinational corporations like BP, Xerox, and Marks and Spencer.
With Brunel's academic excellence, access to the University of London's resources, and London’s unique strategic positioning, you’ll be well-equipped to embark on a dynamic, globally focused career.
Modules are taught by experienced lecturers in the Economics Finance and Accounting department.
The lecturers bring a wealth of research expertise, industry experience and cutting-edge knowledge to their teaching, ensuring students gain insights rooted in the latest advancements in the field.
This creates a dynamic and forward-thinking learning environment.
Lectures are designed to provide a solid theoretical and technical foundation, while small group seminars allow you to actively deepen your understanding through lively discussions, challenging problem-solving exercises, practical computer tasks, and engaging presentations.
It's someone you can discuss, in confidence, your academic progress with or any special requirements you may need.
We curate and host an exceptional range of events designed to accelerate your personal growth, connect you with successful alumni and leading employers, and help you explore diverse career paths.
These events are a gateway to networking opportunities and invaluable insights from those who have walked the path before you.
To ensure you’re always in the loop, we’ll notify you at the start of each term and send reminders ahead of every event.
Whether hosted on campus or live-streamed, these events are thoughtfully crafted to maximise your opportunities for meaningful connections and career exploration.
Your studies are guided by a team of dedicated teachers and researchers who actively contribute to cutting-edge research.
Their extensive experience in conducting and leading research projects enriches your learning journey, ensuring you benefit from the latest insights and advancements in your area of study.
This combination of academic passion and real-world expertise creates an inspiring and dynamic environment for your success.
Your economics and accounting course will consist of lectures, workshops, seminars, one-to-one supervision, guest speakers from industry and site visits.
You'll have 12 to 14 hours of directed study a week in Year 1.
This number decreases in Years 2 and 3.
Modules are assessed by combinations of coursework, research and data projects and examinations.
In the final year, there's the option of applying your research and data skills to writing a dissertation.
The optional final year dissertation is worth a third of your Year 3 marks.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/economics-and-business-finance-bsc:
LND3
LNC3 with placement
Brunel’s Economics and Business Finance BSc empowers you to develop the skills and mindset needed to lead in the dynamic world of finance, economics, and business strategy.
With a strong focus on real-world application and professional readiness, this programme equips you with the analytical, technical, and practical skills needed to make informed decisions in fast-paced business environments.
From the moment you start, you’ll benefit from Brunel’s Professional Development Centre (PDC), where you’ll receive personalised career support, expert CV and interview coaching, and access to exclusive employer networking events.
You can also choose to take a highly sought-after placement year, gaining paid work experience with top financial institutions, consultancies, and global businesses - giving you a competitive edge in the job market.
Graduates from this programme go on to impactful careers as financial analysts, business consultants, investment bankers, and policy advisors - thanks to a curriculum shaped by employer expectations and market demands.
Through Brunel’s Study Abroad and Exchange Programmes, you’ll have the chance to broaden your academic and cultural horizons by spending a term or year at one of our partner institutions across Europe, Asia, or North America.
These global experiences enhance your employability, build cross-cultural skills, and prepare you for leadership roles in international finance and economics.
As a member of the prestigious University of London federation, you’ll be part of a wider academic community with access to shared learning resources and global recognition - boosting the value of your degree on the international stage.
You’ll also benefit from Brunel’s research-rich environment, engaging with current topics in economic policy, financial markets, and data-driven decision-making.
The programme aligns with Brunel’s strategic research focus on sustainable economic growth, digital finance, and global challenges.
By working with real data and research tools, you’ll graduate with the critical thinking and problem-solving skills that today’s finance sector demands.
This course is designed to give you a thorough knowledge of economic analytical techniques and the core concepts and issues of corporate policy, finance and investment.
Your studies will include a combination of compulsory and optional modules.
In your final year, you'll have the opportunity to choose between completing a dissertation or taking additional modules instead.
The dissertation is an in-depth, year-long project, during which you'll work closely with a dedicated academic supervisor through regular one-on-one meetings.
The main aims of the module are to familiarise students with functions of money, interaction of money supply and demand, operations of financial intermediaries and banks, to enable students to understand the effect of monetary policy on welfare, business cycles, inflation and other macroeconomic variables in the short- and long-run and to explore inconsistencies and uncertainties in relation to monetary economics.
The aims of this course are to survey the broad area of Labour Economics and to analyse how individuals, families, firms and governments operate within a contemporary labour market.
The approach is a two-fold one: a theoretical survey with the incorporation of empirical evidence from several developed countries.
The aim of this module is to equip students with the advanced knowledge and analytical skills associated with game theory and its economic applications.
This module aims to provide students with an understanding of the main features of developing economies, how developing economies function, constraints and opportunities of the development process, economic growth in theory and practice, and the causes and consequences of extreme poverty and vulnerability.
It also looks at how markets and institutions operate in developing economies, and the role of the household, ethnic and other networks, rural-urban migration.
This module aims to introduce students to formal economic models of politics, provide students with the tools to apply economic principles and analytical techniques to the study of politics, and enable students to use these tools to analyse real world observations and practical economic problems in politics and other areas.
The course will provide a broad outline of the history of the British economy through the last few centuries, and some additional understanding of the European economy.
It will discuss many of the ideas about Economics that have been held by Economists in the past, and their contemporary relevance.
The link between Economic Theory and Economic Policy will be discussed.
There will be an evaluation of how Economic Policy affected the Economy, and how discussion about policy informed Economic theory.
This module aims to provide an understanding of the behaviour and interconnections between economic agents, markets and the environment, to apply economic tools and theory to problems relating to the environment and natural resources and interpret their findings.
It also engages students in critical evaluation of these tools and theories against real-world phenomena.
This module investigates the role of the government in the economy.
It will explore the rationale for/against government interventions and evaluate the impacts of policy choices on individuals and the economy.
It will investigate the provision of services by the public sector (e.g.
health insurance or disability benefits) and how a tax system may be designed in order to provide funding for such services.
The main aims of the module are to familiarise students with an exposition of modern micro-founded macroeconomics, to enable students to understand decisions made by representative consumers and producers and to explore the role of government policies on the economy.
This module will provide the theoretical and methodological tools to identify the causal impact of an event or policy on outcomes of interest.
The module will introduce students to the potential outcome framework and the casual effects of interests, then study the ideal scenario: randomized control experiments, linking them to regression techniques.
The module will also cover mainstream methods to overcome selection issues, such as instrumental variables and difference-in-difference.
Economically relevant applications will be provided throughout the course.
We believe that you'll learn most successfully as an active participant in your learning among a community of scholars, and our decision to return fully to campus is motivated by this.
We expect you to return to campus and to actively engage with their learning programmes in real-time.
The tutoring relationship is introduced in induction and cemented by the guided essay that all L4 students compose in Term 1 of the EC1601 Professional Development and Statistics module.
It's expected that examination-style assessments, excepting some computer-based tests, will be held on campus, and you'll be expected to attend their examination sessions.
Your economics and business finance course will consist of lectures, workshops, seminars, one-to-one supervision, guest speakers from industry and site visits.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/economics-and-management-bsc:
LNC2
LND2 with placement
Are you aiming for a career in management and want to understand the bigger picture of how businesses and economies work?
Then our Economics and Management BSc is designed with you in mind.
You'll explore how businesses and economies respond to consumer demand, business goals, and government policies.
You'll also gain insight into the dynamic relationships between shareholders, managers, and employees in today’s complex markets.
Specifically, your economics studies will give you a broad understanding of the production, distribution and capital formation, while your management specialisation will teach you how to coordinate resources and people to achieve success.
You’ll develop highly sought-after skills in data analysis and modelling, equipping you with the expertise valued by businesses and financial institutions.
This course focuses on industry-relevant techniques, preparing you to interpret complex data and make informed decisions in real-world economic and financial contexts.
This degree is accredited the ACCA and CIMA, which means you’ll gain exemptions from certain professional qualifying exams should you decide to study further to become a chartered accountant.
In a world of increasingly integrated global markets, the expertise you’ll get from your Brunel degree in how corporate entities are organised and managed will make you a preferred job candidate to employers in business, finance and government.
This course is designed to give you a thorough knowledge of how economies and corporations operate and how they can be managed to achieve defined goals.
Our economics and management degree consists of compulsory and optional modules.
Developing and providing a critical understanding and knowledge of a modern theory associated with the effective design and management of service process and operations that is relevant to today’s services marketing environment.
It will help and enable students to have a robust understanding of the appraisal and evaluation of services marketing initiatives in different contexts.
This module provides an integrated and critical analysis of entrepreneurship and small business management related theories and frameworks underpinning the practice and policy of entrepreneurship and small business management.
It will enable you to draw on evidence and contemporary research to explore entrepreneurial value creation and capture, and the imperatives of innovative new technologies on small business growth as well as identify and evaluate the opportunities and distinctive challenges faced by entrepreneurs and their firms.
Our graduates are employed in many fields, with roles at NatWest (Financing Futures), PricewaterhouseCoopers and KPMG, the Treasury and Bank of England.
Your economics and management course will consist of lectures, workshops, seminars, one-to-one supervision, guest speakers from industry and site visits.
In the final year you are also required to write a dissertation.
Level 1 does not count towards your final degree mark.
Level 2 is worth a third, and Level 3 is worth the rest.
The final year dissertation is worth a third of Level 3 marks.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/economics-and-mathematics-with-an-integrated-foundation-year:
L102
L103 with placement
CCC-CDD (A-level)
MMP (BTEC)
25 (IB)
Sharpen your economics and maths skills on this one-year course before progressing to an economics, finance or accounting degree.
Enjoy the benefits of studying in an inter-disciplinary department with expert lecturers from a range of subjects.
This course is great for taking your algebra, calculus and statistics to another level before starting your degree – without having to re-apply to UCAS.
Once you have successfully completed your foundation year, with the grades required for your chosen degree course, you can progress directly into Level 1 of that degree.
The BSc courses linked to this foundation year are:
Accreditation by ACCA, CIMA and ICAEW is available on selected BSc courses.
Whether it's been a while since you last studied, you want to improve on your previous academic performance, or you’re just ready to try something new, your foundation year gives you the basics needed to go on and graduate with a full degree.
The foundation year is designed to improve your skills in economics and maths to the level required to begin BSc degrees in economics and finance.
In addition 5 GCSEs at grade C or above including Mathematics and English Language are required.
Lectures will primarily be delivered in-person on-campus, though some may be delivered online either as pre-recorded or live sessions.
The expectation is that you will attend all timetabled on-campus lectures, and that online lectures will be viewed by you in advance of related on-campus activities.
Tutorials & discussion-based sessions will primarily be delivered in-person on campus, though some may be delivered online in order to supplement on-campus learning.
You will attend all timetabled on-campus or online tutorials.
Computing Labs will primarily be delivered in-person on campus, though some may be delivered online in order to supplement on-campus learning.
The expectation is that you will attend all timetabled on-campus or online computing labs and be provided with access to the specialised software required.
Support/resources: Learning materials for every module will be made available online, through the University’s Virtual Learning Environment.
Assessments will be varied, and may include: CAA (computer aided assessment) tests, written coursework assessments (including software tasks), presentations (in-person or video presentations) and written examinations.
You will be expected to attend assessments in-person on campus.
Economics and Mathematics with an Integrated Foundation Year is hosted by our Department of Mathematics, which has a well-established reputation for student achievement and success.
This means that your education will be comprehensive, inspiring and truly up-to-date.
Your studies will consist of lectures, tutorial group work and one-to-one supervision from a member of staff.
Modules are assessed by combinations of coursework and examination.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/economics-bsc:
L101
L106 with placement
The Brunel Economics BSc combines a thorough grounding in economic theory with the practical skills needed to apply that knowledge to business, industrial, financial or government environments.
You’ll learn how economic exchange shapes the way societies function.
You’ll develop the analytical, quantitative, statistical and computing skills used to predict how societies, governments, businesses and households respond to events, trends and market behaviour.
You'll study statistics and econometrics and develop skills in data presentation, analysis and modelling.
This training will use analytical packages, such as R and Phython, which are widely used by business and financial institutions.
Our economics faculty bring a wealth of research and teaching expertise across a wide spectrum of fields, including economic theory, labour economics, development economics, gender economics, the economics of crime, the economics of innovation and growth, political economy, the economics of immigration, monetary and financial economics, behavioural economics, environmental economics and econometrics.
We have particular strength in the study of inequality - examining disparities in income, wealth, and gender, making our curriculum especially relevant to today’s most pressing societal challenges.
As a result, you’ll have access to a diverse range of thought-provoking modules that explore the economic forces shaping policymaking, society, and the modern workplace.
You can choose three years full-time or four years full-time with a one-year professional placement between years two and three that will give you hands-on experience in a real-life working environment.
You can also tailor the final year of your course to specialise in an area of particular interest.
Our diverse and dynamic academic staff are not only experts in their fields, they’re passionate educators committed to inspiring the next generation of economists.
We embrace innovative and inclusive teaching methods that encourage free thinking, creativity, and the open exchange of ideas in every classroom.
This dedication to high-quality teaching is reflected in our student feedback.
According to the National Student Survey (NSS), 71% of students on the Economics BSc (Hons) programme agreed that Brunel staff are effective at explaining complex concepts and that the courses are intellectually stimulating.
Additionally, 88% felt the programme successfully introduces new subjects and skills in ways that build on prior knowledge.
Overall, three-quarters of students are positive about the support provided by our teaching staff.
Here at Brunel, we're very proud of our continuation rates and the job prospects of our graduates.
After one year, 90% of Economics BSc (Hons) students are still on the course or have successfully completed it.
Our economics undergraduate degree is accredited by ACCA and CIMA, and graduates will receive exemptions from professional papers should you wish to continue your study to become a chartered accountant.
As a proud member of the University of London federation, Brunel offers you a degree that's respected and recognised both nationally and internationally - enhancing your academic profile and boosting your career prospects worldwide.
This course is designed to give you a solid understanding of economic theory, statistics, econometrics and finance as well as the practical and transferable skills needed to apply your knowledge to real-world problems.
Our Economics BSc consists of compulsory and optional modules.
Securing economics and finance degree jobs is highly competitive, so we’ll support you to gain a strong foundation in the skills employers are looking for.
The analytical, quantitative and transferable skills you’ll gain from your Brunel degree are highly valued by employers and will prepare you for a wide range of career and postgraduate study options in the areas of economics, business and finance.
15 months after completing the BSc Economics (Hons), two thirds of students are employed and/or engaging in further study.
After five years, students on the course earn, on average £41,000 a year.
It's expected that examination-style assessments, except for some computer-based tests, will be held on campus, and you'll be expected to attend their examination sessions.
Your courses will consist of lectures, workshops, seminars, one-to-one supervision, guest speakers from industry and site visits.
The proportion of exam to coursework is approximately 80% to 20%, with some courses having a higher proportion of continuous assessment.
The final year dissertation is worth a third of your Year 3 marks.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/education-ba:
X300
X301 with placement
DMM  (BTEC)
The Education BA at Brunel offers you the opportunity to combine the study of education with professional practice to give you a pathway into a range of education professions and postgraduate professional study including teacher education.
Whether you are looking to explore education related fields – such as counselling, educational psychology, social services, local authority work, social work, administration and education management – or you already know you want to teach, Brunel’s Education BA will give you a strong foundation from which to build.
The course will equip you with a broad and balanced view of educational theory, policy and practice within a range of educational contexts.
You will also have numerous opportunities to develop a range of transferable skills such as critical reflection, systematic analysis, communication, collaboration, presentation and writing skills.
When it comes to professional practice, the Education BA includes three integrated work placements to give you the opportunity to explore different educational settings.
To help you manage your time, you can do your placement experience weekly or in a block over the holidays.
We are also proud to introduce our RJC Accredited module and qualification in Restorative Practice, a sort after qualification in schools and other education settings.
If it’s teaching experience you’re seeking, Brunel’s network of partner schools is diverse and well-established which means you can gain highly valued teaching experience in vibrant multi-cultural schools where you will be fully supported by a Brunel tutor.
The Brunel Education BA aims to equip you with a broad and balanced view of educational theory, policy and practice within a range of educational contexts.
In each year of the course you will study a set of compulsory modules and undertake an integral placement to help you put what you learn into practice in a variety of educational settings.
The course is structured around three broad learning strands that run through each year:
In your second year, you will study the RJC Accredited core module which, if passed, will give you a foundation level qualification in Restorative Practice.
You can convert this into becoming an accredited Restorative Practitioner after gaining some practice experience with our Students Union.
Our Education BA offers you a pathway into employment in a range of educational-related fields either on graduation or via further professional study such as Schools Direct, Post Graduate Certificate in Education (PGCE) and Post Graduate Diploma Youth and Community (PGDipYCW).
As an Education BA graduate career options include education administration, after-school programme co-ordination, early years education, and informal education, education welfare, continuing professional development co-ordination, business training, and primary school teaching.
With your Foundation qualification in Restorative Practice, your CV will have a competitive advantage against other graduates going into education careers.
Brunel Education BA graduates are top UK earners.
On average, Brunel Education alumni earn £35,400 five years after graduating compared to a £24,700 average for Education graduates across the university sector (Higher Education Funding Council for England (HEFCE)).
One of the aims of the BA Education programme is to prepare you for a range of Education-based roles and practices.
On-campus ‘in person’ delivery allows us to model many of the skills, behaviours and practices that you will be studying.
Additional skills such as group-work, communication and practical skills (for example mediation techniques) are better delivered and practiced in person.
All sessions will be in-person on campus across all levels except for where there is independent study or project work.
There may be an occasion digital session – where this is easier for an external speaker, or if we intend to model a session on ‘online learning’ for example – but this'll be the exception rather than the norm.
Attendance is expected at all sessions.
The course will be delivered through:
In addition, you are expected to undertake a placement at each level.
This'll be at an approved external setting chosen by the student at a time that reflects the practice of the host organisation.
There'll be a series of extra-curricular activities including sessions on campus and the occasional visit/field trip.
Brunel has one of the longest established education departments in the country and is a leading research centre for work in supportive education that receives high ratings from the UK’s leading benchmarkers such as Ofsted.
You'll be taught by a team of enthusiastic and supportive academic staff, many of which are active researchers on a variety of education topics.
Your learning will take place in groups of different sizes and compositions to provide a variety of experiences as you get to know and interact with a group of likeminded students as you develop on the course.
You'll be taught using a variety of teaching and learning techniques that include: lectures, seminars (to promote discussions and group work), tutorials, student presentations, practical sessions, and for the placement modules, workplace mentors and tutor support.
Work-based experience is designed to provide you with opportunities to apply and enhance your learning and research skills in professional settings where you'll do range of directed tasks and research activities at each level of study.
A great deal of your learning will take place in your own independent learning and research where you will develop a range of study skills, research-related skills and critical thinking during directed reading, reflective exercises and preparation for assessments and work-based experiences.
Assessments vary between modules and typically include critical assignments, reflective reports, portfolios, student presentations and posters (group and individual) and placement portfolios.
Most modules incorporate both a written and presentation element.
At the end of your course, you will complete a dissertation in an education topic of your choice under the guidance of a dissertation supervisor.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/electronic-and-electrical-engineering-artificial-intelligence-beng:
H625
H626 with placement
Our Electronic and Electrical Engineering (Artificial Intelligence) BEng degree is a modern course that has been developed to equip you with the knowledge and skills needed to work and research in electronic and electrical engineering with specialisation in artificial intelligence applications.
The programme will help to develop key concepts of intelligent processing systems and intelligent software applications, implement intelligent systems and evaluate biologically inspired engineering systems that are essential for current and future needs.
You’ll gain a good understanding of the different engineering areas, giving you the opportunity to learn more about the fundamental engineering subjects such as design, structures, materials, fluid mechanics, electronics and maths and gain skills in technical drawing.
By specialising in artificial intelligence you’ll develop in-depth knowledge of artificial intelligence principles and electronic and electrical engineering techniques.
Brunel's BEng electronic and electrical engineering (artificial intelligence) course is accredited by the Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET) .
This accredited BEng degree in electronic and electrical engineering can be studied full-time over three years, or four years with a placement year.
This short video features a current student on placement at Network Rail .
In your first two years, you will gain solid knowledge and understanding of electronic engineering.
In your final year, you will study advanced electronics and artificial intelligent systems.
This includes developing student’s expertise in both understanding and designing basic analogue and digital electronic systems.
An electronic and electrical engineering degree from Brunel will give you the design, analytical and creative skills to play a leading role in the dynamic and rapidly expanding technological industries.
Opting for the year in industry during your engineering degree often leads to an offer of an electronic engineering job from your placement company.
Our graduates have gone on to work for high-profile multinational organisations including IBM, Intel, Microsoft, National Grid and Siemens.
Electronic and electrical engineering offers varied careers paths in a fast-growing professional field.
A degree in electronic and electrical engineering will set you up with the knowledge and skills to work at the forefront of all the major areas of electronic engineering.
*Longitudinal Employment Outcomes 2023.
When you successfully pass the foundation year, you can progress on to the Electronic and Electrical Engineering BEng.
You will need to come onto campus on most days to participate in all the teaching activities that make up the Engineering Year 1.
The online digital assessment platform will be used for submitting written course work.
You will need to come onto campus on most days to participate in all the teaching activities.
Our electronic and electrical engineering degrees are delivered by an expert team of multidisciplinary academic staff.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/electronic-and-electrical-engineering-communication-systems-beng:
H663
H664 with placement
Our Electronic and Electrical Engineering (Communication Systems) BEng degree is a modern course that has been developed to equip you with the knowledge and skills needed to work and research in electronic and electrical engineering with specialisation in digital communication systems.This programme will help to develop underlying knowledge and skills appropriate for today’s digital communication systems including introduction to standardised systems.
By specialising in communication systems you’ll develop in-depth knowledge of communication systems and apply techniques on individual programmes.
Brunel's BEng electronic and electrical engineering (communication systems) course is accredited by the Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET) .
In your final year, you will study advanced electronics and digital communication systems.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/electronic-and-electrical-engineering-computer-systems-beng:
H632
H633 with placement
Our Electronic and Electrical Engineering (Computer Systems) BEng degree is a modern course that has been developed to equip you with the knowledge and skills needed to work and research in electronic and electrical engineering with specialisation in embedded systems.
This programme will help to develop an understanding of the various engineering, scientific and economic trade-offs necessary in the design and implementation of embedded systems, provide familiarity and experience with a range of architectural techniques, design methodologies and their applications and suitability for some embedded systems such as FPGAs and help to understand the utilisation and principles of reconfigurable computing.
By specialising in computer systems you’ll learn to design and implement computer systems based on scientific and economic trade-offs.
Brunel's BEng electronic and electrical engineering (computer systems) course is accredited by the Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET) .
In your final year, you will study advanced electronics and embedded systems.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/electronic-and-electrical-engineering-energy-systems-beng:
H655
H656 with placement
AAB-BBB (see specific subjects) (A-level)
Our Electronic and Electrical Engineering (Energy Systems) BEng degree is a modern course that has been developed to equip you with the knowledge and skills needed to work and research in electronic and electrical engineering with specialisation in sustainable electrical energy systems.
By specialising in energy systems you’ll learn to design energy systems and apply them to electrical energy programmes.
Brunel's BEng electronic and electrical engineering (energy systems) course is accredited by the Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET) .
In your final year, you will study advanced electronics and sustainable electrical energy systems.
While much of the teaching will remain common to all disciplines during term 2, there will also be some opportunities for discipline-specific teaching activities.
Some on-campus live lectures will be simultaneously live streamed; all live lectures, whether delivered online or on-campus, will be recorded and made available for students to review after each lecture has taken place.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/electronic-and-electrical-engineering-beng:
H605
H606 with placement
AAB - BBB  (see specific subjects (A-level)
DDD  (see specific subjects (BTEC)
Our Electronic and Electrical Engineering BEng degree is a modern course that has been developed to equip you with the knowledge and skills needed to design electronic and electrical systems for the next generation.
The first year is common to all our engineering students.
You will share modules and this gives you the opportunity to learn more about different branches of engineering science.
You'll also gain a better understanding of the connections between various engineering fields, its multi interdisciplinary nature and how you can choose your future employment.
You will be introduced to electronic engineering and gain deep knowledge of electronics and electrical systems.
You’ll learn about electronic systems, and electrical engineering and sustainability, and then progress to advanced electronics.
In your final year, you can choose specialist subjects like control systems, embedded systems and intelligent systems.
Access is available to modern technical facilities including computers, electronics, and power and control laboratories where you’ll work on your experiments.
The latest industry-standard engineering software packages are available for you to use in dedicated computer clusters.
Brunel's BEng electronic and electrical engineering course is accredited by the Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET) .
"The industrial training placements have been useful to me personally.
The degree opened the door to a postgraduate diploma that secured my current position." - Kevin Field
"I'd recommend Brunel for the pedigree of the lecturers and the opportunities available to students" - Tom Andrews
"I met some very nice lecturers during my time at Brunel who pushed and guided me" - Nima Mohammadi Meshky
In your final year, you'll study advanced electronics and also work on your individual project on a topic of your choice.
Opting for the year in industry during your electronic and electrical engineering degree often leads to an offer of an electronic engineering job from your placement company.
Our graduates have gone on to work for high-profile companies including IBM, Intel, Mercedes, Microsoft, National Grid and Siemens.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/electronic-and-electrical-engineering-meng:
H607
H608 with placement
AAB-ABB (see specific subjects) (A-level)
DDD (see specific subjects) AND A-level Maths at grade A.
31 including 5 in HL Maths (IB)
Our Electronic and Electrical Engineering MEng degree is a modern course that has been developed to equip you with the advanced knowledge and skills needed to design electronic and electrical systems for the next generation.
You’ll learn about electronic systems, and electrical engineering and sustainability, and then progress to advanced devices and electronic systems design, and analogue integrated circuit design.
In your final year, you can choose specialist subjects like embedded systems engineering, intelligent systems and power electronics.
Brunel's MEng electronic and electrical engineering course is accredited by the Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET) .
This accredited MEng degree in electronic and electrical engineering can be studied full-time over four years, or five years with a placement year.
Dean’s International Scholarship: This course is eligible for a £2,000 fee waiver, per academic year, subject to availability.
This Scholarship is for full-time international students only.
Find out more .
In later years, you move on to more advanced subjects such as advanced devices and electronic systems design.
You will work on your individual project in your third year and your major group project in your MEng final year.
Aims: To provide students with up-to-date knowledge in advanced vehicular technology; to develop knowledge and understanding of vehicular technologies with which enables inter- and intra- vehicle communications, and battery management; to be aware of relevant technical standards related to electric vehicle systems development.
To develop in-depth knowledge and understanding of real-time signal processing, embedded DSP and FPGA system architectures and to develop students’ ability in to implement real time algorithms on embedded DSP processors for DSP or communication applications.
The aims of this module are to develop students ability to critically analyse and design advanced power electronic circuits and incorporate state-of-the-art power electronic circuits in electric vehicle machines and drives.
For new students - Level 4
Your progress will be assessed via coursework assignments, presentations, technical and laboratory reports, exams and the major individual and group projects.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/electronic-engineering-beng-top-up:
H6P7
Electronic and Electrical Engineering
HND L5
BEng Electronic Engineering programme aims to produce graduates that are creative, knowledgeable, have perspective and are professional in their approach.
This electronic engineering top-up degree is designed for students qualified to Higher National Diploma (HND) level in the general area of electronic engineering who want to further their educational development to degree level and beyond.
This programme will allow students to develop the knowledge, understanding, cognitive and technical skills to work and research in electronic engineering.
The programme focuses on analogue and digital electronics, Signal processing and emerging technologies in electronic engineering.
Graduates will be able to design, integrate, and develop technological solutions for the generation of electronic engineering systems.
The programme provides a coherent curriculum that develops problem-solving, professional development, and transferable skills required to work in electronic engineering and related industries.
An electronic engineering degree from Brunel will give you the design, analytical and creative skills to play a leading role in the dynamic and rapidly expanding technological industries.
Also, it will set you up with the knowledge and skills to work at the forefront of all the major areas of electronic engineering.
Brunel's closeness to the highest concentration of the UK's information engineering and telecommunications industry – in London and along the M4 corridor – means our placement and careers network is second to none.
The BEng Electronic Engineering programme at level 6 has one compulsory and 4 optional modules providing more core knowledge culminating in the final year project, requiring the application of substantial depth and breadth of knowledge acquired across the programme.
The curriculum will also expand students' learning into sustainability aspects of engineering and artificial intelligence, and embedded systems.
The assessment strategy is developed in mind to cover all needs and abilities of students and to help them achieve the programme learning outcomes, make studying more interactive for the students, and help them benefit from continued professional development.
Therefore, the programme's assessments will be informative, open book in-lab tests and summative formats.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/engineering-with-an-integrated-foundation-year:
H100
H101 with placement
BBC - CCC inc Maths or Physics (A-level)
MMM (BTEC)
27 (IB)
Brunel’s Engineering Foundation Year is a one-year, full-time course that prepares you for the study of engineering at degree level.
Foundation year students can progress to any of our accredited Engineering degree programmes having improved their maths and physics.
It’s an ideal choice if you don’t have the required qualifications to begin an engineering degree straight away or if you want to see if an engineering degree is for you.
This engineering foundation course will equip you with the knowledge and skills needed to join the first year of your chosen engineering degree.
You will learn about basic engineering principles and study subjects including engineering mathematics, physics, mechanics, and materials science.
You’ll be introduced to concepts of electronic engineering and develop your verbal, graphic and written communication skills.
During your studies, you will benefit from well-equipped technical facilities including the structures and materials laboratory where you’ll use industry standard equipment for the testing of materials.
The latest computing software is available for you to use in purpose-built computer laboratories.
There are two one-week project breaks during which you’ll work in a team to gain practical knowledge of control systems, designing models, analysing design, and calculating physical parameters.
After successfully completing your engineering foundation year – with the progression grades needed for your chosen engineering course – you will start the first year of one of Brunel’s engineering degree courses with the added benefit of an optional placement year:
As an engineering with an integrated foundation year student you will be entitled to funding throughout your studies.
We recommend that you apply and secure funding for the full five-year, MEng programme.
This can be reduced if you decide not to take a placement year.
You can also benefit from living on Brunel’s one London campus with direct access to all the University’s fantastic sporting and social facilities.
Course delivery is a combination of theory, hands-on practical sessions and project work.
You will gain solid knowledge and understanding of engineering science and will be introduced to materials science.
You’ll also develop skills in the use of computer software for communication of engineering data.
The aims of this module are to establish a solid foundation in the basic concepts of mechanics, from the definition of the basic units of mass, length and time, through to the derived units of velocity, acceleration, force, moment of a force.
Then to extend these concepts of mechanics to the principles of equilibrium and motion of solid bodies and thence to the analysis of static and dynamic systems.
This will introduce and give practice in the study skills required to be a successful university student studying engineering.
To introduce and practice elements of the formal analysis and graphical communication of engineering data.
To provide opportunities for the application of aspects of engineering science to practical problem solving.
To exercise and develop verbal and written communication skills in the presentation of results.
To practice in working in groups, managing time and resources, and cooperation with others to achieve a common goal.
Development of initiative in dealing with open-ended problems.
This module aims to introduce concepts and underlying theories of relevant topics in work and energy at A-level standard.
The techniques will be developed and applied to practical problem solving.
Students will develop their mathematical skills including interpretation of slope and areas; dimensional analysis; decimals and scientific notation.
A module that introduces concepts and underlying theories of relevant topics in electricity, magnetism, and electronics at A-level standard.
The techniques will be developed and applied to practical problem solving for designing electrical and electronic circuits.
Qualified, skilled engineers are in demand - but in short supply - throughout the world.
Brunel’s engineering foundation year is the first step on your journey to an exciting career in the engineering industry.
Many students progress from Brunel’s engineering foundation course to our accredited engineering degrees.
They take up positions as highly capable engineers working for leading companies including Rolls-Royce, Airbus, GE Energy, Intel, Jaguar Land Rover and British Airways, to name a few.
Our engineering foundation year is delivered by a multidisciplinary team of academic staff.
This means you’ll be learning from a teaching team with expertise in different subject areas of engineering.
Two weeks will be allocated to supervised hands-on project work.
Study will combine lectures, seminars, small group tutorials, laboratory and workshop sessions, and group project work.
Your progress will be assessed via assignments, coursework portfolios, laboratory reports, presentations, project reports, computer-based testing, and written exams.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/engineering-with-business-beng:
H10N
H11N with placement
DDM (see specific subjects)  (BTEC)
This degree combines a broad education in engineering, engineering management and business, equipping you with the analytical tools and techniques to understand the processes and technologies required across the engineering sector.
Essentially an engineering programme with a business theme, it will give you the general scientific, mathematical and technical skills required not only to understand engineering designs and systems but also to develop key management skills, business model development and entrepreneurship, alongside financial management, accounting and project management.
Practical projects will enhance formal systems thinking and an optional placement year in industry will boost your practical engineering knowledge and employability.
Integral to the programme are elements of computer science, embedded systems, digital electronics, data analysis, artificial intelligence and machine learning, sensor systems and robotics as well as other topics studied across all programmes such as employability skills.
Optional modules can be taken from all Brunel’s engineering departments giving you the chance to gain additional expertise in civil, mechanical, aerospace and chemical engineering.
The BEng Engineering with Business is a three year undergraduate course (or four years including a placement year) leading to a bachelor's degree, but we also offer a four year MEng Engineering with Business (or five years including a placement year) which awards a master's degree.
Module description to come
Module description to come.
Foundational knowledge in both subject areas is delivered by lectures and seminars, while hands-on workshops provide practical and experimental learning sessions in developing engineering design and business strategies.
You will be assessed by a combination of coursework, examinations, portfolio development and peer assessment.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/engineering-with-business-meng:
H12N
H13N with placement
31  (IB)
Essentially an engineering programme with a business theme, it will give you the general scientific, mathematical and technical skills required not only to understand engineering designs and systems, but also to develop key management skills, business model development and entrepreneurship, alongside financial management, accounting and project management.
Integral to the programme are elements of computer science, embedded systems, digital electronics, data analysis, artificial intelligence and machine learning, sensor systems and robotics as well as other topics studied across all programmes, such as employability skills.
The MEng Engineering with Business is a four-year undergraduate course (or five years including a placement year) which awards a master's degree, but we also offer a three-year bachelor's degree BEng Engineering with Business (or four years including a placement year).
This module aim to enable Engineering students to deal with legal, social, ethical and environmental issues and apply professional codes of conduct.
Indicative content: ethics and legal aspects, risk and environment management systems, risk assessment and engineering failure methods and sustainability.
This module provides a solid understanding of logistics and supply chain management principles, fostering a critical appreciation of relevant theoretical frameworks within the context of contemporary business practices.
This module aims to give students a comprehensive understanding and critical awareness of the latest advanced techniques and strategies for project management, including management tools, management and reporting methods and team building.
You'll be assessed by a combination of coursework, examinations, portfolio development and peer assessment.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/english-ba:
Q300
Q301 with placement
If you are ready to explore more widely, think more deeply, and engage more critically, creatively, and confidently with the world via the written word, then English is the subject for you.
By exploring a broad range of fiction, stories, plays, poetry, and life writing from different gendered-, class-, and race-aware angles, you will develop knowledge and skills that will prepare you for a variety of exciting careers.
In year one , you will build your academic skills by taking six modules, four of which are required and two of which are optional.
In year two , you will develop your academic interests by choosing six modules focusing on literary genres and periods that fascinate you.
In year three , you will hone your academic interests by creating your own curriculum: four modules and a dissertation (extended piece of writing exploring texts/topics of your choice).
If you undertake our four-year BA , you will undertake a one-year work placement before returning to complete your programme of year three learning.
In each year of your learning programme, required modules focusing on CV-building and employability, along with optional enrichment activities, will prepare you for your chosen career.
Your learning programme will be delivered in person, through interactive lectures, seminars, workshops, and tutorials, where you will participate in discussion and debate alongside reading and writing tasks.
You will be assessed through written assignments (including essays, reviews, online discussion boards) and presentations (both in-person and digital).
"I didn’t appreciate how much that degree would open my eyes.
My reading options were endless and the support was phenomenal." - Tara Lyons
"Although she has been making music for herself since the age of 10, Ray BLK’s only music training came in the form of opera-singing lessons during a short scholarship programme at Brunel." - RAY BLK Rita Ekwere
"I was very attracted to the specific content of the course, in particular the focus on Shakespeare and playwrights of the Renaissance" - Samuel Matton
"Getting involved with so many extra-curricular activities while at university has no doubt fuelled my satisfaction of effective projects and enjoyment of work" - Becky Collins
The English BA at Brunel will give you deeper knowledge of English and Global literatures and writerly techniques, as you develop key skills in critical thinking, analysis and writing, with a wealth of optional modules to suit your interests and aspirations.
The purpose of this module is to study selected texts in light of their historical, political, cultural, religious, and other contexts.
Through the study of a selection of five texts that belong to a particular period or genre, the module will introduce students to the historicist study of literature while at the same time training them in close textual analysis.
This module will explore key critical and cultural concepts in modern literary studies and their relevance to a selected body of texts, with a focus on how ideas of ‘difference’ factor into a given body of writing.
Students will be encouraged to develop their own understanding of difference in relation to a wide range of theoretical concepts, including (potentially) history, memory, gender, race, and language/semiotics.
To produce an extended piece of work totally 10000 words (500-word plan plus 9500-word dissertation) in which the student undertakes a programme of independent research on a topic of interest relevant to the subject area.
This module is an exploration of two canonical English writers, Geoffrey Chaucer and William Shakespeare.
It examines a number of key texts by these two authors from a range of perspectives combining the historical and theoretical.
The module pays specific attention to such issues as the representation of society and class in Chaucer’s and Shakespeare’s work, the portrayal of the author in the context of the emergence of English as an authoritative language replacing Latin and French as during the period 1381 – 1625, the relationship between rhetoric, power and ethics in the context of the development of an embryonic literary sphere or space in England after the events of 1381, and the depiction and interrogation of gender norms in late medieval and early modern literature.
The module will develop and extend some of the critical thinking students have developed in a number of second-year modules.
Most important, it teaches students to read texts even more closely, playing detailed attention to the historical context alongside the theoretical.
The module provides a critical examination of key works by Chaucer and Shakespeare and is therefore ideal for students considering a career in teaching, particularly at secondary level.
On completion of the English BA, you will have a set of enviable skills which are vital for a variety of careers.
Many Brunel English graduates go into teaching, media-related jobs like publishing, marketing and journalism, and others into the business world as account executives, campaign organisers and consultants.
Brunel graduates of this degree fit just as easily into other career environments, and the opportunity of doing a placement year to gain experience in a job role and industry sector will be a distinct advantage.
See our Careers page for more information: brunel.ac.uk/english/why-study-english-at-brunel/careers-and-your-future.
A minimum of five GCSEs are required, including GCSE English Language grade C or grade 4.
Module teaching across the programme (lectures/seminars/tutorials/workshops) will take place in person on campus, and will be supported by the provision of support materials (e.g.
lecture recordings, handouts, electronic materials etc.).
You'll be taught in lectures and seminars (smaller groups to encourage discussion), workshops and tutorials by a team of passionate English scholars who are experts in their field.
Their teaching is varied and lively to enable you to gain knowledge and skills in a variety of ways.
However, independent study is a key component of the English BA with reading required around timetabled activities.
Each module on the English BA has its own method of assessment which might include an essay, presentation, practical work, or a combination of these to allow you to build up marks in variety of different ways, and to discover your strengths.
In your final year, you will research and write a dissertation on a topic of English literature under the guidance of a dissertation supervisor.
Many students value this unique experience and the opportunity to become authorities in an area of English literature research.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/english-with-creative-writing-ba:
Q3W8
QW81 with placement
Storytelling is part of every culture and reveals much about a person’s lived experience, values and aspirations within a given time.
If reading is a pleasure and creative writing very much a part of you, then an English degree with creative writing might appeal.
If you’re ready to explore more widely, think more deeply and consider how you, as a reader, are placed in relation to a text and how that affects your interpretation, you’ve come to the right place.
Brunel offers one of the most highly regarded creative writing courses in the UK, with many staff members active as novelists, writers for performance, or as cultural critics.Through them you will learn and practice the fundamentals of writing in a variety of forms including poetry and film.
After a first year of introductory writing modules with options in literature to develop your critical reading, your exploration in English and creative writing is very much down to your own interests.
In years two and three a wealth of optional modules await you, covering every period and genre in literature from Shakespeare to Austen, comedy to horror and world literature, alongside further writing options in journalism and modern fiction.
Throughout your course you will be encouraged to express your own thoughts and creativity in your coursework and seminars, which will help you to grow as a critic and writer.
English with Creative Writing BA will equip you with personal skills employers’ prize in graduates – exceptional written and verbal communication and the ability to work collaboratively in teams.
At Brunel you will be able to develop these in abundance.
Opt for a placement year and you will gain real-world work experience while you study which will further increase your attractiveness to employers when you graduate.
Outside of your classroom, you can look forward to events and activities organised by the Brunel Centre for Contemporary Writing, including the annual Hillingdon Literary Festival: a free weekend of literary performances from internationally renowned authors, writing workshops and lively debates, right here on campus.
English with Creative Writing BA at Brunel will give you deeper knowledge of English literature history, world literature and genre writing as you develop key investigate skills with a wealth of optional modules to suit your interests and aspirations.
Several Brunel graduates of creative writing have gone onto publish their own work, but you’ll be well equipped for any role where written English is a central feature including copywriting or scriptwriting for radio or television.
Your future doesn’t have to be in publishing, writing or poetry unless you want it to be, there’s so much you can do with an English and Creative Writing BA.
Brunel graduates fit just as easily into other career environments, and the opportunity of doing a placement year to gain experience in a job role and industry sector will be a distinct advantage.
Above all, English with Creative Writing BA will benefit your own writing, critique and self-expression.
You'll be taught in lectures and seminars (smaller groups to encourage discussion), workshops and tutorials by a team of passionate English scholars and writers who have written books that cover a breadth of genres, who are experts in their field and the craft of writing.
Your learning will be varied and lively to enable you to gain knowledge and skills in a variety of ways; however, independent study is a key component in an English literature degree with a substantial amount of reading as independent study.
Beyond the classroom, you'll have access to Brunel’s Virtual Learning Environment where you can access a variety of specialist literary databases to support your studies.
Each module on the course has its own method of assessment which could include an essay, presentation, practical work, or a combination of these to allow you to build up marks in variety of different ways, and to discover your strengths.
In your final year, you will research and write a dissertation on a topic of your choice under the guidance of a dissertation supervisor.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/film-and-television-studies-and-english-ba:
W630
W63P with placement
6 years part-time
Have you grown up with a deep interest in film and television and the thinking that goes into bringing entertainment to homes across the country?
Take a step into this fast-paced and exciting industry by studying Brunel’s Film and Television Studies and English BA.
Your degree will give you a thorough understanding of film and television by examining a wide range of recent and contemporary productions for both the big and small screen.
You will gain an insight into a range of genres as your studies will explore Hong Kong to Hollywood cinema, science fiction, documentaries, and everything in between.
By opting for this joint honours degree with English, you will also study the major areas of English literature from the Renaissance to the most recent publications in poetry, fiction and drama, whilst developing an informed understanding of current debates in the subject.
This is an exciting, dynamic, wide-ranging course with plenty of flexibility allowing you to follow your own individual tastes and literary passions.
The film and television industries are very hands-on and wide-ranging fields, therefore you will be able to make modules choice accordingly.
After the first year, up to 40% of your module choices can be practical so you are able to take the theory you have learned and put it into practice by applying it to your own work.
As well as enhancing your learning by attending screenings at the British Film Institute, the Institute of Contemporary Arts and other cinemas across the capital, you will also be eligible to enter our annual Brunel University Film Festival (BUFF) with categories including Best Fiction, Best Non-Fiction and Best Overall Film.
This will allow you to put all your practical and theory skills into practice and will give you the opportunity to showcase your talents.
Brunel offers students access to fantastic editing suites with up-to-date production software including Avid with accredited training facilities for Final Cut Pro 10, allowing you to bring your ideas, thoughts and inspirations to life.
As you’ll be taught and supported by academics who are experts in their field, you’ll develop skills that can be applied from the classroom to the workplace.
They know the industry inside out, so you know you are learning from experienced professionals who will bring their unique insights into your learning.
Gain an insight into life after your studies by putting your learning into practice by opting for a one-year work placement.
You will graduate with valuable work experience to enhance your employment prospects and will be able to develop an understanding the working world within the film industry.
We have excellent links with a wide range of notable external organisations, so you will have the opportunity to apply for high quality placements across London.
Previous students have undertaken placement at many prestigious venues including The Pinewood Group, Fremantle Media, Objective Productions, WaterAid and BalletBoyz.
The Film and Television Studies and English BA is a part of the BAFTA albert education partnership.
This accreditation provides students with exclusive access to the industry’s BAFTA albert carbon calculator, a tool used by Netflix, BBC, ITV, Channel 4, UKTV and Sky when producing their content.
Participating students will work towards creating environmentally-friendly, sustainable content.
Upon completion you will be presented with industry-recognised certification and become an official “BAFTA albert graduate”.
This opportunity is provided at no extra cost.
As a graduate of this dynamic degree, you will leave us with the confidence to be able to develop a creative idea and see it through to the end – a transferable skill valuable in any sector.
"It’s what you make of the experience and your attitude towards the work that is important" - Owen Buggy
"The clearing process at Brunel was very straightforward and simple.
Speaking to Brunel made me much more comfortable during results day as I had been disappointed with my results.
The person on the other side had such a calm voice and was easy to talk to." - Ira Devibar
"I chose to study at Brunel because it offered the opportunity to study a joint degree covering two subjects I was particularly interested in.
" - Ria Hebden
"Brunel was the only university in London that offered a joint-degree programme, combining Film and Music Studies.
It was one of the best choices I have made." - Kristijonas Dirsė
This innovative course will enable you to explore a range of film and television forms and the social and industrial contexts in which they are produced and consumed.
You will also have the opportunity to develop your interest in a variety of English modules.
For your practical modules, you’ll have access to state-of-the-art equipment including HD digital cameras.
You’ll learn to edit on Avid and Final Cut Pro in our first-class edit suites, with plenty of technical support on hand.
Please note Year 3 compulsory modules are structured as follows:
Option 1 - either FM3001 or FM3640 or EN3003 Option 2 - two single projects FM3002 and EN3004 Option 3 - Joint Written Dissertation between Film/TV and English
With the central aim of developing your creative and technical skills, this module will introduce you to the vocabulary, concepts and equipment needed in film production.
You will work collaboratively with your peers to train with our technical and academic staff as well as engage in all aspects of storytelling.
This is where you begin your journey learning the conventions and practices of filmmaking with our industry standard equipment.
A production-based module, you will be able to explore the process of adaptation from a variety of sources to the screen.
Developing your creative skills you will consider many forms of storytelling and character construction as well as developing your production filmmaking skills.
Genre is integral to mainstream filmmaking and beyond, and this module allows you to engage with critical frameworks and theory for understanding genre in an industrial, historical, and cultural context.
A range of case studies are explored in detail allowing students to fully develop an understanding of genre film and television.
Interested in exploring the dynamic relationships that exist between different cinemas from different places?
Then this option is for you.
We will consider a range of world cinemas from the Global South, Asia and beyond.
We will consider global art and alternative cinemas as well as more mainstream practices, considering films in terms of globalisation and the transnational, as well as the regional and the national.
Theoretical perspectives are at the core of this module, giving you the frameworks you will need to read and make meaning from film and television.
We will consider feminism, structuralism and post-structuralism, Marxism among many other approaches we might take to understanding film and television.
Students will explore the role that film plays in advocacy, activism and social justice.
The purpose of this module is to provide opportunities for students to create a portfolio of moving image work that has been developed to address social injustice.
Students will explore the role of corporate, NGO, commercial and independent filmmaking, as well as looking at campaigns and distribution strategies.
Students will work in a team and contribute to decision making processes.
Firstly, this module will allow you to explore the medium specificity of animation, the range of techniques available, as well as different industries and their development.
We will then go on to teach you a range of animation production skills which will allow you to create your own short form animation in a style and medium of your choosing.
This module is largely led by feminist theory and queer theory where we examine a range of identities onscreen in relation to gender and sexuality.
A number of case studies are examined across the module from historical examples to more contemporary work.
This module provides students with an in-depth examination of the horror genre across both film and television.
Critical frameworks and theories relevant to the study of horror will be explored in depth across a range of case studies from historical and more contemporary contexts, as well as from a range of global contexts.
As part of our employability strand this module will give you a large range of guest talks from people that work across many different parts of the creative industries.
Many of the guest speakers are Film@Brunel alumni.
You will also have the opportunity to undertake your own work placement as part of this module allowing you to develop both your employability and networking skills.
During your work experience you’ll gain training and skills in your area of interest and get insight into the working practices of film and media organisations.
As well as building confidence, you’ll develop the problem-solving and management skills required to succeed in your future career.
Graduating with a joint English and Film and Television Studies degree , will give you an additional advantage of benefitting from our extensive contacts in film and television production, distribution and exhibition in London, as well as in media public relations and marketing.
Our graduates have secured jobs with companies including BBC, Universal Studios, ITV, Granada, Amazon Prime, Framestore and Ridley Scott Associates as casting agents, researchers, production assistants, script writers, video content editors and film officers.
As well as gaining excellent academic knowledge throughout your studies, emphasis is placed on gaining transferable employment skills.
You will develop communication, report writing and presentation skills to an excellent level, equipping you for a range of subsequent professional careers.
Brunel’s Professional Development Centre is a dedicated service that are committed to increasing our students' employability, helping you to develop the skills and experience you need to stand out in the job market.
They will help you with placements, CV writing and interviews during your time with us, and will still be on-hand to help you for two years after you graduate.
You will have access to the Adobe Creative Cloud software through the university facilities such as Mac labs and edit suites, if you wish to have a license on your personal computer you will have to pay for it, however this is not a requirement.
It is recommended that you purchase a large external hard drive.
Students will no longer be given individual licenses for the Adobe Creative Cloud as this was a covid contingency in response to the limited access to specialist on-campus facilities.
You’ll benefit from lectures, group tutorials, workshops and seminars, as well as one-to-one supervision in your final year project.
Group seminars and personal tutorials allow you to learn in smaller groups and in one-to-one discussions.
To enhance your learning, you'll have access to fantastic state-of-the-art facilities and equipment including; 17 fully-equipped edit suites, Final Cut Pro X, Avid and/or Adobe Premiere, and cameras including Canon C100, Sony PMW200, Canon XF100, Canon 5D.
Should you need guidance on the module, coursework and any other matters that may wish to discuss, module tutors are available for one-to-one tutorials.
Assessment will be through completing practical work, including videos, scripting, storyboards, websites, coursework essays and projects, seminar presentations and video essays.
All final-year students are required to complete a dissertation or project under the supervision of a member of the teaching team.
This may take the form of a practice-based project with an accompanying analysis or a written piece on a subject of your choice.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/film-and-television-studies-ba:
W620
W621 with placement
Do you enjoy watching films and TV shows, and wonder what goes on behind the scenes to bring the stories to life?
Do you want to work in the industry where you could make the next blockbuster or TV series?
If so, the Film and Television Studies BA at Brunel is the course for you.
Your degree will give you a thorough understanding of film by combining the production with the theory of visual digital media.
Delve into practical film and video-making, scriptwriting, filming and editing, whilst honing your critical analysis and research skills to develop a comprehensive understanding of how the film and TV industries work.
You will benefit from our fantastic editing suites which have up-to-date production software including: Adobe Creative Cloud; Avid Media Composer; Avid ProTools, and; Final Cut Pro.
We also have a range of high quality camera, sound, lighting, and grip equipment ready for you to use.
These resources will allow you to bring your ideas, thoughts and creations to life.
To complement your learning you’ll watch weekly screenings of a film or programme relevant to the topic being studied followed by a lecture that covers some of the key ideas and theories of film and television.
After the lecture you have the opportunity to contribute to group discussions and share ideas with others in your seminars.
This format allows you to develop a strong understanding of what goes into the entertainment on our screens, and gives you the opportunity to collaborate and share ideas with your peers.
Brunel University London and the British Film Institute (BFI), have entered a partnership that will see students in Brunel’s Film Studies programmes have access to the BFI’s film streaming service, as well as to professional development opportunities that will boost their employability.
The creative partnership, which started on 1 September 2023, is part of the BFI’s initiative to collaborate with higher education institutions with strengths in media education, research, and innovation.
This will allow you to put what you have learnt into practice and will give you the opportunity to showcase your talent.
Learn with confidence knowing that you are taught by some of the best film academics in the UK.
Not only are they experts in the industry, but they have published work in the field so some of the books on your reading list may be written by those teaching you.
You can find out more about our team here .
The Film and Television Studies BA is a part of the BAFTA albert education partnership.
For more information see Year 3 content, or visit our placement page to explore the one-year work placement.
If you decide to do postgraduate study, this course provides you with skills to succeed including developing an idea and seeing it through to the end, project management skills, ability to work in a team and individually and an ability to analyse your own work.
You will graduate with the confidence to be a creative and imaginative cultural producer with solid knowledge of film culture and practical experience which will put you in good stead for your future career.
"The editing suites at Brunel are industry standard and all the cameras we use are really high technology" - Amy Peacock
On this innovative course you will develop an understanding of how film and television products work, and will gain key practical and transferable skills vital in this competitive job market.
For your practical modules you’ll have access to state-of-the-art equipment including high-quality cameras, lighting, sound, and grip equipment.
You’ll also learn to edit in our edit suites which run Avid Media Composer, Adobe Creative Cloud, Avid ProTools, and Final Cut Pro.
This module engages students in their own professional development.
Throughout the module, you will take part in scheduled professional development sessions, for instance camera training, edit training, and CV workshops.
Throughout the module there will be an emphasis on developing professional behaviours such as timekeeping, attendance, participation, organisation and communication.
You will also have the opportunity to engage with students in other levels of study and learn to effectively work in a team.
Sometimes we might become preoccupied with film and television as an artform, which is important.
But we also need to consider developments in the industry in terms of economic models, and changes in technology and context.
This module examines how film developed in terms of sound, colour, the development of the classical Hollywood system, and where we are today in terms of industry models.
We will also look at television from the broadcast era through to contemporary streaming services today.
Uncover some of the core skills in analysing and reading film and television texts.
This module focuses particularly on how we might understand film and television in terms of the context of its production and reception.
We will carefully consider the importance of social, cultural and political contextual relationships with film and television products.
This module aims to build on the content of the level 4 module The Professional Self, further engaging students in their own professional development.
There will be an emphasis on the professional world, looking at freelancing, setting up a business, insurance, ethics, and tax.
Throughout the module there will be an emphasis on further developing their own professional behaviours such as leadership, risk assessment, timekeeping, attendance, participation, organisation and communication, as well as mentoring students from level 4 through the development of their professional behaviours.
This module will give you the skills to analyse cinematic representations of violence and develop a critical awareness of different types of violence in relation to warfare and military technology.
You will gain skills in developing insights into visual themes, narrative structures and techniques used in moving images’ engagements with violence.
You will also have the opportunity to develop techniques for the use of found footage to research and communicate different types of violence.
If you are interested in alternative or more experimental approaches to filmmaking, then this module is for you.
Exploring a range of examples from distinct periods of filmmaking history, this module will also allow you to creative your own experimental film.
You will also examine connections between the economic, formal-aesthetic and social-political aspects of these alternative practices.
You’ll develop the problem-solving and management skills required to succeed in your future career.
We have extensive links with employers and industry and you’ll benefit from our networks to arrange your work placement.
We can also support you in approaching a business of your choice.
Our graduates have secured jobs with companies including BBC, ITV, Granada, Amazon Prime, Framestore and Ridley Scott Associates as casting agents, researchers, production assistants and film officers.
You will develop communication, report writing and presentation skills to an excellent level, equipping you for a range of subsequent professional careers or onto further study should you wish to pursue postgraduate study.
To enhance your learning, you will have access to fantastic state-of-the-art facilities and equipment including; 17 fully-equipped edit suites, Final Cut Pro X, Avid and/or Adobe Premiere, and cameras including Canon C100, Sony PMW200, Canon XF100, Canon 5D.
Assessment will be through completing practical work including videos, scripting, storyboards, websites, coursework essays and projects, seminar presentations and video essays.
Although Level 1 does not count towards your final degree mark, you have to pass this level to continue with the course.
Level 2 is worth a third and Level 3 is worth the rest, with the final year project worth a third of Level 3 marks.
This may take the form of a video essay with an accompanying analysis or a written piece on a subject of your choice.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/film-production-and-theatre-ba:
W244
W24P with placement
Do you want to work in an industry which creates moments of temporary escapism on stage or on screen for captivated audiences?
If so, the Film Production and Theatre BA at Brunel is the course for you.
You will be able to combine your love for the theatre with your passion for films and turn your creativity into a fantastic fulfilling career.
In addition to film production skills, you will also have the opportunity to study a wide variety of theatre-related specialisms such as acting, applied practice, devising/theatre making, digital theatre, musical theatre, physical theatre and writing for performance.
This course will prepare you to pursue a wide range of careers in the theatre and entertainment industries and beyond.
The course will allow you to bring your ideas, thoughts and inspirations to the screen.
By using the fantastic editing suites with up-to-date production software including Avid with accredited training facilities for Final Cut Pro 10 you will be able to bring your creations to life.
During your degree, you will be able to immerse yourself in one of the cultural capitals of the world.
Being so close to London will give you easy access to the city’s rich and diverse culture and theatre events.
You will have the opportunity to go on theatre visits and take part in workshops with cutting edge theatre companies as part of your course.
Past theatre trips have included productions in the West End, The Barbican, The National Theatre, Royal Court, Sadler’s Wells and many others.
This will allow you to put what you have learnt into practice.
Learn with confidence knowing that you are taught by cutting edge academics and industry specialists who are some of the best in the UK.
You’ll benefit from their in-depth knowledge and passion for what they teach as well as their first-hand experience of what it takes to break into the film and theatre industries.
Many have published work in the field, so some of the books on your reading list may be written by those teaching you.
Gain insight into life after your studies by putting your learning into practice through a one-year work placement.
You will graduate with valuable work experience to enhance your employment prospects and will be able to develop an understanding of the working world within the film or theatre industry.
Previous students have undertaken placement at many prestigious venues including The Pinewood Group, Fremantle Media, Objective Productions, Mousetrap Theatre Company, Finsborough Theatre, Grieg City Academy and the Unicorn Theatre.
The Film Production and Theatre BA is a part of the BAFTA albert education partnership.
You will graduate with the confidence to be a creative and imaginative cultural producer with solid knowledge of film and theatre processes and practical experience which will put you in good stead for your future career.
"I fell in love with the campus I found the structure of my course to be really good also.
I highly recommend studying at Brunel for its commitment to creating an inclusive environment, providing good support, and offering numerous opportunities to students" - Daniela Lucaci
"When I left Brunel, my plan was to get a paid internship right away.
I knew how important this would be as my plan was to go into paid work right away and build on my career.
I managed to secure an internship with a creative company, through the Santander scheme at Brunel." - Carolina Herranz-Carr
This innovative course allows you to combine your acting and directing skills in theatre with knowledge of film culture and production skills and processes.
For 2024/2025, we have transformed our curriculum to offer exciting and cutting-edge perspectives in both Film and Theatre (pending validation).
For your practical modules, you’ll have access to state-of-the-art equipment, including HD digital cameras.
You must select a balance of credits in Film and in Theatre, inclusive of compulsory modules to a total of 120 credits.
Embark on a journey to critically explore the theoretical and practical realms of performance.
Uncover how the study of performance can dynamically respond to challenges on local, national, and global stages.
This module provides a canvas to apply performance analysis to political, social, artistic, and cultural phenomena, offering insights into the transformative impact performance practices and research can have on individuals and communities.
Unleash your creativity as this module introduces diverse strategies for crafting theatre.
Lay the groundwork for your creative journey by understanding devising and dramaturgical principles, connecting the dots between various performance elements to give life to your imaginative expressions.
Dive into the world of performers and their unique abilities to craft theatrical performances.
This module is your backstage pass to developing performance skills, drawing inspiration from a diverse array of training practices, and navigating the exciting boundaries between training, rehearsal, and the spotlight of live performance.
This module allows you to develop your film practice and production skills further.
You will continue developing skills learnt in level 4 in relation to filmmaking.
You will develop your critical appreciation of fictional filmmaking and the processes that are involved by engaging in practical work throughout the module.
Transform your curiosity into a dynamic performance exploration.
Engage with performance to probe specific topics, unravel issues, and pose questions.
This module empowers you to view performance not just as an art but as a potent mode of inquiry into the world around you.
Embark on an intellectual journey as this module introduces you to diverse realms of arts research.
Survey recent and emerging research, analyse existing practices, and master key academic approaches that will shape your research endeavours within and beyond the academic realm.
Immerse yourself in the captivating world of naturalism and acting as a critical practice.
Explore the techniques of pioneers such as Zola, Hagen, Adler, and venture into the intersection of naturalism with magical realism, Epic Theatre, and farce.
This module is your ticket to understanding how acting and critical practices intersect with the rich tapestry of cultural contexts.
Become a creator of original performance works, drawing from your interdisciplinary experiences.
Navigate the dynamic interplay between performance-making and the ever-changing contexts of local, national, and international stages.
This module equips you with tools to not only create but also market your work effectively.
Undertake a substantial research journey, crafting a written dissertation that contributes to the field.
This module is designed to empower you to plan, design, and execute a specialised project.
Develop research skills, critically evaluate your project, and leave an indelible mark on the academic landscape.
This is your final year film project and provides students with the opportunity to produce dissertation films and choose two specialisms that demonstrate a high level of achievement in Film Production.
Each student will specialize in two areas of film practice.
The specialisms correspond to real world roles in production and are divided into two categories of the above the line and below the line.
Elevate your acting in this performance-focused module.
Intensive workshops, theatre productions, and a focus on realism and naturalism await you.
Dive into the techniques of acting pioneers and let the stage become your workshop for honing your skills.
Ignite change as you explore anti-racism through the lens of performance.
Navigate the historical landscapes of Critical Race Theory and delve into the intricate relationships between race, racism, and colonialism.
This module is your gateway to understanding how performance becomes a powerful tool for social repair, protest, and activism.
Fine-tune your instrument—voice and body—in this practical module.
Develop rehearsal and performance skills, seamlessly integrate singing, dancing, and acting, and embark on a journey of critical self-reflection on your evolving practice.
Explore the industrial context of the musical theatre performer and master the art of auditioning with confidence and flair.
Prepare for your journey from university to professional practice with this module.
Gain sector-specific insights and align academic experiences with career goals.
The module develops crucial skills for post-graduation challenges, ensuring graduates emerge academically enriched, focused on key employment areas, and prepared for life after university.
During your work experience you’ll gain training and skills in your area of interest and get insight into the working practices of film and theatre organisations.
Our graduates have secured jobs with companies including BBC, ITV, Granada, Amazon Prime, Framestore and Ridley Scott Associates as casting agents, researchers, production assistants, script writers, video content editors and film officers.
Applicants with relevant theatre experience may also be considered.
Group seminars and personal tutorials allow you to learn in smaller groups and in one to one discussions.
To enhance your learning you will be taught and have access to fantastic state of the art facilities and equipment including; 17 fully-equipped edit suites, using Final Cut Pro X, Avid and/or Adobe Premiere and cameras including Canon C100, Sony PMW200, Canon XF100, Canon 5D.
Assessment will be through completing practical performances (in-class and public), and through videos, scripting, storyboards, websites, coursework essays/projects, seminar presentations and video essays.
You will also produce a portfolio of work showcase your creativity and your practical abilities.
This will be a vital tool to demonstrate your abilities to potential employers.
This may take the form of a practice-based film project with an accompanying analysis or practice-based project in Theatre, or a written piece on a subject of your choice.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/film-production-ba:
W200
W201 with placement
Films can evoke a multitude of emotions as we watch them on the big screens, but do you often wonder what goes into creating the masterpieces that can stick with you for a long time?
Turn your creative curiosity into a career you’re passionate about by studying Brunel’s Film Production BA.
By using the fantastic editing suites with up-to-date production software including: Adobe Creative Cloud; Avid Media Composer; Avid ProTools, and; Final Cut Pro you will be able to bring your creations to life.
The Film Production BA is a part of the BAFTA albert education partnership.
You’ll learn to edit on Avid and Final Cut Pro in our first-class editing suites, with plenty of technical support on-hand.
Please note you must choose one of the year 3 compulsory modules listed below.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/finance-and-accounting-bsc:
NN34
NN3K with placement
The Brunel Finance and Accounting BSc equips you with the knowledge, skills, and insights needed to successfully pursue careers in accountancy and other roles across the financial sector.
This ACCA, CIMA and ICAEW accredited degree will give you a solid grounding in the theories and practices of finance and accounting and a clear understanding of the regulatory and social frameworks in which these disciplines operate.
In the first two years you’ll explore core subjects such as financial markets, financial accounting and reporting, management accounting and corporate finance and investment.
You’ll also study econometrics, develop sought-after skills in data modelling and get training in analytical packages widely used by business and financial institutions such as R, STATA, SAS, EViews, Bloomberg and Reuters.
In your final year, you can tailor your course to specialist areas including auditing, taxation, financial engineering and behavioural finance.
You can choose three years full-time or four years full-time with a one-year professional placement between years two and three that'll give you hands-on experience in a real-life working environment.
As this finance and accounting degree is accredited by the ACCA, CIMA and ICAEW, you will receive exemptions in some professional papers depending on your module choices.
In the ever-changing, increasingly complex world of business and finance, employers are looking for job candidates with the analytical and technical skills required to keep up with new realities.
Your Brunel BSc will give you that expertise and improve your career prospects whether in the accountancy profession, financial services, or a financial role in industry or government.
This finance and accounting course is designed to give you an in-depth understanding of the principles of finance and expertise in core accountancy practices.
We provide both group tutoring sessions and (if you want), one-to-one sessions.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/financial-mathematics-bsc:
GN13
GND3 with placement
ABB - ABC inc A in Maths or Further Maths (A-level)
DDM and A-level in Maths or Further Maths at grade A.
Mathematics is a fundamental subject that is critical to our understanding of the world.
Through the study of mathematics you’ll advance your problem solving skills, develop your reasoning and increase your analytical thinking.
This is why mathematics forms a basis to so many careers.
Yes – it is a discipline in its own right, but it is also the thinking behind countless commercial, industrial and technological activities.
Mathematical models underpin engineering, the applied sciences, computing and many aspects of management today.
Follow the four-year ‘Professional Placement’ degree programme and you‘ll benefit from our extensive experience in helping students to find well-paid work placements with blue-chip companies.
Our sandwich students find that their mathematical and transferable skills are in demand in many sectors, both in the UK and abroad.
Areas recently offering placements include: accountancy, aviation, banking, defence, finance, insurance, IT (software development, network management and design), management (public and private sector), marketing and telecommunications.
The Financial Mathematics BSc covers the application of mathematical methods to financial problems so if you’re looking to work in the fast-moving world of finance or commerce then this is the course for you.
Two thirds of the course content focuses on developing your mathematical knowledge and skills.
The rest of the course covers financial markets, corporate investment and finance.
This programme will meet the educational requirements of the Chartered Mathematician designation, awarded by the Institute of Mathematics and its Applications, when it is followed by subsequent training and experience in employment to obtain equivalent competences to those specified by the Quality Assurance Agency (QAA) for taught master's degrees.
Two thirds of your course will be shared with the BSc in Mathematics so much of your level one will cover the broad range of mathematics with the addition of specialist finance areas such as Financial Markets and an Introduction to Data Handing for Finance.
At Brunel we aim to make your transition into the university style of learning as easy as possible.
So in the first few weeks of Level 1 you’ll start your learning in small groups of about 20 students.
By Level 2 you’ll be learning through lectures, seminars and in computer labs, and an individual piece of course-work will account for one third of Level 3.
You’ll be able to select from a large number of projects covering a wide range of mathematical areas and applications.
Your project will be supervised by a staff member.
You’ll emphasise real applications or abstract theories, using theoretical and/or computational tools.
If you’ve completed a placement you will be able to choose a project associated with your work experience.
Examples of project titles are:
You’ll also have the opportunity to study modern theories in quantitative finance, with particular emphasis on the maths and computation underlying the powerful and influential financial derivatives (e.g.
options) industry.
Often termed the ‘Black-Scholes theory’, this is famous for winning its discoverers a Nobel prize, as well as for its misapplication often being blamed (rightly or wrongly) for the current worldwide financial crisis.
Aims to manipulate mathematical expressions accurately, as well as recall and use mathematical formulae in areas of interest for Year 1.
To develop skills in handling summation notation.
To introduce students to fundamental results in mathematics.
To develop an understanding of the need for rigour in definitions and proofs.
To introduce the language of formal mathematics, in particular sets and functions.
Aims to further develop skills in differential and integral calculus and associated applications.
To further develop students’ manipulative skills in performing operations in differential calculus through work on examples, including solution techniques of ordinary differential equations.
Second of a pair of modules developing modelling skills.
Furthering a facility for mathematical modelling by examining a problem in its original form, extracting the principal features, formulating and solving appropriate mathematical models and interpreting the results in terms of the original problems.
Aims to introduce the mathematics of deterministic cash flow streams.
To introduce the concepts of optimum allocation of financial resources under uncertainty and issues of financial planning and with the models that provide mathematical descriptions of these investment problems.
To introduce financial risk measures and illustrate how they can be incorporated in financial planning models.
To implement simulations in software.
Aims to enlarge the set of technical tools of linear algebra and develop its applications to different problems, including construction and analysis of linear models.
To introduce basic algebraic structures, concentrating on group theory.
To exemplify their power, relevance and importance in real life applications.
Aims to develop ideas and methods of multivariable calculus, including Taylor series, extrema, the use of Lagrange multipliers, and the integration of functions of several variables.
To understand the extension from single variable to several variables of basic concepts such as continuity and differentiability.
Aims to introduce and consolidate the notions of single and multivariable probability.
Introduce statistical tools and explain their use in extracting and/or inferring meaning from data.
To introduce sampling and inference, along with confidence intervals and hypothesis tests.
Aims to develop skills required for planning and obtaining employment, whether it is an internship, a placement or a graduate job, in a field related to the student degree programme.
To see the development of these skills as a continuing, managed, lifelong process.
To apply techniques, methods, algorithms and/or theories to an applied problem cognate to your degree studies.
Within this module, an in-depth introduction will be provided to the area of learning using deep neural networks.
A wide variety of the architectures of deep neural networks and their learning methods will be covered, including convolutional networks, recurrent networks, generative models and deep reinforcement learning etc.
The main focus of the module is to develop students’ skill in analysing of problem requirements, applying appropriate deep learning methods to real-world problems, and evaluating the effectiveness of the adopted approach.
There is massive demand within financial institutions for mathematically trained graduates with an awareness of markets and their workings.
The recent combination of financial deregulation, increased globalisation and technological advance has led to a huge increase in the nature and volume of financial derivatives contracts traded around the world.
As a Brunel Financial Maths graduate you will enjoy excellent employment prospects.
Our combination of work experience and up-to-date teaching means that you will be well-equipped to follow the career you want after graduation.
These are some of the type of careers you could pursue:
For Brunel Mathematics with an Integrated Foundation Year requirements, see the course pages .
Mathematics at Brunel has an active and dynamic research centre and many of our lecturers are widely published and highly recognised in their fields.
Their work is frequently supported by external grants and contracts with leading industry and government establishments.
Lecturers are consequently at the frontiers of the subject and in active contact with modern users of mathematics.
This means that you can be assured that our academics are teaching you a truly up-to-date degree and you’ll benefit from a wide range of expertise across the different areas of mathematics.
Your academics are always here to help and offer support.
There are maths and numeracy workshops run throughout the year where you can seek support in linear algebra, complex calculus, LaTeX, MATLAB and more.
You’ll also benefit from the extra support offered to you at our Maths Café.
Here you can bring along any maths-related questions and receive one-to-one help in an informal setting.
Our teaching methods help you to bridge the school-university gap.
Our small classes at the beginning of Level 1 mean that you’ll get to know your lecturers and be able to discuss any problems with them.
You’ll also have a mentor allocated to you from Level 2 or 3 who will be available to give advice and answer any questions you might have.
At Brunel, we realise that you might not remember everything from your previous studies and we offer plenty of opportunities to reinforce essential skills such as algebraic manipulation and trigonometry.
We even offer extra help sessions throughout the year.
The ‘exams to coursework’ ratio is around 50:50 in Level 1, increasing to 70:30 in Level 3.We base your final degree class on your performance at Levels 2 and 3.
Level 3 carries twice the weight of Level 2.
We run weekly essential skills tests to keep you up-to-date with the theory learnt in previous lessons so you’ll feel fully prepared for your exams.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/financial-mathematics-mmath:
GN1H
GN1J with placement
ABB - ABC inc Maths or Further Maths at grade A.
(A-level)
With the Financial Mathematics MMath you’ll study for a further year and bring your BSc degree to master’s standard.
This means you’ll be able to get that competitive edge when you apply for jobs without having to go through the application process again after Level 3.
Two-thirds of your course is shared with the MMath in Mathematics.
This covers several application areas – finance, statistics, operational research (i.e.
how maths can be applied to commercial and industrial problems) and numerical analysis.
The remaining third covers the key principles of finance.
Follow the five-year ‘Professional Placement’ degree programme and you‘ll benefit from our extensive experience in helping students to find well-paid work placements with blue-chip companies.
Two-thirds of this course is shared with the MMath in Mathematics.
MMath students study a year further than BSc students, bringing their degree up to master’s level.
In Level 2 you’ll be learning through lectures, seminars and in computer labs, and an individual piece of course-work will account for one third of Level 3.
In your master’s year (this is your final year of the programme and called Level 5), you’ll have the chance to build upon your Level 3 project and to specialise in areas of mathematics that particularly interest you.
This module aims to introduce the students to a range of computational intensive statistical methods, to further develop their skills in correct interpretation and clear reporting of results, and to enable the students to create algorithms for regression models (parametric regression and nonparametric regression) to cope with massive data.
The aim of this module is to develop knowledge and skills of the quantitative data analysis methods that underpin data science.
Content covers a practical understanding of core methods in data science application and research, such as bivariate and multivariate methods, regression and graphical models.
A focus is also placed on learning to evaluate the strengths and weaknesses of methods alongside an understanding of how and when to use or combine methods.
The aim of this module is to develop the reflective and practical understanding necessary to extract value and insight from large heterogeneous data sets.
Focus is placed on the analytic methods/techniques/algorithms for generating value and insight from the (real-time) processing of heterogeneous data.
Content will cover approaches to data mining alongside machine learning techniques, such as clustering, regression, support vector machines, boosting, decision trees and neural networks.
With the Financial Mathematics MMath you’ll be one step ahead of your peers when it comes to applying for jobs.
The ‘exams to coursework’ ratio is around 50:50 in Level 1, increasing to 70:30 in Level 3.
Level 2 will count towards 20% of your degree.
Level 3 and your master’s year will count for 40% each.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/games-design-and-creative-writing-ba:
WW28
Creative Writing
This course will help you to develop your creative writing skills and focus on how they relate to games design and game play.
You’ll learn about the application of traditional story and narrative design and how it applies to games design and gameplay.
Your learning will come through lectures, workshops, seminars, play sessions and tutorials.
You’ll also use the online forum to discuss, share and develop your knowledge.
You’ll gain confidence in sharing your ideas, giving and receiving feedback and working individually as well as in a multi-disciplinary team.
The teaching team are experts in nurturing games talent and you will benefit from their insight into the industry.
You will be introduced to ideas at the forefront of the discipline as well as sharing their knowledge and understanding of professional practice.
This will help to keep you up-to-date with industry developments and show you how the skills you learn on this course are applicable to the world of work.
Of course the best teachers of writing are writers and Creative Writing at Brunel is taught by successful, published writers, many of whom have international reputations.
You will draw on their experience across a range of genres and you will have the opportunity to study Creative Writing to a high level.
You will develop your knowledge, understanding, and analytical and creative skills through the analysis, interpretation and creation of literary texts.
All games students will have 24-hour access to the games lab, where high spec PCs are available for you to work on and play games.
You will also use the Design room, where an impressive collection of board games is available for you to learn and understand the principles of games design.
This room also serves as a wonderful, collaborative space where you can play and generate ideas, work, relax and have fun.
You’ll finish this course with a skillset that will allow you to develop a game from scratch and be ready to work and thrive in the games industry.
"Games Design and Creative Writing is absolutely brilliant and I am truly excited to attend every lecture" - Katijah Wellings-Thomas
The combination of Games Design and Creative Writing produces ever more exciting games.
Studying this course and gaining the skills and knowledge within it will give you the chance to see your narrative come alive in games of your making.
The following types of modules are offered throughout the course:
The Games Design and Creative Writing BA consists of compulsory and optional modules, a typical selection can be found below.
Modules can vary from year to year to keep up-to-date with the games industry, but these offer a good idea of what we teach.
The games design industry is booming and it offers an excellent career path with plenty of opportunities for development and innovation.
You will learn how to design and prototype your own games, write games design documents, pitch games and develop skills in digital asset creation, image manipulation and 3D modelling relevant to design roles.
The skills you’ll gain from this degree - effective communication, leadership, self-management, initiative and personal responsibility, as well as design methodology and systems - are all applicable to other sectors too.
You could pursue a career in a variety of sectors, including project management, marketing and web design.
Previous students have also found roles in a variety of games studios and organisations including Rovio, Rockstar and Ubisoft.
They work as junior game designers,animators, games artists and operations executives.
The teaching team are experts in nurturing games talent and you'll benefit from their insight into the industry.
You'll be introduced to ideas at the forefront of the discipline as well as sharing their knowledge and understanding of professional practice.
You'll draw on their experience across a range of genres and you'll have the opportunity to study Creative Writing to a high level.
You'll develop your knowledge, understanding, and analytical and creative skills through the analysis, interpretation and creation of literary texts.
You'll also use the Design room, where an impressive collection of board games is available for you to learn and understand the principles of games design.
Assessment is through practical and theoretical, group and individual, project coursework.
This way of working and assessment will give you a firm foundation and preparation for your entry into the creative industries.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/games-design-ba:
I620
Games Design
If you want to design the games you play and be a part of the booming games design industry – this is the course for you.
From the start, you will be encouraged to think and work as a games designer and be given the skills to develop your own ideas.
You will design and prototype your own games, pitch games and develop skills in digital asset creation, wire-framing, and 3D modelling.
You will also learn the core theories, concepts and methods of analysis of games which will help you create games that are based on a rich foundation of knowledge.
The Games Design BA gives you the flexibility to explore what really interests you.
In the first year, you will study a range of modules including: Introduction to Games Design, Introduction to Games Studies as well as Historical and Business Contexts.
This approach is designed to help you decide where your particular interests lie so that you can begin to consider where to specialise in the second and third year.
In the second and third year, you have the choice to focus on design, art, technology, game studies or sound and music.
Making this choice allows you to begin to specialise in your chosen field of games design and to build your portfolio around your future ambitions whilst you’re still studying.
This means you can hit the ground running when you graduate because you will have a clear focus on where you want to work and the kind of role you want to pursue.
By the end of the course you will have a comprehensive portfolio and a range of skills sought after by the games industry in areas such as: game design, game production, game art, game development, game analysis, and game research, as well as giving you transferable skills that are relevant to broader fields.
Brunel’s Games Design BA covers all the skills needed to design, develop and understand games, giving you training that will help you to reach your potential in the games industry.
From UI design, animation and commercial games to experimental games, and game analysis, this intensive course gives you the confidence and skills you need to be successful in the booming games industry.
The Games Design BA consists of both compulsory and optional modules.
Depending on the pathway selected, these may be altered to keep up-to-date with changes and technology advances.
This ensures that you will always be work-ready and familiar with any new challenges that may emerge in the games sector.
The compulsory and optional modules listed below are dependant on the pathway you choose to take.
In this module you will study the relationship between the individual and their environment, both in situ and in movement, to reconsider habitual understandings of how we live in and move through our environment.
Your degree will equip you with a number of transferable skills, such as effective communication, leadership, self-management, initiative and personal responsibility, as well as design methodology and systems.
This could lead to a career in a variety of areas outside the gaming industry, including project management, marketing, and web design.
Previous students have also found roles in a variety of games studios and organisations including Rovio, Rockstar, and Ubisoft.
They work as junior game designers, animators, game artists, and operations executives.
Alongside your involvement in the games community by attending conferences, networking, and participating in gaming jams, the portfolio that you work hard to develop will be an impressive demonstration of your talent and skills.
Teaching will be delivered in-person, with only some elements delivered online where appropriate.
Teaching, consisting primarily of interactive lectures, seminars, and workshops, will average to around 2-5 classes per week.
This will be less for Level 6 students (Year 3), since major projects supervision will be delivered primarily as one-to-one tutorials and students will have fewer in-class modules.
Some teaching and learning support, particularly office hours and individual tutorials will take place online, to ensure as much availability from tutors as possible and to allow students to have alternative ways to keep in contact.
Learning materials, will be available online via the University’s Virtual Learning Environment (Brightspace).
At the same time, students are encouraged to use our dedicated spaces, which are ideal for learning and working as well as community building across cohorts.
The team is committed to also run engagement events both virtually and in-person, to bring together the games design community.
We also maintain dedicated online networks for our current students as well as our alumni.
All assessments are coursework based, and this means that everything a student works on has the opportunity for ongoing feedback and guidance.
While the majority of the above applies to all BA Games Design students, there may be some varieties in terms of teaching delivery with respect to the BA Games Design and Creative Writing, based on the provision of the BA Creative Writing course.
The games faculty is a mixture of skilled games industry professionals and significant researchers who are all passionate about games and about teaching.
This means that you'll always be given an industry perspective on your work and that will help you to understand and find a job in the games industry.
We share our knowledge and expertise using a multimedia approach that includes workshops, lectures, seminars, essays and team work.
You'll work in a friendly and creative environment where the emphasis is on learning through play and creative thinking.
This approach will help you to generate new concepts and help you to reach your full potential in the industry.
All games students have 24-hour access to the games lab which has high spec, state-of-the-art PCs for work and play.
You'll also have access to the Design room.
Here you’ll find an impressive collection of board games to help you understand the skills behind board games and how they compare with the challenges of designing for computer games.
If you work hard you'll graduate with a strong portfolio that will demonstrate your skills and achievements, and further enhance your career prospects in the games industry.
Practical work is assessed by a range of projects throughout the course, some of which are carried out in groups.
You will also be assessed through written essays which accompany projects and which require evaluation of your own work using a range of theoretical and critical tools.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/geography-bsc:
L701
L703, L705  with placement
We will teach you a broad range of topics, but there are a number of different themes that you can choose to explore across all three years.
Fieldwork is a key part of the programme, and takes place in the immediate surroundings and further afield.
All students will participate in funded residential field trips in both the first and second year that are fully integrated into their studies.
These provide opportunities for immersive learning and the development of important transferable skills.
Upon graduation, you will have the knowledge to engage professionally with contemporary issues and analytical and practical skills for employment.
You can also opt for a four-year degree with one or two sandwich placements, which will boost your CV and give you a competitive edge in the working world.
Your programme is split up into three different types of modules:
This course can be studied in 3 years full-time or 4 years full-time with placement, starting in September.
This module aims to give students an understanding of the natural events that damage environments and communities, including the evolution of multicellular life, ecosystems, ecosystem relationships, and biohazards (diseases and infestations).
This module aims to give an understanding of physical processes that underpin the Earth system, including fundamentals (e.g.
matter, motion, energy, gravity, electromagnetism, thermodynamics, atmosphere (composition, weather, climate), hydrosphere (hydrological cycle, oceans, rivers, freshwater, groundwater), lithosphere, cryosphere, and gaia theory.
This module introduces students to the nature of geographical research and some of the ways of collecting and analysing geographical data.
Through both local and multi-day residential fieldwork, the module provides opportunities for experiential learning and an introduction to a variety of types of fieldwork, in both familiar and unfamiliar environments.
Through specific case studies, this module provides a holistic, integrated approach to understanding reciprocal relationships between societies and environments, drawing on both social and natural science expertise.
It enables students to better understand the ways in which environmental change impacts on society at multiple scales, and the possibilities for societies to respond.
This module aims to familiarise you with key ideas and fundamental concepts in human geography.
In particular, it will focus on reciprocal relationships between space, place, and society and the significance of these concepts within diverse areas of human geography.
This module aims to give students an understanding of the evidence for, and mechanisms behind, climate changes.
This module will introduce students to the history and philosophy of geography through a critical, decolonial lens.
Students will explore the social, cultural, economic and political context of past and present knowledge production, and the people and forms of knowledge excluded from this.
This module will expand students’ understanding of research methods used in both physical and human geography.
It is intended to prepare students to plan and undertake research for their dissertations.
This module aims to provide students with an understanding of pressure on Earth’s ecological systems alongside the observed and predicted impacts.
This module introduces students to a range of key concepts and theories in the anthropology of ethnicity, culture, nationhood and identity.
These classical anthropological themes will be examined through the lens of high-profile contemporary social issues, including migration, citizenship, transnationalism and globalisation, xenophobia and deportation.
Drawing on ethnographic case studies from settings across the world, we will explore how categories of identity and belonging are constructed, deployed and contested, and the ways in which they are embedded in broader social, political, legal and economic contexts.
This module examines the region of South Asia, assessing whether the geographical region can usefully be considered as a cultural area, and going on to examine the key issues for the different parts of the region.
The module covers topics including colonial histories, caste and class, gender, kinship, globalisation, and South Asian diasporas.
It draws, in particular, on the disciplines of anthropology and history and on the field of development studies.
Students will develop their understanding of a range of geomorphological features and hazards at a variety of temporal and spatial scales.
On completion of the module, they will have a sound appreciation of how term geological processes are reflected in a range of landforms from continents to particles.
They will be able to apply appropriate techniques robustly to gather evidence and to express their ideas systematically and effectively.
This module aims to develop the leadership and influence skills that will help you to promote forms of positive change within society and the environment (either individually or collectively).
Through engagement with a project in the local community, you'll engage in personal and professional development activities that will enhance your employability.
This module will give students an understanding of applied ecological and biogeographical principles and how these inform conservation practices.
This module will also allow students to undertake a series of field investigations to address conservation questions during a field course.
To acquire a theoretical and historical overview of the changing relationship between the critical social sciences and global development, to understand the multiple ways in which social science research can enhance our understanding of contemporary policies and practices in global development and to critically evaluate, from a social science perspective, various theoretical approaches to global development.
This module involves reading several key works by Marx, culminating in several weeks on Das Kapital
This module provides students with an understanding of the methods used to reduce climate changes.
The module introduces students to political economy, in particular international political economy (IPE), and to geopolitics.
It explores the evolution of world orders, with a focus on the current period.
It examines relationships between economic forces and state strategies (economic and geopolitical) on the international stage.
It will familiarise students with key concepts and topics in IPE.
A geography degree from Brunel is your passport to a wide range of career destinations.
Geography graduates are highly employable and on average receive higher salaries than many other graduates, working in a wide range of sectors and roles.
The knowledge that you gain on our Brunel Geography programme is relevant to employers in different fields including:
You will also develop skills in collecting and presenting data, analysing statistics, using spatial visualisation and analysis tools such as GIS, etc as well as more general skills such as developing a reasoned argument, critical thinking, assessing moral and ethical issues, teamwork, communication, project management, and problem-solving.
Geography fieldwork provides a real-world setting in which to hone these highly sought-after skills.
Through the dissertation, you will practice skills of planning and undertaking research independently, and the third year ‘Leadership for Change’ module develops advanced group work and leadership skills.
You will study six modules during two terms across the academic year (4 modules and a dissertation in the third year).
Each module will have on average two-to-three hours of in-person contact time per week in lectures, seminars and workshops during the teaching terms.
There will also be the opportunity for a further six hours per week to seek guidance during module lecturers’ feedback and consultation hours.
Additionally, students can seek support in individual meetings with their personal tutors, both on campus and online.
Fieldwork is a crucial part of a geography degree, and field trips and excursions to support students’ learning will be organised throughout the year.
You will also participate in residential field trips in the first and second years.
Field trips are free of charge, including the compulsory residential visits in the first and second years.
Lectures, seminars, cohort meetings, and other social activities will occur in person on the Brunel campus.
It is expected that students will regularly attend these events, as sustained engagement with a learning community is a central dimension of the Brunel experience.
There will also be some activities that take place online when this is appropriate to the learning outcomes of your programme.
Students may wish to purchase core texts from module reading lists, although copies are also available via Brunel Library.
Suitable clothing is required for fieldwork, which may involve working outdoors in cold wet weather.
You’ll learn in lectures (main classes) and seminars (smaller classes focused on exchanging ideas) by academic staff who are internationally known for publishing and presenting papers worldwide or accredited as outstanding teachers.
You will also participate in fieldwork and in laboratory classes.
Beyond this, you will be expected to engage in reading and independent study, both individually and sometimes alongside other students as part of a group.
You’ll be assessed by a combination of different types of coursework and exams, coursework that provide you with varied ways to demonstrate your learning as well as develop useful skills.
In your final year, you will produce a final dissertation on a subject of your choice under the guidance of a dissertation supervisor.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/global-challenges-basc:
GL01
GLP1 with placement
2024/25
How does the challenge of mitigating climate change balance with pursuits of promoting economic growth?
Why do inequalities in health, education or opportunity persist within and between countries of the Global North or Global South?
Does foreign aid reduce poverty and promote human development?
In what ways is migration reshaping cultures, economics or geopolitics in an increasingly integrated world?
How do we promote more sustainable futures?
Wonder about these big questions?
Our BASc Global Challenges equips you to tackle them.
Drawing upon research-led teaching from across the social and natural sciences and on Brunel’s longstanding expertise in professional education, this exciting new programme prepares you with critical perspectives and practical skills needed to respond to urgent global challenges in politics, society, culture, environment and development.
We build on Brunel’s renowned applied research and professional development education to support each student with personalised learning opportunities; with real-world experience; with group projects in applied learning; or with placements.
The programme is designed to produce graduates who are proactive individuals equally capable of undertaking self-directed work or contributing to a shared objective as a team player: graduates who can effectively apply their knowledge to a wide range of workplaces in industry and society.
"I wanted to study something that combined science with geopolitics in order to understand the world that we live in today." - Giacomo Garberoglio
We will teach a broad scope of topics, from a range of perspectives.
Students will gain a strong foundation in knowledge and theory applied to key global development issues and practices from the lens of multiple disciplines.
You will build on this core grounding to select optional modules that extend your understanding while aligning with your disciplinary or subject interests.
The course is highly flexible in allowing you to tailor your learning journey.
For instance, students may select modules that expand understanding of particular geographical regions or they may choose modules that advance specific disciplinary or subject perspectives.
The course includes training in research methods and students are supported to undertake a piece of independent research for their Year 3 dissertation.
In Year 1 and Year 2, students receive compulsory training that draws on perspectives from both the natural and social sciences.
This teaching sets the core foundation and subject knowledge on topics, for instance, of environmental change; human development; migration; the biosphere and ecology; social inequalities; responses to global challenges in practice; and on research methods.
Students build on this core training through optional modules they select, on subjects, for instance, of climate change; colonialism; migration; racism; insurgency; media; war and humanitarianism.
In Year 3, students complete an independent piece of research through the compulsory Dissertation in Global Challenges.
They further complete a compulsory individual or group Enterprise Project, which builds their work experience and leadership skills.
Through focusing on the concept of ‘Global London’, this module shows you how the social sciences can enable you to better understand their lived social environment.
It introduces you to the techniques used by a range of disciplines within social science for gaining and validating knowledge of the social world and equips you with an academic skill base appropriate for university study.
This module examines the concept and development of insurgency and counter-insurgency from the classical period to the present, with an emphasis on the post-1789 period, especially the post-1945 wars of decolonisation.
The module will conclude with the post-9/11 ‘war on terror’ and current examples of insurgency and counter-insurgency.
This module introduces students to the fundamentals of environmental management in the context of production-consumption-management systems.
The module also introduces the concept of governance in spatial and temporal scales to help students understand that political, economic and social dimensions are important considerations alongside environmental impacts for sustainable management of our systems.
The module explores how media represent social justice and identity giving particular attention to race, ethnicity, poverty and social justice, and focusing on both theory and production.
Over the course of the module, you will learn about theory and practice in relation to diversity, stereotypes and prejudice, and you will produce media content that highlights the importance of social justice.
A global challenges degree with its emphasis on professional development will open opportunities in a wide range of career destinations.
The programme produces graduates who are proactive individuals capable of undertaking self-directed work or contributing as team players.
Our graduates can effectively apply their knowledge to a wide range of workplaces in industry and society.
The emphasis of the programme on the application of skills and knowledge drawn from a range of disciplinary perspectives make our graduates particularly valuable in the global context of rapid change.
The knowledge and skills that you gain on Brunel’s Global Challenges programme with its bespoke professional development components set in real-world contexts is relevant to employers across different fields.
These include, among others:
Global Challenges is an emerging and exciting subject area which will challenge you to think differently about humanity's relationship with the contemporary world.
You'll have the chance to choose one of four specially curated pathways alongside the ‘core spine’ of the degree so your learning experience will be truly unique.
This programme offers you the opportunity to switch between science and non-scientific disciplines whilst providing both local and international contexts to ground everything you learn.
This will ultimately give you full exposure and knowledge to the challenges society faces globally, without any restrictions.
Uniquely, the programme is designed in study and assessment blocks.
In Levels 4 and 5, the core study block consists of 50 credits and the pathway study block of 70 credits.
In Level 6, the core study block consists of 70 credits, whereas your pathway study block is weighted as 50 credits.
Main activities include:
All lectures, seminars, pathway small group classes and module classes curated by your pathway lead are in-person, on campus.
Attendance will enable you to participate fully and with minimal disruptions, and ensure you are able to engage in meaningful discussions.
We're committed to enabling dynamic knowledge sharing, and students have noted repeatedly that in-person learning makes personal connections with like-minded peers not only easier but that this form of bonding forges opportunities for deeper understanding of key concepts and support in learning.
Through seminar series and a network of staff members, students are also connected with industry partners in order to independently access extracurricular opportunities, paid employment or internships.
The curriculum integrates problem-centeredness and experiential learning, which encourage student participation, real-world engagement and hands-on learning.
It further incorporates core training on practical aspects of working on global challenges.
This includes, for instance, teaching on policymaking, project management, impact, public engagement and media.
We seek, through this training, to equip students with the vocabulary and transferrable skills suitable to a wide range of career destinations.
In the third year, students undertake an Enterprise Project, an opportunity to gain professional skills and experience, critical to future employability.
The Enterprise Project is a core credit-bearing module that requires students to complete a placement or group project spread over a period of 8 weeks.
For the Enterprise Project, we support students to find an individual placement aligned to their interests, or instead, to undertake a group project.
Students may work, for instance, with an NGO, a policy organisation, a think tank, a government body or a business.
They may likewise work on a research project, or undertake a group project.
Through this enterprise, students build work experience, project management and leadership skills.
Global Challenges students further have the unique and sought after opportunity to gain a good understanding of journalism practice and principles through the planning and execution of sourcing and writing stories as cub reporters for The Hillingdon Herald newspaper .
This invaluable experience and training will make your CV stand out.
Students may undertake an optional sandwich placement year.
The Department of Social and Political Sciences and the Professional Development Centre at Brunel have a wide network of contacts and relationships with institutions within the UK and across the world.
Over the years, this has made us experienced in and well placed to support students in both finding a placement of interest and in their progression through the placement year.
Moreover, Brunel University collaborates with Diversity in Development , who supports our student experience, internship and placement in the field of global development.
This course can be studied in 3 years full-time or 4 years full-time with placement.
Course assessments are synoptic in nature as they will draw on the knowledge you acquire across the various disciplines covered.
Assessment methods may include presentations, written and audio-visual reports in the form of vlogs and blogs, essays, examinations, laboratory worksheets, coursework, and peer assessment.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/history-and-international-relations-ba:
VL12
VL1P with placement
Are you interested in History, and want to see how it shapes the international system today?
Then our History and International Relations combined degree is ideal for you.
If you want to not only understand contemporary global affairs, but also want to know the events which have shaped the world we live in, then we have the course for you.
Why did wars occur and why do we still have wars today?
How do we account for historical inequalities, and are their effects still being felt today?
Can individuals change history, or do global events transcend any one person?
Does the imperialism of the past echo in the world of today?
Whether your interest is migration, war, diplomacy, slavery or many other areas, by studying for a BA (Hons) in History and International Relations you’ll be able to look through the lenses of both a historian and an international relations theorist.
You will find that these are highly complementary views of the world, but each will give you a subtly different understanding.
"Without Brunel offering the opportunity to do a placement and do it at Brunel, the trajectory I am on would certainly be very different." - Ali Hussain
"The most valuable lesson I took away from university is the importance of getting involved.
You develop quicker when you’re solving problems hands on rather than learning solely through study" - Joshua Connolly
"I am a whole lot more confident handling ‘work’ and ‘professional’ situations in every sense" - Sian Butcher
"Studying at Brunel helped me develop a deeper understanding of my passion in politics and mental health." - Angela Awuah
The course content is made up of a variety of subject area strands that can be studied across all three years of the programme.
At every level, there are modules relating to each strand.
After taking the compulsory modules in the first year, you can choose to study across a range of strands, or specialise in particular strands.
Below is a list of the strands and you can find the current modules on our website: brunel.ac.uk/ba-hir
History (compulsory elements): This strand focuses world history.
There will be a chance to explore the social, cultural and political dimensions to the formation and interaction of nations as well as important human phenomena such as exploration, migration and war.
There will also be a chance to focus on what historians do and how they do it.
You will look at debate, fake debate (e.g.
Holocaust denial), controversy and primary sources and, in so doing, build up the skills for your dissertation.
History (elective elements): This strand builds on the strand above.
You will be able to develop specialisms in the history of Africa and America or focus on diplomacy and war or study issues of race, gender and identity
International Relations (compulsory elements): This strand equips you with tools to understand contemporary International Relations at every level.
It will focus on war and peace and the ways in which we understand the international system.
You will also you develop the tools for sustained research in International Relations.
This will include research design on qualitative methods, such as interview techniques.
International Relations (elective elements): This strand builds on the strand above.
You will be able to develop expertise in war and peace, Africa, Europe, the US, terrorism and intelligence.
Since 1918, Europe has experienced war, genocide, economic depression, ideological conflict and the loss of its colonial Empires, as well as wide-ranging and unprecedented social, economic, political and cultural change.
This module examines this history, exploring the events that enveloped the continent, considering Europe’s interactions with the wider world, and examining the experiences of Europeans who lived through these changes.
The module aims to provide an overview of how conflicts are studied - practically show how conflicts are measured, illustrate how conflicts occur, who are involved and how they stop.
This module explains why we have war, peace and events in between in the international system.
It examines concepts such as power, the environment, race and gender through lenses provided by International Relations, Comparative Politics and Geopolitics.
It presents the latest methods to understand world politics at the global and ultra-local levels, and begins to provide tools to understand and analyse politics on the inter and intranational levels.
This module prepares students for the Dissertation by introducing them to some methodological and theoretical issues that historians encounter in the practice of history.
Students are introduced to ways in which historians have engaged with other disciplines.
They reflect upon public history and why history matters in today’s society by tracing developments in historical method and examining different approaches to history.
This module introduces students to major theoretical approaches in the study of International Relations.
These theories are employed to examine and understand contemporary actors in world politics such as states, international organisations, non-governmental actors as well as major issues and problems such as war, terrorism, climate change or nuclear proliferation.
The aim is to give students a critical understanding of IR theory
This module assesses Britain’s strategic relationship with the broadly- defined Mediterranean region, including the Middle East, North Africa and Southern Europe, over a period of roughly 250 years.
In particular, it examines British eﬀorts to exert power and influence there from their first serious encroachment with the taking of Gibraltar in 1704, through to the Suez Crisis in 1956.
In this module students will explore the rise and progress of the ‘first wave’ women’s movement in Britain, America and Europe, from c.1790 – 1920 and develop an understanding of the ideological foundations of the women’s movement and campaign for suffrage.
It will identify the relationship between the British, American and European campaigns for suffrage, and examine the campaigning strategies and networks developed by women activists.
This module aims to examine the tactics and strategies employed by African Americans during the period 1941 to 1992, thereby helping students to gain a critical understanding of the roles of various groups within African American society in the pursuit of civil rights.
The final year dissertation provides undergraduates with the opportunity to undertake an in-depth and prolonged period of research on a topic of their choice within the field of History and International Relations.
As an extended research project, this module seeks to further develop and challenge students to demonstrate a range of research, critical thinking, and communication skills.
From Brexit to the wall between the USA and Mexico, borders are an important part of contemporary political debate.
But where do our ideas about borders come from?
Why do borders represent such powerful symbols?
And who makes decisions about who can and cannot cross?
This module explores these questions (and others) through the history of borders in modern Europe.
In this module students will discuss the development and functioning of the EU from its inception to the present day and be introduced to and learn to evaluate a range of theoretical perspectives on the EU’s creation, development and functioning.
Students will examine a range of political problems in the European integration process, such as legitimacy, domestic and social impact, institutional and policy reform, enlargement, and future directions.
This module explores the rise and fall of Fascist Italy through political, socio-cultural, economic and military perspectives, among others.
The module focuses on the British Maritime World in a period that witnessed significant advances in oceanic exploration, trade and shipping and increased naval protection and supremacy.
Students will cover both a broad overview of selected important topics and closer focus on varied types of primary source material.
Students will examine from an international history perspective the process by which the NATO alliance was formed in the years following the Second World War.
They will analyse and evaluate the historical evidence underpinning competing theories concerning the growth of confrontation between Britain, Western Europe, and the United States on the one hand and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics on the other.
This module looks at and evaluates two naval races.
the first between Britain, France and Russia; the second between Britain and Germany.
This module explores the military, political and socio-economic events and developments of the Second World War.
Students will focus on the historiography and cultural significance of the war up to the present day and will adopt an “international history” approach by building its analysis around the interaction of states and peoples in this global conflict.
Studying on the History degree programmes will provide you with key transferable employment skills based on a wide range of written and oral communication skills in addition to analytical and critical thinking skills.
Graduates from our History programmes have gone onto careers in a variety of private and public sectors such as working in government, NGO's, law, teaching, banking and researchers to name just a few areas.
Many also undertake further study in order to become specialists in a given field.
You’ll learn in lectures (main classes) and seminars (smaller classes focussed on exchanging ideas) by academic staff who are internationally known for publishing research on a number of history topics, which helps to keep what they teach you cutting edge and up-to-date.
Independent study throughout your degree is also crucial.
As active historians, their expertise will be invaluable when you come to do your own research, and you’ll be encouraged throughout your course to develop your own skills in recovering and interpreting historic evidence.
You’ll be assessed by a combination of coursework and time-limited assessments, but most of your time will be spent in private study and reading.
In your final year you will produce a final dissertation on a subject of your choice under the guidance of a dissertation supervisor.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/history-ba:
V104
V105 with placement
Perhaps history has always been an interest for you or it’s something you’ve developed an interest in by studying it at school or college.
Either way, everyone on the History BA at Brunel starts off on the same level playing field, without the need for a history qualification.
History is about understanding what it means to be human.
Studying and analysing it will take you back into the societies of the past to help you understand contemporary issues all the more.
It’s also a subject that will help to demonstrate your intellectual acumen and understanding of world affairs, which will be an asset in so many fields of work.
Your studies at Brunel will focus on the history of Britain, Europe and the wider world in the modern period, looking closely at life as it was lived then, observing differences, similarities, patterns and connections with the present day.
Along the way, you will build a toolkit of transferable skills gained through evidence gathering, analysis, problem-solving, drafting and communications, which can be applied to a wide range of industries within the public and private sector.
Opt for a placement year and you’ll be adding a year’s experience in a job role and industry sector that will help to show future employers where you might be a good fit for their organisation.
Your placement doesn’t have to be related to history and you’ll get plenty of support from staff and resources in the University’s Professional Development Centre to help steer you in the right direction.
The course has established links to world-renowned archives and libraries based in and close to London,including the Caird Library (National Maritime Museum),The National Archives and the Imperial War Museum,among others.
Additionally, the original WWII operations bunker used by Sir Winston Churchill on the former RAF Uxbridge site is a walk away from campus where Brunel students regularly volunteer.
Below is a list of the strands:
African History : This strand covers the entire sweep of African history, with a focus on sub-Saharan Africa.
Emphasis is placed on internal African social, political and military developments, as well as relations between Africa and the rest of the world, with a view to understanding its complex present.
British & European History : This strand will introduce you to the interconnected histories of Britain and continental Europe.
There will be a chance to rethink questions of politics, nationalism, borders and institutions as well as what makes up the disparate and common threads behind the shared experiences of the European peoples.
Historiography and Sources : This strand trains you in the historical method: what historians do, how they study the past, and what makes an historian.
You will examine historical debate and historiography, fake debates (such as Holocaust denial), and the importance of primary sources.
This will equip you with the skills for your final-year dissertation.
Imperial and Commonwealth History : Maritime empire forms the heart of this strand.
There will be particular emphasis on Britain’s enduring role in Australia and the Caribbean.
Maritime exploration as well as economic exploitation will punctuate this topic.
International History : This strand focuses on war and diplomacy in the modern era.
This can include studying intelligence and national security as well as cold war international relations and major armed conflicts such as the world wars or the Arab-Israeli disputes.
Race and Gender History : This strand explores histories of race and gender in Britain and the Americas, from slavery to mancipation, patriarchy to women’s suffrage, and segregation to civil rights
The module explores how the idea of “race” evolved and changed over the course of the modern era and how and why it came to shape British colonialism and imperialism from the seventeenth through to the twentieth centuries.
We compare and contrast how scholars have written about "race", and, using primary sources, how in different places and times contemporaries have used ideas about race as an instrument of oppression and a source of resistance.
This module aims to introduce the main areas of debate surrounding the origins, course and consequences of the First World War and to introduce the range of different interpretative and historiographical tools used by historians in categorizing and understanding the First World War.
This module familiarises students with contemporary issues on the American political agenda and demonstrates how politicians adapt policy stances and organisational and electoral strategies to accommodate change in political debate.
Students are encouraged to adopt a more interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary approach to learning about American politics by examining social, moral, cultural and economic issues through a partisan political perspective.
This module involves a close reading of the foundatonal text in political thought: Plato's Republic .
The final year dissertation provides undergraduates with the opportunity to provide evidence of abilities not usually measured by the written papers and assessments through their degree - notably the ability to work independently in a subject area of the student’s choice.
The main aim of the module is to provide students with an understanding of some of the major socio-political crises in the twentieth and twenty-first centuries and the ways in which they have been understood by political theorists.
This module aims to provide students with a detailed understanding of the UK Parliament by examining its structure, internal processes, and different committees, and to give students an understanding how to transfer the skills they have acquired when thinking about social, historical and political issues to practical ongoing issues that parliament is encountering in its committees or in legislation it is devising.
Graduates from our BA History programme have gone onto careers in a variety of private and public sectors such as working in government, NGO's, law, teaching, banking and researchers to name just a few areas.
You'll be taught by world leading experts in your field of study, and have the opportunity to interact with fellow students on London’s leading campus University.
Students will study six modules during two terms across the academic year (4 modules and a dissertation in the third year).
Each module will have on average two-to-three hours in-person contact time per week in lectures, seminars and workshops in the teaching terms.
There'll also be the opportunity during a further six hours per week to seek guidance during module lecturers’ feedback and consultation hours.
Additionally, students will be able to seek support in individual meetings with their personal tutors, both on campus and online.
Field trips and excursions to support students’ learning will be organised throughout the year.
You’ll be assessed on what you learn by a combination of coursework and exams.
In your final year you will produce a final dissertation on a history subject of your choice under the guidance of a dissertation supervisor.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/human-geography-and-anthropology-bsc:
L760
L762, L761 with placement
This course combines the expertise of our staff and research across two closely related disciplines to develop your knowledge and skills in both Human Geography and Anthropology.
Human Geography explores the complex relationships between societies and environments that are at the centre of the most important challenges that face people around the world today.
Anthropology offers a unique and powerful understanding of cultural and social diversity in the modern world.
In the first year you will have an introduction to the fundamentals of both subject areas, and in the second and third years you will choose from a wide range of modules, choosing half from each subject.
Within Human Geography, modules focus particularly around themes of cities and urbanism; post colonialism, race and migration; and political ecology and environmental justice.
Key themes in Anthropology are childhood, youth and education; development, war and humanitarianism; and global health.
Both subject areas offer opportunities to learn about the world immersively through fully funded anthropological fieldwork, developing skills that will make you highly employable.
All students do a residential geography field trip in the first year and can opt to do another in the second year.
Together these two subjects compliment each other and provide you with graduate opportunities in local and national government, international organisations, NGOs, the media, research and education.
This module aims to provide a theoretical introduction to the anthropological study of global health.
It will provide students with a detailed insight into the ways in which medical anthropology can contribute towards the critique of existing interventions in the field of global health and with a detailed insight into the construction of global; health problems such as plagues and epidemics Finally, it will assess a range of ethnography and theory bearing on issues pertaining to global health, enabling students to bring a comparative perspective to familiar problems.
To provide students with a broad appreciation of the key issues in cross-cultural perspectives on education and learning, an understanding, ethnographically and theoretically, of how culture shapes and informs the educational and learning process and how, in turn, education and learning impact upon social and cultural practices and an understanding of the relevance of cross-cultural studies of education and learning for different theoretical approaches within the social and human sciences in general and professional practice in particular.
A Human Geography and Anthropology degree from Brunel is your passport to a wide range of career destinations.
You will acquire knowledge and understanding that is highly relevant to current world challenges, as well as an array of skills that will set you apart from other graduates.
Fieldwork, in particular, requires you to practice skills in real-world settings.
Not only will you learn to plan, collect and analyse data, but you'll also become adept at working in an unfamiliar environment, taking account of relevant ethical and safety issues, interacting respectfully with people, and problem-solving as a group and individually.
If you opt for the four-year degree you will undertake a placement, either in an employment situation or undertaking extended fieldwork (almost) anywhere in the world.
You will be fully supported in preparing for the placement and building a stronger CV.
In the third year, you can opt for the module ‘Leadership for Change’ in which you will work with other students and with a community organisation on a project that will further develop your employability skills.
Our course prepares you for careers in different fields including the local and national government, the environmental sector, international development, leisure and tourism, media and communications, planning, research, and academia.
You'll be taught by world-leading experts in Geography and Anthropology, and have the opportunity to interact with fellow students at London’s leading campus University.
Your programme will consist of various learning and studying activities, including lectures, seminars and discussions.
Each module will have on average two-to-three hours of personal contact time per week in lectures, seminars and workshops in the teaching terms.
There will also be regular cohort meetings and student society events, at both programme and departmental levels.
Fieldtrips and excursions to support students’ learning will be organised throughout the year.
You will undertake a fully funded residential fieldtrip in your first year, and may opt for a fieldwork-based module in the second year.
Lectures, seminars, cohort meetings and other social activities will occur in person on the Brunel campus.
You're are strongly advised to purchase core texts from module reading lists, although copies are also available via Brunel Library.
You’ll learn in lectures (main classes) and seminars (smaller classes focused on exchanging ideas) by academic staff who are internationally known for publishing and presenting papers worldwide.
You’ll be assessed by a combination of coursework and exams, but most of your time will be spent in private study and reading.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/human-resource-management-bsc:
N130
N131 with placement
Our Human Resource Management degree will provide you with a comprehensive understanding of current theory and practice relating to Human Resource Management (HRM).
You’ll gain the skills to become an effective and responsible HR professional, understanding the purpose and key objectives of the HRM function in contemporary organisations.
From recruitment, training and talent development to employee wellbeing and performance, you’ll learn how to design and implement sustainable HR strategies that make a real impact across different types of organisations.
You'll also learn about employment regulation and the way it informs practice to ensure staff are treated ethically when they are at work, as well as how to promote equal opportunities and manage workplace diversity and inclusion.
You'll also develop competencies in analysing key contemporary labour market trends and their significance for workforce planning in both domestic and international organisational contexts.
You'll benefit from teaching that's not only grounded in world-class research by Brunel academics, but also designed to be highly interactive and employer-focused.
So you'll graduate with the skills, confidence, and experience that top employers are actively looking for.
You can also take a paid placement year between your second and third year.
It’s a great opportunity to gain hands-on experience with top global companies while you study - many of our students secure graduate roles as a result.
Brunel's Human Resource Management BSc is accredited by The Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD), the professional body for HR and people development.
It has over 160,000 members internationally - working in HR, learning and development, people management and consulting across private businesses and organisations in the public and voluntary sectors.
See how you can become a CIPD student member .
Plus, when you graduate, you can upgrade to Associate Membership (Assoc.
CIPD) - a respected mark of professionalism in the HR field.
Brunel is a member of the University of London federation.
This gives you access to a wide range of benefits, including free membership of Senate House Library, access to student study spaces, inter-collegiate accommodation services, use of the University of London Housing Service, as well as access to clubs and societies of member universities.
This module provides insight into diversity management by examining how organisations plan, coordinate and implement a set of management strategies, policies, initiatives such as training and development activities that seek to accommodate diverse sets of social and individual backgrounds, interests, beliefs, values and ways of work in organisations.
This module reviews the scope, issues and development of systems of employee relations with primary focus on the UK sphere, referenced also by international influences and developments.
Students will explore potential issues of conflict in employment relationship and the processes used to resolve these conflicts and manage the relationship.
Companies that want to successfully ride the wave of the knowledge economy must always consider ideas as the most precious commodity and employees who produce them as sought-after resources.
With constant change becoming the accepted norm, this module will also examine how organisations cope with the process and outcomes of change.
This module will help students to develop an understanding of the role of strategic human resource management in the achievement of organisational goals and in the context of the environments in which organisations function.
It will enable students to critically evaluate the strategic importance of human resource management, understand the links between strategic human resource management and business strategy as well as performance outcomes associated with different forms of strategic HRM.
A human resource management degree has versatile qualification that is applicable to most organisations in every sector.
Primarily focused on hiring, training, development and general people skills, an HRM degree will equip you with many other sought after and transferable skills including in communication, people management, research and analysis, organisational management and problem solving.
Recognising that you can enhance your career prospects in human resource management by gaining work experience in positions that involve working with people in organisations, Brunel offer the opportunity of an optional work placement year.
Jobs directly related to your degree include:
Jobs where your degree would be useful include:
Employers of human resource management graduates come from a wide range of industries, as every major organisation has a Human Resources department.
Employment opportunities can be found in healthcare, banking and finance, education, local authorities, leisure and tourism, manufacturing, media and consultancy firms among others.
Modules typically combine weekly lectures supported by a series of small group seminars, whilst some provide workshops and/or a tutorial component.
Some modules make use of two-hour participatory lecture sessions, in which learning is facilitated through an appropriate range and mix of learning opportunities that include lectures, group work, individual work, case study and break-out sessions.
Large class sizes in core modules require modern, audio-visual teaching aids and electronic delivery of teaching materials.
Thus, students learn quickly how to access on-line materials provided and how to make the best use of databases and search engines.
Seminars provide small-group contact with opportunities to review, discuss and debate topics.
They frequently require students to make informal presentations to the peer group and the tutor, individually or as part of a team
Forms of assessment are geared to evaluate individual capabilities in relation to each module’s aims and contents.
Assessment of knowledge comprises formal examinations, written coursework assignments such as individual essays, reports and case study analyses , group reports, presentations and the final year Project.
Assessments are designed to appraise individual capabilities fairly and consistently.
We use clear, descriptive assessment guidelines (made available to students) to grade coursework and examinations and to aid classification.
Lecturers communicate their expectations clearly to students and use explicit schema to facilitate consistency of marking within and between modules and to ensure good feedback on individual performance.
All examinations and coursework assessments that contribute to degree classifications are subject to scrutiny by External Examiners.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/industrial-design-ba:
W242
BA: W243 with placement
Our Industrial Design BA/MDes Degree suits creative and practical thinkers who prefer to learn through building and evaluating project-based challenges, with a technological understanding and less theory and quantitative analysis.
There is a lot of project-based learning to test your skills on all aspects of the design process, from contextual design ideas to realising your concept in the form of a product prototype.
This means you’ll be able to build a great portfolio of your best-quality projects, academic and industry briefs, and case studies, during your studies.
You’ll have workshop training and will use industry-standard equipment and software to develop quality hands-on skills to become a maker.
You'll have access to modern facilities that include dedicated design studios, digital sketching, extensive prototyping workshops, as well as electronics and digital fabrication labs.
The practical knowledge you gain is transferable to industry and provides a head start for your future career as a creative designer and design communicator in the modern world.
This course can be studied 3 years full-time or 4 years full-time with placement starting in September.
Our students have worked in both small innovation start-ups and multinational organisations such as Chanel, Dior, Disney, Dyson and Lego.
You could spend a term or a year in one of our partner universities via our exchange programme: Politecnico di Milano in Italy; Delft University of Technology in The Netherlands, San Francisco State University in the USA and Institut Superieur de Design, ISD Bubika in France.
This annual showcase is a highlight of the London design calendar and promotes the incredible work our students produce to the creative community, and is a great way for our students to network with key design professionals.
If you are interested in turning a product or technology idea into a business after you graduate, we are in partnership with the Central Research Laboratory (CRL) , a design incubator for start-ups.
You’ll have access to meeting rooms and workspace as well as prototyping facilities.
The BA Industrial Design programme is fully accredited and recognised by the Institution of Engineering Designers (IED), the premier professional body representing engineering and product designers.
You’ll gain a sound grounding in technical and creative subjects before you move on to more specialised areas with a strong technological and humanistic focus.
In your final year, you’ll learn advanced design innovation.
Your major project is likely to include an aesthetic model and a functional prototype.
The module offers students the opportunity to consider creative technology principles, applications, models and methodologies to develop technological solutions.
Students will study aspects of creative technology applications, and apply the knowledge gained to the design of electro-mechanical systems and their interfaces, within a product design context.
They will demonstrate the comprehensive skills acquired through their academic programme and apply these to define an industrial design opportunity.
From the insights and definition gained during their major project research module, students will combine all the skills acquired during their course to develop an innovative design proposal though iterative design thinking, user interaction, experimental visual design language, materials and manufacture.
Students will realise their designs using 3D CAD and digital manufacture combined with traditional model making techniques.
This module will develop students’ ability to analyse the stress distribution of components both theoretically and using Finite Element Analysis (FEA), the ability to analyse the structure, dynamics and mechanisms of products theoretically and interpret and present the results to optimise a design.
Our graduate designers are highly valued in the industry, working around the world for organisations where excellence in design is crucial to the brand, including Apple, Audi, British Airways, Dyson, Habitat International, Lego, Microsoft, Philips, Procter & Gamble, and Virgin Atlantic.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/industrial-design-mdes:
BA: W242; MDes: W246
MDes W247 with placement
Our Industrial Design MDes Degree suits creative and practical thinkers who prefer to learn through building and evaluating project-based challenges, with a technological understanding and less theory and quantitative analysis.
The programme follows the same first three years as the BA Industrial Design, with a further one year to raise the qualification to master's level.
This course can be studied 4 years full-time or 5 years full-time with placement, starting in September.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/international-business-bsc:
N120
N121 with placement
3 year full-time
4 year full-time with placement
Our International Business BSc is designed to equip you with the skills, knowledge, and global perspective you’ll need to thrive in today’s fast-changing international business world.
This highly relevant programme covers the fundamentals of national and international market economies, focusing on the forces that shape the global business environment for future global leaders.
A key focus of this degree is helping you understand the challenges posed by globalisation - especially for multinational enterprises (MNEs), which now generate over 50% of global output.
You’ll explore the strategies MNEs use to grow and compete in international markets, and you’ll gain insight into how internationalisation, digitalisation, and AI-driven transformation affect areas like human resource management (HRM), entrepreneurship, emerging markets, and global investment.
This programme’s ideal if you’re aiming to build a career in international business or in organisations where a global outlook is a real asset.
You’ll develop essential managerial, analytical, and interpersonal skills through real-world case studies and business projects.
Brunel's a proud member of the University of London Federation, meaning you’ll earn a globally recognised degree in an international learning environment.
You’ll also have the chance to study abroad, boosting your global exposure and employability.
Plus, our year-long paid placement programme lets you gain hands-on experience with top companies like Adidas, Microsoft, British Airways, PricewaterhouseCoopers, and Nissan - with many students landing graduate roles after their placements.
The international business world’s being reshaped by tech innovation, digitalisation, and AI.
As companies increasingly rely on automation, data analytics, and digital platforms to grow globally, understanding these shifts is crucial.
We weave these themes into the curriculum so you’re ready to tackle the opportunities and challenges brought by AI, blockchain, and digital transformation.
We’re also committed to connecting you with global thought leaders through guest speaker sessions, the Annual International Business Week, the Thought Leadership Series, field visits, and more.
You’ll benefit from these experiences, where industry experts, policymakers, and global business leaders explore the most pressing issues in international business - from supply chain disruptions and trade policies to the impact of AI on global markets.
These events give you a great platform to engage with professionals, grow your network, and gain real-world insights into global business trends.
Brunel’s a Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA) accredited university , so you’ll get exemptions from selected professional papers - giving you a head start on your journey to becoming a Chartered Management Accountant.
We’re also working towards accrediting our International Business BSc programme with the Chartered Institute of Export and International Trade (CIOE&IT).
Once approved, this’ll give you professional recognition and access to exclusive training, networking, and resources - boosting your career prospects in international trade, logistics, and export management.
We place a strong emphasis on employability, so you’ll graduate with both academic knowledge and practical, industry-relevant skills.
You’ll build technical competencies in critical thinking, data analysis, and tools like SPSS and Excel - without needing A-level maths.
Throughout your time at Brunel, we’ll support your transition into the job market with active learning sessions in group work, report writing, data analytics, and time management - helping you develop the skills to succeed both academically and professionally.
With a research-led approach, industry-focused learning, professional accreditations, international opportunities, and a curriculum shaped by AI and digital transformation, this degree will set you up for a successful career in the dynamic world of global business.
Compulsory modules in your first and second year will cover the fundamentals on conducting business in a global market.
Optional modules in your final year twinned with your dissertation, will give you the opportunity to branch out and specialise in an area which particularly interests you.
This module focuses on developing an understanding of concepts of marketing, marketing mix principles and practices.
It also aims to develop students’ awareness of skills needed and ethical issues in marketing.
This module seeks to provide students with the analytical means to examine and assess the industry sector context in which firms make corporate decisions.
In particular, this module provides students with an understanding of theories of markets and firms as the basis for evaluating strategic shifts in the international business and regulatory environment.
This module aims to help students develop an appreciation of the key characteristics of Entrepreneurship and Business ventures and addresses the theoretical and practical issues of marketing communications in a global context.
The module aims to enable students to appreciate the wide ranging issues associated with the development of transnational corporations (TNCs) operating in emerging markets both from the point of view of foreign based TNCs, indigenous firms and host country governments.
It also aims to introduce students to core concepts, topics and methodological approaches relevant to the analysis of the operations of international business within emerging markets, and to develop the student’s skill of combining theoretical and macro-level analysis with detailed empirical analysis of international business in a series of industrial sectors across selected emerging market contexts.
This module aims to acquaint students with the core concepts, processes, and issues of international relations.
It examines the international society, international political economy in terms of classical and contemporary theories.
The module additionally examines new issues in international relations.
This module enables you to become familiar with statistical techniques and concepts used in Business and Management, which are used frequently to understand real-world scenarios.
As well as preparing you for the final year project (MG3117), the skills developed in this module are transferable for use in everyday life.
Students of this module will be introduced to the concepts of probabilities, random variables, descriptive statistics, and hypothesis testing.
Strong emphasis will be given to practical applications to "real-world" issues.
For example, you will learn: how to effectively present and communicate your findings using graphical methods and summary statistics, how to select appropriate statistical techniques, to answer business research questions.
This module aims to prepare students commencing a career after graduation and/or a placement.
It will give guidance on effective job hunting, and processes used by employers as well preparation for the assessment of the placement learning through self-directed learning and the use of career development tools to support reflection on personal development.
This module aims to foster an understanding of the drivers of globalisation, that is, world trade and investment and their impact on global economy.
This to include, but not restricted to, international trade theories (classical and modern) and their relevance in modern day globalised world, international trade in goods and services, protectionism, balance of payments statistics of a nation and its various components, exchange rates and international capital markets.
This core module helps students to conduct critical appraisals of issues and controversies involving International business studies involving contemporary organisations and of managerial and strategic responses to these challenges.
This module addresses critical understanding and ability in assessing the effectiveness of international marketing theory and practice.
Students will develop insight and investigative ability concerning issues facing a business that needs to research markets and develop and implement market strategies, techniques and methods across a range of international sectors.
This module aims to introduce students to a range of models, theoretical perspectives and interpretations of the management of technological innovation in national and international firms, and to develop understanding and critical thought on the above through an analysis of relevant contemporary substantive debates and issues in technology management such as international technology outsourcing and alliances.
This degree is designed to equip you with the skills and experience needed to thrive in the global job market.
You’ll benefit from extensive industry links as well as a strong network of employers, ensuring that you’re highly sought after by top organisations worldwide.
All our business degrees offer an optional work placement year, giving you the opportunity to gain hands-on industry experience with leading global companies such as Accenture, Amazon, Barclays, British Airways, Capgemini, HSBC, Jaguar Land Rover, L’Oréal, McCann, Microsoft, PricewaterhouseCoopers, and Xerox.
This experience is highly valued by employers and gives you a competitive edge when applying for graduate roles.
Our careers programmes are developed in collaboration with business professionals to ensure you graduate workplace-ready.
In addition, our Business Life programme offers tailored professional and personal development sessions, covering essential skills such as customer service, teamwork, presentation skills, and project management.
At Brunel Business School, we’re committed to preparing you for a successful career in international business, trade, consultancy, and management.
Our strong focus on employability, industry partnerships, and global exposure ensures that you’re well-prepared to make an impact in today’s rapidly evolving business world.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/international-politics-bsc:
L240
L241 with placement
You only have to turn on the news or open a newspaper to see how differently the nations of the world are governed.
What is democracy and democratisation?
How has US foreign policy changed in the last 20 years?
What is globalisation?
Politics is an exciting and dynamic subject, simulating debate and offering insight in how the ever-changing world around us works.
It’s also a degree that can demonstrate your intellectual acumen and understanding of world affairs, which will be an asset in so many fields of work.
As well as providing a foundation in the approaches and theories of politics and international relations, through this degree you will develop your understanding of the importance of politics in a globalising and integrating world.
Whether you’re studying modern Africa, imperialism or Trump’s foreign policy, you’ll not just learn about politics, you’ll be analysing politics using the tools of political science and philosophy to help deepen your understanding and critical thinking.
Opt for a placement year and you'll gain work experience that is highly valued by employers.
Brunel students have secured placements in the Environmental Audit Committee, the House of Commons, Directorate of Gender Affairs, HM Treasury and the Competition Commission, to name only a few.
You can also opt to take part of your degree abroad in one of our partner universities in Europe, or participate in an exchange programme to China or the USA to study politics in a different part of the world whilst experiencing a new culture.
Brunel is a dynamic university choice for your politics course.
You’ll be taught by politics experts who are often called on to comment on radio and television.
The Brunel campus has hosted the filming of BBC’s Question Time and is a political hub during local and national elections.
Brunel politics graduates enter diverse careers.
Many of our former students go into politics and the civil service and some are currently at GCHQ and military intelligence.
Others work in the public and private sector like the NHS, international banks, business consultancy, law, NGOs and the media.
Whichever route you chose, an international politics degree with Brunel will set you up for a successful future.
"At an Open Day, I met some superb minds who encouraged me to come to Brunel.
I felt comfortable, even though I would be more than 40 years older than most new students" - Dr John Matlin .
"Gravitate towards what makes you happy first and what makes you fill fulfilled...financial reward will follow" - Banji Alexander
Below is a list of the strands :
American Politics : The United States is hugely influential both as a global power and as a political beacon.
This strand assesses the nature of the American polity exploring across the three years the role of America’s political institutions, key issues facing the American political system and the role and function of the media in fashioning American government policy.
Comparative Politics : The relationship between different polities is a key area of modern political science research.
This strand engages with this by assessing in a comparative frame: different countries, their political systems and the actors engaging with the political systems.
Comparisons across countries and/or across time are used to explore the differences and similarities between the systems to answer questions on who gets what, when and how in terms of allocation of resources within and between polities.
International Relations/World Politics : The architecture and operation of the global international order is a key pillar of the modern world.
This strand assesses the nature of that system, how it came into being and where it is going.
This will include assessing the nature of the global political order and its key institutions and players, major theories that allow one to understand this and key contemporary issues such as foreign policy, conflict and peace, both generally and in specific geographical regions, e.g.
the Middle East, Africa or Asia.
Methodology and Research Skills : This strand will help you develop the tools for sustained research in political science.
This will include research design, qualitative methods, such as interview techniques, as well as quantitative analysis of, for example, polling data.
There will be an opportunity to take this to an advanced level and develop key transferable research skills.
Political Ideology and Theory : This strand explores political thought across the ages from ancient times to the present.
You will begin with a broad survey of major ideas in political theory, before being able to look in greater depth at particular ideologies, e.g.
liberalism, Marxism, fascism and particular concepts such as multiculturalism and equality.
This module introduces students to the institutions and processes of the modern American political system.
It relates these institutions and processes to the diversity and complexity of turn-of-the-century U.S.
society.
Students learn about a range of methodologies and research skills relevant to the discipline of political science and begin to develop an interdisciplinary approach to understanding American politicians and voters.
The module introduces students to the study of comparative politics and examine how the design of political institutions reflects competing visions of democracy and the implications this has for the processes that link citizens and policymakers.
Students will focus on various aspects of the political system such as the differences between parliamentary and presidential systems, federal and unitary systems, electoral rules, party systems.
This module introduces students to the main thinkers in political thought through the idea of reason and unreason, and asks: who are the people?
Preparing students for their final year dissertation begins in the second year in From Student to Scholar: Successful Research in the Modern World.
This module introduces students to a variety of analytical perspectives, research methods and techniques used in designing a research project in politics, international relations and international politics.
This module aims to provide students with an understanding of political institutions and their impact through institutional analysis and modern institutional theory and explores single case studies, cross-case and cross-temporal comparisons.
The module is divided in three parts; part one covers the theoretical approaches in new institutionalism, part two covers specific institutions and part three covers the influence of institutions on policy.
This modules aims to provide students with the skills to analyse political data and introduce methods for gathering and understanding data.
Students will be encouraged to critically engage with the use of existing statistical data in political discourse and demonstrate the importance of quantitative analysis in domestic and international politics.
This module will introduce methods suited to analysing complex political data as well as encouraging students to engage with and communicate the use of existing statistical data in the study of political science and in practical application in the political world.
This module seeks to familiarise students with the contemporary issues agenda in American politics.
It seeks to demonstrate the ways in which politicians and institutions adapt policy stances and organisational strategies to accommodate changes in the nature, content and direction of political debate.
How do governments make public policy?
Why do public policies vary across countries?
How can public policy be analysed?
These are the questions that will be explored in this module.
The module will provide the participants with a strong theoretical foundation for analysing public policy and skills to communicate the analyses to non-academic stakeholders in public policy.
Our students pursue a wide variety of jobs after graduating.
Some Brunel graduates such as John McDonnell MP, or former Labour party general secretary Baroness McDonagh, opt for careers in politics.
Others have joined the Foreign and Commonwealth Office, the Home Office, the Civil Service, GCHQ and military intelligence.
Some go into Politics and the civil service and have worked for Members of the Parliment such as John McDonnell MP, or former Labour party general secretary Baroness McDonagh.
Other graduates have joined Foreign and Commonwealth Office, the Home Office, GCHQ and military intelligence.
Others work in the public and private sectors, law and NGOs whilst some graduates become researchers, teachers and librarians.
Each module will have on average two-to-three hours in person contact time per week in lectures, seminars and workshops in the teaching terms.
You’ll be taught in lectures and seminars by academic staff internationally known for publishing and presenting papers worldwide.
Their research is often reported in the press and media, which will help to keep your learning contemporary and cutting edge.
You’ll also benefit from the expertise of staff who are consultants to government departments including the Cabinet Office, Home Office and Ministry of Defence in the UK; the council of Europe; the Georgian Ministry of Defence and the Canadian Department of Citizenship Abroad.
Also, the proximity of the Brunel campus to central London’s world-class research facilities, the British Library, Westminster and Whitehall, means you will be best placed to immerse yourself in an established political arena.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/international-relations-and-history-bsc:
LV21
LV2P with placement
2nd in London for Politics - National Student Survey 2025
If you want to use the latest, cutting-edge methods to understand how the world works, and want to inform these methods with deep historical knowledge, then a BSc (Hons) in International Relations and History is perfect for you.
This degree programme gives you the opportunity and skills to delve into world history, but also trains you in the latest techniques to understand contemporary international affairs.
Do we have more war today than in the past?
Do historical factors influence levels of democracy today?
Which are the most important actors in the international system: states, or individuals?
How has the nature of international affairs changed?
As well as gaining an understanding of the theory of International Relations, you will also learn empirical rigour which will give you new transferable skills.
The combination of a deep understanding of history with the latest methodological developments in the quantitative study of global issues will help you to understand the relationship between numerous factors, such as war, conflict, democracy, autocracy, human rights, inequality and much more besides.
This will include research design on qualitative methods, such as interview techniques, as well as quantitative methods, which will give you valuable transferable skills.
Some go into Politics and the civil service and have worked for Members of the Parliament such as John McDonnell MP, or former Labour party general secretary Baroness McDonagh.
You’ll be taught in lectures and seminars by academic staff who are internationally known for publishing and presenting papers worldwide.
Also, the proximity to the Brunel campus to central London’s world-class research facilities, the British Library, Westminster and Whitehall, means you will be best placed to immerse yourself in an established politics arena.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/journalism-communication-ba:
P520
Journalism
Perhaps you enjoy writing and have a keen interest in communication, culture, arts or sport, or want to present to camera as a broadcast journalist, or you are an experienced blogger or vlogger.
If so, a journalism degree at Brunel might be a good match for you.
Brunel’s BA Journalism (Communication) degree combines a strong academic background in communication and culture with a broad range of essential journalism skills.
You will graduate with communication in your degree title, flagging up to prospective employers that you have a dual specialism that combines academic rigour with practical competencies.
Alongside your degree, students will be able to apply to study - at no extra cost - for the prestigious Diploma in Journalism run by the National Council for the Training of Journalists (NCTJ), the UK media industry's number one training body.
Brunel has been accredited for many years to run the NCTJ Diploma , which significantly increases job opportunities after university.
In the journalism modules, you will learn how to research a story, pitch ideas, interview, report and write across different platforms.
You will learn video, audio and magazine journalism and because it is so hand-on you will feel like you are building real skills for future.
There is a strong emphasis in the practical modules on digital technology and you will learn in a 24-hour, state-of-the-art, multi-platform digital newsroom with broadcast facilities, using the latest edition industry-standard hardware and software.
You will also develop an academically robust and critical understanding of the media, communication and cultural environments in which journalism operates and interacts as well as the analytical ability to explore intellectual inquiries and present findings.
Follow our team on Instagram , X , Tik Tok and Bluesky.
"I enjoyed my three years at Brunel immensely - and would return for another helping in a heartbeat, had the staff and course not helped me walk into such a staggeringly good job" - Aaron Brown
"I have a lot of memories of studying at Brunel, such as being part of the Afghan Society, and met lots of amazing people during the years." - Ariana Abawe
"We have the luxury of having a dedicated newsroom, radio suites and private editing suites at our disposal" - Amalie Henden
Journalism (Communications) BA is an opportunity to acquire not only an understanding of journalism and communications, but also the skills needed to practice as a journalist and the technical know-how to deliver news stories in a variety of media.
This module equips students with the knowledge and skills to produce content for any platform and allows learners to seize opportunities as new platforms emerge.
In this module, you'll learn to interview, research, report, write, shoot and edit audio and video; create graphics; and master social media
Journalism, Communication and Politics are intrinsically linked.
This module examines key concepts and theories that includes Agenda-Setting, public opinion, journalism in liberal and illiberal societies, social media and its effects, celebrity journalism and the use and effect theory.
It grounds students in the field and enables them to think critically about the media intersectionality.
This module provides an introduction to the main theories, approaches and concepts in media studies.
It will introduce you to the critical canon, as well as drawing on case studies to illustrate key topics in media and research.
Key Ideas in Media will provide you with a firm conceptual and methodological foundation in communication and media studies focusing on themes of power, identity and culture.
This module grounds students in the fundamentals of news and feature writing.
It examines the dynamics of the Inverted Pyramid structure for hard news and also explores the flexibilities and creativity that feature writing involves.
Students will also be tasked to develop their writing competence as they get involved with the Hillingdon Herald
This module introduce leaners to the development, production and post-production of multimedia productions, and enables students to identify and analyse key concepts that underpin multimedia productions and to develop their own practical work.
The Hillingdon Herald is at the centre of journalism education at Brunel.
The newspaper is not only a community-focused publication, it also empowers students to practice what they learn in theory.
As a module therefore, it enables students to conduct interviews, gather information, write and edit news and understanding newspaper production processes.
You will be tasked to source and develop a variety of local arts-based stories and then prepare them for publication on a variety of platforms.
This module teaches you to work on this speciality across a variety of platforms - including magazine double pages spreads, video, and websites - while improving your skills in layout, photoshop, photography, writing and filming.
This module will help you develop an insightful working knowledge and critical appreciation of law and regulation in the practice of professional journalism.
You will learn how to craft news reports within appropriate legal and ethical frameworks and navigate the potential conflicts and pressures journalists can be subjected to in their working lives.
The module aims to provide postgraduate students with a critical knowledge and understanding of how different disciplines have sought to make sense of political hoaxes, fake news or images and disinformation in as well as the contexts in which they flourish and are challenged.
The dissertation aims to enable students to conduct independent research within their field.
This will teach students to choose a feasible research project, locate it within relevant academic literature, and devise an appropriate analytical framework to construct arguments that can justify the research question has been answered.
Individual supervision will support students in developing and executing the research project.
The practice project aims to extend students’ understanding of journalism practice and principles through the planning and execution of a mini-portfolio that aims to enable students to begin to develop specialisms.
It enables students to apply editorial judgement in the selection of stories, the target audience, and the approach taken and the preferred medium, and to recognise and employ ethical and legal knowledge in researching and reporting.
This module provides students with a critical overview of key debates about media audiences and identities.
Students will engage with key contemporary debates about media influence and be able to apply theoretical concepts to a range of contemporary sites.
The combination of practical skills in journalism and rigorous academic study of communication will equip you for a range of careers including as a general reporter or arts/culture correspondent or as public relations officer or communication officer.
Career options such as marketing, public relations or event management are possible.
You'll be taught by world-leading experts in your field of study, and have the opportunity to interact with fellow students on London’s leading campus University.
There'll also be regular cohort meetings and student society events, at both programme and departmental levels.
You'll be taught through a mixture of lectures, seminars, workshops, practical classes and one-to-one tutorials by experienced senior journalists and academic staff with international reputations for research and many of whom serve as consultants to government departments, think tanks and NGOs.
You'll learn the fundamental skills of journalism in our new state-of-the-art, multi-platform digital newsroom with broadcast facilities, using industry-standard hardware and software including Adobe editing suit.
Throughout the degree, you’ll also get to hear from alumni and guest speakers about what it’s really like to work in journalism.
Previous representatives from regional papers, as well as the BBC and The Guardian, have helped to provide further insight into the industry.
The proximity of the Brunel campus to central London’s world-class research facilities, the British Library, Westminster, Wembley Stadium and the West End with its theatres, clubs and festivals (film and fashion).
Should you need non-academic support during your time at Brunel, the Student Support and Welfare Team are here to help.
You will be assessed by a combination of practical work, coursework and exams but much of your time will be spent going out collecting and videoing for news stories, in private study and reading.
In the process, you will build up a portfolio of practical work you can show prospective employers and in interviews be able to talk competently about the political issues of the day.
In your final year you will research and create a practical project and a final dissertation on a subject of your choice under the guidance of supervisors.
Many students value the unique experience and opportunities to become authorities on a particular area of journalism.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/journalism-politics-ba:
P510
3 years  full-time
Perhaps you enjoy writing and have a keen interest in politics, or you like the idea of presenting to camera as a broadcast journalist, or you're already an experienced blogger or vlogger.
The Brunel Journalism (Politics) BA degree combines a strong academic background in politics taught by experts in the field with a broad range of essential journalism skills taught by former editors and practising journalists.
You will graduate with politics in your degree title, flagging up to prospective employers that your degree has dual specialism.
You will learn video, audio and magazine journalism and because it is so hand-on you will feel like you are building real skills for your future.
There is a strong emphasis on digital technology in the practical modules and you will learn in a 24-hour, state-of-the-art, multi-platform digital newsroom with broadcast facilities, using the latest edition industry-standard hardware and software.
You will develop an academically robust and critical understanding of political environments in which journalism operates and interacts, the ability to write incisively on these as well as the analytical ability to explore intellectual inquiries and present findings.
You will also have the option to take the industry accredited and much sought-after NCTJ Diploma at no extra cost.
Journalism (Politics) BA is an opportunity to acquire not only an understanding of journalism, politics and their relationship, but also the skills needed to practice as a journalist and the technical know-how to deliver news stories in a variety of media.
This module delves into the politics of race and multiculturalism in contemporary Britain by focusing on a number of concepts such as racism, islamophobia, integration, and national identity.
Through examining key scholarly texts and debates, students will develop essential skills in critical reading and analysis.
This module looks at how journalists report on issues about politics and the political world, including the use of data for researching stories of this kind.
It will develop techniques for students in video, written, and photojournalism and layout and design, and using equipment and software to competently produce stories of a political-based nature across all platforms.
The combination of practical skills in journalism and rigorous academic study of politics will equip you for a range of careers including as a general reporter or political reporter or your degree may give you a potential career route into working for MPs, campaign groups and NGOs.
There will also be the opportunity during a further six hours per week to seek guidance during module lecturers’ feedback and consultation hours.
You'll learn the fundamental skills of journalism in our new state-of-the-art, multi-platform digital newsroom and broadcast facilities, using industry-standard hardware and software including Adobe editing suit.
Throughout your degree, you’ll also get to hear from alumni and guest speakers about what it’s really like to work in the journalism industry.
The proximity of the Brunel campus to central London’s world-class research facilities, the British Library, Westminster and Whitehall means you'll be best placed to immerse yourself in established areas of politics and journalism.
In the process, you will build up a portfolio of practical work that you can show to prospective employers and in interviews and be able to talk competently about the political issues of the day.
Many of our students value the unique experience and opportunities to become authorities on a particular area of journalism.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/law-graduate-entry-llb:
M105
M106 with placement
3 years full-time with placement
International £18,000
Second Lower (A-level)
N/A (BTEC)
N/A (IB)
The Graduate Entry LLB is a fast track two-year law degree that enables people with a degree in an academic discipline other than Law (at minimum 2:2 level) to earn a qualifying law degree.
You can choose two years full-time, or three years full-time with a one-year professional placement between the first and second years that will give you hands-on experience working in a legal practice.
You’ll be able to discuss career ideas with your careers advisor and get guidance on placements and further study options.
The legal skills you’ll gain from our Graduate Entry LLB, on top of what you learnt from your previous degree, will make you an excellent candidate for a career in law.
Employers know that law graduates have a variety of useful, transferable skills that make them excellent employment prospects in both legal and non-legal careers so you will finish your degree as a professional, sought-after graduate.
To qualify as a solicitor you will need a degree and to pass the Solicitors Qualifying Examination (SQE), Parts 1 and 2.
The Brunel LLB provides a solid grounding in the core legal subjects aspiring solicitors need to know.
Brunel students can benefit from discounts for BARBRI SQE preparation courses to help to set you on the path to a successful and rewarding career.
To qualify as a barrister you will need a law degree which covers the foundations of legal knowledge subjects, which the Brunel LLB does.
For further information on solicitor and barrister qualification routes, please refer to www.sra.org.uk and www.barstandardsboard.org.uk
You can find out more about our course by watching this video .
For students coming from Canada you can see the benefits of studying the Graduate Entry LLB on our Canadian students webpage
The LLB consists of both compulsory and optional modules, which are designed to give you a full grounding in the English law.
Students joining Brunel from the 2024/2025 academic year will study the following modules.
Modules are either studied at 30 credits for a full academic year, or at 15 credits for one term of an academic year.
Land Law enables students to learn and critically interrogate the key concepts and operations of modern Land Law within its historical and social context.
It explores how, why and the ways in which Land Law has evolved to govern and protect both ‘estates in land’ and ‘rights in land’.
The module interrogates the rights and interests of owners, occupiers, third parties and others concerned with land and how disputes between owners and between owners and third parties can be resolved.
It also offers critical perspectives on contemporary land issues, especially when they relate to inequalities in society and amongst different groups.
In Public Law & Legal Skills, you will learn how to create your own country – and how to make it work.
What are the basic ideas that you need to organise government?
How do we choose the people who rule us and which powers they should have?
You will also be learning basic legal skills and judicial review – how to ensure courts check on the administration of power.
This module introduces students to the Law of Contract and the civil justice system, providing a solid foundation in the theoretical underpinnings of these legal concepts.
This module provides an in-depth exploration of the principles of contract in Common Law and Equity.
It is designed to offer a comprehensive understanding of how these principles are applied to agreements in legal contexts.
The module also gives students an understanding of how civil disputes are resolved in England and Wales, covering both court processes, including adjudication by judges and the non-adjudicative approaches.
Students will also have the opportunity to thoroughly examine and learn about various topics such as the formation of contracts, contractual terms, misrepresentation, vitiating factors, the courts and tribunal system structure, key procedural rules, and current issues on securing 'access to justice'.
This comprehensive approach aims to provide students with a deep and nuanced understanding of the legal framework that governs contractual agreements and civil dispute resolution in the specific context of England and Wales.
This module provides students with a comprehensive understanding of key aspects of criminal law and the criminal justice system to equip you with the knowledge and skills necessary to critically evaluate the efficacy of the criminal justice system in England and Wales and engage with ongoing debates in criminal law reform.
The module includes the study of specific offences such as murder, manslaughter, sexual offences and theft as well as important legal concepts such as criminal liability and defence.
Students will also explore police powers when investigating crime, the criminal trial process, and the role of other key actors in the criminal justice system in England and Wales.
The module also delves into contemporary issues such as domestic violence and autonomy, encouraging critical thinking and debate, and setting the foundations to help them develop essential legal skills, including research and analysis which are crucial for future legal careers.
Tort law is a body of rules that primarily govern how a community should allocate costs within society when some form of harmful event occurs.
The module covers the general rules of negligence, alongside a range of specific individual torts, such as defamation, privacy, land related torts, and vicarious liability.
The idea of a trust has been described as the greatest and most distinctive achievement of English law (Maitland).
Even though it is difficult to give a single, overarching definition to a trust, this legal instrument is of great significance to many areas of law and modern life.
Students on this module will examine different types of trusts such as express private trusts, charitable and non-charitable purpose trusts, and understand the nature and scope of trustees' powers and duties.
You will also analyse the available remedies for breach of trust and, importantly, the broader relevance of trusts and the importance of trusts law to other areas of law and society.
The module intends to help students understand the legal issues associated with banking and credit markets.
The laws and regulations of banking include the laws  setting  the  conditions  for  establishing  banks, the legal  framework for the transactions between banks and their customers and the rationale, structure and operations of the authorities supervising the financial services industry.
Company Law offers an in-depth analysis of the legal framework governing companies with a focus on core principles of corporate governance, directors’ duties, shareholders’ rights, and corporate liability.
Students will critically examine the structure and regulation of companies, engaging with key legislation (such as the Companies Act 2006) alongside relevant case law.
The module also explores contemporary issues including corporate finance, minority shareholder protection, and the evolving role of corporate governance in global markets.
The teaching structure consists of a combination of lectures and seminars aimed at enabling students to develop a rigorous analytical understanding of how legal principles apply to real-world corporate scenarios.
By the end of the module, students will be equipped to critically assess corporate structures and regulatory frameworks while engaging with both theoretical and practical aspects of company law.
The module prepares students for careers in corporate law, compliance, and financial regulation.
The Intellectual Property module aims to provide students with knowledge about the theoretical rationales and policy arguments for the recognition and protection of intellectual property rights such as copyright, trademarks, designs, patents and trade secrets.
The module seeks to explain the nature and scope of these rights, the procedures for the granting or recognition of the rights, and mechanisms for enforcement as well as defences against enforcement.
Additionally, the module aims to explore intellectual property law within a wider social, economic, cultural and political context.
This includes consideration of the impact of technological changes in the protection of intellectual property.
The module has been formally recognised by the Chartered Institute of Arbitrators (CIArb), the primary professional body within the field of arbitration.
In a world where commerce knows no borders, International Commercial Arbitration offers the fastest, most effective way to resolve disputes, making it a dispute-resolution method of preference for international traders.
International Commercial Arbitration (LX3606) explores the principles, rules, and procedures governing the resolution of cross-border commercial disputes through arbitration.
It examines the legal framework provided by key international instruments such as the New York Convention (1958), the UNCITRAL Model Law on International Commercial Arbitration, and institutional rules from organisations like the ICC, LCIA, and SIAC.
Students will gain a deep understanding of arbitration agreements, jurisdictional challenges, arbitral procedure, enforcement of awards, and the interplay between arbitration and national courts.
The module also covers the intersection between arbitration and technology, ethical considerations, and emerging trends in the field.
Through case studies, moot exercises, and critical analysis, students develop practical skills in drafting arbitration clauses, procedural strategy, and advocacy.
The module is ideal for those pursuing careers in international business, dispute resolution, or legal practice, equipping them with the knowledge and tools to navigate complex arbitration disputes effectively.
Investment treaty arbitration is a field of law that has grown exponentially.
Not only due to increased foreign direct investments, but also due to the increase in states having signed international investment agreements, and that such agreements typically include an arbitration clause.
Such arbitration between foreign investors and states under the public international law regime of investment laws is often transparent, at least with respect to the outcome (the arbitral award).
With an increase in drafting and signing treaties, on the one hand, and the vast arbitral case law stemming from investment treaty arbitration on the other hand, the importance of international investment law has grown.
This course is divided in four elements that inform each other: (1) Introduction, (2) International Investment Law, (3) Investment Arbitration, and (4) Post-Award Proceedings.
The primary aim of the dissertation is to assess a student’s ability to undertake independent research under the supervision of an academic member of staff.
Students will have the opportunity to explore a chosen topic in depth and to write an original piece of critical analysis on the issues arising from the topic.
Competition law is an exciting subject which regulates how businesses behave in relation to their competitors and consumers.
It protects competition in the market by prohibiting (a) abuses of dominance, (b) anti-competitive agreements between businesses (e.g., cartels), and (c) mergers that may lead to higher prices and less variety for consumers.
It is a fascinating field of study which has recently been at the forefront of initiatives to regulate big technology companies and address climate change and sustainability issues.
The module focuses on EU and UK competition law.
However, the EU and UK rules are the ‘model law’ for many other jurisdictions.
As a result, students following this module will acquire a solid background to competition rules that are applicable in most jurisdictions around the world.
You'll go beyond the study of legal rules, exploring the economics of supply and demand (no prior knowledge of economics is required), the influence of politics over the application of competition law, and how societal and technological changes affect the enforcement priorities that competition authorities set.
Students choosing a career path in the field of competition law will realise that ‘the sky is the limit’.
An expert in competition law is sought after by law firms; companies looking for in-house counsel to work on competition compliance; regulators (e.g., the UK Competition and Markets Authority); and public affairs agencies.
This module examines the law relating to the different forms of families and family relationships, the rights of children and responsibilities of parents, arrangements for children after family breakdowns, and protection from domestic abuse.
The module will also focus on state responses to children and young people including the role of the state and the law in protecting children at risk of harm.
Students will examine some of the assumptions on which the law is based, and how changing perceptions of the family and of roles within it are reflected in the law and in continuing pressure for legal change.
In this module, you will study the legal framework governing the development and deployment of AI and data protection laws of the EU and the UK, enabling students to develop an in-depth understanding of regulatory frameworks which are crucial for compliance across the private, public, and third sectors.
The module will introduce students to key topics, concepts, theories, methodologies, and tools relevant to regulatory compliance, oversight, accountability, and legal liability for harm caused by the misuse of data and AI.
Through various lectures, seminars, and engagement with relevant materials, students will develop critical thinking, legal argumentation, and analytical skills in relation to data and AI-driven decision-making.
EU Law seeks to provide a solid working knowledge of legal principles, specifically in the current UK context as a third country maintaining a close relationship with the EU.
The module begins with the history of the European legal order, the Treaties, the institutional framework, and the main constitutional principles regulating EU law.
It then focuses on the EU internal market and economic trade integration as well as the protection of fundamental rights in EU law.
In addition, aspects of Brexit, the UK-EU Withdrawal Agreement, and the UK-EU Trade and Cooperation Agreement will be discussed throughout the module.
This module is essential for Canadian students wishing to gain NCA accreditation.
This module will address the nature of international law, state responsibility and the right to self-determination.
It will focus on theories of human rights, and look into the structures, strengths and weaknesses of the international human rights systems including the United Nations.
It will focus on human rights including the right to life, prohibition of discrimination, women’s rights and minority rights.
Focusing on the legal dimensions, but also drawing from international politics and using sociological concepts, the module will give you the tools to identify, understand and critically discuss human rights worldwide.
You will be taught by someone working with the United Nations on these issues everyday as the UN Special Rapporteur in the field of Cultural Rights!
Graduates from Brunel University London rank within the top 30 nationally, and top 10 in London for the salaries they earn - earning £4,300 more than the median salary across the university sector .*
Our high-quality placements will give you first-hand professional legal experience and a real taste of what life after your studies could be like.
You’ll benefit from the guidance of dedicated careers advisors and the expertise of your personal tutor so whether you want to explore your passion for law or already have your dream job in mind, we’ll support you on your career journey.
Our strong links with industry will help you to boost your career potential.
We offer a number of exciting opportunities which are unique to students studying at Brunel Law School.
Brunel is one of the few UK universities on the Blake Morgan Brand Ambassador Scheme – offering great work experience opportunities, mentoring programmes and giving you great exposure to the graduate recruitment team of a leading law firm.
We have a partnership with Macfarlanes to offer a training scholarship for three Brunel law students annually, and to provide opportunities for Brunel students to gain insights into working in a top law firm.
Brunel students can also benefit from discounts to the BARBRI SQE preparation courses.
We also have links with a number of other professional practices, and opportunities to participate in mentoring programmes are also available to Brunel students.
You will have the opportunity to develop your legal skills with our Law Lives programme .
You’ll build, develop and strengthen transferable skills and experiences through a range of activities and programmes such as Brunel’s Pro Bono Legal Advice Centre, which offers pro bono legal advice through various clinics in different areas of law.
You will graduate with a firm grounding in legal theory, allowing you to be flexible in your future choices.
Law affects every part of our society, and so we will prepare you for work in the corporate world and government, as well as legal roles in the humanitarian and criminal fields.
Whatever your career aspirations are, you can begin on your path to success with Brunel Law School.
Recent graduates went on to pursue careers in range of high-profile organisations such as the Court of Appeal, Blake Morgan, CPS, Freshfields, Mishcon de Reya, the Home Office and Linklaters.
* Longitudinal Employment Outcomes 2022
For students coming from Canada, please see details on our Graduate LLB for Canadian students webpage .
£18,000 full-time
You will be taught by experts in your field of study, and you will have the opportunity to interact and engage with academics and your fellow students throughout your programme.
Your programme will consist of a variety of learning and studying activities, including lectures and seminars which will be delivered in person on campus.
These will be supported by pre- and post-sessional activities which are designed to enhance your studies and provide a rich, dynamic learning experience.
In Year 1 you will study four modules which will span the whole academic year.
In Year 2 you will study a combination of modules, some taught over the course of the academic year, and others taught for one academic term.
This helps students organise their time, and prevents an excess of assessment at particular points in the year.
In Year 2 you will also write your dissertations.
This is a compulsory element which all students will complete.
Supervision of the dissertation module will take the form of individual meetings with a dissertation supervisor, dissertation surgeries and presentations across the teaching terms.
Outside of the classroom, all students will also have the opportunity to seek guidance during module lecturers’ feedback and consultation hours.
There will also be regular cohort meetings and student society events, at both programme and departmental level.
All lectures, seminars, and social activities will occur in person on the Brunel campus.
The majority of core texts are available through the University website.
Students may prefer to purchase a physical copy.
Copies are also available via Brunel Library.
Our teaching is research-led in its focus, building on Brunel’s strong reputation for producing excellent research.
The 2021 Research Excellence Framework (REF 2021) rated the majority (72.7%) of our research activity as either world-leading or internationally excellent.
Our research was rated 58th globally for research impact.
This robust culture provides a dynamic space for students to learn and contribute to current knowledge.
The course itself will consist of lectures, tutor-led seminars, private study and one-to-one supervision with your tutor.
You will have lectures as a full cohort, and your seminar groups will consist of up to 15 students.
Lectures are generally one- or two-hours in length, and are followed by a seminar in each module.
You will receive further professional and academic skills on your Academic and Professional Skills module where you'll begin to build your professional and legal profile.
Independent learning features heavily on the Law undergraduate degrees, and you will be expected to complete around 10-12 hours of self-directed study a week alongside your lectures and seminars.
Your learning continues out of the classroom.
A number of professional development activities are provided to help you develop the legal and transferable skills that will make you stand out in the job market.
We also have an excellent Student Support and Welfare Team who are here to help should you need any non-academic support during your time at Brunel.
Modules are assessed by a variety of methods, including written coursework, examinations, oral presentations, reflective and participatory assessments based on seminars, continuous assessment and other methods.
All final year students are required to research and write a dissertation on a legal topic.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/law-llb:
M103
M101 with placement
Our strong industry links, work experience opportunities and specialised Law Careers Advisors will help you turn your passion for law into a rewarding career.
The Brunel Law LLB gives you the chance to earn a law degree and develop a dynamic perspective of English law – not only what the law is, but why it is.
You’ll learn the theories and principles underlying the law and acquire the research, analytical and communication skills you’ll need for a successful legal career.
You can choose three years full-time, or four years full-time with a professional placement year between years two and three that will give you hands-on experience working in a legal practice.
You can tailor the final year of your course to specialise in an area of law of interest to you.
Employers know that law graduates have a variety of useful, transferable skills that make them excellent employment prospects in both legal and non-legal careers, so you'll finish your degree as a professional, sought-after graduate.
We work with industry partners such as Macfarlane's LLP and Morgan Blake LLP to offer students scholarship and work experience opportunities.
Read more about how we help students prepare for the future here .
To qualify as a solicitor, you'll need a degree and to pass the Solicitors Qualifying Examination (SQE), Parts 1 and 2.
To qualify as a barrister, you'll need a law degree which covers the foundations of legal knowledge subjects which the Brunel LLB does.
The LLB consists of both compulsory and optional modules which are designed to give you a full grounding in the English law.
Students joining Brunel from the 2024/2025 academic year will study the modules below.
Students may choose optional modules in line with their interests and career aspirations.
Optional modules are indicative, and availability may be subject to change.
In their final year, students are able to choose either two 30 credit modules and two 15 credit modules (one in Term 1 and one in Term 2), or one 30 credit module and four 15 credit modules (two in Term 1 and two in Term 2).
Some optional modules available in Term 2 may require students to have completed specified modules in Term 1.
In Public Law & Legal Skills, you will learn how to create your own country and how to make it work.
What are the basic ideas needed to organise government?
How do we choose the people that govern us and which powers they should have?
You will also learn about basic legal skills and judicial review – how to ensure courts check on the administration of power.
This module provides students with a comprehensive understanding of key aspects of criminal law and the criminal justice system to equip them with the knowledge and skills necessary to critically evaluate the efficacy of the criminal justice system in England and Wales and engage with ongoing debates in criminal law reform.
The module also delves into contemporary issues such as domestic violence and autonomy, encouraging critical thinking and debate, and setting the foundations to help you develop essential legal skills including research and analysis which are crucial for future legal careers.
Students will participate an in-depth exploration of the principles of contract in Common Law and Equity to get a comprehensive understanding of how these principles are applied to agreements in legal contexts.
The module also gives students an understanding of how civil disputes are resolved in England and Wales covering both court processes - including adjudication by judges and the non-adjudicative approaches.
This module enables students to develop their academic, employability, and personal skills whilst understanding how these skills are transferable to working environments.
The module covers the general rules of negligence alongside a range of specific individual torts such as defamation, privacy, land related torts, and vicarious liability.
The module interrogates the rights and interests of owners, occupiers, third parties and others concerned with land, and how disputes between owners and between owners and third parties can be resolved.
It also offers critical perspectives on contemporary land issues especially when they relate to inequalities in society and amongst different groups.
You will also analyse the available remedies for breach of trust and, importantly, the broader relevance of trusts, and the importance of trust law to other areas of law and society.
EU Law seeks to provide a solid working knowledge of the principles of European Union law, specifically in the current UK context as a third country maintaining close relationships with the EU.
The module begins with the history of the European legal order, the treaties, the institutional framework, and the main constitutional principles regulating EU law.
The laws and regulations of banking include the laws  setting the conditions  for  establishing  banks, the legal  framework for the transactions between banks and their customers and the rationale, structure and operations of the authorities supervising the financial services industry.
Evidence is essential to students who desire to obtain a deeper understanding of the rules around advocacy and the trial process.
Students taking evidence will study the rules pertaining to the admissibility of evidence in court (including witnesses, confessions, identification evidence and evidence of prior convictions).
You will also examine the issue of how the jury evaluates the weight of evidence admitted in court and will study the fundamental rules relevant to who bears the burden of proof in criminal trials.
Most importantly, students will seek to explore the theoretical principles underpinning the law of evidence.
In that respect, the focus will be on the perennial criminal justice dilemma between convicting the guilty and protecting the individual rights of those involved in the criminal process.
Not only due to increased foreign direct investments, but due to the increase in states having signed international investment agreements, and such agreements typically include an arbitration clause.
The aim of this course is to introduce students to the philosophy of law: to understand what is distinctive about law relative to other social practices such as customs and conventions, and to understand why law is necessary.
It addresses a range of questions about the nature of law including the relationship between law and morality; social and political functions of law; and the nature of legal reasoning.
One of the main themes of the module is the classical distinction in the history of legal philosophy between positivism which supposes law can be understood independently from morality, and natural law, which supposes there is some necessary link between law and morality.
This issue is also important to the theme or question of legal reasoning - an often under-studied topic that is addressed in the second half of the module.
Sentencing and Penology explores how and why societies punish offenders, critically examining sentencing practices and the wider penal system.
Students will delve into key theories and justifications for punishment from retribution to rehabilitation, and tackle controversial issues such as the use of the death penalty and the treatment of mentally disordered offenders.
The module also considers how sentencing decisions are made, the legal rules shaping them, and how different penalties—both custodial and non-custodial—are applied in practice.
Beyond understanding how the system works, this module encourages students to challenge and critique existing approaches to sentencing and punishment.
Students will engage with real-world issues, questioning whether current methods are effective, fair, and just.
By the end of the module, students will have a deeper insight into how legal, social, and ethical factors shape penal policies and their impact on individuals and communities.
The principal aim is to provide students with a working knowledge of the major areas of intellectual property law.
Graduates from Brunel University London rank 27th nationally, and 9th in London for the salaries they earn - earning £4,300 more than the median salary across the university sector .*
We also have a partnership with Macfarlanes to offer a training scholarship for three Brunel law students annually, and to provide opportunities for Brunel students to gain insights into working in a top law firm.
You’ll build, develop and strengthen transferable skills and experiences through a range of activities and programmes such as Brunel’s Pro Bono Legal Advice Centre which offers pro bono legal advice through various clinics in different areas of law.
In Year 1, you'll study four modules which will span the whole academic year.
In Year 2, you'll have two modules which will span the whole academic year, and four which will be taught in one academic term.
In Year 3, you'll study a combination of modules, some taught over the course of the academic year, and others taught for one academic term.
In Year 3, you'll also write your dissertation which is a compulsory element which all students will complete; supervision of the dissertation module will take the form of individual meetings with a dissertation supervisor, dissertation surgeries and presentations across the teaching terms.
Additionally, students will be able to seek support in individual meetings with their personal tutors, both on-campus and online.
There will also be regular cohort meetings and student society events at both programme and departmental level.
It is expected that students will regularly attend these events as sustained engagement with a learning community is a central dimension of the Brunel experience.
The majority of core texts are available through the university website although students may prefer to purchase a physical copy.
Access to a laptop or desktop PC is required for completing coursework and digital exams, and a minimum specification can be found.
Lectures are generally one or two-hours in length, and are followed by a seminar in each module.
Your learning continues out of the classroom with a number of professional development activities provided to help you develop the legal and transferable skills that will make you stand out in the job market.
We also have an excellent Student Support and Welfare Team who are here to help should you need any non-academic support during your time at Brunel

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/law-with-criminal-justice-llb:
M1M2
MCM2 with placement
The Brunel Law with Criminal Justice LLB gives students the opportunity to earn a law degree with specialist knowledge in the field of criminal law and criminal justice.
Along with the requirements of the traditional LLB degree you’ll learn substantive criminal law and how the criminal justice system works in practice and procedure.
Importantly, you’ll be encouraged to use this knowledge to think critically about crime: its origins, its impact on society and the most effective strategies to combat it.
You can choose three years full-time, or four years full-time with a one-year professional placement that will give you hands-on experience in a legal practice.
All of our students have careers advisers with whom you can discuss career ideas with and who can offer guidance on placements and further study options throughout the duration of your time with us.
The LLB with Criminal Justice consists of both compulsory and optional modules which are designed to give you a full grounding in the English law and criminal justice system.
In their final year all students must complete a 30-credit Dissertation module, on a subject relating to criminal law and criminal justice.
In addition, students must take additional compulsory modules from the list below totalling 45 credits.
In addition, students will have the option to choose optional modules to a total of 45 credits.
They may choose optional modules in line with their interests, career aspirations.
In choosing optional modules, students will be required to choose modules which allow for an equal division of credits between Term 1 and Term 2.
The module includes the study of specific offences such as murder, manslaughter, sexual offences and theft, as well as important legal concepts such as criminal liability and defence.
It's been designed to offer a comprehensive understanding of how these principles are applied to agreements in legal contexts.
This module enables students to develop their academic, employability, and personal skills whilst understanding how these skills are all transferable to working environments within and outside of legal practice.
They will also examine the issue of how the jury evaluates the weight of evidence admitted in court and will study the fundamental rules relevant to who bears the burden of proof in criminal trials.
The laws and regulations of banking include the laws setting the conditions  for  establishing banks, the legal framework for the transactions between banks and their customers and the rationale, structure and operations of the authorities supervising the financial services industry.
The module will prepare students for careers in corporate law, compliance, and financial regulation.
We have a partnership with Macfarlanes to offer a training scholarship f or three Brunel law students annually, and to provide opportunities for Brunel students to gain insights into working in a top law firm.
In Year 2 you will have two modules which will span the whole academic year, and four which will be taught in one academic term.
In Year 3 you will study a combination of modules, some taught over the course of the academic year, and others taught for one academic term.
In Year 3 you will also write your dissertations.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/law-with-international-arbitration-and-commercial-law-llb:
MDM2
M1MF with placement
Specialise in International Arbitration and Commercial Law LLB.
Apply for MCIArb status.
The Brunel LLB Law with International Arbitration and Commercial Law degree will give you specialist knowledge of international arbitration and commercial law.
Along with the topics on the traditional LLB degree, you’ll learn commercial, international and comparative law and about cross-border transactions and cross-cultural dispute resolution.
We offer two study options, so you can choose three years full-time, or four years full-time with a one-year professional placement between years two and three that will give you hands-on experience working in a legal practice.
You will have a law careers adviser you can discuss career ideas with and who can offer guidance on placements and further study options throughout your time with us.
The LLB with International Arbitration and Commercial Law consists of both compulsory and optional modules, which are designed to give you a full grounding in the English law, international arbitration and commercial law.
In their final year, students will have the option to choose optional modules to a total of 60 credits, and may choose optional modules in line with their interests and career aspirations.
Students are able to choose either one 30 credit modules and two 15 credit modules (one in Term 1 and one in Term 2), or four 15 credit modules (two in Term 1 and two in Term 2).
In Public Law and Legal Skills, you will learn how to create your own country – and how to make it work.
This module provides students with a comprehensive understanding of key aspects of criminal law and the criminal justice system to equip them with the knowledge and skills necessary to critically evaluate the efficacy of the criminal justice system in England and Wales, and engage with ongoing debates in criminal law reform.
Students will also explore police powers when investigating crimes, the criminal trial process, and the role of other key actors in the criminal justice system in England and Wales.
The module also delves into contemporary issues such as domestic violence and autonomy, encouraging critical thinking and debate, and setting the foundations to help you develop essential legal skills, including research and analysis which are crucial for future legal careers.
This module provides an in-depth exploration of the principles of contract in Common Law and Equity, and is designed to offer a comprehensive understanding of how these principles are applied to agreements in legal contexts.
This module enables students to develop their academic, employability, and personal skills whilst understanding how these skills are all transferable to working environments.
Through case studies, moot exercises, and critical analysis, students will develop practical skills in drafting arbitration clauses, procedural strategy, and advocacy.
The module is ideal for those looking to pursue careers in international business, dispute resolution, or legal practice, equipping them with the knowledge and tools to navigate complex arbitration disputes effectively.
The laws and regulations of banking include the laws setting  the  conditions  for  establishing banks, the legal  framework for the transactions between banks and their customers and the rationale, structure and operations of the authorities supervising the financial services industry.
Students will critically examine the structure and regulation of companies engaging with key legislation (such as the Companies Act 2006) alongside relevant case law.
Evidence is essential for students who desire to obtain a deeper understanding of the rules around advocacy and the trial process.
You will also examine the issue of how the jury evaluates the weight of evidence admitted in court, and will study the fundamental rules relevant to who bears the burden of proof in criminal trials.
Not only due to increased foreign direct investments, but due to the increase in states having signed international investment agreements and that such agreements typically include an arbitration clause.
With increases in drafting and signing treaties, on the one hand, and the vast arbitral case law stemming from investment treaty arbitration on the other hand, the importance of international investment law has grown.
You’ll benefit from the guidance of dedicated careers advisors and the expertise of your personal tutor, so whether you want to explore your passion for law, or already have your dream job in mind, we’ll support you on your career journey.
Your programme will consist of a variety of learning and studying activities including lectures and seminars which will be delivered in person on campus.
These will be supported by pre- and post-sessional activities designed to enhance your studies and provide a rich, dynamic learning experience.
In Year 1, you will study four modules which will span the whole academic year.
In Year 2, you will have two modules which will span the whole academic year, and four which will be taught in one academic term.
In Year 3, you will study a combination of modules, some taught over the course of the academic year, and others taught for one academic term.
This helps students organise their time, and prevents an excess of assessments at particular points in the year.
In Year 3, you will also write your dissertation and this is a compulsory element which all students will complete.
The majority of core texts are available through the university website.
Students may prefer to purchase a physical copy and copies are also available via Brunel Library.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/marketing-bsc:
N500
N501 with placement
If you're curious about how brands connect with people and want to be part of shaping those connections, Marketing BSc is your launchpad.
This course is all about helping you understand what customers really want, and how to deliver it in a way that builds loyalty and drives business success.
You’ll explore everything from market research and branding to product development and customer engagement, giving you the tools to make a real impact in the business world.
Along the way, you’ll learn valuable technical skills and gain hands-on experience with industry-standard tools such as IBM SPSS for statistical analysis and NVivo for digging into qualitative insights.
In your first year, the focus will be to provide you with a holistic overview of the world of business, and we’ll also help you settle into university study with support in group work, time management, report writing, and problem-solving.
We believe the best way to learn is by getting involved.
That’s why our teaching is interactive, discussion-based, and focused on real-world application.
Instead of traditional exams, for the majority of your assessments, you’ll work on projects that mirror what marketers actually do - like writing reports, conducting research, pitching ideas, solving problems, and presenting your work.
It’s all designed to help you think critically and apply your knowledge in meaningful ways.
This course is built to boost your confidence and your career prospects.
You’ll develop both core and specialist skills that employers are looking for.
We work closely with platforms / initiatives such as the PDC, Brunel Hive, and Business Life to connect you with opportunities that make you stand out in the job market.
Our degree is accredited by the Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM), meaning you'll gain exemptions from selected modules should you choose to pursue further studies toward becoming a Chartered Marketer.
We've mapped our course against the CIM Certificate in Professional Marketing (Level 4) and the Diploma in Professional Marketing (Level 6), giving you exemptions for up to five years after graduation.
What makes this course extra special?
You’ll hear from guest speakers in the industry, explore the latest marketing technology, go on field trips, plus have the opportunity to pitch solutions for challenges organisations such as McDonald’s, Chelsea F.C., and Enterprise Mobility are currently facing.
It’s your chance to solve real challenges and build a portfolio that shows what you can do.
On this course, your learning will focus on core marketing practices, such as:
In your final year, you’ll get to choose from a range of optional modules, so you can dive deeper into the areas that interest you most.
Whether you want to specialise in content marketing, brand management, or marketing insights, these choices help you shape your degree to match your interests and stand out to future employers.
This module develops an understanding of how and why consumers think, feel, and behave the way they do and what this means for marketing products, services, ideas and experiences.
Attention will be paid to examining the cultural, social, economic and environmental factors that influence individual and collective consumption behaviours in distinct industries from different disciplines (i.e., psychology, economics, anthropology, and sociology).
In this disciplinary module, students have the fantastic opportunity to work with students from Brunel Design School, to jointly pitch solutions for challenges prestigious organisations are facing, such as McDonald’s, Chelsea F.C., Enterprise Mobility and many more.
Students will learn about design management thinking, co-design and co-creation tools/techniques, emerging economy, entrepreneurship fundamentals, marketing strategy etc.
This module will help students to understand the process, theory, social impact and ethics of marketing communications.
To be aware of the role of each element of marketing communications.
To be familiar with the key terms and concepts associated with marketing communications and to have a thorough grounding in its critical and theoretic aspects.
This module offers immersive learning with hands-on activities and real-life cases to master the art of compelling research proposals.
You will explore diverse research designs, critically review literature, compare qualitative and quantitative research methods, evaluate data analysis choices and procedures, and apply these skills to solve marketing problems.
This module ensures a comprehensive understanding of contemporary marketing research.
Students will conduct a rigorous research project on anything that falls within the parameters of the Marketing discipline.
Students will identify a research problem/opportunity and gaps in the academic literature to formulate a research question.
They will then design and conduct an original research study to answer the research question, resulting in recommendations for the industry and the formulation of new knowledge.
This module aims to develop an understanding of the defining characteristics of new technologies to be harnessed by retailing and consumer services markets such as algorithms, AI-powered robots, AR, and VR.
Theory- and application-based module content is strengthened with special emphasis on a vision for the future of new technologies, ethics, sustainability, and social responsibility regarding digital transformation.
This module will teach students how brands are constructed, managed, and communicated.
It aims to develop an understanding of the role of brands in consumers’ lives, and how they provide important building blocks for the construction of individual / social identity.
Students will learn how to assess the role of brands within an organisation, and how to develop a brand strategy.
The module introduces key concepts related to creativity, new media, and content marketing.
It addresses both theoretical and practical aspects of creativity and strategic content marketing within the context of the innovation-driven digital economy.
Students will acquire knowledge in effectively developing and communicating creative and innovative content marketing solutions relevant to the digital economy.
Expanding upon Marketing Research fundamentals, it unveils crucial data-driven techniques for extracting insights into markets, consumers, and competitors.
Navigate the landscape of data abundance, exploring quantitative methodologies such as surveys and experiments.
Cultivate critical thinking skills by evaluating and selecting research methods.
Through interactive seminars, gain practical experience in data-intensive research, laying the groundwork for evidence-based, data-driven marketing decision-making.
As a graduate you’ll be equipped to enter a number job roles, including: Advertising account executive; Market researcher; Marketing executive; Media buyer / planner; Public relations officer; Sales promotion account executive; Social media manager; Web content manager
Some of the well-known names who value Brunel Business School graduates include Accenture, Amazon, Barclays, British Airways, COTY, Capgemini, Christian Dior, Disney, EA Sports, HSBC, Jaguar Land Rover, KPMG, L’Oréal, McCann, Microsoft, Monster Energy, PricewaterhouseCoopers, Samsung, Tottenham Hotspur, Unilever, Warner Bros, Xerox.
There'll be email discussion groups and you’re encouraged to engage with online material using the university’s web‑based learning facilities and u-Link.
Additionally, if you choose a four-year sandwich course, you will be allocated an industrial tutor who'll provide support during your work placement.
The majority of the modules under your Marketing BSc degree will be assessed by coursework (summative), with a combination of ongoing formative assessment support during the semester (workshops, seminars, formative group presentation).
Your results from Year 1 do not count towards your final degree classification, but you have to pass the first year to continue with the degree.
Year 2 is worth a third of your final mark and Year 3 - the rest.
In your final year, you'll have the option to undertake a final year project (8000 words) worth a third of your final year marks.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/mathematics-and-computing-with-integrated-foundation-year:
G503
G504 with placement
Our foundation year course is designed to help you progress to a challenging and exciting career in computing or mathematics.
Our carefully designed curriculum is particularly suitable for those who want to change direction, perhaps having taken A-levels in arts or humanities subjects, and for mature applicants returning to study.
You will quickly find that willingness to learn and determination is more important than prior knowledge.
At Brunel we understand that you may not be ready to decide exactly which area of mathematics or computing you would like to specialise in, so this foundation year gives you the perfect opportunity to decide where your interests lie.
You might opt for computer science and work with ever more sophisticated computer technology and information systems.
Or you may find yourself drawn to mathematics where you’ll learn to model and solve problems from the worlds of business, finance and science.
Once you have successfully completed your foundation year you can progress to any of the following degree programmes:
With the grades needed for your chosen computing or mathematics degree course, you progress directly into Level 1 of that degree – there’s no need to re-apply.
We look forward to helping you develop your learning and setting you firmly on the way to your chosen career.
The foundation year covers material that would usually have been covered in A-level mathematics and ICT, so that you’ll be well equipped to begin a BSc programme in any of our mathematics or computing courses.
Computing Route
Compulsory modules
Optional Modules
Mathematics Route
Career prospects for mathematics and computer science are excellent.
As nearly all businesses today rely on computers, you’ll find that there are opportunities across all of the sectors in large organisations, the public or charity sector or in SMEs.
Maybe you want to pursue a career that specifically uses your mathematical, statistical or computing skills or choose a more general career such as management or consultancy.
Either way you’ll possess key skills that are highly sought after by business – in fact any industry that uses modelling, simulation, cryptography, forecasting, statistics, risk analysis and probability.
These are some of the areas where a maths degree is valued highly:
The ratio of exams to coursework is approximately 60:40.
Coursework consists of mainly of short tests and project work.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/mathematics-bsc:
G103
G104 with placement
The Mathematics BSc programme is broad-based, meaning that you’ll develop your skills across a wide range of areas.
You will study many aspects of pure and applied mathematics, together with general concepts of mathematical modelling.
When it comes to the application of mathematics, we cover finance, statistics, operational research (how maths can be applied to commercial and industrial problems), numerical analysis (the approximate solution of very hard problems) and mechanics.
In your final year, you’ll be able to study in-depth the areas of mathematics that particularly appeal to you.
For example, you can choose to concentrate on statistics or financial applications or you can maintain a broad approach to the subject as a whole.
At Brunel we understand that you may not be ready to choose exactly what programme to follow, so don’t worry – you’ll have the chance to change your area of mathematics after the course starts.
During your first year you’ll learn how to apply your mathematical knowledge to the real world.
Aims to familiarise students with the basic results, techniques and elementary functions of differential and integral calculus as well as some simple applications.
To introduce students to rigorous definitions, arguments and proofs through many simple examples.
To develop students’ manipulative skills in performing operations in differential calculus through work on many simple examples, including solution techniques of first order differential equations
First of a pair of modules developing modelling skills.
To develop a facility for mathematical modelling by examining a problem in its original form, extracting the principal features, formulating and solving appropriate mathematical models and interpreting the results in terms of the original problems.
Problems will be chosen from a wide range of applications.
Aims to develop understanding and technical skills in linear algebra with a particular focus on systems of linear equations, vector and matrix algebra, eigenvalues and eigenvectors of matrices, and diagonalization.vStudents will practise on large systems of linear equations using software.
Aims to introduce key notions of mathematical probability and develop techniques for calculating with probabilities and expectations: to lay the foundation of subsequent modules in probability and statistics.
To obtain a solid grounding in some applications of probability and elementary statistical concepts, with applications.
To develop skills in extracting meaning from data, presenting data graphically and summarising results in writing.
Aims to further develop skills in continuous and multivariate probability.
To impart an understanding of statistical concepts and applications.
To develop skills in extracting meaning from data, using software, and presenting results.
To develop the concepts of confidence intervals and hypothesis tests.
To apply these concepts in a variety of situations and to interpret the results of these procedures.
Graphs serve as a background for many important problems in real world applications.
This gives an understanding of this area of discrete mathematics, and develops a knowledge of graph theory applications.
Also, to introduce operational research optimisation modelling and problem solving and, in particular, linear programming (LP) problems.
To introduce algorithms for numerical optimisation and the modelling of random events.
Aims to develop the capacity to use a statistics programming language to perform computational statistics along with a variety of computational statistics methods to tackle mathematical and statistical tasks.
In particular, to study some simple mathematical and statistical models, fit these statistical models to real data, make predictions from the models, and report the results.
Career prospects for mathematicians are excellent.
Maybe you want to pursue a career that specifically uses your mathematical or statistical skills or would prefer a more general career, such as management or consultancy.
Either way, you’ll possess key skills that are highly sought after by businesses – in fact, any industry that uses modelling, simulation, cryptography, forecasting, statistics, risk analysis and probability.
We base your final degree class on your performance at Levels 2 and 3.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/mathematics-for-data-science-bsc:
G1ND
G1NK with placement
Data analytics (Big Data) is a major phenomenon in the 21st century, there is an increasing demand for data analysts trained in this area who can collate, interpret and draw value from complex data sets.
This programme brings together a range of techniques that modern data analyst needs.
You will study blocks in mathematics, statistics, data analysis and computing, and tackle a variety of interesting and engaging problems from business and industry.
A good grounding in all these subjects is essential for creating and using algorithms and systems that identify patterns and extract value from masses of data.
The course will also develop key graduate skills such as problem-solving and communication, with a third of the credits at each level based on project-oriented work where students will develop their knowledge, professionalism and creativity in a supportive environment.
As an example, in your second year, you will be introduced to neural networks and deep learning.
This important topic is at heart a powerful blend of linear algebra, nonlinear activation functions, vector calculus chain rule for gradients, and steepest descent optimisation with sampling.
These fundamental building blocks will be brought together in theory and in software so that you will be able to build your own deep learning neural net, and be able to explain the function of every part of the algorithm.
This last aspect of being able to explain the software’s function is key to the role of a mathematician as an understander as well as a user of methods, as opposed to just a consumer of software.
The emphasis throughout will be on the practical rigour associated with getting deep learning to work.
Our sandwich students find that their mathematical and transferable skills are in demand in many sectors.
At Brunel, we aim to make your transition into the university style of learning as easy as possible.
So in the first few weeks of first year you’ll start your learning in small classes, a variety of teaching styles will be introduced during this time.
By second year you’ll be learning through lectures, seminars and in computer labs.
In your final year you’ll be able to select some optional modules, allowing you to pursue your interests.
In this year you will also complete a Data Science Project, supported by an academic staff member, providing you with the opportunity to demonstrate the professional skills you’ve acquired throughout your studies.
This course emphasises the relevant mathematical and statistical underpinning while providing the essential practical training needed to function in the workplace.
Graduates from this course will possess key skills that are highly sought after by any organisations that use data analytics to make data-driven business decisions, e.g., finance, health care, logistical, manufacturing and pharmaceutical sectors, government agencies, big data processing companies, and sport.
You will attend all timetabled on-campus or online computing labs and be provided with access to the specialised software required.
Mathematics at Brunel has an active and dynamic research culture and many of our lecturers are widely published and highly recognised in their fields.
There are maths and numeracy workshops run throughout the year where you can seek support in linear algebra, calculus, LaTeX, MATLAB and more.
Our small classes at the beginning of first year mean that you’ll get to know your lecturers and be able to discuss any problems with them.
At Brunel, we realise that you might not remember everything from your previous studies and we offer plenty of opportunities to reinforce essential skills, we even offer extra help sessions throughout the academic year.
The Mathematics for Data Science BSc programme uses elements of formative and summative assessment.
Although both forms of assessment will be graded, only the summative assessment will count for progression for your final degree.
Our academics use formative assessment as a fundamental component in the learning process, including; class tests (both in paper and electronic format), electronic quizzes, and short written exercises.
Summative assessments throughout this course consist of coursework and examinations.
We base your final degree class on your performance in second and final year.
Final year carries twice the weight of second year.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/mathematics-mmath:
G100
G101 with placement
ABB - ABC inc Maths or Further Maths at grade A (A-level)
With the MMath you’ll study for a further year and bring your BSc degree to master’s standard.
You’ll study many aspects of pure and applied mathematics, together with general concepts of mathematical modelling.
In your final year you’ll be able to specialise in areas of mathematics that you’re particularly interested in.
You’ll produce a substantial research project under the guidance of a tutor in Level 3 and have the opportunity to build upon this as a MMath student.
This module aims to equip students with the basic measure-theoretic and probabilistic concepts and techniques needed for them to be able to apply the modern mathematical theory of finance, and to enable students to use methods of stochastic calculus based on Brownian motion in such a way that they are able to carry out the necessary mathematical manipulations and calculations required for use and critical assessment of the various financial models introduced in other modules of the programme.
Career prospects for mathematicians are excellent and with the MMath you’ll be one step ahead of your peers when it comes to applying for jobs.
The ‘exams to coursework’ ratio is around 50:50 in Level 1, increasing to 70:30 in Level 3.Level 2 will count towards 20% of your degree.
Level 3 and your master's year will count for 40% each.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/mathematics-with-computer-science-bsc:
G1GL
G1GK with placement
ABB - BBC inc B in Maths or Further Maths (A-level)
DMM and A-level in Maths or Further Maths at grade B.
The world relies on computers and so do most businesses and organisations.
Mathematics is the language of computer science so if you have the skills for both you’ll find a whole range of careers available to you in most sectors.
On this single honours course you’ll develop your mathematical and statistical knowledge and apply these skills to solve problems in computing, business and other areas.
Approximately two-thirds of the course is devoted to mathematical and statistical areas.
The mathematics subjects on this course focus particularly on aspects of modern algebra that relate to computer science and also include a considerable amount of numerical analysis of mathematical problems.
You have the opportunity to specialise in Level 3 so as an example, you may choose modern encryption methods as used in internet transactions.
Follow the four-year Professional Placement degree programme and you‘ll benefit from our extensive experience in helping students to find well-paid work placements with blue-chip companies.
Our sandwich students find that their mathematical, computer science and transferable skills are in demand in many sectors, both in the UK and abroad.
Approximately two-thirds of the course is devoted to mathematical and statistical subjects and one third to computer science.
An individual piece of course-work will account for one third of Level 3.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/mechanical-engineering-beng:
H303
H304 with placement
Brunel's state-of-the-art teaching facilities include flight simulators and the Brunel Motorsport Centre.
You can join our student racing team and compete in the annual Formula Student and Isle of Man TT competitions.
Mechanical engineering covers the design, development and manufacture of mechanical objects – from large-scale industrial machinery to trains, planes and automobiles to medical devices, mobile phones and millions of consumer goods.
In fact, every product, technology or system has probably been touched by a mechanical engineer.
The Brunel Mechanical Engineering BEng will give you the specialist knowledge and skills needed to get started on a lucrative career in this diverse and challenging profession.
You’ll get a solid grounding in the core principles of engineering science including solid body mechanics, thermodynamics and materials science as well as in the fundamentals of design and manufacturing.
You’ll also get training in related disciplines integral to mechanical engineering such as computing – used in modelling and predicting outcomes; electrical engineering – to gage how much energy is needed to run a machine and how it can be generated and controlled; and electronics - because parts in many machines are electronic as well as mechanical.
And, as mechanical engineers not only design many exciting products but venture into managing projects and companies, you’ll study elements of management, ethics, finance and law.
Throughout your studies you’ll have use of our modern, state-of-the-art laboratory facilities and 24-hour access to industry standard engineering design software at dedicated computer clusters on campus, so you’ll have the opportunity and equipment to explore ideas and tackle problems.
Our mechanical engineering BEng course is accredited by the Institution of Mechanical Engineers (IMechE) .
You can choose three years full-time or four years full-time with a one-year work placement between years two and three that will give you the chance to apply what you’ve learned to real-life situations.
If you start on the full-time course, you can transfer to the professional development option at any time before the end of Level 2.
In a global economy where progress depends heavily on technological innovation, graduates with the knowledge and skills to design, develop and improve the machines and processes fuelling growth are in demand.
Your Brunel BEng will give you that expertise and help open doors to a career in engineering.
The course is designed to give you an in-depth understanding of how mechanical objects work.
You’ll study the scientific principles that govern how machines operate and the design and development processes involved in creating or improving mechanical devises.
Your mechanical engineering degree consists of compulsory modules and a major independent project.
If you opt for a placement course, you will have the added bonus of putting your academic study into practice and developing ideas about future careers.
Some graduates are offered full-time graduate posts at the companies where they carried out their work placements.
Our graduates go on to work in exciting industrial, commercial and public sector areas including aviation, automotive design, building services, energy and environmental engineering, gas and water supply, oil production, mining and mineral processing, nuclear power, patent engineering, pharmaceutical engineering, banking, biomedical, the armed forces and the railways.
Many carry out much of their research in collaboration with major oil companies, plant and equipment manufacturers, and leading industrial firms.
Your course will consist of lectures, laboratory practicals, design workshops, group projects and one-to-one supervision.
You will undertake assignments, project work, reports on laboratory practicals, oral presentations and short tests.
The final degree classification is calculated from a combination of Level 2 and Level 3 grades.
Level 1 does not count towards your final degree, but you must pass the year in order to progress.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/mechanical-engineering-meng:
H301
H302 with placement
The Brunel Mechanical Engineering MEng gives students interested in pursuing careers in mechanical engineering an extra year of advanced study and training that will deepen your knowledge of the subject, expand your skill sets and put you on a fast-track to becoming a chartered engineer.
As with our Mechanical Engineering BEng degree, you’ll get a thorough grounding in the core principles of engineering science including solid body mechanics, thermodynamics and materials science as well as in the fundamentals of product design, development and manufacturing.
You’ll also get training in related disciplines integral to the profession such as computing, electrical engineering and electronics.
And, as mechanical engineers not only design exciting products but venture into managing projects and companies, you’ll study elements of management, ethics, finance and law.
In your final year, along with studying specialist topics taught at master’s degree level, you’ll take part in a major group project to design and manufacture a product.
Recent examples of projects include a novel means of filtering water and applying fuel-cell technology to motorcycles.
Our mechanical engineering MEng course is accredited by the Institution of Mechanical Engineers (IMechE) .
You can choose four years full-time or five years full-time with a one-year professional placement that will give you the chance to apply what you’ve learned to a real-life working environment.
If you start on the full-time course, you can transfer to the professional development option, which includes the placement, at any time before the end of Level 2.
In a world where business, government and society depend more and more on technology, graduates with the knowledge and skills to design and build the machines and processes driving the technological innovation are in demand, particularly those with higher qualifications.
Your Brunel MEng will give you that expertise and stand you in good stead for a rewarding career in engineering.
The course is designed to give you an in-depth understanding of how mechanical objects work and a fast-track route to qualification as a chartered engineer.
Your mechanical engineering degree consists of compulsory modules and major independent and group projects.
This module aims to present theory and practical concepts of single and two-phase heat transfer.
Students will learn to extend the analytical study of heat transfer and apply this to heat transfer equipment.
This module provides a fundamental understanding of the renewable energy systems and also explores the requirement to integrate renewable energy systems in the built environment.
Our graduates go on to work in exciting industrial, commercial and public sector areas including aviation, automotive design, building services, energy and environmental engineering, gas and water supply, oil production, mining and mineral processing, nuclear power, patent engineering, pharmaceutical engineering, banking, biomedical, the armed forces and the railways.
Many carry out much of their research in collaboration with major oil companies, plant and equipment manufacturers and leading industrial firms.
In your final year, assessment is predominantly coursework, and there are fewer exams.
This reflects the workload of projects found in the engineering industry.
The final degree classification is calculated from a combination of Level 2, Level 3 and final year grades.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/media-and-communications-bsc:
P300
P301, P302 with placement
Our media and communications degrees provide you with a critical understanding of the media in today’s world.
We have a particular focus on the social and cultural dimensions of media while providing you with industry-standard training in media production skills.
With free access to the full Adobe Creative Cloud software suite, you will gain a foundation in areas such as photography, audio-visual production, and video editing in our dedicated edit suites .
You’ll learn how this competitive industry works from a variety of perspectives while debating the latest challenges for media and society, from free speech to the disruptive or connective powers of social media and the metaverse.
Throughout your course, you’ll have access to mentoring and placement opportunities, while benefiting from our formal partnership with the British Film Institute , involving a series of careers masterclasses and media industry-ready training.
We arrange partnerships with employers and ensure that you have access to a wide range of placement opportunities throughout your course; current partners include Creative UK and CallTime Foundations .
On the three-year version of our degree you will have the option to undertake short-term work placements during your course or via the Brunel Summer Internship Programme , but if you would prefer a more substantial placement, you can apply for our four-year Media and Communications (with Placement) programmes instead.
The mix of practical media production skills and theory provides you with a wide range of career options when you graduate.
Our alumni are working at prestigious international media organisations like Disney, ITV and Sky in roles such as TV production managers, digital marketing, and public relations.
Three years after graduation, over 93% of our students are in employment or further study, compared to the sector median of 84.7%, and our media graduates earn on average £3,000 more per year than the sector mean (Discover Uni, 2023).
Because of this, our Media and Communications degree is ranked 1 st in the country for social mobility (Sutton Trust League Table 2023)
"The work placement part of the course encouraged us to get out there and network for work placements." - Anushka Ayaru
"The connections I made and skills I learned have been invaluable in the working world" - Miguel Brader
"While at Brunel I developed a range of practical media skills whilst also gaining experience within the creative industry" - Samuel Picariello
"Brunel had something special that other universities didn’t - it felt like home" - Jade Thomas
Throughout your degree you’ll be encouraged to link together theoretical and practical parts of the course as you engage in a broad-ranging study of contemporary media.
From Year 2 you’ll have the opportunity to specialise in areas of particular interest to you.
In your final year you can choose between a written dissertation or producing a multimedia project of your choice with a written element.
An introduction to the study of classical and contemporary approaches and methods in the study of culture and society via Cultural Studies.
The module presents the historical development, key debates and methodological approaches in Cultural Studies.
It will provide opportunity for critical reflection in these areas.
The module introduces students to a range of concepts and issues that underpin the ways in which everyday social life is shaped by the digital technologies.
Students will examine the implications of digital media environments for societies and journalism.
Focus is placed upon the relationship between states, societies and the media in the digital age.
This module will introduce you to the workings of various media genres and how these relate to themes of power, identify and culture and wider societal contexts.
This module provides a serious critical consideration of the role of comedy in contemporary media and society.
This role is explored in relation to comedy’s institutional, historical, social and textual conventions.
The module also explores comedy as it exists in a broad range of texts and examines the role of comedy in the construction and transmission of social difference and issues of identity.
This module will provide students with the opportunity to gain a critical overview of working in the media and cultural industries from direct encounters with creative industry professionals, companies or institutions.
It will support students’ understanding of, competence and confidence in working independently in a professional manner appropriate to the media and cultural industries.
The module explores the role played by the media in the development and maintenance of ‘empires’, and examines how we can understand media ‘empires’ via key concepts such as ‘media/cultural imperialism’, ‘public diplomacy’ and ‘intellectual property rights’.
Many of our students choose to pursue a career in marketing, events, production co-ordination, research and buying in the media industries, or PR and journalism.
There are several opportunities throughout the course to develop contacts with media industry professionals and to undertake work placements in your chosen field, along with building the modern transferable skills that are attractive to a range of employers.
On each taught module students will have in person lectures, seminars or workshops for two-to-three hours per week on average during the teaching terms.
There'll also be supervision sessions for the dissertation, as well as regular opportunities to seek guidance during module lecturers’ feedback and consultation hours.
You’ll benefit from group seminars and personal tutorials allowing you to learn in smaller groups and in one-to-one discussion.
All ideas are freely expressed leading to lively class debates.
You’ll be taught by academic specialists who draw on their cutting-edge research, publish in the best journals and are often reporting in the news.
This means that you’ll have the latest and most up-to-date content and you’ll benefit from plenty of hands-on experience.
Level 1 does not count towards your final degree mark but you must pass this level to continue with your course.
Level 2 is worth a third and Level 3 is worth the rest.
Methods of assessment vary and depend on which modules you select.
Some courses are assessed on coursework only, some by (seen or unseen) examination only, and some by a combination of the two.
A selection of some of the work our students have produced on the course can be viewed here .

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/military-and-international-history-ba:
V102
V103 with placement
Far from being just knowledge of the past, studying issues related to important world events, defence, security, intelligence and strategy are not only insightful, they’ll be highly valued in a troubled world by employers within these fields, and beyond.
A varied set of core modules will take you into scope of studying history at University, whether you’ve got a history qualification or not.
Modules like ‘What is History’ which uncovers the themes and tools used by historians and ‘Total War in the Modern Era’ , chronicling key wars and their influence, will help prepare you for the more specialist modes to follow later in the course.
A wide range of optional modules in years two and three will help you decide where your interests lie in preparation for your final year project, including the option to study intelligence and security taught by experts in the University’s internationally renowned Centre of Intelligence and Security Studies (BCISS).
Along the way, you will build a toolkit of transferable skills gained through evidence gathering, analysis, problem solving, drafting and communications, which can be applied to a wide range of industries within the public and private sector.
Your placement doesn’t have to be related to history and you’ll get plenty of support from staff and resources in the University’s Professional Development Centre.
Studying military and international history at Brunel has many advantages.
Situated in London, the course has established links to world-renowned archives and libraries based in and close to London, including the Caird Library (National Maritime Museum), The National Archives and the Imperial War Museum, among others.
Additionally, the original WWII operations bunker used by Sir Winston Churchill on the former RAF Uxbridge is a walk away from campus where Brunel students regularly volunteer.
This will equip you with the skills for your final-year dissertation
International History : This strand focuses on war, diplomacy and statecraft, including the study of intelligence and national security, the Cold War, international relations, and the impact of major armed conflicts such as the two world wars and the Arab-Israeli conflict.
Military History : This strand explores all dimensions of military history.
It focuses on different types of warfare across an extended chronology, on military strategy and theorists of war, on specific wars and their historical impact, and the relationship of conflict to broader history.
This module looks at and evaluates a range of military and political thinkers and commanders who have been influential in shaping and understanding the nature of modern warfare.
This will include those who have looked at war holistically (Grand Strategy, Strategy, Tactics and Operations) and through the prism of political thought and structures, as well as those who have considered certain distinct elements of it – e.g.
land, sea and air warfare.
History always illuminates two periods: the period under examination and the period in which the history is being written.
This module explores this dichotomy.
This module examines the concept and development of ‘Total War’ in the period from the French Revolution to the end of the Second World War.
It first introduces students to the changing nature of warfare in the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries.
It then shows students how these changes related to and impacted on the two world wars and how they were fought.
The final year military and international history dissertation provides undergraduates with the opportunity to provide evidence of abilities not usually measured by the written papers and assessments through their degree - notably the ability to work independently in a subject area of the student’s choice.
As a military historian, you will have all the skills of historians but with a specialism in war in history, preparing you for a range of careers from government, the armed forces, teaching and business to think tanks and NGOs.
Also, the closeness of the Brunel campus to central London’s world-class research facilities like the British Library, the Imperial War Museum, the Museum of London and Chatham House , means you’re only a tube ride away from a great learning day out or rare archive material for your dissertation.
Uxbridge has a unique military history, too.
Brunel is very close to the former Royal Air Force Uxbridge base which still houses the bunker where World War II operations were planned under Sir Winston Churchill.
Brunel history students volunteer there as well as in the University’s own archives with the help of the University’s Volunteering Office.
You can expect to be assessed through coursework essays, article reviews, short assignments and presentations, alongside exams.
Assessment methods and weighting can vary from module to module and exact assessment patterns vary, but most are based on a combination of coursework and formal written exams.
All modules have some element of coursework assessment.
The assessment methods of this course are designed to test your abilities in applying your knowledge and skills.
Work placement students will complete a placement log book and extended critical analysis, reflecting on professional development and its connection to the BA Military and International History course.
Year one does not count towards your final degree classification, year two is worth a third, and year three two-thirds of your final degree.
This means that you are rewarded as you get better academically over your time studying at Brunel.
In your final year you will produce a final dissertation on a history subject of your choice, under the guidance of a dissertation supervisor and this is worth a third of Level 3 marks.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/music-production-ba:
W3P1
W3P2 with placement
4.5 to 6 years part-time
Our BA in Music (Production) degree has been designed to develop your particular interests in music.
It aims to equip you with a deep understanding of today’s musical world, enabling you to working across a wide range of the musical styles and genre that make up the diversity of contemporary music-making.
In your first year you will receive an essential grounding in sound recording and processing, composition, performance and musicology.
You will be able to discuss all your musical activities with your fellow students and the teaching staff to get the constructive feedback that will help you develop.
You can choose from a range of optional modules in your second year and final year.
This means you develop your own bespoke music course to prepare you for your chosen career in the music world.
Examples of specialist options you could choose include composition, performance and interdisciplinary collaboration.
You will be taught by some of the leading figures in today’s contemporary music: sound designers, composers, performers and producers.
They are all active in the music profession, with strong connections to the music community in London, the UK and across Europe.
You will have the opportunity to collaborate with them, working together on a wide variety of creative projects.
Our music facilities include a fully sound-proofed recording studio, performance spaces for rehearsal and performances, and practice rooms equipped with keyboards, drum kits and amps.
Access is available to an editing suite with Mac computer workstations where you can work on your music using industry-standard music-processing software.
During your time at Brunel, you’ll benefit from guest lectures delivered by leading figures in the music industry.
In addition, you have the advantage of Brunel’s close location to London’s exciting music scene for planned trips to studios, shows, concerts and venues.
Our Music (Production) degree can be studied full-time over three years, four years with a placement year, or part-time over six years.
This time in the music industry will help you prepare for the world of work with a year of invaluable professional experience.
You could find yourself working in recording studios, in media and games companies, or for a live music venue.
Before you graduate you’ll have the opportunity to showcase your abilities, working alongside professional musicians.
Brunel University London promotes many concerts and other live music events where you’ll be able to network and gain feedback from visiting artists.
Watch videos and presentations about Music at Brunel, on our ' On demand ' pages.
"You might meet some of your closest friends through extra curriculars or during wider university events.
Do participate in extra curriculars to for professional and personal development too - university is the best place to develop yourself." - Ruby Wallace
"I have had many opportunities such as training as a sound engineer, getting paid for tech work and ambassador work" - Savannah Roberts
"We were encouraged not just to think this is just the way music is, but our lecturers encouraged us to be challenged in thinking how we can take this further and think outside of the box." - Jason Charles-Nelson
"Without a doubt, as a mature student, my best memory of Brunel was a combination of meeting so many other students and fantastic lecturers." - Helene Hambrook
A music degree from Brunel University London will prepare you for a broad range of employment in the music industry.
Our graduates are ready for the real world of music and launch careers as producers, sound engineers and promoters, working in the live music, recording and media industries.
Some become songwriters or performers, while others opt to work in software engineering, teaching, or journalism.
BA (Hons) Music and Music (Productions) programmes will be delivered in person on campus, through a mixture of lectures and seminars, individual and small group tutorials, drop-in sessions and discussion forums.
These may be supplemented with some online and pre-recorded materials.
Attendance is obligatory; in addition to facilitating teaching and learning, our structure of on campus in person learning develops musicianship, personal and collegial networks and well-being.
Our music undergraduate degree is delivered by professional musicians.
This means you’ll be learning from teaching staff who can give you real insight into how to develop your relationship with music from a first love into a career.
You will learn through a combination of hands-on studio workshop sessions, lectures, seminars, individual tutorials and masterclasses.
Your progress will be assessed through project work, essays, coursework portfolios, individual and group presentations, exams, and a final year Independent Production project.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/music-ba:
W300
W301 with placement
ABB – BBC (A-level)
Our Music BA degree has been designed to develop your particular interests in music-making.
It aims to equip you with a solid grounding in the craft of creativity which reflects the diversity of musical styles and genre in today’s world.
In your first year you will gain a strong understanding of composition, performance and musicology.
You will also be introduced to sonic arts and sound recording.
Your peer group of musicians will discuss, review and give you constructive feedback on your musical activities.
This means you develop your own bespoke pathway during your music course, and this prepares you for your chosen career in the music world.
Examples of specialist options you could choose include orchestration and arrangement, and taking sonic art to the stage, and interdisciplinary collaboration.
You will be taught by some of the leading figures in today’s contemporary music comprising composers, performers and musicologists.
They are performing, composing and writing books, and have strong connections with the music community in London, the UK and in Europe.
This opens up opportunities for you to collaborate with them and work together on installation projects and a huge variety of creative projects.
Our music facilities include a fully sound-proofed recording studio for rehearsals, and performance spaces and practice rooms equipped with grand pianos, drum kits and amps.
Access is available to an editing suite with Mac computer workstations where you’ll work on your music using industry standard music making software.
During your time at Brunel, you’ll benefit from guest lectures delivered by leading figures in the music industry who give advice on music promotion and how to get a gig.
In addition, you have the advantage of Brunel’s close location to London’s exciting music scene for planned trips to music concerts, festivals, galleries, and museums.
Our music undergraduate degree can be studied full-time over three years, four years with a placement year, or part-time over six years.
This time in the music industry helps you to further prepare for the world of work and you’ll have a year’s worth of invaluable professional experience when you graduate.
If you decide to go on a music work placement year, you could find yourself working at record companies, TV companies, or teaching music in a school.
You’ll have the opportunity to showcase your musical talent before you graduate alongside external musicians.
There are a variety of performances hosted by Brunel including concerts, recitals and ensembles where you’ll be able to network and gain feedback on your creativity from the visiting music artists.
Watch videos and presentations about Music at Brunel,on our ' On demand ' pages.
From the first year you will start building a professional portfolio of your project-based work.
You will plan and manage themed events and build a live website of your musical creations as part of the professional development module.
In later years you can select modules that you find interesting and that reflect your career aspirations.
You can choose a theoretical or practical-based final year project.
It could be a written dissertation, or, alternatively, a composition, performance, vocal, or an album, or electronics piece.
Our graduates are ready for the real world of music and launch careers as singers, songwriters, performance artists, and freelance musicians.
Others are working in the film industry or in music studios.
Some opt to work in event management, teaching, radio, journalism, or software engineering.
This means you’ll be learning from teaching staff who will give you real insight into how to develop your relationship with music from a first love into a career.
Study will combine lectures, seminars, individual tutorials and instrumental lessons, masterclasses and workshops, and ensemble sessions.
Your progress will be assessed via essays, coursework portfolios, group practical exercises, individual and group presentations, exams, and the final year individual project.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/nursing-adult-bsc:
B701
Are you looking for a rewarding and challenging career that you feel passionate about?
Nursing is the largest healthcare profession in the country.
As a qualified nurse you’ll be entering a highly respected profession with excellent employment prospects.
We have recently upgraded our nursing skills suite to include state-of-the-art blending learning simulation suite.
Our new Blended Learning Interactive Simulation suite ( BLISs) offers an innovative unique learning space which brings multi-sensory environments into the modern classroom giving students innovative learning experiences.
At Brunel, you’ll learn through an equal balance of theory and practice, gaining your professional experience in a variety of healthcare settings where you’ll work closely with other healthcare professionals, service users and their families.
On this programme, you’ll learn to care for adults with acute / long-term illnesses and you’ll prepare to play a vital role in health promotion and disease prevention.
Brunel is a renowned research-intensive university with an established and excellent reputation in health sciences, so you’ll be learning from the best in the field.
Through your programme in adult nursing, you’ll learn to understand the health needs of patients aged 18 and over within public health, community development and global agendas.
You’ll be supported in developing the personal skills necessary for the nursing profession.
Upon graduation, you’ll be eligible to register with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC).
As a nursing student, you'll receive at least £5,000 a year which you don't need to pay back.
See the UK government website for more information .
The NHS Values are shaped by patients, public and staff have helped develop this expression of values that inspire passion in the NHS and that should underpin everything it does.
Individual organisations will develop and build upon these values, tailoring them to their local needs.
The NHS values provide common ground for co-operation to achieve shared aspirations, at all levels of the NHS.
Through a blended learning approach, your programme will involve a mix of face-to-face learning and online learning in order to support and develop you into a highly competent practitioner within the field of adult nursing.
The programme combines theory with practice where 50 per cent of your time will be spent on practice placements within a wide range of healthcare settings.
Periods of campus-based learning will help prepare you for your practice placements.
All modules are compulsory and cover the broad spectrum of adult nursing.
Career Prospects for Nursing Graduates
Opportunities for graduates of the adult nursing pathway are continually expanding both here and overseas.
You may choose to work in a busy hospital ward with your own caseload, work in a prison or in one of the expanding primary health care areas such as a large health centre or specialist team.
Nurses are leading care innovation in many specialist areas such as intensive care, trauma nursing, cancer care and care of the older adult.
You may aspire towards becoming a Nurse Consultant where you’ll be leading, researching and making significant changes to practice.
What makes adult nursing such a challenging and rewarding career is the diversity of the situations you’ll respond to, each one providing you with job satisfaction that’s hard to find elsewhere.
Professional Registration
Successful completion of the programme also provides eligibility to apply for professional registration with regulatory bodies in other countries, for example: Canada, New Zealand, Australia and many others.
For current information on the specific requirements and registration process for each country we recommend that you consult the webpages of the relevant regulatory body.
Rights to Work in the UK for International Students
International students graduating from this programme may be eligible to apply for a Health and Care Worker Visa that provides the right to work within the UK healthcare sector.
This visa also provides the right for dependants to come to the UK and exemptions from UK health insurance surcharges.
Further information about the current benefits of the Health and Care Worker Visa and rules for applying can be found at the UKVI website .
Information on further visa options is available on our Post Study Work Options webpage .
Five GCSEs at grade C or grade 4 or above are also required, including English Language, Maths and Science.
Our English Language Requirements are:
Entry requirements are subject to review and may change.
All sessions are delivered on campus as per NMC validation.
Overall, the 3-year programme is 50% theory (minimum 2300 hours) and 50% practice (minimum 2,300 hours).
You must attend 100% of the theory component of the programme and you must complete 100% of the practice hours.
To supplement our full timetable of on-campus teaching, learning will be supported with a range of resources on our new Brightspace Virtual Learning Environment (VLE) including videos, interactive activities and quizzes.
Module leaders may offer additional revision, and or Q&A sessions via online platforms where appropriate.
A variety of teaching and learning strategies are used throughout the programme.
For example, lectures; Team Based Learning; seminars; group work; simulation; role play; case discussions; peer learning; flipped classroom.
A range of learning activities have been developed within the curriculum to allow you to experience inter-professional learning with students from other health programmes.
For example, safeguarding workshops with Social Work and Apprentice Nursing Associate students.
Feedback, Person Tutoring Hours, and Project Supervision discussions will be offered both in-person on-campus and via online platforms.
Coursework will be submitted via Wiseflow .
Both practical and written exams will be on-campus.
The programme has been designed to support the integration of physical and mental health, as well as the integration of care across health and social care.
This approach enables you to demonstrate the professional values expected to deliver high-quality evidence-informed care to all individuals, their families and their communities.
Team Based Learning engages you in activities that will help you learn how to use programme content to solve problems and explore issues relevant to your learning.
Biology seminars deliver the underpinning anatomy and physiology and this knowledge will be applied during seminars and simulation sessions.
Within skills-based teaching, key skills are demonstrated to you.
Authentic scenario-based learning will provide you with the opportunity to participate in formative simulation based on patient scenarios across all four fields of nursing.
You’ll be taught by highly qualified and research-engaged nurse academics who will ensure that everything you learn is up-to-date and relevant to the NHS care setting.
You’ll benefit from an innovative teaching approach that incorporates digital technology, team-based learning, face-to-face teaching and online learning.
Your seminars will often include polling apps, so you’ll enhance your learning by taking part in quizzes and competitions in a fun, interactive way.
Simulation is used to teach concepts relating to the care of patients.
You’ll practise your nursing skills through the mock-up of real-world nursing scenarios through simulation learning and working on manikins, so you’ll be confident and skilled when you go on your practice placements.
Throughout your course you’ll receive feedback in the form of professional conversations arising from simulated practice, written feedback and automated immediate feedback (instant feedback given through digital technology).
This will be timed in order to guide you through your studies and help you with your ongoing development.
Assessments will include written assignments, examinations, OSCE’s (objective structured clinical examinations which assess your clinical competency and confidence) and presentations.
You’ll receive assessments to resemble nursing activities in professional practice as well as testing graduate and transferable skills.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/nursing-child-health-bsc:
B702
How are the specific health needs of a child different to an adult?
How can a child’s symptoms be understood through their behaviour and reactions?
How can the whole family be supported through times of great change and stress?
These are the questions you’ll be finding the answers to as a children’s nurse.
Nursing infants, children and young people is challenging and rewarding.
If you’re compassionate, sensitive and have quick, sound judgement then you’ll thrive in a career where you can truly make a difference to children’s lives.
On this programme, you’ll learn clinical and communication skills focused on paediatric nursing.
Your placement opportunities will develop these skills and your understanding of caring in hospital and community settings.
You’ll graduate ready to start shaping the future of children’s nursing.
Upon graduation, you’ll be eligible to register with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC)
Through a blended learning approach, your programme combines face-to-face learning with online learning.
The programme integrates theory with practice and half of your time will be spent on practice placements within a range of healthcare settings.
Periods of campus-based learning will prepare you for practice placements.
All modules are compulsory and cover the broad spectrum of children’s nursing.
Employment opportunities for children’s nurses are limitless, whether within the clinical environment, research, management or education fields.
Nursing children involves caring for children from the age of 0 to 18.
You may choose to work generically or to identify a specialist area.
Children’s nurses work in a variety of settings that include general and specialist children’s wards, neonatal and children’s intensive care units, community children’s nursing teams and Accident and Emergency Departments.
After graduating, there’ll be opportunities for you to further develop evidence-based practice within the clinical environment and by continuing your studies on a range of post-registration programmes.
To supplement our full timetable of on-campus teaching, learning will be supported with a range of resources on our new Brightspace Virtual Learning Environment (VLE) including e.g.
videos, interactive activities and quizzes.
For example, Lectures; Team Based Learning; seminars; group work; simulation; role play; case discussions; peer learning; flipped classroom.
A range of learning activities has been developed within the curriculum to allow you to experience interprofessional learning with students from other health programmes.
Feedback, Personal Tutoring Hours, and Project Supervision discussions will be offered both in-person on-campus and via online platforms.
Course work will be submitted via Wiseflow .
Your seminars will often include polling tool apps, so you’ll enhance your learning by taking part in quizzes and competitions in a fun, interactive way.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/nursing-mental-health-bsc:
B703
Are you looking for a rewarding career where you can improve the quality of people’s lives?
From building therapeutic relationships through to advising patients about relevant therapies or social activities, as a mental health nurse, you’ll have a profound impact on the lives of the people you care for.
As a qualified mental health nurse, you’ll be entering a highly respected profession with excellent employment prospects.
Brunel is a renowned research-intensive university with an established and excellent reputation in health sciences so you’ll be learning from the best in the field.
On this programme, you’ll gain the clinical and communication skills required to support individuals and their families through their recovery process.
You’ll learn about the new and emerging concept of trauma informed care and gain the knowledge and experience to work within community, primary and acute care settings.
You’ll be given the skills to work with patients with psychosis, anxiety and conditions such as mood-related, organic and neurodevelopmental disorders.
You’ll also learn to support individuals affected by the use of psychoactive substance use.
At Brunel, you’ll learn through an equal balance of theory and practice.
Your placement opportunities will develop your skills and understanding of caring in hospital and community settings.
You’ll graduate ready to support patients in gaining the confidence to take the first steps in changing their lives.
The programme integrates theory with practice, and your time will be split evenly between periods of campus-based learning and your practice placements.
All modules are compulsory and cover the broad spectrum of mental health nursing.
Career Prospects for Graduates
Upon graduating, your employment prospects will be excellent.
Mental health nursing involves working with children, young people, adults and older adults who may be affected by a range of mental health conditions.
Caring for people with mental health problems is rapidly shifting from hospital to the community, with integrated care being the preferred model.
Employment opportunities range from acute inpatient wards, community mental health teams, primary care mental health teams, forensic settings to child and adolescent settings.
Supporting people back from the point of mental illness to good mental health is a valuable, satisfying and deeply fulfilling area of nursing practice.
Feedback, Person Tutoring Hours, and Project Supervision discussions will be offered both in person on campus and via online platforms.
Your seminars will often include polling apps so you’ll enhance your learning by taking part in quizzes and competitions in a fun, interactive way.
You’ll practise your nursing skills through the mock-up of real-world nursing scenarios through simulation learning and working on manikins, so you’ll be confident and skilled when you go on your practice placements to deliver person-centred holistic care.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/occupational-therapy-bsc:
B920
AAB-BBB  (A-level)
The human body is amazing but when things go wrong, either mentally or physically, people often aren’t able to do activities that matter to them.
What are the barriers to activity?
Are there ways to overcome these barriers?
These are the questions you’ll be finding the answers to as an Occupational Therapist.
At Brunel, you’ll be integrating theory with practice.
You’ll learn to examine the physical, psychological and contextual aspects of a patient.
This can be from the acute stage through to the general rehabilitation in the community.
You’re encouraged to be creative in your approach and to develop ways to solve their problems; for instance, you could be helping someone who has had an amputation to use a wheelchair and identifying ways to have their kitchen adapted.
On the course, you’ll be encouraged to use your own skills and hobbies to aid rehabilitation which can be anything from art or music to hair braiding.
You’ll learn to use research and literature and to look at evidence to help your understanding of a patient’s condition.
Eventually you’ll learn the skills to create your own research.
If you’re positive, a motivator, good at coming up with solutions to problems and looking for a career that’s rewarding and really makes a difference to people’s lives then this is the course for you.
Financial Support
Studying at university can be financially challenging so here at Brunel, we want to draw your attention to the UK Government support scheme – NHS Learning Support Fund (LSF) aimed to reduce this cost burden.
This scheme is aimed primarily at British Nationals and British residents.
There are some eligibility criteria to be met but it means that eligible students can access a non-means tested grant of £5,000 for each academic year of study and more info can be found here.
This grant does not need to be paid back and neither are you committed to working in the NHS on graduating and registering.
Please note that the application process and awarding of this grant is totally independent of the university, and unfortunately, are unable to advise or intervene on your behalf.
Further information including a short video can be found here .
It’s likely that all students going on clinical placements will incur some travel expenses in excess of their normal travel to and from the university.
Very occasionally, students may have a travel journey in excess of 2 hours each way to and from placement in which case they would be eligible to stay local to their placement during the working week which would naturally incur extra expenditure for accommodation too.
UK students are eligible for reimbursement of excess travel or accommodation costs incurred due to undertaking practical training on a clinical placement.
This money does not need to be paid back and further information can be found here .
In addition to the basic Training Grant - UK students who have parental responsibility for a child may be eligible for an additional grant of £2000 for each academic year.
This grant does not need to be paid back and further information can be found here .
UK students may apply for an additional exceptional support grant of up to £3000 for each academic year which does not need to be paid back.
Further information can be found here.
To register for an NHS Training Grant, you will need to set up a Learning Support Fund Account which takes around 5 minutes.
Click here to start the process.
And remember that you can still apply for a re-payable student loan in addition to the NHS Training Grant.
This scholarship is for full-time, international students only.
Got a question about this course?
Check out our FAQ's page .
For Clearing, call 01895714580 .
The course integrates theory with practice.
Periods of campus-based study will prepare you for practice placements, and then information and experience gained on placements provides much of the case study material used in university study.
There is also a mix of individual and group work.
Your course will follow four themes which will form the basis of your learning throughout the three years.
These themes are:
Occupation The word ‘occupation’ in occupational therapy refers to people’s everyday activities such as work, hobbies, looking after yourself etc.
You’ll learn human biology (anatomy and physiology) and psychology, which will inform you how illness or chronic disease can affect a person’s ability to carry out these daily activities.
Enquiry You’ll learn to read literature and research and evaluate evidence.
You’ll be taught about the research process and how it applies in the context of being a health professional.
You will become proficient users of existing research, be able to help your patients to understand what it means and eventually you’ll have the skillset to create your own research projects.
Professional performance You’ll learn the professional language and terminology used in occupational therapy and be able to use clinical reasoning.
You’ll understand and use a range of occupational therapy procedures.
As an occupational therapist you’ll be dealing with vulnerable people in society so this theme also covers the importance of professional integrity and conduct.
Practical skills You’ll learn how to assess patients, work out their difficulties and to resolve their problems.
This can be helping people with dementia to maintain their quality of life, working with people with physical difficulties to help them with self-care and independent living techniques or working with mental health patients to redevelop either social or vocational skills.
These are just a few examples.
Our purpose-built Keep Living Suite and our specialist equipment will help you to learn about the type of equipment you will use when you’re working as an occupational therapist.
You’ll learn to fit equipment such as commodes and bath seats, how to advise patients on sitting positions, desk or table configurations and the use of equipment in bedrooms, bathrooms and kitchens.
There are opportunities on campus and as part of your course to help with Brunel’s wheelchair basketball team, use sensory integration equipment and help with children who have developmental coordination disorder.
Brunel is the top-ranked university in London for Occupational Therapy (Complete University Guide 2022)
This initial module helps students become aware of the profession of occupational therapy and the theory that guides it, including occupational science.
There is a focus on what being a professional means and why people engage in occupations to enrich their lives.
The module includes 70 hours of volunteering experience in the community, to inform reflection about professional communication skills and the importance of engaging in occupations, alongside personal development.
In this module students start to explore occupational therapy theory to understand the biological, social and psychological challenges of aging including common physical, mental health and social issues experienced by older people.
Study will help students understand how occupational therapists work with older people and their carers, to help them maintain, build and learn new ways to engage in valued occupations both at home and in the community.
Students learn about evidence based occupational therapy in this area and a range of practical skills that are valued by older people.
Students continue to study occupational therapy theory, here to explore a range of biological, social and psychological challenges experienced by working age adults.
Theory and practical skills sessions help students develop more understanding about how occupational therapists can work with adults to maintain, build and learn new ways to enhance their occupationas at work, home and in lesiure settings.
Underlying sciences in this and other enabling occupation modules include anatomy, mental health practice and exploring cultural influences on people engaging in occupations.
This module introduces students to understanding the importance of research and other forms of professional evidence that inform their practice and approach to academic study.
The learning helps students become confident in finding, reading and interpreting the right kind of quality evidence to support their learning about occupational therapy.
This small module prepares students for live placement settings with members of the public by ensuring they meet the necessary conduct, health and training requirements for placement.
There is a 40 hour simulated placement experience to rehearse some of the skills, examine fundamental knowledge for practice and explore the demands of working in an occupational therapy environment.
This placement module is for students who have suceeded in placement 1A.
Students will spend 4 weeks in a professional occupational therapy setting with a registered occupational therapist, who is their practice placement educator.
The placement allows students opportunities to see and participate in occupational therapy in that setting, as well as engage with professional supervision and feedback.
This module enables students to focus on the skills that are needed to work well with a range of people, including understanding group dynamics.
The advantages of working with colleagues from other professions and agencies will be highlighted.
The module includes 90 hours of volunteering experience in the community, which will inform reflection and personal development about the importance of using occupation with people accessing occupational therapy services.
In this module, students are encouraged to take a public health perspective to working with groups and communities, helping their health and wellbeing from an occupational perspective.
Students are encouraged to think broadly about developments in the profession, and consider co-production methods to working in diverse settings with people who have needs in common.
Whether working with communities at a local, national or international setting, this module enables students to focus on a group or community of their choice and how occupational therapy can help people live healthier lives.
Students examine occupational therapy theory alongside developmental, biological, social and psychological challenges for children and young people.
Theory and practical skills sessions help students develop their existing understanding and apply this to the work of the occupational therapist when helping younger people to gain occupational independence at school, home and in leisure or play settings.
Underlying sciences include a focus on child development as well as guiding principles for working with families.
This module builds on developing understanding of research methods and other means of gathering evidence in practice settings, such as service evaluations and audits in occupational therapy.
The module is designed to help students think about how research is designed and what reasoning guides those decisions.
Students will spend 12 weeks in a professional occupational therapy setting with a registered occupational therapist, who is their practice placement educator.
The placement allows students opportunities to be involved in offering occupational therapy services, apply the theory they have learnt and work alongside people using the service, their carers and colleagues.
They will engage with professional reflection, supervision and feedback.
This module enables students to think about the organisational structures that shape how occupational therapy services are delivered and what policy, legislation and professional guidance influence this.
Examining leadership skills will inform students to appreciate expectations to become leaders at a qualified level with the resilience required to work along change, provide a quality occupational therapy service, be aware of the impact of digitalisation and be both effective and efficient.
Students use this module to explore some specialised areas of practice that can shape their career development when they become experienced occupational therapists.
As well as developing a project to examine a speciality of their choice, students will have practical skills sessions to experience some specialise techniques and discuss their application within occupational therapy.
This module allows students to work collegiately alongside colleagues and with a research supervisor in formulating a research protocol.
They will used confident reasoning to select and justify a suitable research method for a chosen research project of interest to occupational therapists.
The module is designed to help students think about the logistics of research and its ethical implications.
Students will spend a final 12 weeks in a contrasting professional occupational therapy setting from placement 2, again with supervision from a registered occupational therapist.
The placement allows students opportunities to particpate in occupational therapy services showing the responsibilities and skills they will need as registered practitioners.
They will apply and evaluate the theory they have learnt in practice when working alongside people using the service, their carers and colleagues.
They will be responsble for a small service development project in liason with the setting and engage with professional reflection, supervision and feedback.
This module encourages students to look beyond graduation.
With emphasis on the professional obligations of qualified practice and career development, the module will enable students to be proactive in securing their first post as competent practitioners.
The module helps equip students with the knowledge required to inform their continuing professional development and lifelong learning.
After graduating you are eligible to apply for registration with the UK Health and Care Professions Council in order to practise as an occupational therapist.
You’ll be able to work in areas such as physical rehabilitation, mental health settings, with children in schools or clinics and with people with learning disabilities, based at a hospital or as part of a community reablement team.
As well as opportunities to work in the health and social care sector there’s also demand for occupational therapists in the voluntary sector, private practice, schools and industry.
Some graduates go on to become case managers, expert witnesses, work with engineers to design equipment or start up their own business or private practice.
In your final year the Professional Practice module covers essential areas such as continuing professional development, preparing for interviews and developing a personal statement designed to help you make strong job applications.
Successful completion of the programme also provides eligibility to apply for professional registration with regulatory bodies in other countries, for example: Canada, New Zealand, Australia, Hong Kong, Singapore, Ireland and India and many others.
Information on further visa options is available on our Post Study Work Options webpage
Five GCSEs at grade C or grade 4 or above are also required, including English Language and Maths.
All shortlisted applicants will be interviewed.
Please check our Admissions pages for more information on other factors we use to assess applicants as our full GCSE requirements and accepted equivalencies in place of GCSEs.
A satisfactory health declaration is required.
Mature students: A high percentage of our intake are mature students, and these applicants are considered on individual merit, relevant work experience and evidence of recent academic achievement.
Grade C or grade 4 at GCSE in both English and Maths is required.
Please note: This course may involve regular access to children and/or vulnerable adults, also known as regulated activity.
Where this is the case, students are required to complete an Enhanced Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) application.
The application currently costs £51.86, but this is subject to change.
For the most up to date information please visit the Home office website.
The University will send you more information as part of your admissions process.
For further guidance please Contact Admissions.
The course comprises practical sessions and seminars supported by lectures as well as preparation tasks that you'll need to complete before attending practical sessions / seminars.
All seminars and workshops will be delivered on campus to enhance practical learning, smaller group discussion, and team-based learning.
You're required to attend these sessions and will have access to equipment and participate in the campus sessions which will enhance your learning and clinical and practical skill.
Lectures will consist of a combination of pre-recorded, online and campus lectures.
You'll be required to view all pre-recorded introductory lectures to study blocks and will have the opportunity to participate in Q and A sessions.
Pre-recorded and online lectures will allow international guest lecturers and clinical lecturers to deliver content and you'll be required to engage with post lecture tasks to apply the knowledge you have gained.
Campus lectures will cover core or practical based content which may include demonstration and use of equipment to aid skills learning.
These lectures will be recorded so that you can view the content again and, where possible streamed live to students who may not be able to attend on campus.
You're expected to attend all core and practical based lectures on campus and participate in the sessions.
Assessments will consist of essays to be submitted via Wiseflow , practical exams, short vivas, a mix of on-campus in-person invigilated written and OSCE exams, individual and group presentations and clinical placements.
If you have any concerns about accessing a suitable device, please complete and return this form to enquire about the University's loan laptop scheme.
You’ll be taught by lecturers who are still active in their field and have close links with colleagues in the NHS, social services and voluntary organisations around London.
This means that you’ll have the opportunity to go to some of the top hospitals in the world such as the National Hospital for Neurology at Queens Square and Imperial Hospital.
You’ll also benefit from their up-to-date practical expertise.
At Brunel, we have an impressive record of research and innovation and many of our lecturers have produced publications in the field.
You’ll benefit first-hand from their leading-edge findings and this will form part of your course.
As you progress through your degree studies, your performance in all modules will be assessed.
A variety of authentic assessment tools are used, reflecting the skills and demands needed to be a qualified occupational therapist.
This includes reports, presentations, academic posters and practical skills assessments You will be assessed on each practice placement and must pass these in order to graduate.
Assessments during year 2 and year 3 studies (academic levels 5 and 6), will determine the classification of degree you will be awarded.
As in all universities, Brunel assessments are subject to review by external examiners to ensure that common standards are maintained across all degrees.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/physiotherapy-bsc:
B160
AAB - ABB (A-level)
DDM with an A-level grade B in Biology or Human Biology, Physics, Chemistry, Maths, Psychology or PE  (BTEC)
The human body is a complex machine, but what happens when movement becomes a challenge?
This course trains the next generation of physiotherapists to use scientific knowledge and patient-assessment in helping to improve the physical well-being of their patients or optimising sports professionals’ physical performance.
Brunel’s Physiotherapy course is designed to be hands-on and practical.
Our Mary Seacole Building is purpose-built for Physiotherapy and Occupational Therapy.
The rooms reflect the type of clinical environments that you will work in when you graduate and you’ll learn your practical skills here as you’ll have the opportunity to practice on patients visiting the university and on your fellow students.
This means that you’ll be confident and experienced in time for your first placement.
At Brunel we understand the value of making the most of your 1,000 hours of clinical experience.
By starting placements in year two, you’ll be able to fully immerse yourself and practice the skills you have learned in year one.
Your placements will all be practical learning experiences, not just observational.
You’ll study modules covering a vast range of specialist areas within physiotherapy.
You’ll learn the skills necessary to analyse patient symptoms and develop treatment plans.
You’ll also learn to assess the effectiveness of your treatments.
This is a skill which is vital to working as a physiotherapist.
Our graduates are equipped with a strong scientific foundation and the practical skills required to be first-rate physiotherapists.
This is reflected in our employment figures with 100 per cent of our physiotherapy students being in work or study six months after graduating.
There are some eligibility criteria to be met but basically UK students are eligible for a non-means tested grant of £5,000 for each academic year of study.
More info can be found here.
Please note that the application process and awarding of this grant is totally independent of the university.
We are unable to advise or intervene on your behalf.
So, it’s great that UK students are eligible for reimbursement of excess travel or accommodation costs incurred due to undertaking practical training on a clinical placement.
This money does not need to be paid back.
Further information can be found here .
This grant does not need to be paid back.
UK students may apply for an additional exceptional support grant of up to £3000 for each academic year.
To register for an NHS Training Grant, you will need to set up a Learning Support Fund Account – which takes around 5 minutes.
And remember too that you can still apply for a re-payable student loan in addition to the NHS Training Grant.
Dean’s International Scholarship: this course is eligible for a £2,000 fee waiver, per academic year, subject to availability.
this Scholarship is for full-time international students only.
Career Prospects for Physiotherapy Graduates
With increasing demand across healthcare sectors worldwide, our graduates enjoy near 100% employability and opportunities for career advancement.
From government hospitals to private practice, sports organisations, and major corporations, our programmes prepare you for success.
Designed to meet international regulators' standards, our graduates have excellent prospects in the UK and for global mobility, making them sought-after professionals in their preferred countries.
Successful completion of the programme provides eligibility to apply for statutory registration with the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) and full membership of the Chartered Society of Physiotherapy.
Successful completion of the programme also provides eligibility to apply for professional registration with regulatory bodies in other countries, for example: Canada, New Zealand, Australia, Hong Kong, USA, Ireland and India and many others.
Learners will spend 12 weeks in a professional occupational therapy setting with a registered occupational therapist, who is their practice placement educator.
The placement allows learners opportunities to be involved in offering occupational therapy services, apply the theory they have explored in university and work alongside people using the service, their carers and colleagues.
We expect all applicants to have thoroughly researched the profession prior to applying for the physiotherapy programme.
This research requires review of the CSP website and other relevant web sites/literature and an observational clinical experience is advised.
Applicants will be short listed from their UCAS forms on the basis of their academic profile and their insight into the profession.
Short listed applicants will be required to attend a Selection Day.
Standard entrants:
These are the requirements which we would normally expect from applicants under the age of 21 at the proposed point of entry onto the programme.
For all standard entry applicants, we normally expect 7 GCSEs or equivalent at grade B or grade 5 or above including two science subjects and Maths.
English Language is also required at grade C/4 or above.
Non-standard entrants / mature students:
These are the requirements which we would normally expect from applicants over the age of 21 at the proposed point of entry onto the programme.
Non-standard entrants and mature students (over the age of 21 years) are welcome and considered on an individual basis.
However applicants are normally required to provide evidence of formal academic study of Human Biology/Biology to A-level standard or equivalent within the four years prior to the start of the programme.
For all non-standard entry applicants a minimum of 5 GCSEs or equivalent at Grade B/5 or above are required.
Maths and English Language at grade C/4 is also required.
A selection of possible entry level academic qualifications is given below:
Advice for mature students:
In order to present us with enough detail on which to base a decision we ask that you:
Document your full academic history on the UCAS form and not just give us your most recent qualifications(s).
Access students please list only the modules you intend to study, not all the ones available for study.
Remember that we require GCSEs in English Language and Maths – we do not accept equivalents offered as part of an Access diploma.
Present documentary proof of previous academic achievements at the point of course enrolment.
Health and the Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) check
In addition to meeting our entry criteria and a satisfactory selection day outcome, applicants under offer must demonstrate satisfactory health declaration and complete a satisfactory enhanced Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) application, previously known as a (CRB) check.
All methods have been designed to maximise the level of interaction and engagement with tutors and fellow students.
All modules will be delivered on campus via in-person teaching.
You'll therefore be required to attend campus for all modules.
Each module will be supported by the provision of additional online learning.Campus-based teaching will be delivered in small group tutorials within our purpose-built clinical skills rooms.
They will be a source of support and will help you to make the most of your studies and time at university.
You will have scheduled tutor meetings and be able to access your tutor as required, either online or via face-to-face meetings on campus.
A variety of assessment formats will be used to support your learning.
This will include campus-based clinical assessments and online exams.
Clinical Placements
You'll be supported by our dedicated clinical placements team, and allocated placements within the NHS and other healthcare organisations within the UK.
The schedule of teaching and assessment has been developed to maximise your enjoyment and support during the programme.
Through the provision of campus-based teaching we will provide an engaging and stimulating programme that helps you to maximise your learning and professional development in preparation for clinical practice.
Brunel’s Physiotherapy programme is the largest of its kind in London and one of the largest in the UK.
This means that we have an academic team with specialists in every area of physiotherapy.
Most of our academics currently work in hospitals and other clinical settings so they will be teaching you up-to-date scientific knowledge and patient-assessment skills.
Our lecturers are also active in research and often contribute to the development of professional guidelines so you know you’re being taught by practising physiotherapists with a high profile in the sector.
Our teaching approaches are diverse and you’ll benefit from practical groups, keynote lectures and small tutorial groups.
Our students are extremely well prepared for their placements, which is why clinicians in South East England consistently rate 98% of them as excellent or very good on their final practice placement.
You will be assessed through a mixture of written exams, practical vivas, practical exams, written assignments and your clinical placement assessment record.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/politics-and-history-bsc:
LVG1
LVF1 with placement
If you’re interested in politics and history, you don’t have to substitute one for the other.
Why not study both in a combined degree?
You’ll find they complement each other in so many ways.
What is modern politics anyway but a reflection of yesterday’s political decisions?
Politics and history at Brunel is a dynamic combination of high level study in both subjects.
Your politics studies will help you address critical questions like: Who has political power?
Why do they have it?
And in whose interest do their exercise it?
Meanwhile, your studies in history will take you back into the societies of the past in Britain, Europe and the wider world to help you understand contemporary issues all the more.
Both subjects will help to demonstrate your intellectual acumen and understanding of world affairs, which will be an asset in so many fields of work.
Whether you’re studying modern Africa, imperialism or intelligence and security, you’ll not just learn about them – you’ll be analysing them using the tools of political science or craft of the historian to help deepen your understanding and critical thinking.
It’s a competitive world out there, so you’ll get plenty of support from your lecturers and the University’s Professional Development Centre to help prepare you for your placement year and the world of work.
Why not increase your career options with an accredited journalism course, a free modern language course, or a social media internship?
You can even opt to study part of your degree abroad in one of our partner universities in Europe, or participate in an exchange programme to China or the USA.
It’s all available at Brunel to help you make a difference in the world – now and in the future.
Brunel politics and history graduates enter diverse careers.
"The work placements were a big draw, particularly the opportunity to study in America and work in Congress." - Mark Edwards
History (compulsory elements) : This strand focuses on the history of Britain, Europe and the wider world.
History (elective elements) : This strand builds on the strand above.
You will be able to develop specialisms in the history of Africa and America or focus on diplomacy and war or study issues of race, gender and identity.
Politics (compulsory elements) : This strand equips you with tools to understand contemporary politics at every level.
It will focus on political thought as well the differences between diverse political systems (including Britain).
You will also you develop the tools for sustained research in political science.
Politics (elective elements) : This strand builds on the strand above.
You will be able to study the policies and political systems of other countries, political behaviour and elections and issues of race, culture, identity and public policy.
The aim of this module is to examine and evaluate the major issues and controversies in the study of elections, voting behaviour and political parties in Britain, and to provide a basis for comparative analysis.
It seeks to provide a sophisticated examination of changing election outcomes, changing electoral behaviour, party ideology, party organisation and party systems.
This module examines the way our society provides safety nets for people in poverty, how these policies are changing, and how well they work.
Using policy case studies from the UK, US and Europe, we look at a range of evidence to understand how well modern welfare states work, attitudes towards welfare programmes and recipients, and future policy challenges.
A major attraction of our courses is the wide variety of career opportunities to which they can lead.
Some go into Politics and the civil service and have worked for Members of the Parliament such as John McDonnell MP, or former Labour party general secretary Baroness McDonagh.
Other graduates have joined the Foreign and Commonwealth Office, the Home Office, GCHQ and military intelligence.
Many have gone on to work in public and private sector organisations, such as Chase Manhattan, Marks and Spencer, British Airways, Coca Cola Schweppes, HSBC, and the NHS Confederation.
Significant numbers have taken further training to pursue careers in broadcasting, journalism, law, and teaching at every level.
A degree in history equips you for work as a researcher, teacher or librarian, as well as for careers in the museum and heritage sectors, in NGOs and government agencies, the civil service etc.
Past students have also gained employment in company management, business, consultancy and law practice.
As a student of Politics and History BSc you'll have the convenience of studying within the joint subject area of the Department of Politics and History where your lecturers are all part of the same friendly team who understand the interconnectedness of the two subjects.
You’ll learn in lectures (main classes) and seminars (smaller classes focused on exchanging ideas) by academic staff who are internationally known for publishing and presenting papers worldwide and may even have written some of the books you studied at school or college.
Several are paid consultants to government departments including the Cabinet Office and the Home Office in the UK, the Council of Europe and the Georgian Ministry of Defence.
Others like the historian, Professor Matthew Hughes, are internationally known for their research in military or modern history.
Also, the closeness of the Brunel campus to central London’s world-class research facilities like the British Library, Westminster, Whitehall and Chatham House means you’re never too far from a great learning day out or rare archive material for your dissertation.
In your final year you will produce a final dissertation on a politics or history subject of your choice under the guidance of a dissertation supervisor.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/politics-and-sociology-bsc:
LLH2
LL23 with placement
Politics and Sociology at Brunel is a dynamic combination of high level study in both subjects.
And in whose interest do they exercise it?
Meanwhile, your studies in sociology will look at subjects like sociological theory, social identities, the sociology of everyday life and the changing nature of modern societies.
You’ll be studying people, societies and how people live, and on the other how they are governed or want to be governed.
Both subjects will help to demonstrate your intellectual acumen and understanding of world affairs and real life issues, which will be an asset in so many fields of work.
Whether you’re studying modern world politics or the development of social change and transformations, you’ll not just learn about them, you’ll be analysing them using the tools of political science and social science to help deepen your understanding and critical thinking.
Opt for a placement year and you'll gain valuable experience to help give you the edge in the job market when you come to graduate.
Past students have secured placements in the Home Office, HM Treasury, the House of Commons, and the Competition Commission, but the list of possibilities is endless.
But why not increase your career options with an accredited journalism course, a free modern language course, or a social media internship?
Brunel graduates of this subject enter diverse careers.
Some go into politics and the civil service, some are at GCHQ and military intelligence, and some go on to further study or into research.
Others go into the public sector – the NHS, social or care work, education or in local authorities, while others go into the private sector working for international banks, business consultancy, law, NGOs, the media and marketing.
The opportunities are endless.
"The highlight of this experience was to be able to work with incredible and resilient women in Mayukwayukwa, Zambia on my project to develop reusable sanitary pads." - Martina Lastikova
"Brunel helped me to develop an interest in working as a part time Community Worker" - Suk Yan Agnes Shuen
"Brunel helped me figure out who I was and what I wanted to do.
It gave me confidence and the drive to get what I want!" - Lily Quarton-Parsons
"Studying sociology at Brunel was amazing!
The lecturers are passionate about their subjects and incredibly supportive, making the learning process engaging and enjoyable.
With a wide range of modules to choose from, the  Sociology program offers a diverse and enriching perspective on global issues as well as other important employability skills such as navigating SPSS software.
It was a great pleasure to be part of this course!" - Imogen Atkinson
Sociology : This strand focuses on our understanding of human behaviour.
It places a special emphasis on culture, society and media as well as the social, economic and political forces that drive human interaction at all levels.
In this module you will acquire a broad knowledge of the policy instruments available to government in the forming of policies, using case studies to examine how policy tools work in the real world.
Along the way you will develop the ability to critically appraise, orally and in written arguments, the strengths and weaknesses of policy instruments and the optimal choice and combination required to achieve a policy goal.
This module will survey current debates around the idea of global sociology.
It will address contrasting theories of global sociology as well as specific issues raised by the subject including the debates around the idea of sociology as a global discipline as opposed to one that takes nation-states as its starting point of analysis.
Past students have gone on to further training in law, accountancy, personnel management and other graduate degrees.
They have joined the Civil Service (fast stream), have gone into publishing, journalism and the media including BBC Radio and Granada Television, have entered major financial and accountancy firms such as PriceWaterhouseCoopers and Lloyds Bowmaker Finance Group, and have entered the fields of management and marketing with firms such as Ford, Metal Box and Rank Xerox.
Politics students benefit from excellent career prospects – graduates have gone on to become politicians, have joined local and national government organisations, or work in the private sector.
Sociologists are in increasing demand in many sectors in social welfare and policy, in local government and administration (including lobbying, campaigning and fundraising), in medicine, in education and research, and in industry.
If you are thinking of a career in any of these fields, it may also be possible to select work experience in these areas.
There are also openings available in business, particularly marketing and advertising, management, media, and recruitment, as well as computing, consultancy and teaching.
The majority of your learning will be in your own private study, so during your first term, you'll be encouraged to become an independent learner - capable of managing your work and organising your studies.
The Brunel library also hosts a number of academic skills courses to help you.
You’ll be taught in lectures (main classes) and seminars (smaller classes focused on exchanging ideas) by staff who are internationally known for publishing and presenting papers worldwide which will help to keep degree content cutting edge and relevant.
Several politics lecturers are paid consultants to government departments including the Cabinet Office and the Home Office in the UK, the Council of Europe and the Georgian Ministry of Defence.
Others like sociology lecturer, Dr Sharon Lockyer, specialise in humour and comedy, and you can even take a module on that as part of your course.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/politics-bsc:
L200
L202 with placement
Who has political power?
To whom are they accountable?
Is violent protest ever justified?
If these questions evoke a response in you and raise more questions in turn, politics is the degree for you.
Politics is an exciting and dynamic subject, simulating debate and offering insight into how the ever-changing world around us works.
It’s also a degree that can demonstrate your intellectual acumen and understanding of world affairs, which will be an asset in many fields of work.
The broad-based nature of the course at Brunel means you will be studying a wide breadth of modules from British politics to US foreign policy and political change.
But you’ll not only be learning about politics – you’ll be analysing politics using the tools of political science to help deepen your understanding and critical thinking.
Whichever route you chose, a politics degree with Brunel will set you up for a successful future.
"My best memory of studying at Brunel was winning the NUS / Daily Mirror Diversity Award for my writing’s in the Route 66 magazine" - Jay Singh-Sohal
"Brunel were happy to support my particular study needs.
I had very good support from the Assistive Technology and Study Skills teams to give me the support that I needed." - Ekua Cant
"Having leading experts at the University is a strong asset – Brunel offers the best" - Kerri-Anne Price
British Politics : The focus of this strand is the United Kingdom: what it looks like, how it operates and where it is going.
Key topics will include the nature and working of the British state, the role and function of Parliament and how parties and voters interact.
Public Policy and Public Administration : The focus of this strand is how government decisions, i.e.
public policy, is developed, implemented and evaluated and by whom.
This will include contentious areas of public policy, for instance welfare policy.
It will also look at how public policy is assessed and analysed and the means by which its success (or failure) is judged and what tools can used to increase the success of implementing policy proposals.
Also, the proximity of the Brunel campus to central London’s world-class research facilities, the British Library, Westminster and Whitehall, means you'll be best placed to immerse yourself in an established political arena.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/product-design-engineering-bsc:
W2H1
BSc: W2HP with placement
AAA - ABB  (A-level)
Our Product Design Engineering BSc degree is for creative thinkers who are also comfortable with logical reasoning and who enjoy deeper analysis of functional and technical design challenges, principally focused on industrially-manufactured products.
The course spans design and engineering, meaning you can develop products and systems with good form and function.
You'll have access to modern facilities that include dedicated design studios, digital sketching, extensive prototyping workshops, and electronics and digital fabrication labs.
The practical knowledge you gain is transferable to industry and provides a head start for your future career as a designer and design engineer in the modern world.
Our design course can be studied 3 years full-time or 4 years full-time with placement , starting in September.
Our students have worked in both small innovation start-ups and multinational organisations such as Dyson, Jaguar Land Rover, Philips, Procter & Gamble, and Reckitt Benckiser.
This short video features a student on placement as a toy inventor.
The BSc Product Design Engineering course option is fully accredited and recognised by the Institution of Engineering Designers (IED), the premier professional body representing engineering and product designers.
The first two years contain a balanced blend of creative and technical subjects and mechanics and electronics are taught at a theoretical level.
In your final year, you move on to more specialised areas and you’ll become familiar with computer aided design, engineering and manufacturing software, applying these methods and tools to design practice.
Your major project is likely to include a functional prototype incorporating mechanics and/or electronics.
Aim : To provide students with a foundation in Electronic Engineering, relevant Mathematical knowledge and electronic components in terms of functionality and applications.
This module will introduce students to electronic systems, interfacing, and high-level software design methods, and to provide an opportunity to apply the knowledge gained in a practical setting.
Basic IoT applications will also be covered as part of the electronics component.
They will demonstrate the comprehensive skills acquired through their academic programme and apply these to define a product design engineering opportunity.
From the insights and definition gained during their major project research module, students will combine all the skills acquired during their course to develop an innovative product design engineering proposal, demonstrating problem solving using critical technical judgements and engineering approaches.
They will also design and robustly test electronic circuits using various electronic boards and microcontrollers to produce viable design applications.
Graduates of Brunel Design School have gone on to work for well-known companies, including Disney, Dyson, JCB, Jaguar Land Rover, Philips and Cambridge Consultants.
*Progression to the MDes year will be following the successful completion of 3rd year and based on the current university entry requirement of a 2:2

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/product-design-engineering-mdes:
W2H2
W2HR with placement
Design at Brunel is ranked 8 th in the UK by QS World University Rankings by subject 2022.
Our graduates are high earners - The Guardian University Guide 2024 ranks Brunel design graduates top in the UK for earnings after 15 months, while government figures also show Brunel design graduates rank no.1 for graduate earnings in the UK.*
The programme follows the same first three years as Product Design Engineering MDes, with an additional fourth year that raises the qualification to master's level.
Our design course can be studied 4 years full-time, or 5 years full-time with placement , starting in September.
The MDes Product Design Engineering course option is fully accredited and recognised by the Institution of Engineering Designers (IED), the premier professional body representing engineering and product designers.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/psychology-sport-health-and-exercise-bsc:
C802
C803, C805 with placement
4 Years full-time with placement
Psychology in Sport, Health and Exercise is an area of growing interest, particularly in the world of professional sport.
By studying the link between the mind and the body, we can understand things like motivation and determination, and the effect that physical activity has on the brain.
It is the ideal course for students interested in a career in the psychology of sport, exercise and physical activity.
This course is jointly delivered two by Divisions: Psychology and Sport, Health and Exercise Sciences and is accredited by the British Psychological Society.
The Division of Psychology offers a firm foundation in psychology including cognitive, developmental, and biological psychology.
You will learn how to do quantitative and qualitative research to support experiments you may carry out for your dissertation.
The Division of Sport, Health and Exercise Sciences will cover the fundamentals of sports psychology, and how to apply research knowledge to real-world situations.
You will learn about experiences you may encounter as an applied psychology practitioner in both sport and exercise contexts.
Sport sciences at Brunel is ranked 2 nd in London (Complete University Guide 2025) and 9 th in the UK (QS World University Rankings 2022)
The combination of psychology and sport, health and exercise sciences creates an interesting and diverse programme of study.
You will learn about core psychology theories and methodologies.
This knowledge will complement your understanding in specialist areas including sport-specific ones such as health and wellbeing or the effect of hormones and drugs on the brain.
In the final year, you will be able to choose 2 subjects from an exciting range of optional modules.
Please be aware that modules may be subject to change.
This module offers an introduction to the biological foundations of cognition, examining how the structure and function of the brain give rise to mental processes.
Topics include the anatomy of the nervous system, neuronal communication, and methods used to study the brain.
Students will explore cognitive functions such as attention, memory, action, language, and emotion, as well as their disruption in neurological conditions.
The module also addresses neural plasticity, genetics, and the role of development and evolution in shaping cognition.
This module introduces students to selected theoretical, conceptual and methodological approaches to promoting, delivering and measuring physical activity for health and wellbeing.
You will also develop your problem-solving skills as you consider approaches for improving health and wellbeing through physical activity.
This module provides an overview of key concepts and theories in sport and exercise psychology.
Students will explore topics such as motivation, performance, and the psychological benefits of physical activity.
The module introduces core principles of psychological assessment and intervention in sport contexts and helps students evaluate research evidence.
Through discussion and analysis, students will learn to build and defend arguments about psychological processes in athletic and exercise settings.
This module examines the psychological processes involved in learning and perception, providing students with an introduction to how organisms acquire and interpret information from their environment.
Topics include the sensory systems involved in vision, audition, touch, taste, and smell, as well as classical and operant conditioning and observational learning.
Students will also learn about the methods used to investigate perceptual and learning processes in both humans and animals, and how these processes relate to everyday experience.
This module introduces students to the fundamentals of research, data analysis, and academic skills development.
Students will explore key methodological concepts including the scientific method, ethical considerations, survey research, experimental and quasi-experimental designs, and basic statistical procedures such as t-tests and one-way ANOVA.
The module also develops core academic skills including digital literacy, literature searching, APA referencing, academic integrity, and reflective writing.
Students will gain experience in interpreting data, evaluating online sources, and summarising academic texts, laying the foundation for future research and academic success.
This module provides a foundation in research design, data analysis, and the academic and transferable skills essential for a career in psychology.
It covers key topics such as ethical issues in research, experimental designs, and basic statistics including t-tests and ANOVA alongside data acquisition and analysis.
In addition, students will develop core employability and academic skills, including how to critically evaluate sources, conduct literature searches, avoid academic misconduct, and use APA referencing.
The module also introduces reflective writing and digital scholarship, preparing students for both academic progression and employment.
This module provides an overview of key theories, concepts, and research in social and community psychology.
It explores how individuals relate to others and function within broader social systems with a focus on both interpersonal and societal processes.
The module also covers how psychology can be used to build community and to advocate for policy change on topics that students are passionate about.
This foundation prepares students for more advanced study in social psychology and applied community settings, and introduces students to a skill set that would support public-facing careers following a degree in psychology.
This module examines human cognition and behaviour by integrating findings from biological psychology, cognitive psychology, neuropsychology, and neuroimaging techniques.
Students will learn about different mental processes such as perception, attention, memory, language and emotion and explore how different brain regions support these cognitive processes.
The module introduces key research tools including EEG, MEG, and fMRI, and considers how these methods contribute to our understanding of both typical and atypical brain function.
This module explores the psychological development of individuals across the lifespan from infancy through to older adulthood.
Students will examine key theoretical frameworks, methods of studying development, and the progression of cognitive, perceptual, motor, social, and emotional functions.
Topics include language acquisition, theory of mind, self and gender identity, and the role of individual differences.
By the end of the module, students will have a broad understanding of how psychological processes unfold and vary throughout life.
This module examines how physical activity contributes to health and wellbeing across different stages of life.
Students will explore theoretical frameworks and methods used to promote and measure physical activity, and will consider the social and environmental contexts in which it is delivered.
The module also addresses barriers to physical activity and strategies for behaviour change.
It encourages students to critically evaluate interventions aimed at improving public health through active lifestyles.
This module introduces students to the principles and practices of qualitative research in psychology.
It covers the historical and theoretical foundations of qualitative inquiry, ethical considerations specific to this approach, and the design of qualitative research studies.
Students will explore various methods of data collection such as interviews and focus groups as well as approaches to data analysis including thematic analysis and grounded theory.
Emphasis is also placed on effectively writing up and communicating qualitative research findings.
This module develops students’ abilities to design and conduct quantitative research in psychology.
It covers experimental and questionnaire design, multivariate methods, and the use of between-groups, repeated-measures, and mixed designs.
Students will also learn how to use research software, analyse data, and present results clearly and effectively.
In parallel, the module strengthens academic skills such as scientific writing, critical reading, and delivering presentations, providing a strong foundation for future research work.
This module builds on foundational knowledge to develop students’ research and critical thinking skills in sport and exercise psychology.
Students will design and carry out a group research project involving primary data collection, and will learn to evaluate empirical literature and propose novel research questions.
Topics include psychological interventions, performance enhancement, and mental health in sport.
The module provides practical experience in applying psychological theory to real-world challenges in physical activity settings.
This module explores key theories and research in social psychology and individual differences, following the British Psychological Society (BPS) curriculum.
Topics include social perception, group processes, social influence, and close relationships, as well as emotion, motivation, the self, and personality development.
Students will examine how genetic, environmental, and cultural factors shape individual differences, the stability of traits over time, and how personality influences behaviour.
The module also covers the history and methods of intelligence testing, contemporary views on intelligence, and their relevance to education and policy.
This module offers students the opportunity to apply sport and exercise psychology theory in real or simulated settings and critically assess intervention strategies for different client groups.
Students will develop skills in evaluating psychological approaches to enhance performance and wellbeing, analyse the effectiveness of interventions, and produce case study reports grounded in theory.
Topics include music and positive psychology in sport, cognitive-behavioural interventions, exercise psychology in clinical populations, technological innovations in rehabilitation, psychological skills training, and career transitions in sport.
This module promotes critical analysis and application of interdisciplinary knowledge to understand physical activity and sedentary behaviour in relation to health and wellbeing.
Students will evaluate competing perspectives, apply theory to real-world issues, and develop problem-solving skills across numerical and written contexts.
Topics include physical activity in clinical populations, behaviour change interventions, and research methodologies with a focus on current, research-led content.
This module prepares students for their final year project by developing their understanding of research paradigms, methodologies, and data analysis techniques.
Students will learn to frame viable research questions, select appropriate methods, and consider ethical issues in research design.
The module also enhances students’ quantitative skills, critical evaluation of research, and ability to work independently.
Topics include research paradigms, project planning, ethics, and personal development in relation to final year project choices.
This module examines behaviour from an evolutionary perspective using principles of natural selection to understand how animals—including humans—solve adaptive problems.
Topics include proximate and ultimate causes of behaviour, development, mate choice, parental investment, communication, foraging, and anti-predator strategies.
Students will learn how behaviours are shaped by ecological and evolutionary pressures and will be introduced to key theories such as optimality models and sexual selection.
The module provides a comparative approach to understanding behaviour across species.
This module explores how psychological processes are influenced by culture, and how research methods can be adapted to study cultural differences.
Students will learn about the history of cross-cultural psychology, definitions of culture, and key theoretical frameworks such as universalism and relativism.
Topics include cultural dimensions, values and beliefs, and how culture shapes cognition, emotion, motivation, identity, and social behaviour.
The module also covers methodological considerations such as sampling and translation, preparing students to critically assess cross-cultural research.
This module focuses on how damage to the brain can affect perception and motor control.
Students will learn about conditions such as visual neglect, agnosia, Parkinson’s disease, and developmental motor disorders, exploring how these impairments inform our understanding of normal brain function.
The module integrates evidence from experimental research, neuroimaging, and clinical case studies, and considers treatment approaches.
Emphasis is placed on linking brain structures to specific perceptual and motor functions.
This module investigates how drugs and hormones influence the brain and behaviour.
It covers basic neurophysiology including action potentials and neurotransmitter systems, before exploring the effects of recreational drugs, the neurobiology of psychological disorders, and pharmacological treatments.
Students will also be introduced to animal models of psychopathology and behavioural endocrinology including how hormones shape behaviour and regulate biological rhythms.
The module links biochemical mechanisms to psychological functions and dysfunctions.
This module introduces students to the psychological and biological study of sexual and gender diversity.
Topics include sexual orientation, biological sex variation, intersexuality, trans identities, paraphilias, and gendered patterns in emotion and behaviour.
The module draws on multiple perspectives—biological, psychological, and sociocultural—to explore the origins and variations of sexual and gender diversity.
Students are encouraged to reflect critically on controversial issues and to engage with diverse experiences sensitively and respectfully.
This module offers students both a conceptual and experiential introduction to mindfulness and its psychological effects.
Students will participate in a structured six-week mindfulness course and examine the theoretical foundations of mindfulness-based interventions such as MBSR and MBCT.
The module explores the neuroscience of mindfulness including its impact on emotion regulation, empathy, and brain function as well as its clinical applications across a range of psychological conditions.
Emphasis is placed on the integration of scientific evidence with personal experience.
This module explores how personality and social factors influence the development and maintenance of close relationships.
Students will be introduced to key theoretical perspectives, including interdependence theory and attachment theory, and will learn how these frameworks explain patterns of intimacy, conflict, and relationship satisfaction.
The module also considers the rise of relationship science as a field and how personality traits affect relational dynamics.
Emphasis is placed on understanding both individual differences and dyadic processes.
This module investigates the psychological foundations and effects of religious belief and practice.
Students will explore the cognitive, social, and evolutionary bases of religion as well as the psychological differences between belief systems.
Topics include ritual behaviour, group identity, cooperation and conflict, and the role of religion in societal development.
The module also examines secularism and atheism, and debates surrounding the psychological significance of religion in contemporary life.
This module explores the psychological impact of social media on individual and group behaviour.
Topics include identity formation, emotional and political polarisation, mental health effects, online misinformation, and group dynamics in digital spaces.
Students will critically evaluate claims about the dangers and benefits of social media and will explore how engagement is shaped by cultural and psychological factors.
The module applies psychological theories to understand how humans interact with digital technologies in contemporary society.
This module explores how evolutionary theory can be used to understand human behaviour and cognition.
It introduces key concepts from evolutionary biology, and explains how the mind can be seen as a bundle of adaptations for mating, parenting, cooperation, aggression, and many other key behaviours.
Students will also learn about how the human mind evolved to solve a wide variety of adaptive problems (that is,  problems related to survival and reproduction) for our evolutionary ancestors.
This module also addresses controversies in the field, and the potential for evolutionary psychology to provide a unified framework for the study of the mind.
With a 2:2 grade or higher, you’ll be eligible to apply for graduate membership of the British Psychological Society (BPS).
This is a prerequisite for many BPS accredited postgraduate training courses and is also required for entry to all accredited Stage 2 Doctoral programmes as part of the route to becoming a Chartered Psychologist.
Therefore, this course could be your next step on the way to becoming a psychologist, be it in sport and exercise or in other fields.
You’ll also have the skills and expertise for a wide range of other careers; for instance, you may wish to become a university lecturer, a consultant in elite sport or maybe lead a national sport psychology service for an organisation such as the English Institute of Sport.
Perhaps you'd prefer to work for the local authority, driving sport development policies or helping to deliver corporate healthcare solutions for organisations such as Nuffield Health.
Plus, with a Brunel Psychology degree, you can gain experience in the workplace with a year-long placement, or two six-month placements in different settings.
With a Psychology (Sport, Health and Exercise) BSc, your options are many and varied.
Psychology graduates from Brunel have excellent career prospects - earning 10% more than the sector average.*
When you successfully pass the foundation year, you can progress on to the Psychology (Sport, Health and Exercise) BSc.
Teaching will be on campus to help you build a sense of belonging to a thriving psychology community.
A full programme of teaching for all modules / study blocks will be delivered through lectures, seminars, workshops and practical sessions taking place on campus.
Lectures will be recorded with recordings made available after the session has taken place.
Seminars, workshops and practical sessions may not be recorded.
This will be at the discretion of the session leader, depending on the nature of the content and activities.
For example, it is not feasible to record some interactive activities, group work, and in other cases, recording might inhibit student discussions.
However, in the event a session is not recorded, we will make the teaching materials used in the session available to students online.
To supplement our full timetable of on-campus teaching, learning will be supported with a range of resources on our new Brightspace Virtual Learning Environment (VLE) including videos, interactive activities, quizzes etc.
Module/block leaders may offer additional briefing, revision, and or Q&A sessions on online platforms where appropriate.
Feedback and consultation hours, personal tutoring hours, and project supervision discussions will be offered both in-person on-campus and via online platforms.
Please note that while recordings and online resources will help if you're unable to attend a particular teaching session, learning from the online materials only will not be an adequate substitute for certain aspects of the in-person learning experience.
For example, online learning will not be able to replace the experience of being an active participant in a lively in-person seminar discussion on campus.
Keep in mind that this is a campus-based degree programme, not an online programme – and attendance on campus will be essential for some events (e.g.
for examinations).
If you have any concerns about accessing a suitable device, please complete and return this form to enquire about the university's loan laptop scheme.
This course will help you to develop skills in the theoretical and practical methods associated with psychology.
Alongside this, you will gain specific knowledge in sport and exercise psychology, studying the effects of physical activity on the brain and overall health.
You will have access to our extensive laboratory and technical facilities (such as brain imaging and eye-tracking equipment) to carry out experiments and record data.
Teaching staff are actively engaged in the latest research with international reputations in their field.
Their innovative findings feed into your courses to ensure that your knowledge and learning are up-to-date.
Study will combine lectures, lab sessions, guided reading, independent research, group tutorials and one-on-one support sessions with tutors.
Each module will involve two to three hours of contact time per week.
You will also spend time in private study and preparing assignments with research via reading, podcasts and videos.
Your progress will be assessed via coursework such as presentations, lab reports, case studies and essays, exams, and the final year dissertation.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/psychology-bsc:
C801
C800, C804 with placement
Study Psychology at Brunel: You’ll open your mind to new possibilities and open doors to a wide variety of careers.
Psychology is an exciting subject as we are still looking for answers to questions about the human mind and consciousness.
At Brunel, you will have the chance to immerse yourself in the accepted theories of psychology as well as the latest research that is expanding our knowledge.
You will be using our extensive laboratory and technical facilities including brain imaging facilities (fMRI, EEG), psychophysics, and eye tracking.
Our Psychology degree is accredited by The British Psychological Society and can be studied full-time over three years.
You can also study the four-year course which is unique in offering two six-month work placements or a one-year placement within a single environment.
Some of our students have also worked in a business environment.
Find out about Tasmin’s placement in marketing.
The skills gained from studying a psychology degree - including data analysis, problem-solving, team-building and effective communication - are attractive to employers in a wide variety of sectors.
In fact, Brunel Psychology graduates earn 10% more than the sector average.*
If you graduate with a 2:2 Honours degree, or higher, you will be eligible to apply for graduate membership of the British Psychological Society .
Membership will be key if you choose to pursue postgraduate training to become a psychologist.
You will gain an in-depth understanding of the breadth and diversity of psychology.
The first two years provide a good grounding in areas such as social psychology, cognitive psychology, clinical psychology, and developmental psychology.
In your final year, you will be able to choose 5 subjects from an exciting range of optional modules.
Students will also explore cognitive functions such as attention, memory, action, language, and emotion, as well as their disruption in neurological conditions.
This foundation prepares students for more advanced study in social psychology and applied community settings, and introduces students to a skill set that would support public-facing careers.
This module introduces students to the field of clinical psychology, beginning with foundational ideas in the philosophy of science and psychological approaches to diagnosis.
Students will explore a range of psychological disorders including mood, anxiety, eating, and attention disorders, as well as learning disabilities and less common psychopathologies.
Emphasis is placed on understanding symptoms, prevalence, and evidence-based treatment methods.
The module also includes discussion of global perspectives on psychopathology and mental health care, encouraging students to consider the cultural context of psychological diagnosis and intervention.
Students will also explore various methods of data collection such as interviews and focus groups as well as approaches to data analysis including thematic analysis and grounded theory.
Emphasis is also placed on effectively writing and communicating qualitative research findings.
This module encourages students to reflect critically on the foundations of psychological science.
It explores questions such as whether psychology qualifies as a science, what relationship exists between psychology, science, and pseudoscience, how personal and social values influence research, and how knowledge is constructed.
The module introduces major philosophical perspectives including positivism, relativism, and critical psychology, and considers the ethical and political dimensions of psychological research.
Students will engage with key historical developments in the field and examine the implications of different paradigms for understanding the mind and behaviour.
This module develops students’ ability to design and conduct quantitative research in psychology.
Students will learn about different mental processes such as perception, attention, memory, language and emotion, and explore how different brain regions support these cognitive processes.
This module explores how individuals think, feel, and behave in social contexts, and how these processes vary between people.
Students will study social perception, group dynamics, relationships, and social influence, alongside personality, intelligence, and emotional traits.
The module considers genetic, environmental, and cultural influences on behaviour and evaluates the methods used to measure individual differences.
Broader issues such as mental testing, consistency of behaviour, and the implications of psychological assessments are also discussed.
In this final-year module, students will undertake an independent research project.
The project must relate to the science of human bio-psycho-social functioning and follow the structure of a scientific report.
While some projects may involve group collaboration, each student must produce an individual dissertation which may include unique analyses or interpretations.
Students receive formative feedback on some sections, but are expected to demonstrate academic independence in producing a complete scientific document.
Students will learn about how the human mind evolved to solve a wide variety of adaptive problems (that is, problems related to survival and reproduction) for our evolutionary ancestors.
It covers basic neurophysiology including action potentials and neurotransmitter systems before exploring the effects of recreational drugs, the neurobiology of psychological disorders, and pharmacological treatments.
Brunel Psychology graduates earn 10% more than the sector average.*
Your BPS-accredited psychology degree at Brunel is the first step to becoming a chartered psychologist.
In addition to clinical psychology, your degree will give you the skills that are attractive to employers in a wide variety of sectors such as media, marketing, HR, law enforcement, finance, government, health and education.
You will also leave with a wide range of transferable skills including data handling, scientific analysis, problem-solving and communication.
Plus, with a Brunel Psychology degree, you can gain experience in the workplace with a year-long placement or two six-month placements in different settings.
See what one of our students has to say about her placement on our YouTube channel.
Please check our Admissions pages for more information on other factors we use to assess applicants, as well as our full GCSE requirements and accepted equivalencies in place of GCSEs.
When you successfully pass the foundation year, you can progress on to the Psychology BSc.
Seminars, workshops and practical sessions may not be recorded, and this will be at the discretion of the session leader, depending on the nature of the content and activities.
For example, it is not feasible to record some interactive activities, and group work, and in other cases recording might inhibit student discussions.
Module / block leaders may offer additional briefing, revision, and/or Q&A sessions on online platforms where appropriate.
Feedback & consultation hours, personal tutoring hours, and project supervision discussions will be offered both in-person on-campus and via online platforms.
Many of our academics are involved in research activities that benefit society at large including projects within the NHS and charities.
Their findings often inform our course modules, ensuring up-to-date and relevant course content.
Brunel has a strong research status.
Moreover, in the Times Higher Education Impact Rankings (2022), our research was rated 58th globally for research impact.
Your study will combine lectures, lab sessions, guided reading, independent research, group tutorials and one-on-one support sessions with tutors.
You will also spend some of your time in private study and preparing assignments.
Your progress will be assessed via coursework such as presentations, lab reports, case studies and essays, exams, and the final year dissertation.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/sociology-digital-media-bsc:
LP30
LP32, LP31 with placement
29  (IB)
Learn what role digital technologies and digital media plays in shaping our society and influencing peoples’ thoughts and behaviours by studying our new Sociology (Digital Media) BSc.
We are rated the best Sociology department in London in the 2024 National Student survey, 6th best in the UK for our teaching.
By adding digital media studies to your study of sociology you’ll be able to explore and specialise in areas such as the social impact of social media, the internet and other information and communications technologies, media discourse, media policy and regulation.
The first year is designed to offer you a solid base in theoretical and methodological innovations in sociology and digital media.
You will explore the similarities and differences in the methodologies used in sociology, media, and communications.
The focus of study is upon all aspects of societal relations: it’s personal, social and cultural dimensions.
As you progress through the course, you will be able to choose modules you are interested in to actively shape and apply your learning to the issues you wish to interrogate.
In your third year, you’ll work on a dissertation focusing on an area of interest of your choice.
Your dissertation can be a theoretical or practical dissertation, so you can work to your own strengths.
Depending on the modules you choose, you may have the option go on fieldtrips where you will be able to apply your learning to current issues and broaden your theoretical imagination.
Previous fieldtrips have included: Barbican; British Board of Film Classification; London Migration Museum; Museum of Comedy; Museum of London; regeneration areas (e.g.
Spitalfields, Smithfield); and the Victoria and Albert Museum.
As you’ll be taught and supported by academics who are not only experts in their field but are actively engaged in research, you’ll develop skills that can be applied from the classroom to the workplace.
They know the industry inside out, so you know you are learning from experienced professionals who will bring their unique insights into the classroom and will ensure your learning is up-to-date.
Gain an insight into life after your studies by putting your learning into practice by opting for a one-year work placement or two short placements for six months at a time.
You will graduate with valuable work experience to enhance your employment prospects and will be able to develop an understanding the working world.
Some of our sociology and media students have undertaken placements in a variety of companies including the Ministry of Justice, the Home Office, the Prince’s Trust, the Crime Statistics Unit at the Home Office, Citizens Advice Bureau, the Department of Work and Pensions, as well as PR, local authorities and marketing.
This is a broad-based degree which will enable and encourage you to specialise in areas which particularly fascinate you.
As a graduate of this dynamic degree, you will leave us with various transferable skills that are key to the contemporary employment market.
This innovative course focuses on social theory and method, and will enable you to develop specific skills in the practical methods associated with sociology and digital media.
Graduating with Sociology and Digital Media Studies degree from Brunel is your passport to a wide variety of roles including digital marketing and advertising, management, media, and more.
You have the opportunity to build your knowledge in an area you love without limiting your job prospects.
Group seminars allow you to learn in smaller groups and to partake in discussions with your peers.
You'll also undertake research methods modules which include exploring methods such as surveys, interviewing techniques and discourse analysis.
You'll have more freedom and less direction over the design and implementation of projects as you progress through the course.
Assessment will be through completing coursework essays and projects, seminars, producing films, documentaries, journals and blogs, and presentations.
However, some methods of assessment vary and depend on which modules you select.
Some modules are assessed on coursework only, some by (seen or unseen) examination only, and some by a combination .
Although Level 1 does not count towards your final degree mark, you must pass this level to continue with your course.
Level 2 is worth a third, and Level 3 is worth the rest, with the final year dissertation worth a third of Level 3 marks.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/sociology-bsc:
L301
L302; L300 with placement
On our sociology programmes, you’ll research how societies change, develop and are challenged.
You’ll learn about the latest social and cultural challenges from our internationally leading academics who offer global perspectives on areas such as race and racism, politics, social inequalities, urban life, colonialism, social movements, migration, digital media, free speech, comedy, gender, and popular culture.
We are rated 1st in London for Sociology and 4th in the UK - National Student Survey 2025.
Sociology at Brunel supports you to develop your critical skills to analyse contemporary society and culture from a global perspective.
In your first year you will be trained in both classical and the latest sociological and cultural theories.
As you progress into your second and third year you will develop your critical skills and follow your particular interests.
In your final year, you will design and carry out your own bespoke research project analysing real world issues supported by your supervisor.
This can be a theoretical or practical dissertation, so you can work to your own strengths.
Soho, Smithfield); and the Victoria and Albert Museum.
On the three-year version of our degree you will have the option to undertake short-term work placements during your course or via the Brunel Summer Internship Programme , but if you would prefer a more substantial placement, you can apply for our four-year Sociology (with Placement) programmes instead.
You will graduate with valuable work experience to enhance your employment prospects.
Our sociology students have undertaken placements at a variety of companies including Deluxe Entertainment, the Disney Channel, PR organisations, the Home Office, British Youth Council, Citizens Advice Bureau and the Department of Work and Pensions.
Our unique mix of theory, policy and empirical research provides you with a wide range of career options when you graduate.
Our alumni are working at prestigious organisations like Gucci, Barclays, Odd Muse or the NHS in roles such as marketing, advertising, copywriting as working in the music and fashion industries, human resources management, journalism and social media, social work, teaching and the prison service.
Three years after graduation, over 93% of our students are in employment or further study, compared to the sector median of 84.7%, and our graduates earn on average £3,000 more per year than the sector mean (Discover Uni, 2023).
"The prospect of studying for four years instead of three was daunting at first, but I viewed it as an excellent opportunity to obtain hands-on experience in possible career paths" - Cheerese Whyte
"As a sociology student, I have loved learning about society and its complexities in a fun and exciting way, thanks to the enthusiastic staff.
The knowledge I've gained here equips me to make a meaningful impact on the world." - Safia Banharally
This innovative course will enable you to develop specific skills in the practical methods associated with sociology, as well as exploring in-depth the major issues and approaches within sociology and its related disciplines.
An introduction to some of the key social anthropological literature on kinship, gender and sexuality including universalities and particularities in the construction of gender roles and different theoretical paradigms on gender and sexuality.
The final year dissertation provides undergraduates with the opportunity to demonstrate their abilities to plan, design and execute a Sociology research project.
The final year project enables the student to demonstrate their abilities to plan, design and execute a project that involves a practice-based research element via the production of a sociological-media artefact.
Sociologists are in increasing demand.
A sociology degree is your passport to a wide variety of roles in many professions such as marketing, advertising, the music and fashion industries, human resources management, journalism and social media, and many more.
Through our courses, you’ll develop transferrable skills such as the ability to interpret and analyse data, critically reflect, and communicate to diverse audiences in different environments.
Assessment will be through completing coursework essays and projects, seminars, producing films, documentaries (for Sociology and Digital Media students), journals, blogs, and presentations.
Although the first year of your degree does not count towards your final degree mark, you must pass this level to continue with your course.
Your second year modules are worth one third of your final result and the Third year modules are worth two third.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/sport-health-and-exercise-sciences-physical-education-coaching-and-social-issues-bsc:
CX40
CX41, CX42 with placement
The Brunel Sport, Health and Exercise Sciences (Physical Education, Coaching and Social Issues) BSc is for students who are interested in working in physical education or youth sport, developing sport in communities, helping individuals fulfil their potential in sport and health, as well as those seeking to gain a strong understanding and application of sports coaching principles and practices.
You'll explore the sociological, political, pedagogical and psychological factors that influence participation in physical education and sport, and how these relate to sports performance, physical activity, health and wellbeing.
You'll learn how to plan, deliver, manage and evaluate high-quality activities and events aimed at encouraging and enabling people to get involved in sport and physical activity, from grassroots to elite level.
You’ll also explore social issues in physical education such as gender, race and religion and inclusive practice.
In addition, you'll learn historical and philosophical aspects related to PE.
Your studies will be supported by some of the best teaching and sports facilities in the UK that include;
You'll also have the opportunity to carry out a placement as part of your degree.
This will give you the type of experience that will enable you to create a standout CV.
Our Sport, Health and Exercise Sciences (Physical Education, Coaching and Social Issues) BSc offers one year placement between years two and three, as part of a four year degree.
As well as our full-time degree, you have the option of studying over two years to gain a Diploma in Higher Education (DipHE) .
You can find out more about this route and apply through UCAS
Brunel is the second-ranked university in London for Sports Science (Complete University Guide 2025)
This course is designed to prepare you to work in physical education, coaching or sport development.
You’ll gain a solid grounding in the sport and exercise sciences and learn to plan, teach and assess physical activities and programmes.
In your first year, you’ll study core modules that will give you a fundamental knowledge across all the broad disciplines within sports, health and exercise sciences.
In year 2 you’ll start to specialise in the areas of education, social issues in sport and the policies and practices within physical education, sport development and coaching.
However, the flexibility of this course means that if you change your mind about the areas you wish to study, you can switch over to our Sport, Health and Exercise Sciences BSc programme in the second year if you wish.
During your final year, you’ll be able to select specific modules to focus on, to further specialise your learning.
You'll also carry out a major project in a topic of your choice.
This module will enable students to gain elementary scientific foundations of knowledge in the biomechanical principles, underpinning human movement.
Students will develop their knowledge and understanding of the measurement tools used to obtain key measures of human movement and forces; and to develop their appreciation of their utility and limitations.
It will also support students to apply fundamental biomechanical principles to understanding movements in sport, health and exercise scenarios.
This module supports students’ effective transition from prior learning and work-based contexts into the higher education environment and the Brunel learning community.
You'll reflect on and develop your study skills and learn the fundamentals of effective academic practices.
This module will provide students with a foundational knowledge of human anatomy and physiology in relation to sport, health and exercise contexts.
It will raise students’ awareness of key theories, principles and processes as they apply to sport, health and exercise-related activities.
Students will also gain an appreciation of how learned theories, principles and concepts may be applied in an interdisciplinary manner.
Students will learn to use theory and research to explain and evaluate contemporary social issues in sports.
Students learn about all phases of video production and create a short film using state of the art camera and video equipment.
This module enables students to develop their understanding of physical literacy as well as effective learning environments and motivational climates that support the development of lifelong participation in physical activity.
Students will gain understanding of the effects of children’s experiences and movement competence on their lifelong participation in physical activity.
The aim of this module is to explore how diverse learners experience Physical Education and youth sport, and to consider the application of critical pedagogy to support effective learning environments.
Additionally, the module encourages students to examine how contemporary cultural issues related to technology, health and embodiment impact learners and pedagogy in sport.
Students will investigate the challenges, choices and constraints faced by Physical Education teachers, coaches and learners in present and future learning environments.
The academic and practical skills you'll gain from your Brunel degree will open doors to careers in teaching, coaching, sport development, community sport and health and fitness or to postgraduate study.
This could be your first step to becoming a PE teacher or a PE specialist.
You could also find yourself beginning a career as a multi-sport community coach, graduate football coach or an academy coach.
Alternatively, graduates from this course are well equipped to become a performance analyst, or work for the local council or in social media to promote the importance of physical education for youngsters today.
There are also opportunities in the growing sector of sport development.
With increased awareness of the positive effects of sport on lifelong health and well-being this area of sport science offers a gateway into a range of different careers.
You may want to work as a sport development officer, a manager for a sport and leisure centre or a team and event manager.
Many are accredited by the British Association of Sport and Exercise Sciences (BASES), the British Psychological Society (BPS) or the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC), which enables them to work with high-performance athletes from a wide variety of sports – and many of them do.
This means that your education will be at the forefront of theory and practice, covering the most up-to-date industry knowledge, which will prepare you for a career in a variety of fields.
When you successfully pass the foundation year, you can progress on to the Sport, Health and Exercise Sciences (Physical Education, Coaching and Social Issues) BSc.
Our programmes will be delivered primarily through in-person, on-campus activities; students are expected to attend all these sessions.
In-person, on-campus teaching will consist, among other elements, of interactive lectures, small class tutorials and/or seminars, workshops, and lab-based practical sessions.
In-person sessions will, accordingly, take place on the Brunel University London campus in Uxbridge.
To promote active learning, communication and team collaboration, regular team-based activities will be a feature across our modules.
There will be occasions where online teaching takes place.
Online activities may consist of synchronous (e.g.
seminars) and asynchronous activities (e.g.
pre-recorded and lecture-recorded materials and quizzes).
Synchronously online Lectures/seminars/tutorial/practical
The Division will deliver the core teaching content for all modules through in-person, on-campus lectures, seminars and practical sessions.
Occasionally, some additional activity will be delivered online, depending on intended learning outcomes and the nature of the topic being taught.
Such online sessions will likely be taught as seminars or group / individual tutorials.
Where delivery is made through this approach, it is expected that you log in and engage with the tasks and any ensuing discussions.
You will also be asked to engage with other materials and tasks delivered online (such as reading, pre-recorded videos or quizzes) often with follow-up interactive activities (e.g.
discussion forums, application exercises or collaborative tasks) planned to support student learning.
To supplement our full timetable of on-campus teaching, learning will be supported with a range of resources on our new Brightspace Virtual Learning Environment (VLE) including (e.g.
videos, interactive activities and quizzes).
Module / block leaders may offer additional briefings, revision and/or Q&A sessions on online platforms where appropriate.
Feedback and Consultation Hours, Personal Tutoring Hours, and Project Supervision discussions will be offered both in-person on campus and via online platforms.
gaining hands-on experience of our equipment and learning different analysis techniques).
Coursework will be submitted via Wiseflow and exams may be on-campus, in-person invigilated written exams and/or be presented in an online open-book style.
Support/resources
Recorded materials, as well as other teaching resources (including e-textbook chapters, articles, podcasts, videos, online quizzes, etc.), will be available online (on Brightspace) prior to and/or following timetabled sessions.
Post-session recording availability will depend on the nature of the taught content and will be restricted primarily to lectures.
For academic guidance and pastoral care, timetabled individual and small group tutorials will be delivered in-person on campus or online by Personal Tutors.
During term time, all Sport, Health and Exercise Sciences lecturers will be available for in-person on on-campus or online one-to-one meetings during their weekly ‘Consultation and Feedback Hours’.
Extra-curricular/Co-curricular activities
We encourage you to gain as much additional experience as possible, either independently or through our work-placement year, between Level 5 and Level 6.
We also encourage you to participate in Continuous Professional Development and gain additional industry-relevant qualifications (such as coaching awards) when this fits with your career aspirations.
We also require you to be involved in the research taking place in the Division, particularly as part of the Level 5 module Graduate and Transferable Skills.
We promote a culture of research involvement throughout levels of our degree (e.g.
at Level 6 for students’ Major Project).
You'll benefit from a ‘blended learning’ approach, which includes a combination of online and face-to-face learning opportunities, such as:
Our teaching is research-led, which draws on our internationally renowned expertise, to introduce you to research processes early in your degree and continue to build on this throughout, so you'll be effectively prepared for your final year project.
We assess modules through a combination of critical reviews, lab reports, case studies, presentations, films, podcasts, and exams.
You'll also complete an e-portfolio that will promote your personal and professional development and enhance your digital literacy.
And, in your final year, you'll write a dissertation.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/sport-health-and-exercise-sciences-bsc:
C607
C63P, C609 with placement
You’ll learn how the human body works on physiological, biomechanical and psychological levels and how to apply this knowledge to training methods, mental techniques and nutritional strategies that enable people to consistently perform at the upper ranges of their abilities.
Crucially, you’ll gain insight into how the mind and body respond to the demands of sport and exercise and how they react under intense conditions such as strenuous physical activity or competition.
This course is endorsed by The British Association of Sport and Exercise Sciences (BASES).
At Brunel, you'll be part of a university with a rich sports heritage, including several Olympians: James Cracknell (Rowing), Heather Fell (Modern Pentathlon), Kate Walsh (Hockey), Bryony Pitman (Archery), Montell Douglas (Running), and Toby Olub (Bobsleigh), as well as Paralympians Tom Aggar (Para-rowing), James Fox (Para-rowing), and Natasha Baker (Para-equestrian).
If you want to see what our alumni are capable of, don’t forget to check out Montell and Toby on the TV show Gladiators , and also cheer for Montell on Strictly Come Dancing 2024 .
Your studies will be supported by some of the best teaching and sports facilities in the UK including;
Our Sport, Health, and Exercise Sciences BSc offers a one-year placement between years two and three of the four-year degree , giving you the experience to create a stand-out CV.
As well as our full-time degree, you have the option of studying over two years to gain a Diploma in Higher Education (DipHE).
The course is designed to give you a solid understanding of the physiological, biomechanical and psychological factors that influence human movement and how these relate to sports performance, fitness and wellbeing.
It will not only prepare you for jobs in the sports and health industry, but could also help you set new personal bests in your sport of choice.
In year 2, you’ll start to specialise in the areas of psychology, biomechanics and physiology.
However, the flexibility of this course means that if you change your mind about the programme you wish to study, you can switch over to our Sport, Health and Exercise Sciences (Physical Education, Coaching and Social Issues) BSc programme in the second year if you wish.
You’ll be able to select specific modules to focus on during your final year to further specialise your learning.
This means that your education will be at the forefront of theory and practice, covering the most up-to-date industry knowledge which will prepare you for a career in a variety of fields.
You may wish to continue your education further by studying a postgraduate course.
This programme is the ideal stepping stone to progress to postgraduate courses and a career in academic research.
You could even choose to progress to a postgraduate course to become a physiotherapist.
Or, as this course equips you for pursuing a career in the clinical side of sport, you may want to work for the NHS or in any number of fitness-related careers.
Alternatively, you could find your career in coaching, consultancy, fitness testing and training, sport development or sport management from grassroots to elite sport level.
Examples of graduate schemes include the Greenwich Leisure Limited Trainee Manager Graduate Scheme or the Police Now National Graduate Leadership Programme.
When you successfully pass the foundation year, you can progress on to the Sport, Health and Exercise Sciences BSc.
In-person, on-campus teaching will consist, among other elements, of interactive lectures, small class tutorials and/or seminars, workshops and lab-based practical sessions.
You'll also be asked to engage with other materials and tasks delivered online (such as reading, pre-recorded videos or quizzes) often with follow-up interactive activities (e.g.
Feedback and Consultation Hours, Personal Tutoring Hours, and Project Supervision discussions will be offered both in-person on-campus and via online platforms.
gaining hands-on experience with our equipment and learning different analysis techniques).
For academic guidance and pastoral care, timetabled individual and small group tutorials will be delivered in-person on-campus or online by Personal Tutors.
During term time, all Sport, Health and Exercise Sciences lecturers will be available for in-person on-campus or online one-to-one meetings during their weekly ‘Consultation and Feedback Hours’.
We encourage you to gain as much additional experience as possible, either independently or through our work placement year, between Level 5 and Level 6.
We encourage you to participate in Continuous Professional Development and gain additional industry-relevant qualifications (such as coaching awards) when this fits with your career aspirations.
We assess modules through a combination of critical reviews, lab reports, case studies, presentations, and exams.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/sport-health-and-exercise-sciences-with-business-studies-bsc:
C6ND
C6NG, C6NC with placement
The Brunel Sport, Health and Exercise Sciences with Business Studies BSc is a unique joint honours programme that combines a strong foundation in the sciences behind sport and exercise with a thorough knowledge and understanding of the business administration and management processes sought by professional organisations.
For the sports science portion of your degree, you’ll study how the human body works on physiological, biomechanical and psychological levels and how this can be applied to improve athletic development and performance and prevent injury.
You’ll develop the skills to monitor, evaluate, and enhance sport and exercise performance in laboratory and field settings and to design and conduct experiments.
The business element of your course will focus on key business disciplines including management, organisational behaviour, marketing, change management, entrepreneurship and small business ventures.
In today’s fast-growing sport and exercise market, the skills and knowledge of both the sports sciences and the world of business that you’ll gain from your Brunel degree will make you a preferred job candidate to employers across the industry.
You'll also have the opportunity to carry out a placement as part of your degree, that will give you the chance to put the theory you’ve learned into practice.
Our Sport, Health and Exercise Sciences with Business Studies BSc offers one year placement between years two and three, as part of a four year degree.
The course is designed to give you expertise in a broad range of sport, health and exercise sciences as well as in key business disciplines including management, marketing, organisational behaviour and entrepreneurship.
The Sport, Health and Exercise Sciences with Business Studies degree consists of compulsory and optional modules and a final dissertation.
Students will explore the concepts associated with marketing communications.
This module will help students develop an appreciation of the key characteristics of the main tools of the communications mix.
It will introduce elements of communication theory and to set it in the context of marketing communications.
You’ll graduate with a range of skills that are highly in demand in business and industry.
Your understanding of business and management coupled with your knowledge of sport science will open doors to a variety of positions within sport and health related industries.
Support / resources
Extra-curricular / Co-curricular activities
Many of our Sport, Health and Exercise Sciences tutors are accredited by the British Association of Sport and Exercise Sciences (BASES), the British Psychological Society (BPS) or the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC), which enables them to work with high-performance athletes from a wide variety of sports .
Many of our business lecturers work as consultants for major companies worldwide and have practical and personal experience in business or have run their own companies.
This means your education will be innovative, inspiring and truly up-to-date.
Your course will consist of lectures, seminars, workshops, laboratory and practical sessions, online leaning and computer-assisted sessions to teach quantitative data collection and analysis and computer simulation.
We constantly review our teaching methods in response to student feedback in view of developing and improving them.
Modules are assessed by combinations of individual and group projects, oral presentations, case studies, report writing, and examinations.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/theatre-and-creative-writing-ba:
W4WW
W481 with placement
4 to 7 years part-time
The Theatre and Creative Writing BA is ideal if you want to learn more about the richness of theatre past and present, while incorporating your passion for creative writing.
On the theatre side of your degree, you’ll develop creative skills in a range of practices such as acting, applied practice, devising/theatre making, digital theatre, musical theatre, physical theatre and writing for performance.
On the creative writing side of the course, you’ll get to explore a number of writing styles including journalism, screenwriting, comedy writing, short stories and the contemporary novel.
You’ll also grow your knowledge through an understanding of the concepts and models used in the practice and study of theatre, together with the themes and techniques used by historic and contemporary authors.
By studying at Brunel you’ll become part of a rich community of creative students, artists and academics and have a variety of opportunities to collaborate through, for example, acting, theatre making, writing and production.
We regularly host Arts@Artaud nights showcasing new music, film, creative writing and drama presented by Brunel students.
Established links with the creative industries offer plenty of opportunities to hear from guest speakers and alumni on campus.
Off campus, Brunel’s easy access to central London helps to facilitate regular class trips to see West End productions and other events.
For your professional development, the option of a work placement year is an unmissable opportunity to find out where your interests lie and to increase your attractiveness to future employers.
Students from the course have completed placements in a variety of organisations including the London’s Park Theatre, Rose Wisksteed Casting, The Vaults, Unicorn Theatre, Icarus Theatre Company, and the Grieg City Academy.
"Dana demonstrates a strong commitment to the third sector community, named as one of the Top 100 Charity Sector Influencers and winner of the Best Trustee Award at #SocialCEOS Awards 2019" - Dana Segal
The Theatre and Creative Writing BA is both an academic and a practical course that provides you with the opportunity to tailor your studies according to your interests in theatre and creative writing.
There is a range of optional modules in both disciplines from which you can choose as you develop as a creative.
Join the exploration of performance practices and practitioners delving into the critical discourse surrounding gender.
Develop not only a critical vocabulary but also frameworks to dissect gender as a vibrant performance woven into everyday life.
This module takes you on a global adventure, exploring transnational analyses of gender performances.
Step into the shoes of a creative powerhouse.
This module invites you to create and evaluate applied drama workshops and performances tailored for specific audiences.
Dive into collaborative ventures within student companies, where collective working becomes the heartbeat of your creative process.
This module will introduce you to key practitioners in the field of musical theatre aiding you to recognize and ponder the impact these practitioners have had on shaping the art form.
Analyse the critical aspects of musical theatre, journey through its historical lineage, and feel the stage come alive as you gain practical insights through performance.
Embark on a research adventure, independently and within a vibrant community of peers.
This module mirrors doctoral research contexts, offering a blend of taught sessions, practical workshops, and collaborative exploration.
Your journey involves discovering, testing, refining, sharing, and reflecting on emerging research findings.
Professional skills such as collaboration, critical reflection verbally and in writing, and engagement with different forms of creative practice are embedded into the modules through all three levels.
Production, budgeting, design for specific audiences, working in the community and strong CV writing are all covered in the final year of the course.
Brunel Theatre BA lecturers have long-established links with many theatre venues and other businesses across the creative industries, and they’re always ready to help you find the right place to grow your specific interests.
There are options for a short or year-long work placement to develop your professional profile while on the course.
Students have undertaken work experience at places like The National Theatre, Plaines Plough, Akram Khan Dance Company, Les Enfants Terribles, China Plate, and a host of educational and community organisations.
Graduates of this course, such as Adam Johnson, have gone on to work as actors/writers in the National Youth Music Theatre.
Others, like Sam Smithson, have progressed onto renowned postgraduate courses like the Directing MA at Royal Central School of Speech and Drama.
Your options when leaving us are varied and exciting.
Click here to read about inspirational Theatre alumni.
The BA (Hons) Theatre programme will be delivered in-person on campus, through a mixture of lectures and seminars, practical workshops and rehearsals, one-to-one tutorials, and site-visits.
Students will be able to arrange individual tutorials with staff either on-campus or online, allowing students to work flexibly around their schedules.
Attendance is obligatory; in addition to facilitating teaching and learning, our structure of on campus in-person learning develops collaborative theatre practice, personal and collegial networks and well-being.
A unique feature of theatre at Brunel is learning with the help of a personal tutor in a group of eight to ten students on weekly basis to facilitate communication and collaboration.
This system will help you increase your competence and confidence in interpersonal and oral communication, analytical skills, and university level study skills.
In your creative writing modules, lectures, seminar discussions and workshops with practitioners and theorists will provide you with a range of approaches to the analysis and production of creative writing.
One-to-one tutorials with members of the team are structured into the course at various points.
These are supplemented by an online forum designed to enable students and staff to work remotely and share advice and solutions to any problems.
Central to the learning and teaching strategy is a philosophy to encourage you to collaborate creatively, share ideas with your peers, and contribute to each other’s initiatives and projects.
In your theatre modules, you will be assessed through practical performance (in-class and public), creative writing tasks, coursework, presentation, creative portfolios, and essays.
For Creative Writing, you will be assessed through essays, portfolios of shorter written coursework, individual and group presentations, continuous assessment of participation in seminars, and the final year dissertation project.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/theatre-and-english-ba:
WQ43
WQ41 with placement
The Theatre and English BA at Brunel is an academic and practical course that provides you with the opportunity to tailor your studies according to your interests in Theatre and English.
For 2024/2025, we have transformed our curriculum to offer exciting and cutting-edge perspectives in both Theatre and English (pending validation).
You must select a balance of credits in Theatre and ENGLISH, inclusive of compulsory modules to a total of 120 credits.
Please note that in Year 3 you must choose ONE of the dissertation modules listed below.
In your English modules, lectures, seminar discussions and workshops with practitioners and theorists will provide you with a range of approaches to the analysis and production of literature.
One-to-one tutorials with members of the team are structured into the course at various points, and these are supplemented by an online forum designed to enable students and staff to work remotely to share advice, issues, and problems.
Central to the learning and teaching strategy is a philosophy to encourage you to collaborate creatively, to share ideas with your peers, and to contribute to each other’s initiatives and projects.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/theatre-ba:
W440
W441 with placement
4-7 years part-time
Are you passionate about theatre and eager to transform your creative ideas into compelling stage productions?
Brunel’s Theatre course is designed to equip you with specialised skills across various performance genres while providing a robust academic foundation in history and theory.
This unique blend nurtures your development as a versatile artist and critical thinker.
Balancing theory with hands-on practice, you'll benefit from instruction by industry professionals and accomplished academics within specialist facilities.
The course features both compulsory and optional modules that allow you to explore a range of approaches to theatre as a critical and vital force in the world.
A dedicated personal tutor, who will also be your academic seminar guide, plus a team of cutting-edge academics and industry specialists, will support your academic journey.
Our proximity to central London enhances your experience as we regularly organize trips to renowned venues such as the Barbican, National Theatre, Royal Court, and Sadler’s Wells.
Additionally, you'll engage in workshops with ground-breaking theatre companies, enriching your course experience.
In your first year, foundational modules will provide a rigorous understanding of Theatre, allowing you to pinpoint your specific interests.
Subsequently, in the second and third years, you have the flexibility to select modules aligned with your passions.
By the time you complete your degree, you will have cultivated a diverse portfolio of strengths including academic writing and creative practice, positioning you for various career paths in the creative industries, education, or further postgraduate studies.
For 2024/2025, we have transformed our curriculum to offer exciting and cutting-edge perspectives on the work of making and engaging in theatre and performance (pending validation).
For an in-depth overview of compulsory and optional modules offered throughout the course, please refer to the link below.
Further insights into module content can be found in the dropdown menus.
This course offers a choice of full-time study over three years, full-time with a placement year, or part-time spanning four to seven years, commencing in September.
Challenge the status quo as you navigate the labyrinth of performance histories entwined with society, politics, and culture.
Discover the power to critically analyse global performance narratives and reshape performance histories as dynamic political activities.
This module encourages you to unearth gaps, biases, and alternative perspectives, transforming history into a vibrant tapestry of performance
Become a creative powerhouse.
Develop research skills, critically evaluate your project, and leave a compelling mark on the academic landscape.
A Theatre degree from Brunel not only equips you with the skills to thrive as a versatile, critically informed creative person in an ever-shifting economic landscape but also fosters the development of resilient, critically-thinking citizens prepared for the challenges of the professional world.
Our commitment goes beyond shaping versatile artists; we aim to nurture individuals capable of navigating the complexities of the workforce.
The program offers the option of a short or year-long work placement , providing a valuable opportunity to enhance your professional profile during your course.
Our dedicated support ensures you find the industry placement that aligns with your aspirations.
Graduates from our Theatre program embark on diverse paths.
Some enter the creative industries, exemplified by notable alumni such as actor Damson Idris (2013), deputy stage manager at Shakespeare’s Globe Alannagh Cook (2015), and Les Enfant Terribles’ Assistant Producer Fiona Porritt (2015).
Others venture into the marketing sector, education, or applied drama, while some choose to pursue postgraduate study and training.
The possibilities are broad and exciting, and we eagerly anticipate supporting you on your unique journey.
Explore stories of our inspirational alumni in Theatre here .
The BA (Hons) Theatre program at Brunel is designed for in-person delivery on campus, offering a dynamic mix of lectures, seminars, practical workshops, rehearsals, one-to-one tutorials, and site visits.
While some materials may be delivered online or pre-recorded, students have the flexibility to arrange individual tutorials either on-campus or online, accommodating diverse schedules.
Attendance is mandatory; beyond facilitating teaching and learning, on-campus in-person sessions cultivate collaborative theatre practices, personal and collegial networks, and overall well-being.
There is no equipment required for purchase by Theatre students and access to all software and hardware needed for learning and assessments is available on campus.
Students learn through a range of activities, including lectures, seminars, individual tutorials, workshops, practical classes, masterclasses, rehearsals, and screenings.
Throughout, we seek to actively engage in conversation about critical ideas, practices, and performances in contemporary theatre.
You'll also have the opportunity to be in several performances.
For example at the end of your first year, you can take part in the Ensemble Production module; a large scale, public-facing performance.
In year 3, several modules finish with public-facing modules (e.g., Acting, Physical Theatre, Musical Theatre, and Digital), and if you choose a Final Project for your dissertation, you get to develop work in a format you desire to share with an audience as a conclusion to your studies.
Instead of traditional written exams, assessment in the Theatre program is a dynamic mix of practical performances, projects, presentations, online reflective journals, written essays, and in-class participation.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/undergraduate-pathway-in-business-and-management-brunel-pathway-college:
In this pathway you will gain a broad business and management background and the analytical, technical and interpersonal skills needed to understand, analyse and address the issues facing today's companies.
By choosing particular modules in the later stages of your degree you will also be granted exemptions from select professional examinations in the fields of accounting, marketing or business and management.
In all Brunel University London business related degrees, students develop a range of skills valued by employers such as communication, critical thinking, analysis, teamwork, career planning and project management.
Each programme has a strong contemporary feel and relates theory and concepts to the practical issues facing employers and employees in the 21st Century.
Successful completion of the degree can lead to career opportunities in marketing, enterprise, business accounting, accountancy, business operations, HRM, finance, recruitment consulting and other graduate level job depending on which degree path is followed after the Foundation study is completed.
Typical Foundation Modules
Economics Interactive Learning Skills and Communication 1 Management Marketing Mathematics Principles of Accounting Principles of ICT Statistics
Typical First Year Modules:
International Business Environment Interactive Learning Skills & Communication 2 Introduction to Accounting and Financial Management Introduction to Management Enquiry Managing Information with Technology Organisational Behaviour and Analysis Principles & Practices of Marketing
Brunel Business School has extensive links with employers and industry and you’ll benefit from our networks as well as having the opportunity to learn from a variety of guest speakers.
As a graduate you’ll be equipped to enter a number of roles, including:
Business analyst Business development manager Data analyst Insurance underwriter Management consultant Project manager Risk manager Sales executive Stockbroker Supply chain manager
£9,250 Domestic Foundation Studies £11,500 EU Foundation Studies £17,450 International Foundation Studies
£9,250 Domestic First year University Studies £11,500 EU First Year University Studies £18,950 First year University Studies
September is the only available intake for EU/Domestic students who are applying for a Student Finance Loan.
All Brunel Pathway College course fees may be subject to a review.
Brunel University London fees are a guide only and are subject to change.
Formative assessments are a key aspect of the programme element and are varied to ensure that a student has a variety of learning opportunities.
These will include: individual and group formative assessment methods: presentations, individual and group work; and peer review.
Each student is expected to undertake a minimum number of hours in individual study per week in order to support and build the skills, knowledge and understanding presented in each lecture and small group tutorial session per week.
It is expected that students will increase the number of individual study hours as they approach formal assessment events.
The ability for students to expand their learning by creating effective self-directed study patterns is a transferable skill deemed fundamental to further academic success as well as a key time-management tool.
All students are provided with access to a range of on-line resources through the student portal.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/undergraduate-pathway-in-computer-science-brunel-pathway-college:
This pathway will help you gain the skills and knowledge on the core concepts needed to understand computing and their application in organisations.
With the fast-changing pace of technological advances, you will experience learning at an individual as well as group level, ranging from report writing to designing your own business web page.
Your Pathway to Brunel University London.
Students on all Brunel computer study degrees develop a range of skills valued by employers such as communication, critical thinking, analysis, teamwork, career planning and project management.
The programme syllabus is designed around the acquisition of core academic skills and literacy development that underpins successful higher education outcomes: academic research, ICT, critical thinking and the promotion of self-awareness.
In-course written, reading, listening and oral assessment is built in to modules through general interaction between tutors and students through small group tutorials or individual tutorials/appraisals.
Typical Foundation Modules:
This is an intensive programme with a minimum 16 hours per week and a corresponding number of ongoing assessment tasks designed to provide a scaffolded structure for students at this entry level to Higher Education.
Computer Science graduates are among the most highly employable in today's job market.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/undergraduate-pathway-in-economics-and-finance-brunel-pathway-college:
Economics and Finance courses combine economic theory with the practical skills necessary to apply your knowledge to a business, industrial, financial or government environment.
Providing students with this combination of theory and practice, as well as a solid background in finance, is what distinguishes Brunel University London's courses from other Economics degrees.
An optional work placement arranged through the University's strong industry links will further enhance your employment prospects.
Your pathway to Brunel University London.
In all Brunel University London economic and finance degrees, students develop a range of skills valued by employers such as quantitative and computing, business and financial analysis skills.
Each programme has a strong contemporary feel and relates economics and financial management theory and concepts to the practical issues facing managers in the 21st Century.
Successful completion of the degree can lead to career opportunities in business, financial accounting, as an economist and the financial sector.
Typical First Year Modules
£9,250 Domestic Foundation Studies £11,500 EU Domestic Studies £17,450 International Foundation Studies
£9,250 Domestic First year University Studies £11,500 EU First Year University Studies £18,950 International First year University Studies

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/undergraduate-pathway-in-engineering-brunel-pathway-college:
The Engineering School offers undergraduate courses in four major subject areas including Design, Civil Engineering, Electronic and Computer Engineering and Mechanical Engineering.
All programmes are designed to produce highly qualified graduates who will take up demanding roles within the engineering, design and technology industries by developing leadership, innovation and creative skills, in addition to the core technical and analytical skills, to enable and encourage graduates to follow successful careers and aspire to senior managerial roles.
Your Pathway to Brunel University London
In all Brunel University London Engineering degrees, students develop a range of skills valued by employers such as critical thinking, analysis and communication.
A range of teaching methods are used in this module: lecture/seminar/workshop supported by a blended learning approach through the Virtual Learning Environment including the use of blogs to support learning.
There will be continual interaction through classroom based formative exercises which will enable individual and small group learning opportunities.
£9,250 Domestic Foundation £11,500 EU Foundation £17,970 International Foundation Studies

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/undergraduate-pathway-in-humanities-social-sciences-education-psychology-brunel-pathway-college:
Humanities, Social Sciences, Education and Psychology at Brunel are a vibrant community of students and academic staff who are engaged in exploring the world we live in and engaging with ways of changing it for the better.
The college is committed to delivering excellent research led teaching and in preparing its students to lead successful lives and to have brilliant careers.
The principal aim of the programme is to enable students to linguistically and academically negotiate the transition from school to university and be prepared for the demands of an undergraduate degree programme in an appropriate Humanities & Social Sciences discipline.
Typical Modules:
Composition & Style Critical Thinking Interactive Learning Skills & Communication Intercultural Studies (double module) Principles of ICT Research Methods Exploring the Social World
Modes of assessments include essay/report writing, oral presentation (group or individual), in-class quizzes or take-home exercises.
These form of assessments is considered fundamental to a student’s ability to communicate ideas and evidence with clarity, relevance and logic in a planned and organised manner.
Plain writing style, syntax and grammar are core skills that can be enhanced to support the maturing of individual students’ composition and thus academic and transferable proficiency.
Oral presentations, whether part of formal or informal assessment practice, are encouraged within all modules as they promote, among others, transferable skills and can identify those students who may be plagiarising material.
It is advised, however, that they should not make up more than 60% of the final module mark unless as part of the learning rational.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/undergraduate-pathway-in-law-brunel-pathway-college:
The educational aims of the programme element are to:
Our high quality placements will give you first-hand professional legal experience and a real taste of what life after your studies could be like.
You’ll benefit from the guidance of dedicated careers advisers so whether you want to explore your passion for law or already have your dream job in mind, we’ll support you on your career journey.
Brunel is one of the few UK universities on the Blake Morgan Brand Ambassador Scheme – offering great work experience opportunities, mentoring programmes and giving you great exposure to the graduate recruitment team of a leading law firm.
The Brunel Law School has strong industry links, allowing us to offer placements in a variety of legal environments to strengthen your learning and professional experience.
With our own law careers advisers, we will help you to work on your future career from day one.
As a Brunel Law School student, you will have access to many workshops and masterclasses to gain the knowledge you need to make your first step after you graduate.
£9,250 Domestic Foundation Studies £11,500 EU Foundation Studies £17,450 International Foundation
All students are provided with access to a range of on line resources through the student portal.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/undergraduate-pathway-in-life-sciences-brunel-pathway-college:
The Department of Life Sciences runs courses in Biosciences, Environmental Sciences, Life Sciences, Psychology and Sport, Health and Exercise Sciences.
With a strong emphasis on interdisciplinary research, and a commitment to excellence, we aim to push the boundaries of understanding our environments, human health and performance.
The principal aim of the programme is to enable students to linguistically and academically negotiate the transition from school to university and be prepared for the demands of an undergraduate degree programme in an appropriate Life Sciences discipline.
The programme syllabus is designed around the acquisition of core academic skills and literacy development that underpins successful higher education: academic, research, IT, critical thinking and the promotion of self-awareness.
Students learn through a combination of formal, interactive lectures in relevant content areas, interactive seminars, practical laboratory sessions and IT-enabled self-study opportunities: practical application of theoretical knowledge allows students to develop further skills and understanding of relevant topics and concepts.
Typical modules:
Your degree offers excellent job prospects and access to a range of careers within science and many other industries.
This course will prepare you for a career in a diverse range of fields such as the sport, health and exercise industry, biomedical research or ecology and environmental management.
It will also prepare you for further study and research in life sciences.
Our Professional Development Centre is creating a range of exciting and unique life sciences placement opportunities to help you develop your professional skills.
Psychology
Sport, Health and Exercise Sciences
Life Sciences
£9,250 Domestic Foundation Studies £11,500 EU Foundation Studies £17,970 International Foundation Studies
Formative assessment opportunities are incorporated into each of the module blocks in the form of homework assignments, Moodle exercises and the opportunity to submit assignment draft for review prior to submission.
The focus on academic literacy development in all parts of the course ensures that students develop strong linguistic competence and advanced numeracy skills as well as a mastery of their discipline at an appropriate level.
Through the course, students will be encouraged to engage appropriately with peers and tutors as members of an academic community.
This will involve the development of critical self-awareness and personal literacy as students become more attuned to their identity as global citizens.
This is an intensive programme with 16 hours per week and a corresponding number of ongoing assessment tasks designed to provide a scaffolded structure for students at this entry level to Higher Education.
Formative assessment opportunities are incorporated into each of the module blocks in the form of regular homework assignments, Moodle exercises and the opportunity to submit an assignment draft for review prior to final submission.
Each of the blocks will make use of the Navitas Moodle Virtual Learning Environment (typically for additional module resources, but also for blended content, as well as quizzes and coursework submissions).
Private study should be additional reading to support both the lecture material and as research for assignments.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/visual-effects-and-motion-graphics-bsc:
HW62
HW6F with placement
The Guardian University Guide 2024 ranks Brunel design graduates top in the UK for career after 15 months.
Our Visual Effects and Motion Graphics BSc degree is a state-of-the-art, hands-on course that combines digital technology and creative design.
It will give you the knowledge and practical skills required by the visual effects and motion graphics sector within the entertainment and creative industries.
This course is fully accredited by ScreenSkills, the industry-led skills body for the UK’s screen-based industries.
At Brunel, we combine a study of visual effects with motion graphics so you can learn a wide range of creative and technical skills required to produce high-quality visual assets and artefacts for film, TV, the web, games and other creative outlets.
You'll have independent access to exclusive PC and Mac computing workshops and benefit from the latest industry standard specialist software for graphics and image/video editing, 3D animation, digital compositing, game development, and high-quality asset creation.
There are guest lectures covering a wide range different digital media topics and the visiting lecturers provide industry insight and advice on how to structure your portfolio and showreels.
Speakers include creative and design directors, motion graphics professionals, 3D graphic supervisors, VFX specialists and generalists.
Visits are arranged to TV and photography studios, and post-production houses.
This year spent in industry helps you to further prepare for the world of work and you’ll have a year’s worth of invaluable professional experience when you graduate.
Brunel’s visual effects and motion graphics course is fully accredited and industry recognised by ScreenSkills, the industry-led skills body for the UK’s screen-based industries.
In your final year, you will work on your individual major visual effects and motion graphics project which could involve the creation of a short 3D animation or film.
Features an introduction to the artistic and technical aspects of 3D asset creation using industry standard 3D applications, tools and techniques.
In addition, students are introduced to taking 3D assets and compositing those with live action footage and how to capture relevant data to assist with this process.
Typical 3D/VFX workflows are introduced.
This module provides the fundamental python programming that covers foundation of software process automation in creative 3D modelling tools.
It teaches important concepts of python plugin development for Maya, students is introduced to main python codding syntax such as variables, data type arrays, functions, objects, classes, control flow and events.
In this module, the student will understand key programming techniques in process automation for a better creative skillset.
This module explores advanced 3D and Compositing.
Students will learn cinematic techniques e.g., lighting for mood, camera animation and lens effects.
Use of alternative 3D creation such as photogrammetry.
They will learn filming for compositing on location and in a green screen, including moving camera shots.
Students will learn which compositing techniques are applicable for various types of shot.
This module aims to teach students how to create engaging animation.
Use of cinematography concepts such as camera angles and  lighting to enhance the visual impact and mood of their work.
Use animation principles such as timing, spacing, easing, and squash and stretch to create expressive animation.
This module will explore technologies for Virtual production e.g., real-time rendering, motion capture, LED Walls, Green screen.
Alternative technologies for VP including full VP and Hybrid Green Screen.
They will learn the process for VP, and how they differ from traditional 3D/VFX.
Students will learn cinematography creative and technical roles associated with Virtual Production.
A visual effects and motion graphics degree from Brunel will prepare you for creative roles in the rapidly expanding digital media industry.
Brunel’s location close to the large concentration of creative and entertainment industries in and around London means that there are a variety of job opportunities available.
Our graduates take up posts as motion graphics designers, compositors, animators, 3D graphic artists and designers, digital video editors and producers, directors of photography, games designers/developers, and post-production engineers.
Many become self-employed, either as freelancers or by setting up their own companies.
This means you’ll be learning from staff with industry experience as well as staff from academia including researchers.
Your progress will be assessed via coursework, individual and group practical studio assignments, demonstrations and presentations, essays, and the final year major project.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/admissions/btec:
We accept a huge range of BTEC subjects onto our courses , so sometimes it is difficult to list exactly what we accept for each programme.
If you are not sure if your BTEC is relevant to the course you are applying for, please contact us on admissions@brunel.ac.uk or call us on +44 (0)1895 265265.
You can also chat with us from Monday-Friday 9am-4pm (UK time) on our 'How to apply to Brunel' page (there is a green pop-up chatbox in the right top corner).
When you arrive, you will be assigned a tutor or supervisor, who will be your main contact for academic support.
If you need any individual, personal or welfare support then our Student Support and Welfare Team are on hand to provide a wide range of support.
If you’ve already applied to Brunel through UCAS and hold a conditional offer from us, we will receive your BTEC results automatically from UCAS.
When we receive the batches of results, we will work through them as quickly as possible to provide a final decision on your application.
We would also recommend that you upload a copy of your BTEC certificates and transcripts to your My Application portal .

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/schools-and-colleges/contact-the-team:
We’re here to support you and your students with all aspects of applying to university and life at Brunel University London.
Please get in touch for any events, talks, visits or advice and guidance that we can help with.
Contact our schools & colleges team for information about visiting your school/college for presentations, workshops and HE Fairs, arranging a visit to campus, or teacher/adviser support and guidance.
Tel: +44(0)1895 267267 Email: schoolvisits@brunel.ac.uk
Contact our Events team for information about open days, applicant days, experience days and campus tours.
Tel: +44(0)1895 265595 Email: openday.booking@brunel.ac.uk
Contact our STEM team for information about science, technology, engineering and maths events and activities including robocoding, Royal Institution masterclasses, summer school, and STEM class visits.
Email: STEM@brunel.ac.uk
Contact our widening access team for information about our work with students from under-represented groups in higher education.
We particularly work with local schools and colleges in Brent, Ealing, Hammersmith and Fulham, Harrow, Hillingdon and Hounslow.
Email: Widening Access
Contact our urban scholars team for information on supporting students academics studies whilst expanding their future possibilities.
We particularly work with schools, community partners scholars and their families from different geographic areas and backgrounds.
Email: Urban Scholars

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/life/accommodation/residences:
From £ 268.06 per week
Borough Road Hall
Lancaster Lodge
From £ 227.15 per week
Faraday Hall
From £ 214.62 per week
Trevor Slater
Shoreditch Hall
Syd Urry Hall
George Shipp Hall
Concourse Hall
From £ 208.95 per week
Brian Winstanley Hall
St Margarets Hall
South Hall
Lacy Hall
Michael Bevis Hall
David Neave Hall
Central Hall
Kilmorey Hall
North Hall
Maria Grey Hall
Stockwell Hall
Gordon Hall
Maurice Kogan Hall
East Hall
Runnymede Hall
West Hall
Stephen Bragg Hall
Meadow Hall
Southwark Hall
Bishop Hall
From £ 185.36 per week
Fleming Hall
Galbraith Hall
From £ 179.97 per week
Mill Hall

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/information-for-parents-and-schools/Top-tips-for-parents-and-carers:
Here are a few pointers from parents of current Brunel students:

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/information-for-parents-and-schools/Year-12-Taster-Days:
Are you thinking about applying to university?
Do you want to try out being a university student for a day?
Join our subject taster days to get first-hand experience of university life.
These days are designed for you to get hands on experience of your chosen subject area.
You will meet other sixth form students considering Brunel, as well as spending time with current Brunel students studying your subject area.
Taster Days allow you to:
Our upcoming subject Taster Days information will be available soon.
Please note, Taster Days are exclusively for students.
Teachers and advisors bringing groups of students are also welcome to attend.
Subject Taster Days are organised by the Schools and Colleges Team, please contact schoolvisits@brunel.ac.uk if you have any questions.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/information-for-parents-and-schools/UCAS-process:
In most cases, applications to us are handled by UCAS.
This means students will submit their applications to UCAS who will then pass their application on to us.
Thie first step in the process of applying to university is also the most vital.
This is the opportunity to carefully research what each university has to offer, and consider what is important to you, including how the lifestyle, facilities and course structure will suit you.
You can begin researching in the March/April of the year prior to starting the course.
Schools/colleges will often organise events in-house or arrange visits to larger fairs.
We would encourage you to get as much information and talk to as many university representatives as you can.
The best way to get a feel for life at a university is to visit us at an open day .
Once you have decided what you want to study and where you want to go, you will begin to complete the UCAS application form in order to apply.
As well as personal information (name, address etc.) you will also need to fill out:
The form also includes a reference written by their teacher(s).
The entry requirements for a course may be expressed in grades, UCAS tariff points or a mixture of the two.
Please visit UCAS Tariff and www.ucas.com for more information.
Forms can be sent to UCAS from 1 September.
Most schools/colleges will have a deadline of around the October half term to submit the form.
You will then be made offers or rejections from each university.
If you are waiting for qualification results then you may be given a conditional offer.
TOP TIPS:
Once you receive your offers your will need to make a decision about which will be your Firm (1st) and Insurance (2nd) choice.
You may want to take the opportunity to revisit a university in person in order to make a final decision.
If you don't receive any offers or wish to decline offers then all is not lost.
You can then enter UCAS Extra .
Exam results are usually published from the third week of August.
If you achieve the grades to meet your firm university offer you will just need to confirm your place.
If you meet the grades required for the insurance offer you also need to confirm your place.
If you don't get the required grades you can enter Clearing .
You may want to prepare for your first year at university by:
Your personal statement is a vital part of the university application process.
It’s your chance to tell us all about you, your experiences, and why you’re so passionate about your chosen subject.
Sitting down to write a personal statement can seem daunting, but look at it as your chance to tell us why you want to do the course you have chosen, and why you are the best candidate for a place at university!
Click here for our tips to help you write the perfect personal statement.
Remember:- We don't see which other universities you are applying to, but you can only write one personal statement for your applications, so make sure it is relevant for all the courses you are applying for.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-fees-and-funding/degree-costs:
As an undergraduate student, you will have two main types of expenses at university – tuition fees and your living costs.
The Government's funding system of grants and loans means that you can choose not to pay anything until after you have finished your degree.
You need to apply for a Tuition Fee Loan (and Maintenance Loan if you want) before each year and before your course starts.
To do so, you must apply on the Government website .
The cost of yearly tuition fees can be found on the relevant course pages (listed fees apply for each year of the course, subject to an annual increase).
Fees are reviewed annually and are governed by the Student Financial Policy .
For fee purposes, students are classified as either Home or Overseas.
Details of the criteria used for establishing fee status can be found on the UK Council for International Student Affairs website.
If you are unsure whether you are classified as Home or Overseas, please contact the Admissions Office on +44 (0) 1895 265265.
Fees are due at the time of Registration and there is no entitlement to any reduction or refund if a student withdraws during the year.
We may exceptionally allow reductions to self-supporting students.
Please note that once you enrol, you become liable for fees, even if you subsequently withdraw.
Please see the Student Financial Policy for full details.
Overseas students are required to pay a non-refundable deposit, and the amount will be confirmed within the offer email.
Further details regarding the deposit (including instances where a deposit may be refunded) can be found within the Admissions Policy .
All students who are responsible for paying their own course fees in full, and who pay the full amount of fees due at or before their scheduled date of registration, may receive a prompt payment discount of 2% on the net course fee.
Details of discounts for Brunel University graduates are given in the Student Financial Policy .
If you are planning to take a standalone module within the 2024/25 academic year, the fee can be found in this table .
If you are planning to take a standalone module within the 2025/26 academic year, the fee can be found in this table .
For new students commencing their studies in the 2023/24 academic year or beyond.
If a member of your family is a student enrolled at Brunel, an alumni of Brunel University London or a member of staff you may be eligible for our Brunel Alumni Family Discount, offering 10% off tuition fees for each year of study.
See our Brunel Alumni Family Discount terms and conditions for more information or make an application .
(page last updated 29 November 2024)

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-fees-and-funding/grants-and-loans:
If you’re considering going to university, you may be eligible for Government support in the way of student finance, enabling you to borrow money to help pay for your tuition fees and living costs.
The main student finance package available includes:
You may also be eligible for extra financial support during your studies - this could include Income Support, a Childcare Grant, an Adult Dependants' Grant or the Disabled Students' Allowance.
Use the Student Finance calculator to estimate what you may be eligible for through the loan package and other financial support available to you.
For more information visit the Student Finance website .

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-fees-and-funding/other-funding:
We have a history of supporting talented sportsmen and sportswomen that dates back to the 1960s.
Our Sports Scholarship programme is more than just financial assistance; it is designed to the particular needs of athletes with outstanding sporting ability in higher education.
All our Undergraduate and Postgraduate students can apply for a Music Award audition, except those are taking music performance as part of their academic course.
The Awards are open to both singers and instrumentalists.
Many of our students have skills in fields other than those they choose to study for their degrees.
So we make awards from the Music Tuition Fund each year to help students from all Schools to continue their musical tuition.
We’ve set up the following awards and allowances that don’t have to be paid back.
These allow some of our students to get extra help towards their living costs over and above the loans and scholarships.
Disabled Students’ Allowances (DSA) help pay for the extra costs a student may incur as a result of a disability or specific learning difficulty.
These non means-tested allowances can help with the cost of having items of specialist equipment, support workers, travel and other course-related costs such as books and equipment.
The University Hardship Fund may provide funding for the cost of a diagnostic assessment of a specific learning difficulty (such as dyslexia).
This can only be arranged by the Disability and Dyslexia Service following a screening appointment with a Dyslexia Adviser.
For more information see the Disability and Dyslexia webpages or email disability@brunel.ac.uk
While you’re a student, you may be able to continue receiving other benefits and allowances such as the Disability Living Allowance and Employment and Support Allowance.
If you get or qualify for Income Support or Housing Benefit you may get the Special Support Grant instead of the Maintenance Grant.
The amount you can get through the Special Support Grant is the same as that available through the Maintenance Grant but it won’t reduce how much you get for your Maintenance Loan.
You’re likely to qualify for the Special Support Grant if:
you’re a single parent
your partner is also a student
you have certain disabilities
The Special Support Grant doesn’t count as income when working out if you’re entitled to income-related benefits or tax credits.
Many other groups may also be eligible.
You do not necessarily have to receive or even have applied for Income Support or Housing Benefit.
For further information, see the DirectGov website.
There are financial incentives for taking Initial Teacher Training (ITT) courses available from the Training and Development Agency for Schools (TDA), as well as funding from the Government.
Students with children may be eligible for a Childcare Grant which could cover as much as 85 per cent of your childcare costs during term time and holidays.
If you’re eligible, the amount you may get will depend on:
your household income
the cost of your childcare
the number of children you have
This could be up to £148.75 per week if you have one child, or £255 per week if you have two or more children.
The Parents' Learning Allowance helps towards your course costs, such as books, materials and travel.
You could get between £50 and £1,508 for 2012/13 depending on your household income.
You can apply for the Parents’ Learning Allowance when you apply for student finance.
You can apply before or during your course, by completing the section concerning extra help for students with children on your application form.
For more information see the DirectGov Childcare Grant web page.
If an adult depends on you financially, you may be entitled to help through the Adult Dependants’ Grant.
The amount you can get depends on your income and the income of your dependants.
The maximum for 2011/12 and 2012/13 is £2,642.
You don't have to pay this back.
For more information see the DirectGov Adult Dependant's Grant web page.
Support levels depend on your household income, and this support is in addition to the standard student funding package.
The University Hardship Fund provides financial assistance in the form of grants or emergency loans to students who face difficulty in meeting their living costs or course costs (but not tuition fees).
This can be because you fall into hardship unexpectedly and through no fault of your own.
You can only apply once you have enrolled as a student, since the University assesses how much should be awarded.
You’ll not be entitled to help unless you have already applied for any loans, grants and bursaries to which you are entitled.
Students should be aware that the University Hardship Fund is intended to act as a safety net for those in financial difficulty and not their main source of income.
A short-term repayable loan of £200 is also available to students who are experiencing financial hardship in the current academic year before the arrival of the first instalment of their Maintenance Loan.
For further information, including eligibility factors and contact details, visit the Brunel Student Centre website .
Students applying for professional health courses such as Physiotherapy, Occupational Therapy and Specialist Community Public Health Nursing are subject to different fees and receive different funding.
Find out more on the NHS Business Services Authority (NHSBSA) site .
Social Work degrees cost the same as most other undergraduate courses – £9,000 per year for 2012/13 – and eligibility for the standard Government loan and grant package is unaffected.
First year social work undergraduates will not be eligible for the NHSBSA Social Work Bursary.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-fees-and-funding/work-while-you-study:
Want to earn extra cash, gain valuable experience and develop your transferable skills while studying?
Our Job Shop can help you to find part-time, temporary and vacation work in administration, retail, government, science and many other areas.
Whether you’re based on campus, in and around Uxbridge, in Central London or further afield.
All jobs advertised by our Job Shop pay at least the National Minimum Wage or in most cases above this amount.
We recommend that as an undergraduate student you work a maximum of 15 hours per week during term-time.
Employers who advertise with our Job Shop are aware of this and may be flexible to your academic timetable.
If you’re an International student please seek individual immigration advice for working rights in the UK.
For more information and to view current vacancies, please visit the Professional Development Centre website
Many of our courses offer ‘sandwich’ work placements as an important part of study.
Some students fear that an extra year at University will be a financial burden, but a placement almost always pays you back.
The average starting salary for graduates who completed a placement during the course of their studies is consistently higher than for those who did not – in 2016, the different was £4,052.
Most 12-month placements are paid, with salaries ranging from £14,000 to £20,000 a year.
Voluntary placements are common in certain sectors, but students who would face financial difficulty in undertaking an unpaid placement may be able to apply for a Brunel Placement Bursary (subject to confirmation).

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/life/sport/facilities/sports-centre:
We have two multi-purpose sports halls and one netball hall suitable for basketball, badminton, netball, volleyball, martial arts as well as many other sports.
Our flexible indoor halls are ideal for casual users, local clubs and international teams.
Our halls can accommodate 250-300 spectators and have an integrated scoreboard and timing systems with good lighting, which enables us to become popular venue for a wide range of sporting and non-sporting events.
Our halls are fitted with sprung flooring and equipment recognised by an industry lead sports specialised supplier.
4 x Badminton Courts, Basketball Volleyball, Netball Futsal Courts & Cricket Nets
4 x Badminton Courts, Basketball, Volleyball, Netball & Futsal Courts
130m2 of climbing, including a Main wall with over hang and Bouldering Room
4 refurbished courts, with LED lighting and viewing balcony
At the heart of our Sports Centre is our Brunel Gym, hosting four training zones, a cardio area, a resistance zone, a free weights sections plus studio space for classes.
Flexible Student Memberships
Cardio, Weights, Resistance machines all in a separate enclosed space.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/life/living-in-london:
There's so much to see and do in the city - you can explore iconic landmarks like the London Eye, Tower Bridge, and Buckingham Palace, vibrant art galleries and museums, or immerse yourself in the excitement of a West End theater production.
Plus, London offers plenty of opportunities for budget-friendly exploration, with free museums and concerts available.
You can also take advantage of student deals and discounts on a variety of activities to stretch your budget further.
And let's not forget about the food scene – it's truly diverse!
Whether you're craving new culinary experiences at a restaurant, international flavours, looking to explore the eclectic offerings at local markets or pop-up venues, or simply seeking relaxation in a cozy British pub, London has it all.
Just for a short walk or bus ride from our campus, you’ll find a variety of shops, cafes, and restaurants, offering something for everyone.
Whether you're looking to watch a movie, grab a quick bite or indulge in some retail therapy in one of the shopping centres, Uxbridge High Street has you covered.
There’s also plenty of parks and gardens nearby, or you can take a stroll along the Grand Union Canal.
Looking for a quick getaway?
Head to Ruislip Lido, boasting a sprawling 60-acre lake, woodlands, and a sandy beach, providing a refreshing escape from the hustle and bustle of the city.
Uxbridge is an excellent hub for exploring nearby English gems.
You can plan day trips to destinations like the historic Oxford, Windsor Castle, or venture further afield.
With convenient public transportation links and the nearby Heathrow Airport, traveling to other parts of the country is also easy.
Whether you want to discover new places or embark on adventures beyond the city, Uxbridge offers easy access to experiences throughout England and the rest of the UK.
Discover the best of London with the official guide to England’s capital
Uncover Uxbridge's top-rated attractions, dining spots, and hidden gems recommended by travelers on TripAdvisor
A bustling shopping center located in Uxbridge High Street, offering a diverse range of shops and dining options
A vibrant shopping destination nestled in Uxbridge High Street, featuring an array of retail outlets and eateries
The 60-acre lake with sandy beaches, is a great place spend a day
From our countryside to our bustling cities, canals are a place for everyone to access nature and the outdoors
Despite its proximity to the urban sprawl of west London, the Park features lush green countryside and waterside walks
There are many things to do in South East England, from visiting royal castles and exploring the countryside to attending festivals, sporting events, and more

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/life/shops/Brunel-Uni-food:
Vegan, Vegetarian & F.U.E.L
Looking for some menu inspiration?
Click here to view our chef favourites
You said, we did accomplishments
A website to nourish your body, mind and soul
Check out our monthly newletters celebrating everything we have done on campus & what's coming up

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/life/sport/Brunel-Gym:
Off Peak
The new area has been designed to create a motivating and empowering space for women at Brunel to be physically active.
Female members are able to use this separate enclosed space, featuring many of the same pieces of equipment from the main gym
Develop your endurance, strength, muscular definition, and body shape with resistance equipment.
You’ll find everything you need in a fully airconditioned room, treadmills, bikes, rowers, cross trainers & ski ergs
A dedicated room with cable, plate loaded and functional weight training equipment to suit every individual’s needs.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/life/get-involved/brunel-arts:
We organise weekly classes, events, concerts and productions throughout the year.
Our courses and activities are open to everyone, including members of the public, staff and students, whatever you’re studying.
They include singing, acting, pottery, oil / acrylic painting, drawing, music theory and guitar groups.
Please click the link below to view our 2025/26 online brochure.
View our weekly classes available to students, staff and members of the public
View event calendar

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/life/Student-experience:
Find out how you can stay fit and what we are doing to keep you safe
With over 150 Sports Clubs and Societies, there are still plenty of ways to get involved
Follow us on Twitter for the latest campus news and events
The official eyes and ears on campus, exclusively for Brunel students
Follow us on Facebook for everything you need to know about a life on campus

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/sport:
Our state-of-the-art sports facilities rank among the best university facilities in the UK and are used by some of the UK and world's top athletes, including Usain Bolt and Yohan Blake.
Our facilities are open to students, staff and members of the community welcoming everyone from any level to stay start succeed in sport
We offer a range of sporting activities for Brunel Students, Staff & members of the public to try, from Gym Classes, Squash Courts to 3G Pitches.
Click here to book
Check out our best membership offers!
Convert into campus rewards
Click here
Log in here
Follow us here at Brunel Sport on Instagram

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/academic-skills:
The Academic Skills (ASK) service supports Brunel students by helping them to develop the skills they need to learn independently and thrive academically, whatever their level or subject.
academicskills@brunel.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/scholarships/the-international-bursary-ug-terms-and-conditions-202526:
UG
£3,000
Applied each year for a maximum of three years, four years for Integrated Masters programmes.
The Brunel University of London Undergraduate International Bursary offers a £3,000 fee reduction for self-funded international students across our undergraduate courses.
To be considered applicants need to hold an offer of a place to study on an undergraduate course starting in September 2025.
Awards will be made until the end of August 2025.
Who is eligible?
To be considered, here’s what you will need:
How to apply?
There is no application form to fill out, you will automatically be considered for a bursary as long as you meet our eligibility criteria detailed below and meet all your conditions by 30 August 2025.
Value: £3,000 tuition fee reduction applied each year for a maximum of three years and four years for u ndergraduate integrated MEng programmes.
The awards will be paid once for each eligible level of study, subject to normal progression criteria having been met (additional payments will not be made during a placement year or a repeating year, regardless of the reason for repetition).
Application process: There is no separate application, applicants will be identified and considered for the award on a case-by-case basis throughout the year until the scheme closure on 30 August 2025.
The fee reduction will be confirmed in September 2025 , subject to meeting all conditions stated in the offer email.
Brunel will assess each application for suitability against these terms and conditions.
Award holders may be required to represent Brunel as ambassadors throughout their time at the University and to participate occasionally in various activities to help promote the University.
This might include hosting tours of the campus and its facilities, providing administrative support at Open Days, and participating in social media and other marketing activities as required.
Scholarship winners will be contacted by the International Recruitment or Marketing team as and when participation is required.
Data pertaining to bursary/scholarship holders such as progression rates, degree attainment, degree completion, and graduate outcomes may also be analysed in order to understand the effectiveness of bursaries and scholarships.
This data may also be linked to other data already held by the University for the purpose of better understanding the impact of bursaries and scholarships on under-represented groups.
To learn more about how the University uses data to support its commitment to delivering positive outcomes to students from under-represented groups please visit our webpage.
2.1 Applicants must meet the following eligibility criteria:
2.2 Those not eligible for this bursary:
3.1 Applicants who meet the eligibility criteria at the time of allocation will be considered for a tuition fee reduction based only on the information supplied at the time of their course application.
A change in circumstances will not be considered.
Fee reductions cannot be backdated.
3.2 In order to be considered applicants must meet the entry criteria for the course and meet their offer conditions.
3.3 The decision of the University is final.
The University will not accept any appeals in respect of the award allocation or for awards that have been withdrawn.
3.4 Award winners will be expected to pay the course deposit of £5,000 and the remaining tuition fee.
3.5 The International Bursary cannot be combined with any other University scholarship, bursary, discount, or award, with the exception of the 2% prompt payment discount.
Any eligible discount will be deducted from the remaining tuition fee upon enrolment.
3.6 If an applicant is eligible for more than one scholarship, bursary or discount, they will be awarded the one which is most financially beneficial across the full course duration.
If an award is made and eligibility is reviewed at a later date, the most financially beneficial award will be retained and all other awards will be withdrawn.
3.7 Awards are made for the September 2025 entry of the academic year 2025/26 only and cannot be deferred to other months or years of entry.
Applicants who intend to defer their studies from 2025/26 academic year to 2026/27 will lose any award they have been made.
4.1 Applicants will be responsible for paying the remainder of their tuition fees after the fee reduction has been applied.
4.2 The tuition fee will be reduced by £3,000 per year of their chosen course for a maximum of three years, for Undergraduate applicants and a maximum of four years for integrated masters programmes.
4.3 This award is not payable in the placement year of an Undergraduate sandwich programme.
Students undertaking FSK or FSN routes of study will receive a bursary in Years 1 and 2 of the course.
No payment will be made in Year 3 and the bursary will resume in Year 4.
Student on a FSC route will receive payment in all three years of study.
4.4 Conditions of fee discount :
4.5 The award does not replace the deposit of £5,000.
All awardees will need to pay the £5,000 deposit for their course in order to formally receive the award, an unconditional offer and a Confirmation of Acceptance of Studies (CAS).
The amount of the award will be deducted from the remaining fees.
4.6 In cases where a CAS has been created prior to the Bursary award being made the University will amend the CAS accordingly.
Awards will be finalised in August, therefore in the instance the CAS has already been used, the University will not be able to make any updates or issue a new CAS.
4.7 The fee reduction will only be applied providing the student is fully enrolled at the University on a full time undergraduate programme of study which includes having had their qualifications and other documentation verified and checked, and then completing the University enrolment procedures.
This includes holding the correct visa to study.
4.8 Payment in subsequent years will only be made providing the student progresses to the next level of Undergraduate study (the tuition fee discount will not be applied during a repeating year until the student has satisfactorily progressed to the next level).
4.9 Where an award spans more than one year, students will be written to in September to confirm ongoing eligibility to receive their tuition fee award.
4.10 Awardees who have already paid the full course fees can visit the Student Centre to request a refund of any overpayment; once they have met all conditions of their offer and enrolled onto their main course in person.
5.1 Misleading information: The University reserves the right to withdraw the fee reduction from anyone who is found to have misled the University about any aspect of their eligibility and to seek repayment of any monies already paid by appropriate means.
5.2 Mode of Attendance Change : If a student changes to different mode of study, their eligibility for the award will be reviewed.
5.3 Changing course and starting again at Level 4 (Year 1) (Undergraduates) : Students who commence their studies and subsequently make an alteration that involves starting again at level 4 will not be eligible for a new award against the new course.
The existing award will be placed on hold and reinstated once the student commences level 5, subject to meeting the annual progression criteria outlined in Section 4.
If a student changes course but remains at the same level of study, this will have no impact on the award.
Progression criteria as stipulated above will still apply.
5.4 Abeyance/Temporary Withdrawal: A student who takes a period of temporary withdrawal (abeyance) and who is in receipt of a fee reduction would cease to receive payments whilst temporarily withdrawn.
Award payments made prior to temporarily withdrawing will not generally be requested to be repaid and remaining payments would generally be paid once the student returns to complete that level of study.
5.5 Suspension of Study: Should a student be suspended for any reason, payments will be withdrawn and consideration of reinstatement will be dependent on the disciplinary outcome.
5.6 Repeat/Extended Study: Periods of temporary withdrawal that result in repeat or extended periods of study are not supported by additional payments.
Award entitlement is for the maximum duration of each award and entitlement is not extended if overall course duration alters.
5.7 Withdrawal from Study: A student who withdraws from their programme prior to completion and who is in receipt of an award will not normally be requested to repay award payments made up to the point of withdrawal.
However, entitlement to all future award payments cease immediately if a student withdraws.
5.8 Fee Waiver Amendments: Fee waivers are applied at the start of the academic year as part/all of an award entitlement and will not normally be amended once the fee waiver has been processed.
Any tuition fee liability remaining after fee waivers are applied would therefore be calculated in accordance with Student Financial Policy .
In the case of withdrawal or abeyance the tuition fee and the fee waiver are calculated in accordance with Student Financial Policy.
5.9 Sponsored students : Students who have Government sponsorship, NHS Bursary funding, employer sponsorship or any other external sponsorship for part or all of the tuition fees are not eligible for this Award.
If Admissions receive details of sponsorship after a bursary has been awarded, the Award will be removed.
Students who are sponsored and have been awarded, should notify scholarships@brunel.ac.uk
Any queries relating to these terms and conditions should be addressed to the Admissions Office by emailing scholarships@brunel.ac.uk
Visit www.brunel.ac.uk/scholarships for further information on all the international scholarships available.
Updated 11 February 2025.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/economics-and-finance/why-study-economics-and-finance/work-placements:
Placements and economics, accounting, banking and finance internships are a great way to see if your future career is right for you.
For undergraduate courses you take your placement between the second and third years of your chosen course, you’ll have the opportunity to apply your skills in a real-life working environment, with real responsibilities.
For postgraduate courses if you're studying over two years full-time, you will take a year's work placement, or if you choose the 16 month option you take a 6-12 week placement.
More than just a way to earn some extra money during your studies, you will get the chance to taste life as a professional before entering the graduate world.
Depending on what suits you, your work placement can be taken in small, medium or large organisations across different sectors.
Our students have recently secured placements at Morgan Stanley, the Department of Trade and Industry, and HM Treasury.
You’ll have to apply for a placement like you would any other professional job but with the expert guidance of your personal tutor and our Professional Development Centre you’ll be supported every step of the way to find a role that suits you and your goals.
During your placement, an academic member of staff from the Economics and Finance department will keep in touch, and your employer will be invited to attend a tutorial day at Brunel with you.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/economics-and-finance/why-study-economics-and-finance/accreditations-and-exemptions:
Our Economics and Finance degrees carry accreditation by leading professional accounting bodies such as ACCA (Association of Chartered Certified Accountants), CIMA (Chartered Institute of Management Accountants) and ICAEW (Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales) who will offer you exemptions to some of their professional exams after you graduate.
Accreditated degrees with exemptions save you time and money on the road to becoming a qualified accountant, by providing a fast-track to professional qualifications.
So by completing an Economics and Finance degree at Brunel you’ll open yourself up to a world of opportunities and be one step ahead on your career journey.
Click on the course titles below to find out more about specific accreditations and/or exemptions.
Accreditation from the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA) and exemption from the following papers:
F1 Accountant in Business F2 Management Accounting F3 Financial Accounting F4 Corporate and Business Law F5 Performance Management F6 Taxation F7 Financial Reporting F8 Audit and Assurance F9 Financial Management
Exemptions from the above ACCA papers are for graduates from 01/01/2021 to 31/12/2025
Accreditation from the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA) and exemption from the following papers:
Level 1: Certificate Level
BA1 Fundamentals of Business Economics BA2 Fundamentals of Management Accounting BA3 Fundamentals of Financial Accounting BA4 Fundamentals of Ethics, CG and Business Law Level 2: Operational Level E1 Managing Finance in a Digital World P1 Management Accounting F1 Financial Reporting Operational Case Study Exam
Accreditation from the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales (ICAEW) and exemption from the following:
Financial Management
Exemptions from the above ICAEW papers are conditional on a pass of 50% or higher AND achieving an Upper Second or First for your degree overall
F1 Accountant in Business (awards at programme level) F2 Management Accounting (awards at the programme level) F3 Financial Accounting (related module at Brunel EC1040 ) F7 Financial Reporting (related module at Brunel EC2003 and AF3608 ) Exemptions from the above ACCA papers are for graduates from 01/01/2021 to 31/12/2025
BA1 Fundamentals of Business Economics BA2 Fundamentals of Management Accounting BA3 Fundamentals of Financial Accounting BA4 Fundamentals of Ethics, CG and Business Law
F1 Accountant in Business F2 Management Accounting F3 Financial Accounting F4 Corporate and Business Law F5 Performance Management F6 Taxation* F7 Financial Reporting F8 Audit and Assurance* * Students can only choose one of these as the option module.
Level 1: Certificate Level BA1 Fundamentals of Business Economics BA2 Fundamentals of Management Accounting BA3 Fundamentals of Financial Accounting BA4 Fundamentals of Ethics, CG and Business Law
Level 2: Operational Level E1 Managing Finance in a Digital World P1 Management Accounting F1 Financial Reporting Operational Case Study Exam
Accreditation from the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales (ICAEW) and exemption from the following:
F1 Accountant in Business F2 Management Accounting F3 Financial Accounting Exemptions from the above ACCA papers are for graduates from 01/01/2021 to 31/12/2025
Accreditation from the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA) and exemption from the following papers: F1 Accountant in Business (awards at programme level) Exemptions from the above ACCA papers are for graduates from 01/01/2021 to 31/12/2025
Accreditation from the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA) and exemption from the following papers: Level 1: Certificate Level
F1 Accountant in Business F3 Financial Accounting
F1 Accountant in Business F2 Management Accounting F3 Financial Accounting F4 Corporate and Business Law F5 Performance Management F6 Taxation F7 Financial Reporting F8 Audit and Assurance
Accreditation from the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA) and exemption from:
F1 Accountant in Business F2 Management Accounting F3 Financial Accounting F4 Corporate and Business Law 2.
Level 2: Operational Level E1 Managing Finance in a Digital World P1 Management Accounting F1 Financial Reporting Operational Case Study Exam Level 3: Management Level E2 Managing Performance P2 Advanced Management Accounting F2 Advanced Financial Reporting
Level 3: Management Level E2 Managing Performance P2 Advanced Management Accounting F2 Advanced Financial Reporting
Accreditation from the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA) and exemption from the following papers: Level 1: Certificate Level BA1 Fundamentals of Business Economics BA2 Fundamentals of Management Accounting BA3 Fundamentals of Financial Accounting BA4 Fundamentals of Ethics, CG and Business Law

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/admissions/how-to-apply-for-undergraduate-courses/admission-decisions:
For all our courses we require applicants to have 5 GCSE’s in different subjects at grade C or above or an equivalent recognised by our Admissions policy.
These five different subjects must include English and Maths at the time of their UCAS application.
Below is a list of what qualifications taken in the UK and Ireland we’ll accept.
For qualifications from other EU countries, as well as countries outside the EU please see individual country web pages .
BTEC Level 2 First Award/Certificate/Extended Certificate/Diploma– counted as one subject at GCSE level.
English Language
Edexcel Access to HE Diploma 12 level 2 credits
English GCSE equivalent
Pass
IB Standard
English A Language/Literature
5
IB Higher
4
SQA Intermediate 2
English
SQA National 5
SQA Standard Grade
ILC Ordinary
O4
ILC Higher
H5
City and Guild Key Skills level 2
Not accepted
Functional Skills level 2
Learn Direct
Adult Literacy
OCR level 2 (ALAN)
not accepted
Maths
Maths GCSE equivalent
Additional Maths
City and Guild level 2
Application of Number
Adult Numeracy
When you apply to us, we’re looking for applicants who will be successful on our degree programmes.
Although we’re looking for students with academic ability, we recognise that this may not be the only indicator of your likely success.
We also consider the transferable skills you have that will help you to be successful at university.
These transferable skills should be demonstrated in the UCAS application primarily within the Personal Statement and confirmed in the reference.
For courses that interview, we’ll also be looking at performance at interview.
We therefore treat your application with a 360 degree approach.
This means that, when making decisions on your application, we’ll take a number of different factors into consideration.
We’re proud to support a diverse student population.
We recognise that our students bring a variety of skills and experience to their course and their interactions with other students.
This ensures a rich learning environment.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/about/admissions/course-related-costs:
Some programmes of study carry additional course-related costs that you will be required to pay in order to complete the course.
Please read the ‘Additional Costs’ document below that relates to the year when you intend to commence your course, to see if any additional costs will apply to your chosen course.
Additional Costs for 2025 entry
Additional Costs for 2024 entry
Additional Costs for 2023 entry
Additional Costs for 2022 entry
Additional Costs for 2021 entry
Additional Costs for 2020 entry
Additional Costs for 2019 entry
Additional Costs for 2018 entry
Additional Costs for 2017 entry
Additional Costs for 2016 entry were stated in your Offer email

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/scholarships/the-vice-chancellors-excellence-award-terms-and-conditions-202526:
PG
£6,000
Applied each year for a maximum of one year for full time courses and two years for full time courses that run over two years.
Unlock your potential with our Vice-Chancellor's Postgraduate International Excellence Award, offering a generous £6,000 fee reduction for self-funded international students enrolling in our postgraduate taught courses starting in September 2025 or January 2026.
This award is designed to support outstanding applicants with a minimum 2:1 or equivalent internationally recognized undergraduate qualification, empowering you to advance your education at Brunel University of London.
Take the next step towards academic excellence and join a world-class learning community!
To be considered, here's what you will need:
There is no application form to fill out, you will automatically be considered as long as you meet our eligibility criteria detailed below.
To be awarded a Vice-Chancellor’s Postgraduate International Excellence Award for September you will need to meet all the conditions by the advisory deadline 30 August 2025.
Applicants applying for entry in January 2026 will need to meet all the conditions by the advisory deadline 28 November 2025.
Value: £6,000 tuition fee reduction applied each year for a maximum of one year for full time courses and two years for full-time courses running over two years, (for example, if you enrol on to a two-year full time postgraduate taught or MRes program, the fee reduction will apply to both years of study).
The awards will be paid once for each eligible level of study, subject to normal progression criteria having been met (additional payments will not be made during a repeating year, regardless of the reason for repetition).
Application process: There is no separate application.
Applicants will be considered automatically for the award when they have met the academic criteria, have paid the deposit and the funds have been received.
The fee reduction will be confirmed in September 2025 or January 2026 of the 2025/26 academic year, subject to meeting all conditions stated on the offer email.
This might include hosting tours of the campus and its facilities, providing administrative support at Open Days, participating in social media and other marketing activity as required.
Data pertaining to bursary/scholarship holders such as: progression rates, degree attainment, degree completion, and graduate outcomes may also be analysed in order to understand the effectiveness of bursaries and scholarships.
2.2 Those not eligible for this award
3.1 Applicants who meet the eligibility criteria at the time of allocation will be considered for a tuition fee reduction automatically using the information provided at the time of their course application only.
Applicants cannot be considered should their circumstances change during the course of their studies.
3.2 In order to be considered applicants must have a minimum 2:1 and above or equivalent internationally recognised undergraduate qualification, meet the entry criteria for the course and meet the course offer.
The University will not accept any appeals in respect of the award allocation made or for awards that have been withdrawn.
3.4 Applicants will be expected to pay the course deposit of £5,000 and for the funds to be received by Brunel in time for the closure of the scheme and advisory deadlines as stated above.
3.5 Applicants who do not pay the course deposit of £5,000 or where the funds have not been received by Brunel by the advisory deadline of 30 August 2025 or 28 November will forfeit the fee reduction and the fee reduction will not be applied.
3.6 The Vice Chancellor's Postgraduate International Excellence award cannot be combined with any other University scholarship, bursary, discount, or award, with the exception of the 2% prompt payment discount.
3.7 If an applicant is eligible for more than one scholarship or discount, they will be awarded the one which is most financially beneficial across the full course duration.
3.8 Fee reductions are made for the September 2025 or January 2026 of the 2025/26 academic year only and cannot be deferred to later months or years of entry.
Applicants who intend to defer their studies from September 2025/26 academic year to January 2025/26 will retain the award.
Applicants who intend to defer their studies from September or January of the 2025/26 academic year to September or January of the 2026/27 academic year will lose any fee reduction they have been awarded.
4.1 Applicants will be responsible for paying the remainder of their tuition fees after the fee reduction is deducted from their first year tuition fee.
4.2 The tuition fee will be reduced £6,000 of the students first year of study for applicants on a full time one year programme and for two years for full-time courses running over two years.
4.3 Conditions of fee waiver: The fee waiver will only be made providing the student is fully enrolled at the University on a postgraduate taught or MRes programme.
4.4 The award does not replace the deposit of £5,000.
All applicants will need to pay the £5,000 deposit for their course in order to formally receive the award.
4.5 The fee reduction will only be applied providing the student is fully enrolled at the University on a full time postgraduate taught programme of study which includes having had their qualifications and other documentation verified and checked, and then completing the University enrolment procedures.
4.6 Applicants who have already paid the full course fees can visit the Student Centre to request a refund of any overpayment; once they have met all conditions of their offer and enrolled onto their main course in person.
The fee reduction will be withdrawn if the change is from full time to parttime, distance or online learning.
5.3 Abeyance/Temporary Withdrawal: A student who takes a period of temporary withdrawal (abeyance) and who is in receipt of a fee reduction would cease to receive payments whilst temporarily withdrawn.
Fee reduction payments made prior to temporarily withdrawing will not generally be requested to be repaid and remaining payments would generally be paid once the student returns to complete that level of study.
5.4 Suspension of Study: Should a student be suspended for any reason, payments will be withdrawn and consideration of reinstatement will be dependent on the disciplinary outcome.
5.5 Repeat/Extended Study: Periods of temporary withdrawal that result in repeat or extended periods of study are not supported by additional payments.
Reduction entitlement is for the maximum duration of each award and entitlement is not extended if overall course duration alters.
5.6 Withdrawal from Study: A student who withdraws from their programme prior to completion and who is in receipt of a fee reduction will not normally be requested to repay reduction payments made up to the point of withdrawal.
5.7 Fee Waiver Amendments: Fee reductions are applied at the start of the academic year as part/all of an award entitlement and will not normally be amended once the fee waiver has been processed.
Any tuition fee liability remaining after fee waivers are applied would therefore be calculated in accordance with the Student Financial Policy.
In the case of withdrawal or abeyance the tuition fee and the fee waiver are calculated in accordance with the Student Financial Policy.
5.8 Sponsored students : Students who have Government sponsorship, NHS Bursary funding, employer sponsorship or any other external sponsorship for part or all of the tuition fees are not eligible for this Award.
If Admissions receive details of sponsorship after a Vice Chancellors award has been made, the Award will be removed.
Students who are sponsored and have been awarded, should notify scholarships@brunel.ac.uk immediately.
Updated 02 April 2025.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-taught-course-information:
We have over 100 taught Master’s courses on offer, and many are available in either full-time or part-time modes.
If you register for and complete only part of the Master’s programme, you may be eligible for the award of a Postgraduate Certificate or a Postgraduate Diploma, depending upon the number of credits gained.
Degrees are awarded as the following:
We have also introduced a new type of Master’s degree, Master of Research (MRes), which can provide a solid foundation if you intend to go on to a PhD or thorough training in research theory, skills and practice.
Most Master’s courses are available on a part-time and full-time basis, though some are only available part-time and a few only accept full-time students.
A number may also be studied by distance-learning, which means you may undertake most of your study away from the University.
More flexible modes of study are also available in some areas and, with the rapid advances in electronic communications, some have facilities for tutoring and group conferencing through e-learning.
You should check with your School on the arrangements for your particular course.
Full-time programmes last approximately one year, beginning at the end of September (although a few courses begin in February).
Part-time courses last a minimum of two years and usually involve attendance on one day a week, though arrangements for block-taught courses may differ from this.
Master’s courses are made up of self-contained modules worth a set number of credits.
Usually you can expect to take the taught modules during the first two-thirds of your course and move on to the dissertation for the latter part.
You may find though that there is some overlap between the two sections.
The title of your dissertation is usually agreed between you and your supervisor and will relate to your chosen course of study, but you can also draw on your work experience if you are in relevant employment.
The taught modules will vary in the way they are presented.
You can expect some lectures and seminars and more small-group teaching than is possible at undergraduate level.
This allows students from a variety of work backgrounds to exchange professional expertise within an academic context.
Students in technology- or science-based disciplines will also have some laboratory-based and practical components.
Your postgraduate course will provide you with the skills you need to undertake a project or dissertation in your chosen field.
These may include, for example, research methods, use of relevant software packages, communication and presentation skills.
As part of the induction programme, you will be provided with information on the use of information retrieval systems in the University and the use of Brunel’s computing services.
Distance learning students will be given appropriate induction to their course through course materials or a residential period and will usually be in regular e-mail contact with their School.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/business-school/undergraduate-courses/undergraduate-work-placement-year:
In addition to providing the opportunity to put what you’ve learnt in your degree into practice, and to earn some much appreciated money, our students find their work placement experience significantly enhances their career prospects when they come to graduate.
In fact many students are offered employment with their work placement company upon graduation.
You'll be working in the same capacity as you would when you graduate so it will give you a taste of what's to come, hopefully, including all the challenges and rewards.
Placements are available at different sized organisations across the public and private sector, so you can choose the type of experience most suited to you.
You’ll need to apply for these positions in much the same way as you would a job, so it’ll be useful experience in that respect too.
The good news is that through our Business Life programme and the University’s Professional Development Centre, you should be well prepared to make the best applications you can.
Placements tend to last 44 weeks.
During your placement, an academic member of staff from Brunel Business School will keep in touch, and your employer will be invited to attend a tutorial day at Brunel with you.
This list of previous employers shows the breadth and diversity of potential placements, so aim high!

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/business-school/why-study-at-the-brunel-business-school/accreditations-and-exemptions:
The Brunel Business School has received continued accreditation from the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB) for five years.
We are proud to be recognised as one of the world’s top Business Schools.
Stephanie M.
Bryant, executive vice president and chief accreditation officer of AACSB said “Every AACSB-accredited school has demonstrated a focus on excellence in all areas, including teaching, research, curricula development, and student learning.
The intense peer-review process exemplifies their commitment to quality business education.”
Accreditation also means that you will be exempt from studying some modules or taking particular exams to gain qualifications which certify you as a professional in your chosen field.
As well as the many Business School wide accreditations we hold, you can click on your course below to find out more about a specific accreditation and/or exemption.
The Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB)
The Association of MBAs (AMBA)
The Small Business Charter (SBC)
The Principles for Responsible Management Education (UN PRME)
Certificate Level C01 Fundamentals of Management Accounting C02 Fundamentals of Financial Accounting C03 Fundamentals of Business Mathematics C04 Fundamentals of Business Economics C05 Fundamentals of Ethics, Corporate Governance and Business Law
1)    Accreditation from the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA) and exemption from the following papers:
Applied Knowledge:
Applied Skills
2)    Accreditation from the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA) and exemption from the following papers:
Students will get exemptions from certificate level and operational level modules i.e.
students will start at the CIMA’s Management Level modules.
Level 1: Certificate Level BA1 Fundamentals of Business Economics BA2 Fundamentals of Management Accounting BA3 Fundamentals of Financial Accounting BA4 Fundamentals of Ethics, Corporate Governance and Business Law Level 2: Operational Level
E1 Managing Finance in a Digital World P1 Management Accounting F1 Financial Reporting
Operational Case Study Exam
3)    Accreditation from the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales (ICAEW) and students can get up to 7 exemption from the ICAEW Chartered Accountant qualification.
Exemptions from the following ICAEW papers are conditional on a pass of 50% or higher.
For Business, Technology and finance module Upper Second or first degree award or 50% is required in all of the modules listed in the bracket.
4)    Accreditation from the Chartered Institute of Public Finance Accountancy (CIPFA) and exemption from the following papers:
Professional Certificate
Financial Accounting
Yes
Management Accounting
Company Financial Reporting
Audit & Assurance
Professional Diploma
Taxation
5)    Accreditation from the Association of International Accountants (AIA) and exemption from:
Students will get exemptions from foundation level and professional1 level modules i.e.
students will start at the AIA’s professional 2 Level modules.
Foundation Level
Corporate Governance and Audit
Business Management
Professional 1 Level
Financial Accounting and Reporting 1 (needs MG3609)
Principles of Governance and Audit (needs MG3600)
Business Law for Accountants
Taxation on the basis of Taxation (needs MG3027)
Accreditation from the Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM) and exemption from:
CIM Certificate in Professional Marketing (Level 4) Marketing and Integrated Communications module
CIM Diploma in Professional Marketing (Level 6) Strategic Marketing
Brunel students have the freedom of choosing their preferred CIM accredited centre .
Certificate Level C03 Fundamentals of Business Mathematics C04 Fundamentals of Business Economics C05 Fundamentals of Ethics, Corporate Governance and Business Law
The BSc HRM programme is accredited by The Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD) .
The CIPD is the professional body for HR and people development.
As an internationally recognised brand with over 160,000 members across 120 countries - working in HR, learning and development, people management and consulting across private businesses and organisations in the public and voluntary sectors.
CIPD membership will provide you with the resources and networking opportunities to develop your knowledge and progress your career.
View benefits of membership .
Membership outcome of CIPD accredited programme(s): On successful completion of the MSc HRM programme and students who are in active Student membership will automatically gain CIPD Associate membership - they can use the designatory letter Assoc CIPD and will have the eligibility to upgrade their membership to Chartered depending on their experience.
For inquires on how to apply for membership please contact CIPD through this link.
Accreditation from Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA)
You are entitled to the following ACCA qualification exemptions:
>      Business and Technology (BT)
>      Management Accounting (MA)
>      Financial Accounting (FA)
With completion of certain subjects you are entitled to the following ACCA qualification exemptions:
Course exemption
With completion of the modules
Financial Reporting (FR)
Financial Accounting (MG5612) plus, Financial Reporting (MG5613)
Performance Management (PM)
Management Accounting (MG5614) plus, Business Performance Management (MG5605)
Accreditation from the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA)
Eligible for the Masters Gateway route, which offers the below exemptions once the Gateway exam has been passed:
Subject name
Subject Level
Module(s) required for Exemption
BA1 Fundamentals of Business Economics
Certificate BA
Core
BA2 Fundamentals of Management Accounting
BA3 Fundamentals of Financial Accounting
BA4 Fundamentals of Ethics, Corporate Governance and Business Law
E1 Managing Finance in a Digital World
Operational
P1 Management Accounting
F1 Financial Reporting
E2 Managing Performance
Management
P2 Advanced Management Accounting
F2 Advanced Financial Reporting
Accreditation from the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales (ICAEW)
Subject
Qualifiers and Criteria
Accounting
Achieving a minimum pass mark of 50% in all modules listed:
Financial Reporting
Business, Technology and Finance
Achieving a minimum pass grade within your degree
Management Information
Business Performance Management
Accreditation from the Association of International Accountants (AIA)
Exemption options:
Professional qualification - Foundation Level
Professional 1 - Financial Accounting and Reporting 1 on the basis of Financial Accounting (MG5612) plus Financial Reporting (MG5613).
Professional 1 - Management Accounting on the basis of Management Accounting (MG5614) plus Business Performance Management (MG5605).
Professional 1 - Business Law for Accountants.
Accredited by the Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM) and exempt from the following modules:
CIM Diploma in Professional Marketing (Level 6) Strategic Marketing module
Accredited by:
The Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport (CILT) Eligible for Chartered Membership with a pass mark of 50% or above.
The Chartered Institute of Purchasing & Supply (CIPS) Strategic management module must be selected as the elective
The MSc HRM programme is accredited by The Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD) .
Association of MBAs (AMBA)
The Brunel MBA is accredited by the Association of MBAs (AMBA).
In 2021 BBS celebrated the 20-year AMBA accreditation for Brunel Business School.
Andrew Main Wilson, CEO of AMBA & BGA said:
‘As Brunel Business School celebrates its 20th anniversary of being accredited by AMBA, we join them to honour both this momentous occasion and commend the Business School on its 20 years of business education excellence.
We value working with the team at Brunel to ensure outstanding management education continues to be the top priority for employers, governments and ambitious executives who will become the global business leaders of the future.’
Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA)
The MBA programme is not currently accredited with ACCA but does receive the following via their exemption’s framework:
Brunel MBA
The exemptions listed below will be awarded automatically on completion of the above national qualification and subject area.
Business and Technology (BT)
Management Accounting (MA)
Financial Accounting (FA)
Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA)
The following exemptions are granted:
BA4 Fundamentals of Ethics, Corporate Guidance and Business Law
F1 Financial Accounting

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/business-school/business-life/home:
Our links to industry put us in contact with top employers across a range of industries.
These companies are increasingly looking for graduates who can make an instant impact with digital skills in a range of business functions.
Business Life is a professional development programme unique to Brunel, designed to offer students accredited online qualifications and essential skills that will set you apart as exceptional candidates.
We’ll help you to broaden your portfolio of digital and professional skills ahead of graduation, so you’ll feel fully equipped, confident and ready for the world of work.
Business Life has made a real difference to previous students and we’re certain that you’ll find the courses, training, and events useful too.
The programme equips many undergraduates and postgraduates with skills that are not only in demand in the workplace, but which can be put into practice straightaway.
With events and guest talks alongside a host of industry qualifications, it’s a great way to gain confidence and have fun while improving your employability prospects as you enter this exciting period in your life.
Take a look at the range of free online courses we've sourced to boost your employability in the graduate market.
You will have to register with the provider to access the training.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/business-school/why-study-at-the-brunel-business-school/careers-and-your-future:
At Brunel Business School, we invest in our students' futures.
Through our links with key players in a wide variety of sectors, from tech to banking and advertising to accounting, we help you secure work placements that give you a clear advantage as a graduate.
Our careers programmes are built with input from business professionals with the specific aim of helping you enter the workplace fully equipped and confident of your abilities.
The School’s Business Life Programme is designed to help our students acquire a range of qualifications and skills that make them stand out as ideal candidates in the jobs market.
You will also receive support from our Professional Development Centre to help manage your career search.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/aerospace-engineering:
If you’re interested in how aeroplanes and rockets are built, tested and changed according to their purpose then you’ll be able to do that and much more on our Aerospace Engineering degree courses.
With the increasing demand for aircrafts for travel and cargo, the need for high calibre machines is vital and therefore creates a demand for highly-qualified aerodynamic engineers.
Studying aerospace engineering at Brunel will develop your knowledge in engineering and enable you to learn, build and flight-test lower scale aeronautical vehicles.
Grow your knowledge of aerospace engineering on one of our degree courses
Develop your specialist expertise in aerospace engineering on one of our master’s courses
Study one of our engineering PhD courses and make an impact in the aerospace industry with your research
Exhibit your final year project at our yearly event which promotes engineering talent
Aerospace Engineering BEng
Aerospace Engineering MEng
Aerospace Engineering MSc

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/renewable-energy-engineering-msc:
3 years part-time (distance learning)
Meeting the increasing energy demands of growing populations and developing societies while reducing the use of fossil fuels are crucial challenges facing the global energy industry.
Please watch our short video interview with Dr Ali Badiei who leads this course, in which he gives more in-depth information about the course content and the student experience.
Brunel's Renewable Energy Engineering MSc gives graduates and engineering professionals interested in finding sustainable solutions to climate change and energy security the theoretical and practical skills needed to pursue careers in the growing field of renewable energy technology.
Along with a solid grounding in the core principles of energy production, you’ll get detailed knowledge of renewable energy technologies and systems, including solar, wind, tidal, wave, hydro, geothermal, biomass and hydrogen.
You’ll also look at the economic and environmental impact of renewable systems and at the legislative, planning and technical considerations of integrating them into the power grid.
You can choose 1 year full-time or 3 years via our distance learning programme.
This course is accredited by the Institution of Mechanical Engineering (IMechE) and the Energy Institute (EI) , which means your postgraduate engineering degree will put you on course to gain Chartered Engineer (CEng) status in the UK.
Throughout your studies you’ll have use of our state-of-the-art laboratory facilities and 24-hour access to industry-standard specialist software for engineering design at dedicated computer clusters on campus, so you’ll have the opportunity and equipment to explore ideas and tackle problems.
As the renewable energy sector grows, so does the need for individuals capable of planning, implementing and managing new renewable energy projects.
Your Brunel MSc will give you those skills and put you on course for a rewarding career in the field or further research.
"‘Being immersed in the vibrant and dynamic atmosphere of the city of London has broadened my horizons, exposed me to diverse perspectives, and provided unparalleled networking opportunities.
Working in London as a Technical Sales Engineer at Naked Energy, a pioneering solar technology developer, allows me to thrive in the heart of innovation and collaborate with industry leaders, further enhancing my expertise and contributing to the transition towards a sustainable future’" - Ibrahim Walaman-I
"As an international student, it was really important for me to study in a secure and comfortable place.
My professors were always open to answer questions and guide me through my learning process." - Santiago Chaglla
The course is designed to give graduates and professional engineers the knowledge and technical skills needed to pursue careers in the renewable energy industry.
Work for your renewable energy engineering degree consists of compulsory modules and a 15,000-word dissertation.
Our graduates are working worldwide in senior technical and management positions.
The primary destinations are manufacturing industries, energy and environmental consultancy companies, energy advice and research centres, academia, and national and international non-governmental organisations.
A 2:2 (or above) UK Honours degree, or equivalent internationally recognised qualification, in Mechanical Engineering or Building Services Engineering with any relevant work experience.
Other qualifications and relevant experience will be assessed on an individual basis.
Applicants who will need an Academic Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS) Certificate.
To find out if you will need an ATAS certificate, please visit this webpage: https://www.gov.uk/guidance/find-out-if-you-require-an-atas-certificate#when-you-need-an-atas-certificate.
Distance Learning students
You're not required to be on campus.
All study materials will be accessible from your current location providing you with the flexibility you need to complete your course.
All other students
To ensure you receive the maximum support and have the greatest opportunity to reach your full potential the expectation is that you enrol on these programmes; attend in-person all teaching activities including examinations that are scheduled on campus.
However, where for pedagogical reasons alternative methods of delivery are used for activities you'll be notified and expected to engage with the activity at the time of delivery.
For modules with practical learning content, these will be delivered in-person on campus in the laboratories.
Traditional examinations will be taken in-person on campus.
You'll have access to relevant engineering software on campus.
You're also able to install software on your own personal laptop and connect to the Brunel License server through a VPN connection.
This provides continued access to all services.
Many carry out much of their research in collaboration with major oil companies, plant and equipment manufacturers, leading industrial firms and governmental laboratories.
This means that your education will be at the forefront of scholarship and practice, covering the most up-to-date industry knowledge.
Your course will consist of combinations of lectures, seminars, laboratory practicals, field work, coursework, self-study and individual research reports.
MSc dissertation projects are normally carried out over four months for full-time students or one year for distance learning students.
The taught element of the course takes place from September to April.
From May to September, you’ll conduct an individual project and prepare your dissertation.
3 years distance learning
The self-study distance-learning programme enables you to conduct most of your studies at home, in your own time and at your own pace.
You've up to three years to complete the course, with students taking four modules in the first year, four modules in the second year and writing their dissertation in the third year.
You should allow about twelve hours each week for study.
You can sit your examinations either at Brunel or in the country where you are resident.
We have an extensive network of organisations (universities, colleges and British Council offices) throughout the world that can provide invigilation services.
Modules are assessed by combinations of formal examination and written assignments.
Examinations are normally sat in May.
Distance learners have the option of sitting their exams at an authorized invigilation centre in the country where they live.
Successful completion of the taught modules allows you to proceed to the dissertation stage.
To qualify for the award of the MSc degree, you must submit a satisfactory dissertation.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/sustainable-electrical-power-msc:
2 years part-time
Our Sustainable Electrical Power MSc degree has been designed to equip you with advanced knowledge of sustainable electrical power and energy generation systems.
You will gain the skills and knowledge to lead teams which will operate, control, design, regulate and manage the power systems and networks of the future.
You’ll develop the ability to critically evaluate methodologies, analytical procedures and research methods in renewable energy sources; the design of stand-alone, grid connected and hybrid sustainable electrical power systems; power system engineering; power electronics for power quality and grid integration; and regulatory frameworks for power systems and electricity markets.
You’ll have access to our high-performance technical laboratories for the testing of power and control systems.
The latest industry standard simulation software is available for you to use in grid computing facilities to investigate and design sustainable electrical power systems.
During your studies, there are site visits to National Grid substations and control centres, and power stations.
You will benefit from guest lectures delivered by experts from the electricity industry, and take part in conferences where you’ll deliver poster presentations on your research work.
Our MSc sustainable electrical power degree is accredited by the Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET) and the Energy Institute (EI) on behalf of the Engineering Council as meeting the requirements for Further Learning for registration as a Chartered Engineer.
These two professional bodies ensure that your degree meets the academic requirement to qualify as a professional engineer.
It can be studied full-time over one year or part-time over two years.
British Council Scholarship for Women in STEM: In partnership with the British Council, we are offering five fully-funded scholarships for female STEM students from Malaysia, Myanmar, Philippines and Vietnam.
"I chose to study at Brunel because of its reputation for industry relationships and its ability to bring people from many different cultures together" - Burak SÜSLÜ
"Brunel is located in London, which can provide more opportunities to touch worldwide people, great companies and organisations to help integrate yourself into international environments." - Danqing Wang
"I chose Brunel due to its reputation.
I would recommend Brunel, as the programs of study have been tailored to match [industry] job requirements as much as possible" - Mujtaba Alsaif
"Brunel helped me in matching the pace of how the world is moving now and what issues are we facing as human beings." - Ravinder Singh
The course is delivered in intensive, block mode.
You’ll take the taught modules in the first two terms with block teaching of four weeks in each term.
Then you’ll spend four months working on your dissertation.
The dissertation is a significant research investigation into a current challenging area related to sustainable electrical power.
You’ll have the option to do an industry-based dissertation.
A sustainable electrical power degree from Brunel will equip you with advanced knowledge of sustainable electrical power and energy generation systems.
Sustainable energy is a vital, growing sector and you’ll graduate with the skills to work on a vast range of modern projects in the sustainable electricity industry.
You’ll benefit from our links with major employers including Centrica, EDF Energy, GE Energy, National Grid and UK Power Networks.
£7,215 part-time
The online Wiseflow platform will be used for submitting written course work.
Our sustainable electrical power degree is delivered by an expert team of multidisciplinary academic staff.
Many are world-renowned researchers and they feed their active research into the course.
There will also be guest lectures from our industry partners, site visits to power plants, and networking at conferences with key industry specialists.
Study will combine lectures, seminars, workshop sessions, computer simulation, self-study, and individual and group project work.
Your progress will be assessed via assignments, presentations, technical analytical reports, group reports, exams and your dissertation.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/life/study-support/computer-services/media-services/digital-education/WISEflow/home:
WISEflow is the university's digital assessment platform.
WISEflow is used by all four colleges (CALSS, BBS, CEDPS and CHMLS) for coursework submission, and many departments are using it for digital BYOD (Bring Your Own Device) examinations.
What is WISEflow?
(including key concepts and an introductory video of the platform).
Please note these pages are being updated to comply with WISEflow's new release and terminology changes.
Most of the links in our site will point to UNIwise's own support pages and these should be referred to in the first instance.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/advanced-clinical-practice-pgcert-pgdip-and-msc:
Do you predominantly have an interest in rehabilitation where your remit crosses boundaries of usual clinical specialities?
Do you want to develop your expertise as a clinician but also as an educator, researcher and leader?
If so this ACP pathway may be for you.
This part-time programme will enhance your clinical knowledge and develop your research skills to enable you to critically reflect on your practice in various areas of rehabilitation, thereby optimising your clinical practice and enhancing service delivery.
Additionally, through exploration of links between research, theory, policy and practice, you will become an effective leader, educator and advanced practitioner.
Are you interested in studying the full-time version of this programme?
See our MSc Advanced Professional Practice course.
You will benefit from a course designed to incorporate a multidisciplinary perspective, necessary for leading in today’s global health care systems.
You will study key modules in clinical leadership, learning and teaching, evidence-based practice and research.
Clinical oriented modules will include a bespoke mix selected from our Advanced Clinical Practice named specialist pathways in Cardiovascular Health , Critical Care , Musculoskeletal Rehabilitation , Neurological Rehabilitation , and Pelvic Health .
This will give you the opportunity to select modules that directly relate to your area of current and future practice.
Year 1 example module selection below is for someone who works in neuro ICU (note this will be discussed with you in advance.
Following successful completion of this course, you’ll be fully prepared for a leadership role as an advanced practitioner in your relevant clinical profession (e.g.
nursing, occupational therapy or physiotherapy) or can move into a variety of senior positions within a range of healthcare settings.
There are an increasing number of advance clinical practice roles and this master's will give you the relevant knowledge and skills to step into these positions.
Potential roles you could assume include Advance Clinical Practitioner or Case Manager.
This programme is ideal for senior clinicians, clinical leads, managers, and research academics who are looking to develop and improve the care and experience of patients and their families, along with service provision.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/courses/musculoskeletal-ultrasound-pgcert:
Musculoskeletal Ultrasound
1 year part-time
UK £4,040 (part-time)
International £8,265 (part-time)
Diagnostic ultrasound is a rapidly developing area within musculoskeletal medicine with a number of allied health and medical professions utilising musculoskeletal ultrasound in their clinical practice
Whether working within the NHS, private practice or elite sports, if you'd like to add the skills of diagnostic ultrasound assessment to your already established musculoskeletal assessment and treatment skills, the Musculoskeletal Ultrasound PgCert is the course for you.
Equally, if you're a radiologist or sonographer who wishes to expand their knowledge and skills of musculoskeletal scanning, this course provides the ideal training and support to help you achieve your goal.
You’ll be taught by full-time clinicians working in the NHS and private sectors, in both point-of-care musculoskeletal clinics and radiology sonography roles.
You’ll also benefit from guest lecturers who have expertise in a range of specialist areas including medical physicists, radiographers, consultant musculoskeletal radiologists and consultant rheumatologists.
This offers you an exciting combination of clinical expertise, bringing together the different clinical domains where musculoskeletal ultrasound is used.
You'll not only learn the core skill of musculoskeletal ultrasound image generation, interpretation, and reporting but there's also a strong emphasis on clinical relevance, clinical reasoning, and you'll learn the impact this can have on patient care.
This is why we also offer the modules from this programme as a CPD (Continuing Professional Development), so you can choose to study one module and return to complete the other module to achieve the full PgCert at a later date.
Find out more and to apply .
This course is accredited by the Consortium for the Accreditation of Sonographic Education (CASE), however your work-based learning experience must be carried out in the UK or Republic of Ireland in order to gain this accreditation.
This provides you with comprehensive training combined with workplace learning to help you become a musculoskeletal sonographer.
This course has also been endorsed by The British Medical Ultrasound Society (BMUS) and provides CPD credits in accordance with the Royal College of Radiologists.
This programme has been developed in partnership with The Ultrasound Site Ltd , who are established market leaders in musculoskeletal ultrasound training.
This MSK ultrasound PG Cert programme meets the training requirements of the Chartered Society of Physiotherapy.
This MSK ultrasound PG Cert programme also meets the training requirements of the Royal College of Radiologists
Musculoskeletal Work-Based Learning can be found here
Check out our FAQs page .
Course dates
This programme comprises of two different modules.
The PgCert modules are positioned within the M level postgraduate physiotherapy programme, emphasising the focus on clinical integration of this unique and dynamic imaging modality.
On successful completion of both modules, you'll graduate with a PgCert in musculoskeletal ultrasound.
The 'Integrating Musculoskeletal Ultrasound into Practice' module also includes a work-based learning experience and assessment.
Before commencing the experience, you'll be required to arrange a clinical mentor.
This module aims to develop the practical skill of performing a diagnostic musculoskeletal ultrasound examination for the peripheral MSK system.
Core foundation topics such as professional issues, quality assurance and science and technology including physics, knobology, image optimisation will be addressed in taught lectures and through supporting online material
This module aims to develop students ability to recognise pathology on imaging, report it accurately but also develop an understanding of the evidence base surrounding the impact that those sonographic findings have upon a patient pathways.
Considering normal ageing changes and determining relevance of imaging findings.
A significant focus of the module will be clinical mentorship, but taught contact days to refine skills and develop an understanding of tissue appearances will be provided.
Group based working, online resources and learning materials will further supplement this.
On successful completion of this course, you'll be able to demonstrate a competency-based award in musculoskeletal ultrasound to employers.
This will enable you to work autonomously as a musculoskeletal sonographer in a number of different clinical settings.
Our Musculoskeletal Ultrasound PgCert programme will equip you with the skills needed to work within focused sonography roles in radiology settings.
You’ll also be able to incorporate these skills within your current clinical practice.
This could open up a new career path alongside your established clinical work.
You could also continue on to further study.
Completing this course means you could progress onto the PgDip or MSc of our Advanced Clinical Practice named specialist pathway in Musculoskeletal Rehabilitation .
Watch this video to hear first-hand from our musculoskeletal ultrasound students and how this course is helping them in their field of work.
£4,040 part-time
£8,265 part-time
Your course will be delivered using a variety of methods that have been chosen to optimise your learning of clinical theories and skills.
These have been designed to maximise the level of interaction and engagement with your tutors and fellow students.
All modules will continue to teach sonography skills in-person on-campus.
This'll be supported by the teaching of theoretical knowledge through interactive online learning.
Our interactive online delivery
We'll provide interactive online study packages that you can engage with at any time that suits you.
These comprise of videos of your tutors introducing and explaining subjects that are linked with study materials and workbooks.
There'll be scheduled live interactive online seminars, where you'll work with your tutor and a small group of fellow students to learn clinical theories and skills.
Each seminar will provide opportunities to discuss topics and ask questions.
Each module will provide you with a wide range of online study materials to support your learning, including case studies, workbooks, clinical skills videos, discussion forums.
You'll be required to attend campus to take part in seminars and practical skills training.
Through the provision of campus-based teaching, we'll provide an engaging and stimulating programme that helps you to maximise your learning and professional development.
Our academics are specialists in musculoskeletal ultrasound with extensive clinical experience.
All of our team remain in clinical practice and currently work in hospitals and other clinical settings, so they'll be teaching you up-to-date scientific knowledge and musculoskeletal ultrasound skills.
Our lecturers are also active in research and often contribute to the development of professional guidelines, so you know you’re being taught by practicing clinicians with a high profile in the sector.
Our teaching approach is diverse and you’ll benefit from lectures, tutorials, practical sessions (small groups), study guides and our computer-based learning packages.
Studying your postgraduate degree with us, means you'll be taught the most up-to-date clinical methods in a fast-moving field.
Our team will teach you cutting-edge research through practical experience.
During the course you'll be assessed in a variety of ways and you'll be assessed differently for each module.
The Fundamentals of Musculoskeletal Ultrasound module will be assessed via:
Integrating Musculoskeletal Ultrasound into Practice will be assessed through:
As part of the final assessment for the ‘Integrating Musculoskeletal Ultrasound into Practice' module, you'll be required to perform a practical ultrasound scan examination on three different patients.
This is assessed by your supervisor, as well as an independent assessor.
You'll need to provide the details of up to three independent assessors for the final exam, one of which will be selected by the University.
Both the supervisor and independent assessor are required to sign the relevant agreement prior to you starting this module.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/news-and-events/news/articles/Brunel-Law-School-Receives-Athena-Swan-UK-Bronze-Award:
Brunel Law School has received the Athena Swan Bronze Award in recognition of its progress and commitment to promoting gender equality.
The award, granted by Advance HE, is given to institutions and departments that uphold the principles of the Athena Swan Charter, which aims to address gender inequalities and support fair and inclusive cultures in higher education.
Valid until 31 July 2030, the award acknowledges that Brunel Law School has made significant progress in tackling gender inequalities, while recognising the school’s robust policies, institutional structures, and culture necessary to systematically address gender inequality and support a fair and inclusive environment for academic and professional staff as well as students.
Brunel Law School first received the Athena Swan Bronze Award in 2019, and this latest recognition marks a continuation of its sustained commitment and progress.
Professor Jurgita Malinauskaite, Head of Brunel Law School celebrated this by saying: "This is a great achievement for Brunel Law School.
It reflects our long-standing and ongoing commitment to gender equity and to fostering an inclusive and supportive environment for all students and staff."
Dr Asress Gikay (Senior Lecturer in AI, Disruptive Innovation and Law), who led the self-assessment process and coordinated the work of various sub-committees, stated: "While the award recognises our efforts and achievements, it also reminds us of our continued responsibility to do more.
I am proud to have led the self-assessment and grateful to colleagues who supported the process."
Special thanks go to Dr Meryl Dickinson (Reader (Education) in Law) and Dr Adrienne Barnett (Reader in Law) for their valuable support in this achievement.
This recognition strengthens Brunel Law School’s position as a forward-looking institution that values fairness, inclusion, and opportunity for all members of its community.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/news-and-events/news/articles/Nero-New-Writers-Prize:
Brunel University of London and premium coffee house Caffè Nero have jointly opened submissions for the Nero New Writers Prize, a bold new award searching for the best original short stories from unpublished and aspiring writers from the UK and Ireland.
Entries must be an original, unpublished short story of up to 5,000 words in either fiction or non-fiction, and the Prize is open to adults who are citizens of, or resident in, the UK and Ireland.
Submissions will be judged anonymously on the quality of prose and readability by a panel chaired by author and journalist Sophie Elmhirst, winner of the 2024 Nero Gold Prize for Maurice and Maralyn .
She is joined by two of Brunel’s Creative Writing faculty, Bernardine Evaristo, bestselling author and Professor of Creative Writing, and novelist and academic Helen Cullen, Reader in Creative Writing.
A shortlist of three writers will be announced in November, with the winner revealed in December 2025.
The winner will receive £3,000, a scholarship for an MA in Creative Writing at Brunel, and an introduction to a literary agent.
Each runner-up will receive £1,000 and a mentorship session with a member of Brunel’s Creative Writing faculty.
Andrew Jones, Vice-Chancellor, comments:
“We are incredibly proud to partner with Caffè Nero on this exciting venture to find, nurture, and champion the literary stars of the future.
At Brunel, many of our Creative Writing team are award-winning authors themselves and we have a proud history of mentoring emerging voices and shaping the literary landscape.
We believe talent should never be constrained by background or circumstance.
Whether in education, the arts, or beyond, we want to ensure that everyone - regardless of where they come from – is given the opportunity to succeed.
The Nero New Writing Prize is an extension of that belief.”
Submissions close at 5pm BST on 29 August 2025.
The Prize is administered by the Booksellers Association.
For more information about the Nero New Writers Prize including the entry form for submissions, visit www.nerobookawards.com .
To learn more about Brunel’s Creative Writing courses, recently voted 1st in London in the National Student Survey 25, visit www.brunel.ac.uk/creative-writing .

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/news-and-events/news/articles/Multimillion-pound-plan-to-build-clean-hydrogen-engines:
Brunel University of London is leading a multimillion pound drive to develop net-zero emissions, affordable ultra-efficient hydrogen-powered engines.
While electric engines help cars support the UK’s net-zero carbon emissions goal, they don’t suit bigger heavy lorries, ships, aircraft, or machines used in farming and building.
For these harder-to-decarbonise sectors as a key clean energy solution is hydrogen.
Backed by UK Research and Innovation (UKRI), the three-year project teams Brunel’s world-class hydrogen engine research with rotary engine specialists Advanced Innovative Engineering (AIE) Ltd and engineering consultants MAHLE Powertrain Ltd.
“This partnership represents a major step forward in advancing clean propulsion technologies for heavy-duty vehicles, marine vessels, aerospace applications and power generation,” said Professor Hua Zhao, Pro Vice-Chancellor, Research.
“As the first university in the UK to establish dedicated hydrogen engine research facilities, we are proud to collaborate with AIE and MAHLE Powertrain on the development of high-efficiency hydrogen rotary and piston engines.”
The science and technology funding body’s £1.3 million award announced today is matched with investment from AIE and MAHLE Powertrain.
The funding is part of UKRI’s wider Prosperity Partnerships scheme, aimed to boost business-university collaborations tackling big industrial challenges.
Brunel’s venture  is one of 23 Prosperity Partnership projects across the UK awarded more than £97 million to accelerate technologies from battery design to cyber defence.
Science Minister, Lord Vallance said: “These partnerships show the range of real-world challenges the UK’s world-class research base is helping to tackle —  from cutting carbon emissions in heavy transport, to improving access to life-saving medicines.
“By backing scientists to work hand-in-hand with industry, we’re combining cutting-edge research with business expertise to turn science into practical solutions that can make a difference in people’s daily lives.”

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/news-and-events/news/articles/Professor-Asoke-K-Nandi-Awarded-the-2025-IEEE-Transactions-on-Radiation-and-Plasma-Medical-Sciences-Best-Paper-Award:
Professor Asoke K.
Nandi FREng and his co-authors have been selected to receive the 2025 IEEE Transactions on Radiation and Plasma Medical Sciences Best Paper Award, a prestigious award in the field of technology and application areas related to radiation- and plasma-based medical sciences.
Reflecting on the award, Professor Nandi states: “It is an honour for my co-authors and me to receive this award.
We wish to thank the IEEE for the award and our peers for selecting our work.”
The winning paper, DefED-Net: Deformable Encoder-Decoder Network for Liver and Liver Tumor Segmentation, presents a breakthrough in medical image analysis by introducing a new approach, improving the accuracy of liver and liver tumour segmentation from CT scans as well as reducing the model size.
This significant work addresses persistent challenges in medical imaging, including the irregular shape of liver tumours and the loss of spatial information during image processing.
The IEEE Best Paper Award will be formally presented at the 2025 IEEE International Symposium on Biomedical Imaging, where Professor Nandi and his co-authors will be honoured for their contributions to the field.
This recognition further confirms Brunel’s growing reputation in artificial intelligence in a variety of engineering applications including medical sciences and underscores Brunel’s commitment to research that delivers real-world impacts.
For more information about Brunel’s research in Biomedical Engineering, visit https://www.brunel.ac.uk/about/cedps .

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/news-and-events/news/articles/Ealing-Trailfinders-and-Brunel-University-of-London-sign-for-10-more-years:
Ealing Trailfinders and Brunel University of London have signed a 10-year renewal agreement that will continue to enable students to combine top-level rugby with their academic studies – and build on the Trailfinders Rugby Academy’s many successes.
The professional team has overseen the performance rugby programmes at Brunel since the partnership launched in 2018.
Now more than 500 student players have benefited from the team’s coaches, strength and conditioning staff, their analysts and medical experts – plus access to the club’s two 4G pitches, two gyms and medical area – as part of the Ealing Trailfinders Rugby Scholarship Programme.
Among them are more than 25 players who have represented Ealing Trailfinders, Championship Rugby’s back-to-back winning champions, and more than 20 who have played for Trailfinders Women in the Premiership.
Many of the players are enjoying continuing success at Ealing Trailfinders, with others going on to play for other clubs such as Saracens, Toulon, Scarlets, Glasgow and Edinburgh – or, in Muir’s case, Gloucester-Hartpury, with whom she has won two Premiership league titles.
The seven years of the partnership so far have seen multiple promotions for Brunel’s teams, with the women’s side now in the top flight of university rugby, and the launch of the Brunel’s men’s side in the RFU league.
This has been supercharged by the opening in 2021 of a £2 million high-performance training facility on Brunel’s Uxbridge-based campus.
The extension of the scholarship programme in 2021 to include women was foundational to Ealing’s aims to build a world-class hub for female rugby players, and was the catalyst for the launch of the Trailfinders Women squad, who are already competing in the country’s top league.
Ben Ward, Ealing Trailfinders’ Director of Rugby and Manager Director, said: “We’re thrilled to be working in close partnership with Brunel for the next 10 years.
We view our partnership as a unique set-up for rugby in this country, by linking our academy with a university – and with Brunel’s sporting prowess.
Our ongoing long-term partnership confirms Ealing Trailfinders’ and Brunel’s commitment to build the most comprehensive rugby university academy in Europe.”
Gareth Rise, manager of the Ealing Trailfinders Academy, said: “This partnership is the centrepiece of our academy strategy for both men and women players at Ealing Trailfinders.
The renewal means the academy, and the ever-growing talent pool that is developing at Brunel, will go from strength to strength.
“It’s important to note that the programme doesn’t just produce great rugby players,” he added.
“It also produces academically minded individuals who have made waves off the pitch.”
In addition to players who have secured places on sought-after graduate schemes, Simone Panella (2024 graduate, Business and Management) set up Dyamotech, a company specialising in wearable technology designed to monitor head impacts in sports, which led to his being crowned Young Entrepreneur of the Year at the Hillingdon Business Awards.
Many Brunel students have had internship opportunities at the club, such as in physiotherapy and coaching, and Callum Macaulay (2020 graduate, Sports, Health and Exercise Sciences) has risen to become the club’s Head of Performance Analysis.
Professor Jonathan Wastling, Brunel’s Deputy Vice-Chancellor, added: “Our partnership with Ealing Trailfinders has been transformational for Brunel’s rugby talent, with our university rugby teams thriving and many of our stars going on to play for Ealing’s men’s and women’s sides.
It’s also been a huge boost for all the students who have immersed themselves in the academy’s ecosystem to develop their professional skills.
“It’s a demonstration of a strong partnership that delivers benefits for the local community and beyond, and I’m delighted that we will have another decade of success.”
The Ealing Trailfinders Rugby Scholarship Programme offers bursary and financial assistance with university accommodation and tuition fees for the most promising players from around the world who wish to develop their rugby career alongside studying for a degree.
For more information, and to apply, visit www.brunel.ac.uk/ealing-trailfinders .

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/about/brunel-public-policy:
Find out more about ways in which we engage with external partners to inform and enhance public policy
Take a look at examples of our work: Policy Briefs, Written Evidence and Policy Papers
Brunel University London is a partner of the Open Innovation Team (OIT) in Whitehall
Read how our work fits with the SDGs
Funding, resources, training and advice that BPP can provide to support Brunel academics and researchers to engage with public policy.
Professor Justin Fisher explains why influencing policy requires a slightly different way of working
Learn more through thematic podcast series and videos by BUL researchers

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/news-and-events/news/articles/15th-best-in-the-world-for-responsible-consumption-and-production:
The responsible way in which Brunel University London researches, sources, uses and disposes of materials has resulted in its being ranked as the 15th best university in the world for delivering against the United Nations’ goal of Responsible Consumption & Production, according to the Times Higher Education Impact Rankings 2021.
The goal is SDG 12 – one of the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals, which together constitute a universal call to action to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure that all people enjoy peace and prosperity.
Since being launched in 2019, the THE Impact Rankings show how research-intensive universities around the world are performing against the SDGs, and the social and environmental impact they achieve.
Brunel has this year been placed in the 101–200 ranking category , out of more than 1,100 universities that entered.
Evidence submitted to demonstrate Brunel’s responsible consumption and production included:
This strong showing reflects the importance of sustainability and responsibility to the University's plan – and of tackling global challenges, front and centre as part of the Brunel 2030 Research Strategy, which prioritises interdisciplinary research for the benefit of individuals, societies, economies and the planet.
And this progress so far is only part of the journey.
Brunel’s academics and professional services staff are working together to collaborate, collect and disseminate information on SDG-related projects, such as:
Prof Geoff Rodgers, Vice Provost for Research at Brunel, said: “I welcome this external recognition of the impact achieved by our research programmes, which are focussed on many of the most pressing challenges facing the planet, and are making a clear difference – and indeed of Brunel being an ever more environmentally sustainable and responsible institution."

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/about/brunel-public-policy/SDGs/Biosphere:
Four of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) address the land- and water-based aspects of the biosphere we live in, and which we need to survive.
These SDGs also address the importance of taking urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts.
Many of these SDGs interconnect and overlap, both with each other and with those in the Economy and Society groups of SDGs.
Logo for the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goal 6, which is 'Clean water and sanitation'
Logo for the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goal 13, which is 'Climate action'
Logo for the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goal 14, which is 'Life below water'
Logo for the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goal 15, which is 'Life on land'
Examples include:
Dr Ariana Zeka and colleagues estimated the burden of heat-related mortality attributable to recent climate change caused by humans, with more than a third of deaths accounted for
Developing drone boats to health-check Europe's lakes and rivers
Brunel scientists, led by Dr Olwenn Martin, developed European guidance on measuring, reporting on and evaluating the hormonal effect of endocrine-disrupting chemicals in these animals
Towards more sustainable oceans and coasts, spurred by art and science
Europe's likely food production pinchpoints highlighted by Dr Abiy Kabede and colleagues' assessment of how food, water, land and ecosystems interact in climate scenarios
A Plastic Ocean, a 2016 documentary exposing the extent and impact of plastic pollution in our seas and oceans, featured Prof Susan Jobling, who was also a science advisor
98% of the University's waste is diverted from landfill, as part of our ISO 14001:2004 accreditation
We and the Union of Brunel Students run energy-saving campaigns and encourage water use reduction
We use only sustainable fish species identified and followed through our MSC accreditation
In partnership with the Environment Agency, we work to support the River Pinn's health
We are reducing our carbon emissions by 30% from a 2009/10 baseline
We offer water management and conservation training through water sampling experiments from field classes, work placement in the Environment Agency, and research.
Our MSc programme has a Professional Development work placement accredited by the Institution of Environmental Sciences (IES) and the Chartered Institution of Water and Environmental Management (CIWEM).
The United Nations Climate Change Conference Egypt 2022

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/about/brunel-public-policy/SDGs/Society:
Eight of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are about making societies better, cleaner, more sustainable and more just for us all.
Many of these SDGs interconnect and overlap, both with each other and with those in the Biosphere and Economy groups of SDGs.
Logo for the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goal 1, which is 'No poverty'
Logo for the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goal 2, which is 'Zero hunger'
Logo for the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goal 3, which is 'Good health and wellbeing'
Logo for the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goal 4, which is 'Quality education'
Logo for the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goal 5, which is 'Gender equality'
Logo for the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goal 7, which is 'Affordable and clean energy'
Logo for the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goal 11, which is 'Sustainable cities and communities'
Logo for the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goal 16, which is 'Peace, justice and strong institutions'
Drs McKay, Anguilano and Minton strengthened recycled aluminium with tiny basalt fibres, then coated connectors in low-friction nylon, enabling them to resist a hammering from the sea and its wildlife
Developing National Research and Education Networks and Services in Africa
Creating the first interactive, digital, open infrastructure and ethical standards for collecting, preserving and disseminating smallholder farmers' knowledge, thanks to Dr Steven Sam and colleagues
Prof Maria Tsouroufli and team are analysing the working and success of the Indian National Education Policy, with reference to the achievements of UK higher education
Modular and highly efficient technology developed by Prof Savvas Tassou and team keeps vegetables and fruits fresh for people in remote rural areas of sub-Saharan Africa and India
Profs Xanthaki and Rehman report for UN on cultural rights, human rights abuse
Full fee waiver to five full-time students identified as refugees
Our strategy for students and staff
Enriched learning experiences for inner Londoners aged 12–18
We inform policy-makers and enhance public life
Through events, the arts, research – we're committed
Our campus's green space recognised for 5 years running
Santander Cycles connect campus with Uxbridge and hospital
Through schemes including Co‑Innovate and Brunel HIVE
Supporting SME managers to boost their businesses
Inspiring Key Stages 1 to 5 in STEM and the arts
Metals solidification centre enables significant savings in energy and materials
Renovating buildings to use 'near zero energy'
Our undergraduate, research and PhD programmes look at how and why the world around us is changing, and encourage new ways of thinking to tackle the pressing issues that face us all
Our MSc gives graduates and engineering professionals the theoretical and practical skills needed to pursue careers in the growing field of renewable energy technology

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/about/brunel-public-policy/SDGs/Economy:
Four of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) tackle how we balance societal and economic development with ensuring we reduce inequalities and act responsibly when producing and consuming food, materials and technology.
Many of these SDGs interconnect and overlap, both with each other and with those in the Biosphere and Society groups of SDGs.
Logo for the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goal 8, which is 'Decent work and economic growth'
Logo for the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goal 9, which is 'Industry, innovation and infrastructure'
Logo for the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goal 10, which is 'Reduced inequalities'
Logo for the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goal 12, which is 'Responsible consumption and production'
Dr Manoj Dora and team applied a new food supply management system to support farmers to streamline their farming processes, eliminate waste and improve productivity
Towards a more sustainable digital special-purpose currency
Case study analysis shows traceability systems need to be designed and managed properly – then blockchain will enable sustainability performance and help promote SDGs
Dr Ximena Schmidt and colleagues ran workshops to improve food environments and behaviour at school, shaping current dietary choices towards a sustainable, healthy diet
Prof Xiangming Zhou is leading UK and Chinese researchers to develop innovative high-value-added uses of demolition waste as construction materials for sustainable and resilient infrastructure development
We have Athena SWAN accreditation, and so we are committed to tackling this – and also the ethnicity pay gap
Holding the UK Government's Disability Confident scheme's highest accolade, we secure, retain and develop staff with disabilities who are skilled, loyal and hard-working
The Ministry of Defence has awarded us Employer Recognition Scheme Gold for our work supporting the British Armed Forces and its ex-service personnel
Tenders for £150,000+ contracts scored at least 5% on this measure
83% of our home UG students are from underrepresented backgrounds
The Times Higher Education Impact Rankings 2021 ranked us the 15th best university in the world for delivering against UN SDG 12

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/about/brunel-public-policy/SDGs/Brunel-climate-change-events:
November 2022
During the two weeks of COP27 in Sharm El-Sheik, where leaders from across the globe once again gather to debate action to mitigate and adapt to the climate emergency, Brunel hosted its own series of events based around the themes of the COP27 Presidency Agenda.
The schedule of activities was designed by students and staff associated with the BASc Global Challenges programmes , and in conjunction with the Students Union.
As well as lively discussion on a range of topics, 2022’s programme included practical activities taking place around campus.
Past event: COP26 on Campus
Global Challenges students and staff from the BASc Global Challenges programmes as well as academics from across the university, Brunel staff and local community members, came together in lively discussion at COP26 on Campus.
There were daily discussions prompted by podcast recordings made with Brunel staff, Global Challenges students and Steve Parker from Uxbridge FM.
This took place from 3 to 11 November 2021 from 13:00–14:00 pm in Room 011 of the Heinz Wolff Building.
The series was an open platform for discussion on campus – in person – to examine, explore and debate potential ways forward in relation to strategies to reduce greenhouse gases and create more environmentally sustainable ways of living.
We (roughly) followed the COP26 Presidency Programme with the following themes each day:
Wednesday 20 October 2021
A symposium showcasing Brunel University London's critical research tackling climate change challenges.
As world leaders prepared for the forthcoming UN Climate Change Conference UK 2021 (COP26) to urgently tackle the complex issues facing the planet due to increasing climate change and global challenges, Brunel University London presented a variety of lively and brief online presentations showcasing some of the solution-led, world-class research being undertaken across the University dealing with the Biosphere, Societies, and Economies.
Dr Colin Axon , Senior Lecturer – Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering
Dr Simon Roberts , Honorary Professor in Mechanical Engineering
Dr Manoj Dora , Reader – Operations Management
Professor Mike Watts , Professor of Education
Dr Yurui Fan , Lecturer in Flood and Coastal Engineering
Dr Salman Masoudi , Senior Lecturer in Chemical Engineering
Dr Ariana Zeka , Senior Lecturer in Environmental Sciences
Dr Sibylle Ermler , Research Fellow – Environmental Sciences
Dr Gareth Dale , Senior Lecturer in Political Economy
Dr Devanshi Chanchani , Research Fellow – Global Challenges
Dr Sotirios Argyroudis , Lecturer (Assistant Professor) in Infrastructure Engineering
Christina Webb , Doctoral Researcher, Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering
Dr Shona Koren Paterson , Research Fellow – Global Challenges
Dr Ximena Schmidt , Research Fellow – Global Challenges
Dr Valentina Stojceska , Reader in Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering
Professor Maria Kolokotroni , Associate Dean for Engineering & Design
Dr Steven Sam , Research Fellow II- Global Challenges
Dr Abiy Kebede , Lecturer in Flood and Coastal Engineering
Dr Mary Richards , Reader/Programme Director BASc Global Challenges

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/news-and-events/news/articles/Placement-students-suspend-programme-to-join-Lombok-earthquake-relief-effort:
They thought they’d be spending their summer helping athletes with disabilities on the idyllic Indonesian island of Bali, but now six students have halted their once-in-a-lifetime placement and joined the effort to get aid to remote areas of the country left devastated by recent earthquakes.
The students, from Brunel University London , were in the country to assist the Bali Sports Foundation (BSF), but have now suspended their eight-week programme to deliver food and supplies to affected areas in Lombok and Gili.
The area has been struck by a series of deadly earthquakes in recent weeks, with tremors of up to 6.9 magnitude still being felt over the weekend.
The six students (from left to right): Ryan Anderson, Olivia Creanet-Birch, Rebecca Stone, Rute Pereira, Juan Herrera (back left) Harry Lee-Allan, (right)
“BSF is sponsored by a boat company called Bluewater Express,” said Olivia Creaney-Birch, 21, an industrial design student from Canterbury who was in Bali to work on the design of wheelchairs.
“We heard that they were transporting aid across to Lombok and Gili, and we began assisting them with loading and unloading the boats.
As time has gone on we’ve become more involved, buying supplies according to requests from contacts on the ground, and helping determine where the aid is distributed, ensuring it goes to the villages where other aid hasn’t yet reached.
“The locals are on constant standby due to the reoccurrence of earthquakes – in some areas 90% of housing has been destroyed and left thousands homeless."
Whilst Bali – where the students are still based – was struck by the earthquake, damage was relatively limited.
“In Lombok and on the Gili islands there is a lot of damage, however,” said Rebecca Stone, 19, a sports psychology student from Maidstone.
“Buildings have fallen down, trees have been uprooted and some roads have split in half.
“Whole villages have been cut off from the rest of the island, so delivering aid there has been difficult to sustain.
Camps have been set up for people who have lost their homes completely.”
The students were up at 6am to load the boats to Lombok
To support relief efforts, the students have been purchasing goods from supermarkets and wholesalers in Bali and loading them onto the Bluewater Express, before completing the four-hour passage to Lombok, where they’re unloaded again at BSF’s facility.
From there, the goods – which include essentials such as eggs, sugar, milk, rice and baby powder – are distributed in a hire-car to remote villages by BSF co-founder Chris Pardey, with the assistance of local relief workers.
“We drive 60 to 120 minutes north to remote camps, villages and households which have so far had less access to aid and that don’t have their own transport,” said Chris, a Brunel alumnus who sets-up and oversees the placements with BSF.
“The roads are not accessible by truck, and some not even by car – the villages come by motorbike to collect from our car.
“We have a very capable Indonesian lady, Flora, who is liaising with local village heads to identify what is needed in remote areas and the number of people in the communities.
She ensures the provisions are split amongst the communities.”
None of the students remain on Lombok overnight, due to continuing tremors.
“There is still a lot of work to be done though – some villages have been cut off, and we’re now trying to target and get aid to them.”
To complement their efforts on the ground, the team has also begun fundraising, reaching out to local businesses and setting up a GoFundMe page for online donations.
BSF are also fundraising through their website.
Every donation received will be put towards the relief effort.
“The Indonesian government and agencies on the ground are doing a great job of getting help to where it’s needed, but we’re proud of the contribution we’ve been able to make,” said international politics student Ryan Anderson, 22, from the Wirral.
“Most of the people are in plastic tents and surviving off basic supplies – dirty water has been an issue.
It’s hard to get rebuilding when the earthquakes are still occurring.
Harry Lee-Allan, 21, from Colchester, said: “The locals are on constant standby due to the reoccurrence of earthquakes – in some areas 90% of housing has been destroyed and left thousands homeless.
“They are in desperate need of essentials and aid.”
Whilst the student’s time in Indonesia is limited, they plan to keep fundraising and supporting efforts in Lombok, even once they return to their studies.
“We will continue our fundraising when we are back in Brunel,” said Rute Pereira, 21, a product design engineering student from Portugal.
“Although our time in Bali will have finished, it is nowhere close to finished for the locals of Lombok.”
To donate to the student’s GoFundMe campaign, please visit https://www.gofundme.com/bsf-lombok-earthquake-appeal
To donate via the Bali Sports Foundation, please visit http://balisports.com/foundation/donate
Photography courtesy of @thesalty.dreamers

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/global-challenges:
Global Challenges looks at how and why the world around us is changing and encourages new ways of thinking to tackle the pressing issues that face us all.
We’ve drawn on the expertise of our academics from across Brunel to give you an understanding of the scientific, social, political and economic factors that impact on decision making in today’s world.
Our unique teaching methods have been designed to strengthen your analytical skills when perceiving the world around you, so whichever course you choose you’ll be challenged to think outside the box and prepared to make a real impact in the future.
Our course equips you with the critical perspectives and practical skills needed to tackle urgent global challenges
The cutting-edge research of our academics informs your learning and impacts the real world
As a multidisciplinary course, you’ll be taught by academics from across the university who are experts in their respective fields
If you have any questions about our courses, admissions or need directions to our campus, don't hesitate to contact us via our enquiries form
Global Challenges BASc

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/about/our-history:
In 2016, Brunel celebrated 50 years as a university.
However, our history can be traced back much further to 1798 through our predecessor colleges of Borough Road College, Maria Grey College, Shoreditch College and the West London Institute of Higher Education and as well as through Acton Technical College then Brunel College.
Our rise since 1966 has been impressive and our reputation grows year on year.
Now a university of 12,746 students – 3,309 students engaged in postgraduate and research study – our special approach is to combine academic rigour with the practical, entrepreneurial and imaginative approach pioneered by Isambard Kingdom Brunel.
The decision to be named after Isambard Kingdom Brunel was taken after much discussion.
Rather than name the new College after a location, Dr Topping, the first Vice Chancellor of Brunel University (and former Principal of Brunel College) pleaded that the name should be a well-known person preferably an engineer or scientist associated in some way with Middlesex or Acton.
Agreement was reached in March 1957 that person would be Isambard Kingdom Brunel.
Isambard Kingdom Brunel (1806-1859)  is one of the great British engineers of the 19th century.
Isambard was born into an industrious family in 1806, with his mother Sophia Kingdom working for the Royal Navy and father Marc Brunel being a prominent French engineer.
Isambard took on formal training as an engineer and went on to build twenty-five railways lines, over a hundred bridges, including five suspension bridges, eight pier and dock systems, three ships and a pre-fabricated army field hospital.To add to this he was a keen social engineer, building housing estates, churches and hospitals.
In order to learn more about Isambard Kingdom Brunel and his legacy, visit the following links:
Thousands of files, letters, photographs, committee papers and published material relating to the University’s origins, buildings, students and staff are managed and preserved in the University Archives.
Please visit our Brunel memorials page and our University Archives and Special Collections pages for further information.
To find out more about how we celebrated our 50th anniversary as well as how you can get involved, click one of the buttons below:
Discover how we celebrated the anniversary year in the UK and around the world
Learn more about Brunel's rich 50 year history
Archives and Special Collections
Bannerman Centre
Brunel University London
Uxbridge
UB8 3PH
Arc-SC@brunel.ac.uk
Click here for our ' Celebrating IK Brunel ' download.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/about/quality-assurance:
Brunel University London is responsible for the academic standards and quality of the education that it provides which is consistent with the Framework for Higher Education Qualifications in England, Wales and Northern Ireland (FHEQ) , an important national reference point for providers of UK university degrees.
Senate Regulations constitute the University’s regulatory framework within which standards are defined and assured.
The University’s processes and procedures to assure the quality of learning and teaching and the standards of the awards it confers are also aligned with the UK Quality Code for Higher Education , published by the Quality Assurance Agency , which sets out national expectations that all providers of UK higher education are required to meet.
All policies and guidelines relating to quality assurance can be found on the University's Policies and Documents page (please filter by current academic year).
These documents are also available under their respective theme - please see list on the right hand side of this page.
All quality assurance related forms and templates which support policies are available on the A-Z list .
Access the Quality Assurance intranet pages (for staff only).
If you require further information please email the Quality Assurance Team.
Degree Outcomes Statement
View the University's current Degree Outcomes Statement .
Brunel University QAA Higher Education Review 2016 Following a successful QAA Higher Education Review in March 2016, the University is required to produce and make available an action plan addressing the identified recommendations and good practice.
The action plan has been agreed by the Quality Assurance Committee, Education Enhancement Committee, Senate and Union of Brunel Student Assembly.
The action plan will be monitored by Quality Assurance Committee and Senate Brunel University London QAA Higher Education Review 2016 - Full Report Brunel University London QAA Higher Education Review 2016 - Action Plan

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/about/environment-and-sustainability:
We acknowledge that there is a climate emergency and that we manage our activities to minimise any negative impacts that might arise, and maximise opportunities that have a positive environmental outcome.
Want to get in touch?
Email sustainability@brunel.ac.uk
sustainability@brunel.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/about/term-dates:
Related links

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/about/campus-map:
Are you trying to find your way around campus?
Use our campus map to locate key points, bus routes, where you are on campus and your destination.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/about/Our-Royal-connections:
The Queen visited Brunel University in 2006 as part of a Royal visit to the London Borough of Hillingdon.
This took place in the Queen’s 80th birthday year, and coincided with the University’s celebrations to mark the 200th anniversary of the birth of our namesake, Isambard Kingdom Brunel, and also the 40th anniversary of our Royal Charter.
She unveiled a plaque  and officially named our Mary Seacole Building, and met staff and students across our Uxbridge campus.
Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh, had been due to accompany The Queen on her visit, but had had to cancel his plans for health reasons.
He then visited our campus two months later, unveiling the plaque on our Heinz Wolff Building, and was shown research projects, student work from Made in Brunel and the Formula Student car.
Over the years, several University staff members who have been awarded an honour, as part of the New Year or Queen’s Birthday Honours, have received their insignia from The Queen or other senior members of the Royal Family at investiture ceremonies at Royal residences.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/brunel-medical-school/MBBS-open-day:
Brunel Medical School offers a cutting-edge, team-based learning (TBL) approach that sets it apart from traditional medical programmes.
Instead of passive lectures, students collaborate in small teams to solve clinical problems, debate ideas, and refine their understanding through active discussion.
This dynamic method not only deepens medical knowledge but also builds essential communication, leadership, and decision-making skills—crucial for modern medical practice
From day one, students engage in clinical placements and develop communication and clinical skills in state-of-the-art facilities, including simulated hospital wards and video-equipped consultation rooms.
The curriculum is designed by leading academics and clinicians, integrating digital technologies, early patient contact, and global perspectives to prepare graduates for practice in the UK and beyond.
With a diverse student body representing over 50 countries, Brunel fosters a truly international learning environment.
To account for world time differences we are holding two sessions - 10am & 4pm (UK time) .
Due to high demand, please do reserve your place as early as you can.
When booking, please use the email address that you use for your Zoom account.
You will need a Zoom account in order to join our webinar.
We look forward to seeing you!

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/on-demand/undergraduate-courses:
Subjects Aerospace Engineering Anthropology Biomedical Sciences Brunel Business School Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering Computer Science Creative Writing Design Digital Media Economics and Finance Education Electronic and Electrical Engineering English Environmental Sciences Film Studies Games Design Global Challenges History Journalism Law Life Sciences Mathematics Mechanical and Automotive Engineering Media and Communications Medicine Music Nursing Occupational Therapy Physiotherapy Politics and International Relations Psychology Sociology Sport, Health and Exercise Sciences Theatre

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/study/on-demand/postgraduate-courses:
Subjects Advanced Clinical Practice Aerospace Engineering Anthropology Art Psychotherapy Biomedical Sciences Brunel Business School Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering Clinical Education Computer Science Creative Writing Design Digital Media Economics and Finance Education Electronic and Electrical Engineering English Environmental Sciences Games Design Journalism Law Mathematics Mechanical and Automotive Engineering Media and Public Relations Musculoskeletal Ultrasound Occupational Therapy Physician Associate Physiotherapy Politics and International Relations Psychology Public Health and Health Promotion Research and PhD Social Work Sport, Health and Exercise Sciences
For the most up-to-date course information, please visit our course pages or send us your questions .
Recorded webinars were correct at the point of recording.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/life/accommodation/living-off-campus:
Take advantage of a free no obligation lettings valuation
Submit a group application, and we will be in touch to discuss your requirements
There are a few reasons why you should choose Brunel Student Lettings
Join our Brunel Student Lettings Facegroup group top advertise a room or find a housemate

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/international/exchanges-and-study-abroad-programmes/brunel-students-abroad:
Find out more about the benefits of a global degree
Schedule an advising session with us or email us at exchanges@brunel.ac.uk
Keep in touch with us for global opportunities at Brunel University London

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/life/shops:
If you’re looking to grab a few snacks, takeaway lunch or basic essentials like milk and bread then you only have a short distance to our very own CostCutter.
It’s in the centre of the campus and has everything you can get from your local supermarket.
We’ve also got a smaller convenience store at the end of the campus, near Isambard complex for those essential items right on your doorstep.
Look no further than the Student Union shop for university merchandise; ranging from clothing, stationery and everyday items.
Keep an eye out for our market stalls throughout the year, offering freshly baked breads and cakes, flowers and plants and vintage clothing right on campus
Located at the heart of campus, The Junction is your go-to spot for everything from American burgers and chips, Asian curries and noodles, Italian pizza and Mexican tortillas.
With its modern ambience and diverse menu offerings, The Junction is the perfect place to refuel and recharge.
There are also options to click and collect or get a delivery via the Uni food app.
Within a few steps from The Junction, is our very own Subway with both hot and cold sub and salad options for a quick stop in between lectures.
They also offer breakfast for those mid-morning cravings.
The 1966 Coffee Shop serves up a selection of hot and cold beverages and snacks, making it ideal for those early morning cramming sessions or catching up with friends.
You’ve got the perfect spot for teamwork in the booths; that have screens connectable to laptops.
The Coffee Room is in the Lecture Centre, making it the perfect pit-stop for teas and coffees or even a milkshake en route to or from your lectures.
Explore a diverse range of dishes from our Feastival street van at your convenience, right on campus!
Offers you a fine a`la carte restaurant as well as a very modern bar and lounge for those evenings when you’d like to dress up for fine dining
Craving a laid-back atmosphere to unwind with friends?
Head over to Locos , where you can enjoy a refreshing drink, catch up on the latest sports events, play some pool or simply relax after a long day of studying.
With its cosy vibe and friendly staff, it's a popular hangout spot for students.
The Venue is our on-campus nightclub; with something for everyone.
Have fun and party until the early hours on a themed night of your choice; Afrobashment, Bollywood, Fiesta, Juicy Wednesday's or Live Music.
Mega Global celebrates the big occasions like Freshers, Halloween and Christmas.
Whether you're looking to watch a movie, grab a quick bite, or do some shopping, Uxbridge High Street has you covered with its two large shopping centers and numerous other shops.
In addition to its shopping, dining, and entertainment offerings, it also provides a range of essential services to meet your everyday needs.
From banks and pharmacies to supermarkets and post offices, you'll find everything you need to make life in Uxbridge convenient and hassle-free.
And when the sun goes down, the High Street comes alive with a vibrant nightlife scene.
Whether you're in the mood for live music, cocktails with friends, or a night of dancing until dawn, you'll find plenty of options to keep you entertained.
With these on and off-campus options, Brunel University London ensures that you have everything you need right at your fingertips; making campus life both convenient and enjoyable.

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/news-and-events/news/articles/Senate-House-opens-the-doors-to-Brunel's-brightest-ideas:
Research showcase and impact awards show university research is shaping society, policy and everyday life in unexpected ways
Curious minds grew curiouser as Central London’s iconic Senate House hosted for the first time on Thursday Brunel University of London’s Research Showcase and Impact Awards.
More than 250 academics, industry leaders, public sector workers and local public hovered round displays and demos to discover real world results and solutions to some of society’s most pressing problems.
It was the first time the biennial event, regularly held on campus branched out into the heart of the city thanks to Brunel’s newly sealed membership in the University of London federation.
The showcase brought to life Brunel’s brilliance at tackling real world challenges like green energy transition, ageing population and environmental sustainability from unimaginable angles.
“The day offered a brilliant spotlight on the breadth and excellence of the research environment at Brunel,” said Pro Vice Chancellor Professor Jonathan Wastling.
“What makes Brunel so unique is the applied, collaborative and transformational nature of its research and education offering, and its strong international outlook.”
Guests were invited to delve deeper with a packed programme of panel question and answer sessions including a talk about constructive and destructive uses of satellite technology, which posed the question ‘who really owns space?
Another asking whether all the hype about hydrogen power really stands up heard from experts at the Centre of Advanced Powertrain and Fuels , Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering ; and Brunel Public Policy .
The Impact Awards ceremony — recognising research that’s made tangible difference to the world beyond Brunel — was next up in the impressive art deco Beveridge Hall.
Professor Sarita Malik, the Associate Pro Vice-Chancellor for Research Impact handed out awards spanning eight categories including civic engagement, environmental sustainability and global impact.
Professor Hannah Lowe picked up the Cultural Impact award for her creative writing, which explores multicultural Britain and its connections to the Caribbean and China.
Prof George Fern and Dr Eleni Iacovidou were recognised for their sustainable homeware line, ReBorn team which transforms recycled plastics into durable kitchenware for John Lewis.
And Dr Derek Groen, Diana Suleimenova and Yani Xue were noted for policy impact for their computer modelling simulating forced migration patterns.
The UN’s Office of the High Commissioner for Refugees and Save The Children both now use it for their humanitarian work.
“These awards serve as an important platform to celebrate the dedication, passion and resilience of our colleagues who consistently push the envelope, driving research that truly benefits society,” said Prof Malik.
“They capture just a glimpse of the extensive research excellence and impactful contributions that define Brunel.”
Find out more about Brunel's research

New sentences found on https://brunel.ac.uk/news-and-events/news/articles/We-found-a-germ-that-'feeds'-on-hospital-plastic-–-new-study:
Prof Ronan McCarthy is a Professor in Biomedical Sciences and Dr Rubén de Dios is a Postdoctoral Research Fellow in Biotechnology – both at Brunel University of London.
Plastic pollution is one of the defining environmental challenges of our time – and some of nature’s tiniest organisms may offer a surprising way out.
In recent years, microbiologists have discovered bacteria capable of breaking down various types of plastic, hinting at a more sustainable path forward.
These “plastic-eating” microbes could one day help shrink the mountains of waste clogging landfills and oceans.
But they are not always a perfect fix.
In the wrong environment, they could cause serious problems.
Plastics are widely used in hospitals in things such as sutures (especially the dissolving type), wound dressings and implants.
So might the bacteria found in hospitals break down and feed on plastic?
To find out, we studied the genomes of known hospital pathogens (harmful bacteria) to see if they had the same plastic-degrading enzymes found in some bacteria in the environment.
We were surprised to find that some hospital germs, such as Pseudomonas aeruginosa , might be able to break down plastic.
P aeruginosa is associated with about 559,000 deaths globally each year.
And many of the infections are picked up in hospitals.
Patients on ventilators or with open wounds from surgery or burns are at particular risk of a P aeruginosa infection.
As are those who have catheters.
We decided to move forward from our computational search of bacterial databases to test the plastic-eating ability of P aeruginosa in the laboratory.
We focused on one specific strain of this bacterium that had a gene for making a plastic-eating enzyme.
It had been isolated from a patient with a wound infection.
We discovered that not only could it break down plastic, it could use the plastic as food to grow.
This ability comes from an enzyme we named Pap1.
P aeruginosa is considered a high-priority pathogen by the World Health Organization.
It can form tough layers called biofilms that protect it from the immune system and antibiotics, which makes it very hard to treat.
Our group has previously shown that when environmental bacteria form biofilms, they can break down plastic faster .
So we wondered whether having a plastic-degrading enzyme might help P aeruginosa to be a pathogen.
Strikingly, it does.
This enzyme made the strain more harmful and helped it build bigger biofilms.
To understand how P aeruginosa was building a bigger biofilm when it was on plastic, we broke the biofilm apart.
Then we analysed what the biofilm was made of and found that this pathogen was producing bigger biofilms by including the degraded plastic in this slimy shield – or “matrix”, as it is formally known.
P aeruginosa was using the plastic as cement to build a stronger bacterial community.
Pathogens like P aeruginosa can survive for a long time in hospitals, where plastics are everywhere.
Could this persistence in hospitals be due to the pathogens’ ability to eat plastics?
We think this is a real possibility.
Many medical treatments involve plastics, such as orthopaedic implants, catheters, dental implants and hydrogel pads for treating burns.
Our study suggests that a pathogen that can degrade the plastic in these devices could become a serious issue.
This can make the treatment fail or make the patient’s condition worse.
Thankfully, scientists are working on solutions, such as adding antimicrobial substances to medical plastics to stop germs from feeding on them.
But now that we know that some germs can break down plastic, we’ll need to consider that when choosing materials for future medical use.