# Site: https://www.buckingham.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 500
# --------

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk:
Buckingham achieved a 4th place ranking for Lecturers and Teaching Quality, and 7th place for Student Support.
Find out more ❯
We offer in-person campus tours of both our Buckingham and Crewe campuses.
Book your tour ❯
Our public events are open to all, students, staff and the wider community.
From Open Days and engaging talks to fun social activities, our events are a great way to begin your journey with us or to enhance your studies.
Events calendar ❯
If you know what you want to study, tasters are a great way to experience first-hand our top-quality teaching and interactive small-group setting in a specific subject.
Join a taster ❯
Need a quick answer to a question?
We've compiled a list of our frequently asked questions to help you.
Help and advice ❯
Let our students and staff show you what it's like to live and study at Buckingham
Come on in →
Graduate in just two years.
Learn more about our two-year degrees here
on a master's course if you have a first-class honours degree recognised to UK standard
If you can't visit our beautiful campus at the moment, you don't have to miss out on our public talks, lectures and seminars.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/study:
Excellent teaching quality and student satisfaction.
Apply now.
We believe in a high-quality education delivered with passion and focus on imparting useful and relevant knowledge.
We also offer students the opportunity to study a degree their way, giving a range of options on how to study, and September and January start dates for almost all of our courses.
The University of Buckingham is ranked Top 10, Graduate Prospects (outcomes), South-East England, The Complete University Guide, 2026.
At Buckingham, you’ll be taught by experts who are internationally recognised as pioneers in their field – so you’ll graduate with the latest industry knowledge.
Buckingham is surrounded by green spaces, and our riverside campus is the ideal backdrop for your studies.
You can get the best of both worlds; you are never far from a city.
Milton Keynes is a 20-minute drive away and offers plenty to do.
You could even jump on a fast train to London (30 minutes away), Birmingham, Edinburgh or beyond.
Regular buses run from Buckingham town centre to the historic cities of Oxford and Cambridge.
The Whatuni Student Choice Awards 2025 ranked us in the Top 5 in the UK for Lecturers and Teaching Quality.
.
We keep class sizes small, so you won’t get lost in the crowd.
You will be assigned a personal tutor to support you every step of the way, and our academic and student support teams will ensure you have the tools to succeed in your studies.
We also offer the option of two-year degrees , a condensed version of the traditional three-year degree, meaning you can gain a full honours degree, but graduate a whole year earlier.
Alternatively, you can complete both your undergraduate and master’s degree with us in just three years: saving you time and money.
Our dedication to teaching quality and student life has resulted in us being rated highly by our students and in national surveys.
We are proud that We are proud that The Sunday Times Good University Guide 2024 ranked us as a Top 10 University in South-East England.
Nothing is more important to us than happy students.
Graduate with a full honours degree in just two years, saving you time and money.
Learn more
Begin your studies with us in September.
Start in September
Begin your degree in January if a September start doesn’t work for you.
Start in January
Whenever you visit our website, current students are available to answer your questions and tell you more about life at Buckingham.
Explore our riverside campus, check out our accommodation, and hear from our Students’ Union at one of our Open Days.
Hear from our leading academics and career experts when you tune in to our engaging talks, discussions and information sessions.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/study/undergraduate:
At Buckingham we offer a wide-range of different Undergraduate degrees, tailored for different learning needs.
Studying at The University of Buckingham brings with it a whole host of benefits.
You will study your undergraduate degree in a supportive environment where you can thrive academically and expand your interests in an interactive learning setting.
Students learn through our unique tutorials, which are in addition to lectures and seminars.
These sessions ensure that you are not just a face in the crowd: your tutors will get to know who you are and encourage you to engage in debates and discussions.
We have a range of different degree options, including our unique two-year degree structure, available in a range of subjects, which lets you fast track your studies and finish one year earlier than traditional university courses.
Use the extra year to focus on what matters most to you - begin your career a year earlier, go on to further study, volunteer, take a gap year, or even explore the world.
Foundation courses can bridge the gap between your current qualifications and the knowledge and skills required for the undergraduate programme you want to do.
Even if you have not yet achieved the necessary academic qualifications.
Integrated Foundation programmes allow you to complete your foundation and undergraduate programme in just three years.
This means a faster – and smoother transition into university study in a supportive learning environment.
Some of our degree option allow you widen your skills and knowledge with a complimentary secondary subject alongside your major focus.
Our mini guide will give you a great overview of what undergraduate courses we have to offer.
Our two-year degree is an accelerated version of the traditional three-year degree, meaning you will gain a full honours degree, but graduate a whole year earlier.
Our traditional three-year degrees gives you the option to study at a standard pace with longer holiday breaks.
Take a virtual look around→
From our two-year degrees to our three-year integrated foundation degrees, we've got something to suit you.
Sorry, that course is currently unavailable.
Why not call us anyway?
We may have an alternative.
Places available!
Call 01280 820227 to secure your place .
Applications still open for January 2020!
Call 01280 820227 .

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/two-year-degrees:
Fast-track your studies with our unique two-year degrees.
Our teaching is broken down into four bite-size terms, with the same amount of teaching weeks as a typical three-year degree, so you’ll have plenty of time to get to grips with each module.
You could even choose to continue onto a master’s programme, finishing both degrees in a total of three years.
Our fast-tracked schedule means you’ll finish your degree sooner and be out in the workforce up to a year earlier than if you went to another university.
When living costs are included, our students pay about 20 per cent less than they would on a three-year course at a university charging the standard £9,535pa for tuition.
And don’t forget: you could enjoy a full extra year of extra earnings while your friends are studying!
Gain a full undergraduate honours degree, but graduate a whole year earlier.
Available across most of our subjects.
Find a course
Join an Open Day, book a campus tour, attend a Taster or chat with our students to discover Buckingham for yourself.
The two-year degree has already helped me boost my performance academically, as well as enabling me to be curious outside of my studies.
My studies in computing at the university have helped to further improve my skills with practical knowledge, and this will be useful in my future career.
Thomas Humphreys
Computing student
Combine your undergraduate with either a foundation or postgraduate programme, finishing in just three years.
Get into the job market and start earning one year earlier.
Saving on tuition and living costs.
Whether you’ve taken a gap year or want a fresh start, a two-year degree and optional January start will keep you on track with your peers.
Yes!
Although our annual fee is higher than other universities, you will save a whole year of tuition fees and living costs, and start earning earlier.
Two-year degrees at Buckingham are a great cost-effective option.
When living costs are included, our students pay about 20% less than they would on a three-year course at a university charging £9,535 per annum for tuition.
Undergraduate UK students are eligible for the same support from Student Finance England as those at other universities, including:
1) An annual repayable Tuition Fee Loan is paid direct to the University.
If you are eligible for this loan, it will be paid termly.
2) An annual repayable Maintenance Loan to help with your living costs, paid in instalments directly to you after registration.
Find out which grants and loans you could be entitled to .
The University of Buckingham has given me a great opportunity to study law in just two years without compromising on the quality of teaching.
The location is rather quiet, which is perfect to study.
And yet the students and staff members are very friendly and welcoming so that we will not feel lonely while studying.
Baiyu Chen
Law student
Develop your ideas and passions in a truly supportive environment at Buckingham.
We pride ourselves on our small-group teaching, so you get the attention you need to succeed in your studies.
Start your two-year undergraduate degree in either September or January.
Apply through UCAS, or directly on our course pages at any time.
Find a two-year course ❯

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/study-at-buckingham/undergraduate-study/september-entry:
Applications for undergraduate and postgraduate courses now open.
To start university in September, you can apply direct to Buckingham any time through our course pages.
You can browse all courses in our course finder .
We accept applications via UCAS too.
However, if you apply direct you can often secure your place at university ahead of the crowds.
We accept applications close to our start dates, although applying early is always best.
If you are from abroad looking to study here at Buckingham, you will find more information on our International pages.
You can start one of our accelerated two-year degrees , in September.
You can combine this undergraduate degree with a foundation or postgraduate programme, and finish in just three years.
We have many exciting subjects to study as a postgraduate student starting in September too.
Whichever entry point you choose, you will be part of a whole new student cohort and get to experience induction, Freshers’ Week and the same expert teaching and personal support facilities.
Improve your earning potential with a postgraduate degree.
Find out more here
Start your journey with us this September, apply directly at any time.
Visit our beautiful campus and get a taste for Buckingham at our next open day!
There is a real sense of community at The University of Buckingham, and students are known by their name, not a number.
Every student at Buckingham is assigned a personal tutor: these are members of academic staff who are here to support you from the day you start your course to the day you complete it.
You can also speak to our Wellbeing, Skills and Diversity team for other personalised support.
Our Students’ Union are also here to make sure you have the best possible experience at Buckingham.
They help students to build friendships, pursue their passions and make lifelong memories.
They’ll make sure your interests are at the heart of new University policy and decisions, as well as running campaigns and raising awareness on the issues that matter most.
They also organise plenty of chances to socialise with events and activities happening every week like karaoke evenings, BBQs, themed parties, and cultural days.
The Explore Our University section below is packed with everything you need to know about studying at Buckingham; where we are located, what's here on campus and in the town, our accommodation, social activities, and what it's like to study here.
All shown by our staff and students themselves.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/study-at-buckingham/undergraduate-study/january-start:
Start university in January.
If you haven’t studied before, want to transfer course, or find a September start isn’t ideal, our January intake gives you the chance to commence your studies at a time that works for you.
We are one of the only universities in the UK where you can start university in January.
Almost all of our undergraduate and postgraduate courses are available to start in either September or January.
You’ll study the same course content in the same timeframe.
This means no matter which entry point you choose, you will be part of a whole new student cohort and get to experience induction, Freshers’ Week and the same expert teaching.
Choosing to start university in January with us on one of our two-year degrees will also give you the opportunity to graduate ahead of people studying a traditional three-year degree who started in the September before you.
So competing for graduate-entry jobs will be that little bit easier!
Find out more here.
Applications are open year-round for our January intake.
Apply directly to us via your chosen course page to secure your place.
Find a January course
Nearly 10 per cent of our January intake are transfer students: if you’re not happy where you are, you can always start afresh.
How to transfer
By finishing your course in December, you’ll graduate at a time with less competition in the job market, and start earning sooner.
Choose your January degree
Students often think that once they begin a course they are ‘stuck’, but this is not the case.
If you don’t like your course or realise that it’s just not the right fit, January entry allows you to transfer to a different course (often with some credits granted).
You can start a fresh course in January and, if you choose a two-year degree, you can still graduate six months ahead of students starting the previous September at a traditional university.
A January start can help you start university sooner if you can’t travel to the UK to start in September.
If you study a two-year degree as well, this can get you out in the workplace up to a year sooner than if you went to another university.
Even better, you can save time and money.
Use the extra year to focus on what matters most to you - begin your career a year earlier, go onto further study, or explore the world.
If you couldn’t start in September, the January intake can help you to gain entry into your first choice course.
We specifically allocate additional spots for the January intake, meaning that you have another chance to snap up a place on the course you really want.
If you’re not happy where you are, you can always start afresh at Buckingham in January.
As a smaller university, we are proud of our strong sense of community, personal tutor support and small class sizes.
You won’t get lost in the crowd at Buckingham.
If you missed out on a place in September, the January intake can help you to gain entry into your first choice of course.
Buckingham specifically allocates additional spots for the January intake, meaning that you have another chance to snap up a place on the course you really want.
If you are a mature student looking to study for the first time or getting ready to begin a second degree, starting in January can provide you with extra flexibility.
Some of our school leavers also enjoy a mini gap year, relaxed in the knowledge that they have secured their place to study in January.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/study/apprenticeship:
Empowering talent, shaping futures.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/study/postgraduate:
Apply for a postgraduate study now, start in January or September.
Improve your job prospects, pursue your passion and gain a higher qualification with postgraduate study.
Postgraduate study can increase your earning potential on average by £5,000 more per year than someone graduating with just an undergraduate degree (Graduate labour market statistics, 2024).
With our two-year model, you can complete both your undergraduate and master’s degree with us in just three years : saving you time and money.
We offer a wide range of master’s degrees, including MSc, MA, MBA and LLM courses.
We also offer a number of other postgraduate taught courses , including short courses, postgraduate certificates, graduate diplomas and courses in Education.
Taught courses have a similar amount of contact (teaching) time as an undergraduate degree.
They are made up of a range of modules that are delivered through lectures, seminars and tutorials, and will enable you to develop a higher level of expertise.
We also offer a range of research courses , spanning master’s, PhD and professional doctorates.
Postgraduate research degrees are based around independent learning, working one-on-one with a supervisor (so have a lot less contact time than taught courses), and are more specialised.
Our postgraduate courses are open to all graduates with an undergraduate degree or, in some cases, an equivalent level of work experience.
With over 90 postgraduate courses on offer, it’s easy to select a degree that meets your needs.
Studying in Buckingham is more fun and the courses here offer a better emphasis on a practical level than ones mainly focused on the theory.
Vamshi Krishna Daivam
MSc Applied Data Science
Postgraduate taught degrees offer flexible study options to help you manage your life while working towards your career outcomes.
They are skill- and practical-based degrees so you will build transferrable skills that are valued by employers.
Postgraduate research degrees will help you make an impact in your chosen field of study.
They are specialised and research-intensive, and based more around one-on-one interactions with a supervisor.
Read our how to apply pages for detailed information about what is involved when applying to study a Postgraduate degree at Buckingham.
Applications are open year-round for our postgraduate courses, and we offer various start dates throughout the year (deadlines apply for each intake).
A selection of postgraduate scholarships are available.
Find a scholarship
The UK Government offers loans to eligible students for Masters degrees and Postgraduate Doctoral courses; private loan options are also available.
See student loans
* Not all postgraduate courses are eligible for discounts.
No discounts are available for the MBChB in the Undergraduate School of Medicine.
Contact our Admissions Team to check eligibility.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/employability:
At The University of Buckingham, we understand that higher education is about a lot more than studying for a degree.
The experiences you gain at university, through both academic and extracurricular activities, promote your self-development and give you many opportunities to practise and improve skills that will benefit all areas of your life now and in the future.
These skills, which we refer to as professional skills , are also sought by employers and so also boost your employability.
We support your development of skills through a Professional Development Portfolio, in which you will write reflectively about the skills you acquire and use during your time at university.
Workshops and video-based skills masterclasses will be available for you to access.
The Professional Development Portfolio is incorporated into undergraduate degree programmes within the faculties of:
The skills that you develop and write about in a Professional Development Portfolio are important because they will help you to succeed in your studies as well as prepare for your next steps after university, whether that is employment, self-employment, further study or other personal goals.
The skills covered in the Professional Development Portfolio are:
Writing reflectively helps us to become more aware of our learning, where our strengths lie and what we need to do to improve.
Self-reflection through the skills portfolio will therefore help you to identify ways to develop and extend your professional competence.
This, in turn, will help you to fulfil your potential at university and beyond.
What is more, your Professional Development Portfolio will help you write better job applications and prepare for interviews.
You will be able to talk confidently about what you have learned, how that has improved you as a person and how you have acquired and used the skills that employers look for in graduate recruits.
It will help you to stand out.
For more information, please contact our Careers and Employability Service: careers@buckingham.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/virtual-open-day:
Explore our campus, meet our staff and discover what it's like to be a student at Buckingham
We asked our students what makes us different, and here’s what they had to say.
Take a quick look at our Verney Park and Hunter Street campuses, as well as some of the facilities they have to offer.
So, where is Buckingham?
Find out more about what’s right on our doorstep
Watch our students chat about their favourite ways to unwind and have fun on campus
Join Suki as she visits Hunter Street, Verney Park and Moreton Road accommodation

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/study/visit-us:
View all Open Days
Our students are ready to answer your questions.
If you have a burning question, or you just want to know what it is like to be a student at Buckingham, pop on to our online chat and speak with one of our current students.
Chat here
View all Tasters
If you can't visit our beautiful campus it doesn't mean you have to miss out on our events.
Register now for our free online webinars in your chosen subject.
Check them out
The University of Buckingham (MK18 1EG) lies just off the A421 which connects Oxford to Cambridge.
We are within driving distance from Bedford, Northampton and Hertfordshire.
Milton Keynes Central Railway Station is a 20-minute journey from Buckingham.
Trains run regularly to London, Birmingham and many other parts of the country.
London Heathrow, one of the world’s busiest airports, is just 65 miles away.
Birmingham International and London Luton can both be reached within an hour by car.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/new-students:
If you’re looking for everything you need to know from the moment you receive your offer to study with us right up until you are a registered student, you’ve come to the right place.
Take a look at the handy links below to find out more about all things Buckingham.
And don’t forget to follow us on social media for exclusive peeks at what happens on campus.
You can find us on Instagram , Facebook , TiKTok and X .
Find out what you need to do before arriving in Buckingham.
Confirm your offer, upload documents, arrange accommodation, pay your fees and find visa information.
Discover how to register, move into your accommodation, get registered with a local doctor and student welfare team, and connect to University IT services.
Find out about social events at the Students’ Union, the matriculation welcome ceremony, getting started with your studies, and where to get support if you need it.
All the handy information you’ll need to know if you arrive late during registration.
If you got any questions about applying for University of Buckingham accommodation check our applying for accommodation advice page.
If you've got questions about living in University accommodation, including, what you need to bring, whether you can bring your car or the laundry facilities check our Accommodation FAQs: Arriving at University page for answers.
“When I think about my first week at Buckingham, what springs to mind is Freshers’.
I think it’s really good that there’s a varied programme, so I chose the events that I was interested in and I made friends straight away.”

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/new-students/before-you-arrive:
Congratulations if you have received an offer from Buckingham – we look forward to welcoming you!
Please take a look at the term dates and timetable .
You will need to sign the Acceptance Statement that we sent you with your offer letter.
You need to return it to us, either by post or by email as a scanned attachment.
If you can’t find your acceptance statement, please contact our Admissions Office .
Your offer may be unconditional or conditional.
If the offer is conditional, we may be waiting for your examination results or other documents that will enable us to confirm your acceptance.
You will need to send us confirmation of your results directly.
We will need:
We will receive your A-level, BTEC or IB results direct from UCAS, so you don’t need to do anything else unless we ask you otherwise.
If you’re joining us on campus and making Buckingham your home away from home, make sure you check out our accommodation tours .
Take a look at the accommodation page where you’ll find the full details for all of your options so you can decide which is the best choice for you.
Student accommodation is just a five-minute walk from the main campus at Booth Hall, offering 695 rooms.
You can explore Booth Hall further on the Apollo Buckingham Health Sciences Campus website.
Please note, prices for accommodation are subject to change.
The University’s preferred payment method is via our Online Payment Portal .
Other methods of payment are also available.
Important : You will only be able to register if the above documents and payment have been received.
If you have any questions please contact the Admissions Office .
If you are a non-UK citizen, you may need to obtain a Student visa to arrive and study in the UK.
This also applies to EU/EEA nationals who do not have EU Settled or EU Pre-settled Status .
Remember to apply in plenty of time for your visa.
You can only register if you have the appropriate visa.
Delays in obtaining your visa can prevent you from starting your course.
As part of your application for your visa, you will be required to pay an immigration health surcharge, which will entitle you to National Health Service (NHS) care in the UK with no additional cost in the same way as a permanent UK resident.
Please see Health and Medical Care guidance for more details.
See our Student visa guidance for information, advice and step-by-step instructions on making your application.
If you experience any difficulties during the visa application process, please contact the Visa Office, studentvisa@buckingham.ac.uk or telephone +44 (0)1280 820308 .
Click here to learn how to register online.
Before you start at the University, you are required to complete our ‘Think About It’ course.
This has been put together by members of our Student Support Services team and the Students’ Union to help you prepare for University life.
The short course is split into 3 sections: Consent Matters, Budgeting for Student Life and Staying Safe.
Access the ‘Think About It’ course
When you arrive, you must bring a form of photo identification with you such as a passport, driving license, visa etc.
If you do not have ID you will not be able to complete your registration and will be asked to return to register with your ID.
If you have any questions about this please get in touch before you arrive.
We are committed to supporting everyone in achieving their full potential.
Please let us know as soon as you can about any disabilities or specific learning difficulties, even if mild, so we can let you know what additional support is available.
This can include additional arrangements for exams or additional learning support sessions.
Please contact the Wellbeing, Skills and Diversity department so we can support you as fully as possible.
Buckingham is a short drive from Milton Keynes and has great transport links from the nearby train stations; Milton Keynes Central and Bicester North.
Please see our Campus Map , or Google Maps for the exact location.
Please see How to Get to Buckingham for detailed instructions on arriving by car, train, coach or air.
If you are living off-campus we recommend you live within 20 miles of the Buckingham campus to make commuting possible.
Our university campus is less than a mile from Crewe Station.
Crewe is a railway town and civil parish within the borough of Cheshire East; 35 miles (56km) south of Manchester and 158 miles (254 km) north of London.
It has excellent road and rail connections to both the north and south of England, as well as to North Wales.
If you are living off-campus we recommend you live within 20 miles of the Crewe campus to make commuting possible.
Please see How to Get to Crewe for detailed instructions on arriving by car, train, coach or air.
As you would with any travel abroad, please check the government travel advice and make sure you bring your passport and any other forms of identification such as a driver’s license that you may use when living in Buckingham.
Here are some simple tips to remember when you travel to us:
For more useful advice before you travel please look at the Border Force’s top ten tips for a smooth arrival.
View guide on bank accounts for international students .
We will be posting students news and events regularly on our social media channels so make sure you follow @UniofBuckingham on Instagram , Facebook and Twitter to stay in the loop.
Students must use their own IT devices for studying and assessments, including examinations.
Please ensure your device meets the following minimum standards to be compatible with The University of Buckingham’s recommend software requirements.
You may want to consider headphones and a microphone to participate in Teams meetings – this will ensure that you can hear clearly and your voice is heard by others rather than relying on the speakers and microphone in your computer
As part of our commitment to ensuring a smooth and efficient assessment process, we use ExamSoft, a secure testing platform.
You will need to download and install the Examplify app on your device after completing your registration.
Note: Examplify will not run on Chromebooks, Android, or Linux operating systems nor does it support touchscreen input on Mac or Windows laptops.
Please ensure your device meets the minimum system requirements to run this app .
Tablets are not generally recommended for your study as they are relatively underpowered.
A modern tablet iPad or android will need a keyboard to type on and a stand to hold the screen.
For some courses, you will need to use specialist software such as SPSS which will not run on a tablet.
You may also experience issues with storage and application switching.
Next: When you arrive

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/new-students/when-you-arrive:
Have you confirmed your offer with Buckingham?
If so, great!
It’s time to start planning what to do when you arrive at Buckingham.
You will need to attend an arrival day where we will check your passport (and visa/residence permit if applicable).
You will be issued with your student ID card, providing that you have sent us a head and shoulders photo beforehand.
You will need this card in order to access any University facilities.
Please note: you will need to have completed online registration before your arrival.
Arrival days for Buckingham* campus students.
Non-medical students: 22 September, 10am to 4pm
Welcome Week will run from Monday 22 September until Friday 26 September.
View the timetable .
This will take place in The Vinson Building, Hunter Street MK18 1EG – view on a map .
If you are unable to attend the arrival day , you will be invited to book a late registration appointment with Registry.
Please note that students are expected to commence their programme of study on the first day of term and we cannot guarantee that you will be permitted a late start.
Please bring the following to your arrival slot:
For EU and international students, the Student Visa Office will check your documents and talk to you regarding your immigration status and Biometric Residence Permit.
For all students (UK, EU and International), you will have the opportunity to collect your student ID card.
Please keep your uCard with you at all times so you can access all the buildings and facilities on campus.
If you require proof of enrolment for any purpose including but not limited to council tax, opening a bank account, travel, please email registry@buckingham.ac.uk with your requirements and we will send you a PDF of your letter.
The Accommodation Team will be ready to provide you with your keys (if you have selected on-campus accommodation).
If you do not have your own transport, there will also be staff available to show you to your room and assist with luggage.
If you plan to travel to Buckingham early, you will need to make your own arrangements.
If you have any questions regarding accommodation please have a look at our accommodation pages .
As a member of the University, you have your own personal account.
This account gives you access to the WiFi, your University emails, the online library resources and your online learning environment (the space where you can access resources and submit assignments).
You can find out everything you need to know about logging in to your account, as well as other useful IT information, from IT Services .
We look forward to welcoming you to Welcome Week – the University Welcome, Faculty and Campus Induction.
It is a requirement for all students joining Buckingham to attend this event , forming the main induction and orientation period for all our new students.
Activities and sessions will run throughout the week, aimed to give you all the information needed to prepare you for your course.
You’ll have the valuable opportunity to meet key staff in your Faculty of Study, the Student Support teams and other students – both on your course and new to Buckingham.
You’ll also be given your timetables, a tour of your Faculty and the campus – all essential to helping you to settle into your studies and university life.
You can find out more about this as part of your Faculty pre-arrival webinars.
Look out for emails from your Faculty with further details about Welcome Week and vital information to make sure you are set for a great start to your University journey.
We’re looking forward to seeing you!
We will be posting students news and events regularly on our social media channels so make sure you follow @UniofBuckingham on Instagram , Facebook , TikTok and X to stay in the loop.
You can find us on LinkedIn too.
Next: After you arrive

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/new-students/after-you-arrive:
Once you have registered at Buckingham and attended your department induction, it’s time to start settling in!
You can find out everything you need to know about logging in to your account, as well as other useful IT information, from IT Services.
The Students’ Union is the place to go to find a whole host of events, societies and Students’ Union parties.
From our regular events to our Freshers’ activities, you’ll be spoiled for choice.
The student executive will be on hand during registration to answer any questions you have about getting involved in student activities and the Freshers’ Fair showcases the variety of societies on campus.
Check the Students’ Union website for updates .
Follow our social media channels (@UniofBuckingham on Instagram , Facebook and Twitter ) to see the latest student news and event
If you enjoy watching the latest films on ‘the big screen’, make sure you check out The Film Place, Buckingham’s local cinema experience.
It provides you with not only a cinematic screening of some of the latest films but also a great social place to meet.
Interested in getting involved in a University sports team?
Our Sport and Fitness programme offers you the chance to compete or just have fun with friends, as well as the opportunity to compete in varsity championships.
The Health & Fitness Centre located on the top floor of the Tanlaw Mill (Students’ Union building) has an extensive range of cardiovascular and resistance equipment and is open from 06:00 to 23:00, 7 days a week.
Membership is available from the Students’ Union.
Visit the Sports Clubs page on the Students’ Union website for all the latest information.
Buckingham does not have any bank branches located in the town centre, however it has a Banking Hub located at 19 Market Square, Buckingham MK18 1NW.
The hub provides access to banking services from Monday to Friday, 9am to 5pm.
Community Bankers from a number of banks/ building societies work in rotation on each day of the week.
Find full details of the hub .
A wide choice of banks can also be found in Milton Keynes and Oxford.
British banks have special procedures for international students, details of which can be found at the UKCISA website .
Banks are required by law to see identification and proof of registration on your course which can be obtained from the University Registry Office (registry@buckingham.ac.uk).
For example, NatWest has confirmed their procedure as follows.
You will need to show them:
Other banks have generally similar procedures, sometimes also wishing to record your permanent address overseas, which isn’t usually a problem.
However, students should be aware that some banks also require the University to confirm that it has corresponded with that address, which can be a problem if the application was made from elsewhere.
The bank will usually open an account that will allow you to make payments by electronic transfer, standing order or cash withdrawal.
But they will not generally provide a chequebook or overdraft facility.
Some banks also offer debit cards such as Solo, which are a convenient method of paying university fees (generally free of bank charges).
Check out this independent Guide to international student bank accounts in the UK .
All full-time students are required to register with a local doctor.
If you are an EU or International student, please read our guidance on Health and Medical Care in the UK .
The University medical advisors are The Swan Practice , in Buckingham.
The Swan Practice hold daily appointments in Wellbeing, Skills and Diversity during term time.
Students can register with The Swan Practice online by visiting the Campus Doctor website .
To correctly complete the Campus Doctor registration form (Buckingham students only):
Crewe based students can register with the local Hungerford Medical Centre .
A series of resources addressing common questions including how to register with a GP, COVID-19 and the vaccine as well as keeping young people healthy .
Translated health information – Doctors of the World
If you are eligible, it is a legal requirement to register to vote regardless of whether you intend to vote or not.
To be able to vote when you live at Buckingham you will need to register with Aylesbury Vale District Council.
Once you have registered you will be added to the register of electors.
The quickest and easiest way is to register to vote online .
C rewe Campus
You will receive your timetable and reading lists at your school induction; some schools are able to provide these earlier.
If so, the timetable will be sent to you by email.
You can also find course information including module listings on the course pages .
Moving away from home is an exciting, but sometimes challenging time.
If you’re struggling to settle in, don’t worry, we are here to help you.
When you register, you will be assigned a personal tutor for the duration of your studies.
If you have a problem, share them with your Personal Tutor who will do their best to support you.
You can find their contact details in the Staff Directory .
Alternatively, contact the Wellbeing, Skills and Diversity department and ask for an appointment to see a Welfare Adviser.
Previous: When you arrive

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/new-students/late-arrivals:
There will be late registration appointments for students arriving after 8 January.
If you think your arrival might be delayed, please contact the Admissions Office well in advance so that a late registration appointment can be provided for you.
Places cannot be held open beyond the first day of term unless permission has been obtained in advance.
Tuition and accommodation fees are charged from the beginning of term and no reductions are available because of late arrival.
If you have reserved a room but are unable to register on time you must also contact the Accommodation Office to inform them of your arrival date.
Please also get in touch as soon as you can if you are delayed while travelling.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/admissions:
Choosing the right university is clearly a very important decision, with many factors to take into consideration.
We have given a range of information here on our website and in our literature which we hope will help you in your decision-making process.
Our two-year honours degree is taught by established academics through lectures and small group tutorials.
Details of all of our courses, including foundation, professional, undergraduate, postgraduate and research, are available through our Course Finder .
At Buckingham, you will join a multi-cultural community prepared to work and play hard where you are given every opportunity to reach your full potential.
Click here to view our latest transparency return.
If you have any questions about the Admissions process, get in touch with the relevant Admissions Team as listed below.
We are available between 9am and 5pm, Monday to Friday (except UK bank holidays ).
All Medicine and Allied Health courses (Undergraduate and Postgraduate) Email: FMHS-admissions@buckingham.ac.uk Call: +44 (0) 1280 820229
All Faculty of Education courses Email: education@buckingham.ac.uk Call: +44 (0) 1280 820222
For all other courses, please contact our Central Admissions Team Email: admissions@buckingham.ac.uk Call: +44 (0) 1280 820227
Alternatively you can get in touch using our contact form .
Come and meet us at an open day or book a personalised campus tour .

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/admissions/applyonline:
We accept applications year-round for our undergraduate and postgraduate courses.
We have two major intakes per year, in January and September.
We also offer flexible intake points for some of our postgraduate courses.
Unlike many UK universities, you can always apply directly to us via our course pages.
Whether you are embarking on your first degree as an A-level student, wanting to study as a mature student, or looking at pursuing further study, the information below will explain how and when you should apply.
Email our friendly recruitment team any time on info@buckingham.ac.uk if you have any questions.
The University has a special duty of care towards applicants who are under the age of 18, and legally still children.
Therefore to register with the University, students must have attained 18 years of age at the point of registration.
Exceptionally, students who have attained the age of 17 at the point of registration and who turn 18 during their first term of study may be granted an exemption from this condition by the Dean of Faculty or their nominated deputy.
In the meantime, we invite you to explore our Virtual Open Day to discover our campus, accommodation options and two-year degrees, and to learn more about why students from all around the world choose Buckingham.
Already started your application to Buckingham?
Log in to continue your application .
If you want to start your undergraduate degree in September, you can apply via UCAS to study at The University of Buckingham by making us one of your five choices.
Our UCAS code is B90.
UCAS applications open in May the year prior, with late applications allowed until July.
Or you can apply direct for any undergraduate or postgraduate course via the course pages on our website.
Various intakes are offered throughout the year for postgraduate courses – see the individual course pages .
Note: deadlines vary for Medicine and Education programmes.
International students: 11 August
UK students: 12 September
International students: 24 November
UK students: 22 December
We accept a wide range of qualifications, from A level and IB to prior work experience – See the course pages for entry requirements.
If you’re a mature student  (aged 21 or over), there are a number of routes you can take into higher education.
Age is no barrier to learning and we welcome all applications from suitably qualified students.
See the course pages for specific entry requirements .
If you find yourself on a course, or at a university, that isn’t right for you, you can always transfer.
Our accelerated degrees mean you can start in January or September and get out into the workforce faster.
Transferring university information .
We offer a range of generous scholarships and bursaries , to help you fund your studies, regardless of your circumstances.
If you need any help making your application or if you have any questions, please don’t hesitate to get in touch by phone on +44 (0)1280 820227 between 9am to 5pm, Monday to Friday.
If you apply to us directly, you will receive an email notification from us.
You will need to return your completed Acceptance Statement by the deadline stated on your offer letter.
UG & PG prospectuses
Available to download .

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/complete-your-application:
If you have already begun your application but haven’t yet submitted, click on the button below to continue with your application or look for another course on our Course Finder .
Return to the application portal
Most flexible option – apply online via our course pages:
*Application fees apply for Education postgraduate courses, please see course listings for details.
If you need any help making your application or if you have any questions, please don’t hesitate to get in touch using the form below, or by phone +44 (0) 1280 820227 between 9am to 5pm, Monday to Friday.
You may find it useful to read these great tips from UCAS on writing your personal statement .
If you would like to make any changes to your current application, please contact your Admissions Officer quoting your application number.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/scholarships:
Funded scholarships and bursaries available for both UK and international students at undergraduate and postgraduate level.
As a socially responsible University, we’re fully committed to attracting and supporting the very best students regardless of their financial circumstances.
We have a range of scholarships and bursaries available for students to apply for that are awarded based on location, merit or financial need.
They may be awarded across all schools of study, and represent a partial remission from tuition fees.
Scholarships are competitive and funded by donors, while bursaries are non-competitive and based on financial need.
All awards are subject to your meeting the University’s academic entry requirements and abiding by the University’s rules and regulations.
To be eligible for a scholarship or bursary you will need to have been offered a place to study at Buckingham.
In the case of UCAS applications, if you are made an award you will need to select Buckingham as your firm acceptance choice.
Make an application to study at the University and receive an offer letter confirming the acceptance of your application.
Look at all available scholarships and bursaries checking the eligibility, course entry and deadlines.
Complete the application form to apply for our funded scholarships and bursaries.
Our Admissions team will review your scholarship or bursary application and if you are successful with your application you will receive confirmation via email.
“The University of Buckingham saw me deserving of a chance to heal myself and strengthen the world just by awarding me a scholarship.” Malebogo , Psychology graduate
Look at all available scholarships and bursaries in the list above checking the eligibility, course entry and deadlines.
Complete the application form on your chosen scholarship or bursary to apply.
Reminder: You need an application ID to submit a bursary or scholarship application, which you receive after submitting your application to one of our courses.
Ensure your course application is submitted before applying for a bursary or scholarship.
Find out about student fees
View our discounts
Meet Fees and Finance at an Open Day
Advice for applicants and new students
Contact Student Fees
Help and advice

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/admissions/gapyear:
Anyone who has ever worked or travelled abroad knows that it is life-changing.
It’s hard work but fun, rewarding but scary – a truly exhilarating experience.
Returning home can be a real anti-climax, especially if you haven’t planned what you are going to do next.
The University of Buckingham is the perfect next step.
We recognise that people who have travelled and worked abroad have a lot of skills and experiences which will make them valuable members of our student community.
We will seriously bear this in mind when considering your application.
We can offer you culture, fun, opportunities and challenges.
Just because your journey is over doesn’t mean the adventure has to stop.
Need help with your application?
Contact Admissions via our Admissions contact form .

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/transfer-to-buckingham:
It’s not too late to switch university and fast track your future.
Prospective students who wish to apply for the accreditation of credits previously gained at either The University of Buckingham or another institution may apply for Accreditation of Prior Learning (APL).
APL is the generic term used for the award of credit for learning undertaken prior to entry to a programme of study; APL falls into two main categories: Accreditation of Prior Certified Learning (APCL) – the recognition of learning that has previously been assessed and certificated by a recognised provider of higher education; and Accreditation of Prior Experiential Learning (APEL) – the recognition of prior learning gained through relevant professional and/or personal experience.
With the exception of the MBChB (for which APL is not available), APL is accepted by The University of Buckingham for undergraduate programmes of study providing the outcomes of prior learning can be mapped to the intended University of Buckingham award.
APL is accepted for postgraduate taught awards where specified in programme regulations.
APL is not generally applicable to postgraduate research awards; however, admission with exemption from the probationary period is possible where the prospective student can demonstrate that previous work is of sufficient standing to justify this.
The regulations governing APL at The University of Buckingham are published in the General Academic Regulations (section 4) .
Students leaving the University are provided with an academic transcript of their studies that details the number and level of credits earned to date; where sufficient credits have been earned to justify an award, students are also provided with the applicable certificate and diploma supplement.
Former students may also request confirmation of their dates of registration (which will be provided by Registry) and/or an academic reference (please note, however, that academic staff are not obliged to provide references and do so at their absolute discretion).
“I transferred to Buckingham and I just love it here.
Because it’s smaller you get to know students from lots of different courses, and it feels more like a community”
Georgina
Business Management student
Transferring to us as an undergraduate is easier than you think.
Every year students are switching university to another for a variety of reasons.
If you’re one of those wishing to explore this, we’ll give you the very best advice to support you in your choices.
From students looking to transfer credits we would require copies of your official transcripts for the modules which you have already studied, and as much detail about the modules as possible.
We would also need a personal statement, detailing why you would like to transfer to The University of Buckingham.
Finally we would need the contact details of an academic referee at your current institution.
The University carefully considers credit transfer students on an individual basis.
However, due to the accelerated nature of our programmes, allowing our students to complete their Honours degree in two-years, it is rare that we offer more than six months’ worth of exemptions.
Credit transfer fees are dependent on the number of exemptions which you receive.
Students will not pay the cost of modules for which they are receiving exemptions.
If you have any questions, you can also email our Admissions team at admissions@buckingham.ac.uk
It is important that you contact the Student Loan Company to confirm that you are transferring to Buckingham.
Your loan entitlement is dependent on the amount of student finance you have already received.
Please be aware that unlike your previous university, there is a tuition fee shortfall between the money you will receive from the student loan company and The University of Buckingham's annual tuition fees.
We will consider students who are transferring from International Institutions provided that the credits which they have already studied are an equivalent level to UK Undergraduate credits.
For Visa purposes, it is also crucial that you provide justification of why you would like to join The University of Buckingham.
The admissions tutors need justification as to why you want to transfer, so make sure to include this at the top of your personal statement.
If you are transferring from another university in the UK and have not completed the qualification at your previous University, transferring would involve acquiring a new Student visa.
This would need to be obtained from your home country.
You cannot transfer your Student visa between institutions.
Finish the same time or sooner as you would have done.
Our two-year degree means that you could graduate more quickly with an honours degree than if you had stayed at another university.
We offer January or September starts.
With over 40 years’ experience of supporting transfer students, we’ll do our utmost to guide you through the transfer.
You will benefit from our interactive small class sizes, top quality teaching and highly praised student support.
See our national rankings
If you're interested in transferring to Buckingham, use the contact details below to get in touch with our Admissions Team.
We’re always happy to help.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/admissions/term-dates:
Medicine term dates – Draft | Education term dates – Draft
Medicine term dates – Draft
*See the Joining Instructions for the current arrangements for the registration of new students.
The term dates for 2026 and beyond are subject to change.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/admissions/applicant-faqs:
These are some of the questions we are asked most often.
If this doesn’t answer your question or you require further information, please contact our Admissions team or Tweet us @UniOfBuckingham .
You can apply through UCAS or directly.
To make a direct application for a place at the University you need to complete and submit an application form.
You also need to supply an academic reference, together with certified copies of transcripts and/or examination certificates.
The Admissions Tutor will then be able to consider your application.
You will receive a letter when the decision process has been completed.
Applications can be made online via the degree information page.
See our Course finder for details of subjects available at Buckingham.
You can normally apply for most courses up to a year prior to the start date.
For more information on applications, please see:
When you are offered a place at the University you will be notified of the terms and conditions between the University and students on our courses of study.
When you accept an offer of a place on the course at the University a legal contract is formed between you and the University on the basis of the Student Contract sent with your offer letter.
Your offer letter and the Student Contract contain important information which you should read carefully before accepting an offer.
Read the student contract > >
For information on student visas, please see our International Visas page.
Please refer to Definition of Fee Status .
Entry requirements are listed on individual course pages .
Please refer to our English language requirements page for details.
We do accept transfer students*.
You would have to apply as a new student and go through the same process.
Exemptions (“transfers with credits”) are awarded at the Admissions Tutor’s discretion.
Our undergraduate degrees last two years, so a year elsewhere will not equate to a year’s exemption at The University of Buckingham.
*excluding programmes offered by the Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences.
We have Open Days throughout the year, or if you are unable to make it to an Open Day you can book a campus tour .
From the date we receive a complete application (including all supporting documents) we aim to make a decision within three weeks.
A limited number of scholarships and bursaries are available.
Please refer to our Scholarship and Bursaries page.
You can apply for accommodation after you have received an offer to study.
To apply for University managed accommodation please complete the accommodation application form .
To contact the Accommodation Office please email accommodation@buckingham.ac.uk or telephone: +44 (0)1280 820351.
You will have to contact the Admissions Officer for your subject.
You will find their contact details at the bottom of your offer letter.
We do offer foundation courses including the Foundation Pathway .

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/admissions/fees:
Buckingham’s fast-tracked schedule means you’ll finish your undergraduate degree sooner and be out in the workforce up to a year earlier than if you went to another university.
When living costs are included, our students pay about 20% less than they would on a three-year course at a university charging £9,535pa for tuition.
And the best part is: you can graduate into the workforce with less student debt.
You could even choose to complete both an honours and a master’s degree in just three years (rather than the standard four).
For specific information on your chosen courses fees, please visit the course page .
Cost comparison – based on a UK student studying a Business Management degree (2025):
This means that our students could save approximately £14,000 by studying with us.
1 Living expenses based on National Student Money Survey 2024 estimated cost of living £13,248 per year.
( Student Money Survey 2024– Results – Save the Student ).
2 Based on Savethestudent.org figures ( How much does university cost?
– Save the Student ).
Note: The prices shown are correct at the time of being published but are subject to change without prior notice, please contact our Admissions team for accurate price information.
Cost comparison
( Student Money Survey 2024 – Results – Save the Student ) 2 Average international fees across UK HEI sector
As with all UK universities, terms and conditions apply to UK/EU Student Loans Company eligibility for fees/living expenses loans.
These pages outline The University of Buckingham tuition fees, scholarships and bursaries .
However, for the clearest guide to find out how much you would have to pay for the course you are interested in, visit the course page of the relevant subject.
You may also find it useful to look at our accommodation fees to help you to budget for your living expenses during your studies.
Pay your tuition fees and accommodation via our secure Online Payment Portal .

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/admissions/fees/undergraduate:
For a clear guide on how much you would have to pay for the course you are interested in visit the course page of the relevant subject.
See also:

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/admissions/fees/status:
The process for determining the tuition fee status of a student is based on the Education (Fees and Awards) Regulations 1997 and the Education (Fees and Awards) (Amendment) Regulations 2006.
Tuition fees for study in England, Wales or Northern Ireland , provided by UKCISA: UK Council for International Student Affairs, give a more comprehensive guide to tuition fee status.
To qualify for Home fee status a person must fulfil all of the following criteria:
Nationals of these countries are not classed as Home students – but European students with “Settled Status”, that is being in the country for 3 years or more on the first day of the term, and can therefore apply for European funding through the Student Finance England website .
You will normally qualify for Home student status, if:
If you apply for asylum and the Home Office decides that you do not quality for refugee status but that you should be allowed to stay in the UK, it normally grants Humanitarian Protection (HP) or Discretionary Leave (DL) or, in some cases, indefinite leave to remain [up until 1 April 2003, Exceptional Leave to Enter or Remain (ELE/R) was granted in such circumstances].
If you were refused refugee status but were granted leave as above and you have remained ordinarily resident in the UK and Islands since the Home Office decision, you are entitled to pay Home fees.
Alternatively, if you are the spouse or civil partner or child of someone who meets the above conditions, you are entitled to pay ‘home’ fees.
If you (or your parent or spouse or civil partner) are granted permission to stay in the UK after the start of the course, you will be entitled to Home fees from the start of the next academic year.
Settled means being ordinarily resident in the UK without any immigration restriction on the length of your stay in the UK.
You are ordinarily resident in the relevant residence area (which is either the UK and Islands or the EEA and Switzerland, depending on the category and its qualifying conditions) if you have habitually, normally and lawfully resided in that area from choice.
Temporary absences from the residence area should be ignored.
EU countries : Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, United Kingdom (including Gibraltar).
EEA countries includes all EU countries, plus Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway.
OECD member countries (not in the EU or EEA) : Australia, Canada, Japan, Korea, Mexico, New Zealand, Switzerland, Turkey, United States of America.
Overseas Territories : Anguilla, Bermuda, British Antarctic Territory, British Indian Ocean Territory, British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands, Falkland Islands, Greenland and Faeroe Isles, French Polynesia, French Southern and Antarctic Territories, Mayotte, Monserrat, Netherlands Antilles (Bonaire, Curacao, Saba, St Eustatius and St Marten) and Aruba, New Caledonia, Pitcairn Islands, South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands, St Helena and its Dependencies, St Pierre et Miquelon, Turks and Caicos Islands Wallis and Futuna.
For a more comprehensive description of these definitions, please visit the UKCISA website .
Any student not assessed as “home” in accordance with the above criteria will be deemed to be “international” for fees purposes.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/admissions/fees/deposits:
If you wish to accept an offer of a place at Buckingham University you must return your completed and signed Acceptance Statement to the Admissions office, to secure your place.
If you are an International student (outside of the UK) you are required to pay your first terms fees in advance of Registration.
See your offer letter.
If you are a UK student , you are required to pay your first terms fees in advance of Registration.
If you are a student intending to live in University Accommodation, you will be required to pay £700 security bond and your first terms accommodation, in advance of collecting your keys.
Your Accommodation bond is refundable when you leave your accommodation at the University, if there are no outstanding charges on your account.
Please read the methods of payment information very carefully.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/admissions/external/grants/uk:
Jump to: Undergraduate UK students | Undergraduate EU students | Postgraduate students | Master’s loan | Postgraduate doctoral loan | Private loans
Some students pay the whole of their tuition and living costs from their own resources, some borrow the whole amount, while many borrow in part and self-finance in part, and a few benefit from scholarships and bursaries.
The loans that are available vary based on your nationality or residence and the course you are taking.
In many cases loans are available both from governments and private firms.
The sections below relate to the main student groups, if you do not fit into one of these categories and would like further information on financial support please contact us at studentfees@buckingham.ac.uk .
Buckingham students may choose to apply for support from Student Finance England .
The maximum tuition fee loan available to Buckingham students is £15880 (£6355 + £6355 + £3170) for a 9-term undergraduate programme.
For the purpose of Student Finance England, 9 term degrees are deemed 3-year degrees; please select the 3-year option during your Student Finance application.
For accelerated programmes (8 terms) the maximum loan is £15250 (£7625 per annum).
For the purpose of Student Finance England, 8 term degrees are deemed 2-year accelerated degrees; please select the 2-year accelerated option during your Student Finance application.
Student Finance England loan information
Sources of help include Student Finance and Grants and bursaries for adult learners .
There are separate awards agencies for students from Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland .
Please note that applicants residing in Wales may not be eligible for student loans at this time.
The University hopes to resolve this issue in the future but wishes to make current applicants aware that other avenues of financial support for studies may need to be explored.
Applicants are advised to speak to the Student Loans Company in the first instance.
UK students who are registered disabled or dyslexic are entitled to the Disabled Students’ Allowance ( DSA ).
The DSA is obtained through Local Educational Authorities and is not a loan, but a grant.
Please note that students from outside the UK are, unfortunately, not entitled to the Disabled Students’ Allowance.
Undergraduate students may also apply for a Future Earning Agreement via StepEx to help cover the cost of tuition fees.
A Future Earning Agreement is a form of deferred payment scheme whereby a portion of course fees are waived in exchange for an agreement to repay a fixed percentage of post-graduation earnings for a limited period.
More information about Future Earning Agreements.
As an EU national, or a family member of an EU national, you can generally apply for financial help to cover the cost of tuition fees when studying in England (conditions apply – for more information, visit Student Finance .
All eligible full-time EU students (whether new or continuing) can take out a tuition fee loan to help towards the cost of tuition fees.
The maximum you can borrow is the same as that of other universities; namely, an annual repayable Tuition Fee Loan of £6,165 which is paid directly to the university.
Students are responsible for paying the remaining balance to the University for each term’s fees .
The loan is administered by The Student Loan Company and is funded by the UK government.
You start to repay the loan after you have left your course and are earning above a certain amount.
For more information, contact Student Finance and/or Grants and bursaries for adult learners .
You may also be eligible for educational funding in your own country – please contact your own local education department for further details.
The Master’s Loan and Doctoral Loan is available with support from the UK Government and can be used for your course fees and living costs.
The Master’s Loan is available on our taught and research master’s courses in all subject areas.
For more information and eligibility visit: Gov.uk website – Master’s Loan .
The Doctoral Loan is available on our doctoral courses .
For more information and eligibility visit: Gov.uk website – Doctoral Loan .
Postgraduate student or third or later year of a medical degree students who are UK residents may also apply for a Lendwise loan.
Lendwise is a private “peer-to-peer” student loan company.
Tuition fees will be paid directly to The University of Buckingham and any personal expenses amount will be paid directly to you.
More information about Lendwise loans.
For students coming from the US, Sallie Mae offer private loans that are available as an option.
Find out more on the Sallie Mae website .
If you are looking for additional funding, Postgrad Solutions now offer five bursaries worth £2,000.
Find further details and apply on the Postgrad.com website .

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/admissions/fees/contact:
Student Fees Office The University of Buckingham Yeomanry House Hunter Street Buckingham MK18 1EG United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)1280 820250 Email: studentfees@buckingham.ac.uk
The Student Fees Office is situated in Yeomanry House on Hunter Street.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/international/student-guide:
Find out about what makes Buckingham appealing to students from over 100 different countries.
Our guide will give you a great overview of what we have to offer.
Our undergraduate and postgraduate prospectuses are available to view or download.
You can also find all the latest course information on our course finder , which is continuously updated with the latest information.
Contact our dedicated International Office .

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/international:
We welcome students of over 100 different nationalities to the University.
Discover our connections around the world, guideline entry requirements, what our international students say, and what they go on to do after graduating.
Find your course Scholarships English language requirements
Africa
Asia
Europe
North America
Middle East
If your country is not listed above, please register your interest below and our team will provide you with the relevant information.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/international/english-language-requirements:
The UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) has rules about the level of English needed before they will issue a visa to study in the UK.
It is also very important that your English level is of a good standard for you to be successful in your studies.
All applicants must achieve the minimum requirements in all 4 components (listening, reading, speaking and writing).
The University of Buckingham has higher requirements than the minimum specified for a degree level course in the UK (Common European Framework, grade B2).
Please check the undergraduate or postgraduate language requirements for more details.
A copy of your English language qualification certificate should be included with your application.
Find out what it is really like to be a student at The University of Buckingham here .
Check out our on-campus student accommodation facilities

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/international/agents:
Agent name: AHZ Morocco
Agent type:
Email: morocco@ahzassociates.co.uk Tel: +212 70 220 6070
Agent name: Birmingham City Council
Email: apprenticeships@birmingham.gov.uk
Agent name: Boarding Schools Association
Agent name: Council of British International Schools
Agent name: David Hunniford
Agent type: Alumni Ambassador
Email: davidjhunniford@yahoo.co.uk Tel: +44 0787 633 0358
Agent name: GLF Schools' Foundation
Agent name: Hertfordshire County Council
Email: ApprenticeshipsInSchools@hertfordshire.gov.uk
Agent name: Independent Association of Preparatory Schools
Agent name: IDP BALI
Email: info.bali@idp.com Tel: 0878 3324 2283
Agent name: Oliver Quinn-Palmer
Email: info.tashkent@idp.com Tel: +99 8712 300103
Agent name: Leadership Matters
Email: Jonathan.Sammons@leadershipmatters.org.uk
Agent name: MEXICO PGCE
Agent name: Jamie Hastings
Agent type: Representative
Email: Jamie@myio.org.uk Tel: 07792313724 Website
Tel: ABIDJAN@MYIO.ORG.UK Website
Agent name: Outcomes First Group
Agent name: OXFORD SCITT
Agent name: Studyin Alam Sutera
Email: jakarta@studyin-uk.com Tel: +62 81292339008
Agent name: Studyin Amritsar
Email: amritsar@studyin-uk.com
Agent name: SI-UK Bengaluru JP Nagar
Email: bengaluru.jpnagar@studyin-uk.com
Agent name: Nandan Singh
Email: baneshwor@studyin-uk.com Tel: +977 5317333 Website
Agent name: Studyin Bhubaneshwar
Email: bhubaneshwar@studyin-uk.com
Agent name: Studyin Butwal
Email: butwal@studyin-uk.com Tel: +977 9802589313
Agent name: Studyin Calgary
Email: vickif@gostudyin.com Website
Agent name: SI-UK Cambodia
Email: phnompenh@si-global.com Tel: +855 (0)15663006
Agent name: SI-UK HANOI
Email: hanoi@studyin-uk.com Tel: 84988709698
Agent name: Studyin Islamabad
Email: islamabad@studyin-uk.com Tel: +92 51 2722666
Agent name: STUDYIN Kozhikode
Email: kozhikode@studyin-uk.com Tel: +91 9354844772
Agent name: STUDYIN Ludhiana
Email: ludhiana@studyin-uk.com Tel: +91 9041454800
Agent name: STUDYIN Mumbai (Thane)
Email: mumbai@studyin-uk.com Tel: +91 7400020527
Agent name: STUDYIN Mumbai (Andheri)
Email: mumbai@studyin-uk.com Tel: +91 9318490733
Agent name: STUDYIN Mysuru
Email: mysuru@studyin-uk.com Tel: +91 9986077782
Agent name: Studyin Chitwan
Email: chitwan@studyin-uk.com Tel: +977 056490130
Agent name: SI-UK Noida
Email: noida@studyin-uk.com
Agent name: Studyin Onitsha
Email: onitsha@studyin-uk.com Tel: +234 9168348662
Agent name: Studyin Port Harcourt
Email: portharcourt@studyin-uk.com Tel: +234 9168348662
Agent name: Anoop Patel
Email: qatar@studyin-uk.com Tel: +974 5076 0041
Agent name: STUDYIN Rajouri Garden
Email: delhi.rajourigarden@studyin-uk.com
Agent name: Edlira Xhaferi
Email: rome@studyin-uk.com Tel: +39 339706 6538
Agent name: Studyin Surabaya
Email: surabaya@studyin-uk.com Tel: +62 822 4555 5909
Agent name: STUDYIN Vadodara
Email: vadodara@studyin-uk.com Tel: +91 2654612070
Agent name: Vicki Fox
Email: vancouver@studyin-uk.com Tel: 778-955-2545 Website
Agent name: Syed Muhammad Faizan Ahmed
Email: karachi@studyin-uk.com Tel: +92 342 2227043
Agent name: Fatiha Goudari
Email: fatiha.g@hotmail.co.uk
Agent name: West Berkshire Council,
Agent name: Roark Dcruz
Email: Roark@btec.ae Tel: +971551135070 Website
Agent name: Mr Ravi Chand
Email: info.abudhabi@idp.com Tel: +971 (0)2 6228 367 Website
Agent name: Shiroye kayode
Email: abuja@ahzassociates.co.uk Tel: 234 08165885629 Website
Agent name: AISEL G-LINK SERVICES LTD
Email: info@aiselgl.com Tel: +2348117447138 Website
Agent name:
Email: abuja@bcie.co.uk Tel: +234 81 7149 5402 Website
Email: ukoffice@gloryeduserve.com Tel: +234 806 704 6334
Agent name: JAMIE HASTINGS
Email: abuja@myio.org.uk Tel: +234(0)8106252000 Website
Agent name: Princess Adaeze Nwaji
Email: empress.aquila@yahoo.com
Agent name: Mary Agbu
Email: abuja@studyin-uk.com Tel: +234 808255733 Website
Agent name: Tim Nicholson
Email: tim@torriseconsultancy.com Tel: 09094260757 Website
Email: abuja@intake.education Tel: +234 (0) 9-2906508 Website
Email: ghana@bcie.co.uk Tel: +233 30 277 8748 Website
Agent name: Joyce Appiah-Agyekum
Email: edusol.consult@gmail.com Tel: +233 201129684 Website
Agent name: Adeleke Adeyemi
Email: adeyemi@elyoneduconsult.com Tel: +233 0243 353 498 Website
Email: ghana@myio.org.uk Tel: +233(0)598353028 Website
Agent name: Martin Amankwaat
Email: accra@studyin-uk.com Tel: +233 596041176 Website
Email: accra@intake.education Tel: +233 (0) 302 798 181 Website
Email: eastlegon@intake.education Tel: +233 (0)302 557991 Website
Agent name: Gizem Benne
Email: gizembenne@atlasedu.com Tel: 0850 227 52 55 Website
Email: su.hayter@intake.education Tel: +44 1295 816 878
Agent name: Mr Abhishek Sharma
Email: ahmedabad@tcglobal.com Tel: +91 079 4003 2126
Agent name: Anjali Bhatia
Email: Anjali.bhatia@idp.com Tel: +91 079 4411 8888
Agent name: Studyin Ahmedabad
Email: ahmedabad@studyin-uk.com Tel: +91 79 4039 1698 Website
Agent name: Mr Fatima AlAmmadi
Email: Bahrain@visionedu.co.uk Tel: +973 01 361 7216 Website
Agent name: Osama Fouad
Email: info.alkhobar@idp.com Tel: +966 920 001 709 Website
Agent name: Ms Najah Thwaib
Email: admin@visionedu.co.uk Tel: +965 02 292 3131 Website
Email: info@globalstudyuk.com Tel: +20 30428 3100 Website
Agent name: Tamer Elias
Email: info.alexandria@idp.com Tel: +20 3584 0161
Agent name: H Azzouz
Email: algeria@ahzassociates.co.uk Tel: 00213*(0)*560420339/213*(0)*7843273 Website
Agent name: Bakhodir Suyarov
Email: almaty@studyin-uk.com Tel: +7 7073320000 (WHATSAPP/ TELEGRAM) Website
Agent name: Claudia Qusus
Email: admin@gescoedu.com Tel: +962 655 620 22 Website
Agent name: Ms Jumana Maraqa
Email: info@bridge.jo Tel: +962 06  5810 137 EXT:109
Agent name: Nizar Majdoub
Email: info.amman@idp.com
Agent name: Kanchan Bedi
Email: Kanchan.bedi@idp.com Tel: +422 4411 8888
Agent name: Oytun Binler
Email: oytun@atlasedu.com Website
Agent name: Gizem Gok
Email: ankara@studyin-uk.com Tel: +90 2129950735 Website
Agent name: Didem Çubukçu Temiz
Email: antalya@atlasedu.com Tel: +90 242 248 9666 Website
Agent name: Bakhtiyor Isoev
Email: ibr@eduzon.io Tel: +202 8880 606 Website
Agent name: Kala Rao
Email: info.muscat@idp.com Tel: +968 24 696 452
Email: atasehir@studyin-uk.com Tel: +90 2129950735 Website
Agent name: Mr Zacharias Palexas
Email: athens@studyin-uk.com Tel: +30 210 6753000 Website
Agent name: Yujie Ma
Email: partnership@lcig.io Tel: 64-211151851 Website
Agent name: Seval Sir
Email: seval.sir@idp.com Tel: +994 12 505 1051
Email: baku@studyin-uk.com Tel: +994 12 408 23 03 Website
Agent name: Shendy Achmadi
Email: info.bandung@idp.com Tel: +62 022 426 1054 Website
Agent name: Ms Manisha Lal
Email: bangalore@tcglobal.com Tel: +91 080 4084 0000
Agent name: Mohammed Imran
Email: info.bangalore@idp.com Tel: +91 080 4411 8888 Website
Email: info.bangalore@idp.com
Agent name: Studyin Bangalore
Email: bangalore@studyin-uk.com Tel: +91 80 4168 8282 Website
Email: bangalore@intake.education Tel: +91 9606015592 Website
Agent name: Don Sanmanee
Email: info.bangkok@idp.com Tel: +662 0638 3111 Website
Agent name: Victor Wong
Email: partnership@lcig.io Tel: 60-182220999 Website
Agent name: Lester Koo
Agent type: Institution
Tel: +66 (0)2 231 8124
Agent name: David Picton
Email: bangkok@studyin-uk.com Tel: +66 (0) 2260 6033 Website
Agent name: Rhian Thomas
Email: rhian.t@studyin-uk.com Tel: +66 2 260 6033 Website
Email: bangkok@intake.education Tel: 66 (89) 666 4634 Website
Agent name: P New
Email: application@westminster.co.th Tel: +66 26617495 Website
Email: application@win-ed.com Tel: 6624333532 Website
Tel: 66991595396 Website
Agent name: Shadat Bin Zaman
Email: zamanshovon@gmail.com
Email: ukheadoffice@bcie.co.uk Tel: +44 0870 8034 317 Website
Agent name: Amy Gou
Email: bj_international@amberedu.com Tel: +86 010 6566 1010
Agent name: Andre Roberts
Email: idigi@live.com Tel: +86 0156 00070 431
Agent name: Joanna Song
Email: uk@xdf.cn Tel: +86 10 6260 5599 Website
Agent name: Buckingham International School of Education
Email: info@bise.org Tel: +86 135 2015 3752 Website
Agent name: Alice Cheng
Email: china@eduglobal.com Tel: +86 10 6708 0808 Website
Agent name: Ms Sophie CAO
Email: sophie.cao@ukpass.org Tel: +86 10 65273033/65273032 Website
Agent name: Thomas Yang
Email: info.beijing@idp.com Tel: +86 010 5278 8989 Website
Agent name: Vivian Li
Email: Vivian.li@idp.com Tel: +86 010 6585 7705
Agent name: Claire Wen
Email: claire.wen@agentsedu.com Tel: 1860 087 8602 Website
Agent name: Lei Zixuan
Email: marketinguk@jjl.cn Tel: +86 (0)1065685656 Website
Agent name: Vera Shang
Email: Partnership@lcig.io Tel: 86-21-20575588 EXT 598 Website
Email: beijing@ukuni.net Tel: +86 (0)10 5662 9322 Website
Agent name: Ben Phair
Tel: +86 (0)10 8529 8908
Agent name: Kevin Zheng
Email: shanghai@studyin-uk.cn Tel: +86 15721283391 Website
Agent name: Sinocampus, Beijing
Email: kevin.zhao@sinocampus.cn Tel: 07529 187161 Website
Agent name: Ms Lily Li
Email: assistcn@ukec.net.cn Tel: +86 (10) 6266 6844 Website
Agent name: Victoria Ye
Email: liaison1@wisewayglobal.com Tel: +86 10 8210 2854 Website
Email: info@globalstudyuk.com Tel: +961 1 322 695 Website
Email: info@globalstudyuk.com Tel: +961 1 751 780 Website
Email: info@globalstudyuk.com Tel: +961 1 811 432 Website
Agent name: Amina Reslan
Email: Amina.reslan@idp.com Tel: +961 0173 8310
Agent name: Adeyemi Adeleke
Email: adeyemi@elyoneduconsult.com Tel: +1 613 970 0800 Website
Agent name: Carla Li
Email: Birmingham@eiceducation.com.cn Website
Agent name: Martin Pittaway
Email: info@ukuoffer.co.uk Tel: +44 (0)121 622 1015 Website
Agent name: Ms.
Fang
Email: birmingham@ukec.com Tel: +44 (0) 121 237 6017 Website
Agent name: Pilar Hillon
Email: bogota@studyin-uk.com Tel: +57 1 7186226 Website
Agent name: Alba Marina Sanchez
Email: erika.rodriguez@studiesplanet.com Tel: +57 (0)311 475 3505 Website
Agent name: Katy Hancock
Email: katy.hancock@intoglobal.com Tel: +44 (0) 1273 665 200 Website
Agent name: Soroush Ahmadi
Email: education@ukstudy.com Tel: +44(0) 1273 72 55 77 Website
Agent name: Australian Boarding schools association
Email: absa@boarding.org.au Tel: +61 (0)732054940
Agent name: Mrs Penka Marinova
Email: penka.marinova@buckingham.ac.uk Tel: +44 (0)796 091 8405
Agent name: Tuğba Çubukçu Seven
Email: tugba@atlasedu.com Tel: +90 216 411 11 55 Website
Email: info@globalstudyuk.com Tel: +20 2252 60970 Website
Email: info@globalstudyuk.com Tel: +20 22269 9753 Website
Agent name: Mr.
Islam Essam
Email: admin@visionedu.co.uk Tel: +20 02 2262 2855 Website
Email: tamer.elias@idp.com Tel: +202 2774 4204
Agent name: Ms Laura CHEN
Email: laurachen@camlang.co.uk Tel: +44 1223 363873
Agent name: Mr Kevin Miguim
Email: africa1@ahzassociates.co.uk Tel: 7383151558 Website
Agent name: Nam Tran
Email: nam.tran@idp.com Tel: +84 0710 373 3667 Website
Agent name: Mrs Dawn Meriman
Email: admissions@ceg-uk.com Tel: +44 1227 866 540
Email: sastudy@sableinternational.com Tel: +27 (0) 21 657 1543 Website
Agent name: Mayra Amezquita
Email: admissions@studiesplanet.com Website
Agent name: Mr Joe Paley
Email: uk@idp.com Tel: +44 029 2010 9129 Website
Agent name: Helen Zhu
Email: cardiff@ukec.com Tel: +44(0) 292 132 4782 Website
Email: africa@ahzassociates.co.uk Tel: +447802722230 Website
Email: info@globalstudyuk.com Tel: +212 522 051 440 Website
Agent name: Hassan Al Kaheel
Email: casablanca@studyin-uk.com Tel: +212 766971419 Website
Agent name: Rica Veloso
Email: info.cebu@idp.com Tel: +63 32 236 2758
Agent name: Ms Poonam Singh
Email: chandigarh@tcglobal.com Tel: +91 0172 506 2662
Agent name: Vipin Verma
Email: vipin.varma@idp.com Tel: +91 172 441 1888 Website
Agent name: Studyin Chandigarh
Email: chandigarh@studyin-uk.com Tel: +91 8287256724 Website
Agent name: Mr Jason Dou
Email: Jason.dou@ukpass.org Tel: +86 431 88578588
Agent name: Sophie Li
Email: changsha@EduGlobal.com Tel: +86 (0)731 8971 8856 Website
Agent name: Ms Sammi ZHOU
Email: sammi.zhou@ukpass.org Tel: +86 731 88186999 Website
Agent name: Joan Ning
Email: partnership@lcig.io Tel: 86-21-20575588 EXT 585 Website
Email: changsha@studyin-uk.cn Tel: +86 13974886786 Website
Agent name: Mr Rohul Amin
Email: ctg@ahzassociates.co.uk Tel: +880 1707006539 Website
Agent name: Fiona Cao
Email: Fiona.cao@idp.com Tel: +86 028 8652 7806
Agent name: Wendy
Email:  indexchengdu@indexedu.com Tel: +86 (0)28 8532 0798 Website
Agent name: Yunfang Zhang
Email: partnership@lcig.io Tel: 86-21-20575588 EXT 559 Website
Betty Liang, Sherry Chen
Email: chengdu@ukec.net.cn Tel: +86 (28) 6133 3945 Website
Agent name: Mr Abhishek Mukherjee
Email: chennai@tcglobal.com Tel: +91 044 4214 8123
Agent name: Radhika Somasundaram
Email: info.chennai@idp.com Tel: +44 3301 8888 Website
Agent name: Gagan Ghuman
Email: gagan.ghuman@hotcourses.co.in Tel: +91 44 4269 6241
Agent name: Studyin Chennai
Email: chennai@studyin-uk.com Tel: +91 444 510 8282 Website
Agent name: Pattri Phuritpaphawin
Email: info.chiangmai@idp.com Tel: +66 053 217 552 Website
Agent name: Napassorn Soontracharn
Email: chiangmai@studyin-uk.com Tel: +66(0)910799303 Website
Email: application@win-ed.com Tel: 6652010073 Website
Agent name: Nancy Shen
Email: chongqing@eduglobal.com Tel: +86 023 6387 8853 Website
Agent name: Sophy Li
Email: sophy.li@idp.com Tel: +86 023 6380 6660
Agent name: Samwise
Email: index_china@agentsedu.com Tel: +86 (0)23 6384 7981 Website
Mark Chen
Email: chongqing@ukec.net.cn Tel: +86 (23) 6510 5071 Website
Agent name: Ms Sheela Mary
Email: cochin@tcglobal.com Tel: +91 0484 4044 451
Agent name: Mohammad Ramzi
Email: tamilnadu@ahzassociates.co.uk Tel: 917994963952 Website
Agent name: Ms Anisha V.A.
Email: coimbatore@tcglobal.com Tel: +91 0422 450 4313
Agent name: Deepa Srinivasan
Email: info.coimbatore@idp.com Tel: +91 0422 4411 8888 Website
Agent name: Studyin Coimbatore
Email: coimbatore@studyin-uk.com Tel: +91 9972484782 Website
Agent name: Jude Franando
Email: srilanka@ahzassociates.co.uk Tel: 0094 76 217 4000 Website
Agent name: Sri V Kandasamy
Email: sri@crossroadsedu.lk Tel: 0094 7555 98620 Website
Agent name: Mohamed Shahid
Email: shahid@educationfirst.lk Tel: +94 072 231 6060
Tel: + 94 11 77 11 888
Agent name: Arun Karki
Email: partnership@lcig.io Tel: 977-01-4009068 Website
Agent name: Rizmy Yaseen Mohamed
Email: colombo@studyin-uk.com Tel: 94 74 043 4321 Website
Agent name: Chinthaka Pradeep Perera
Email: info@uas.org.uk Website
Agent name: Mohammed Ali
Email: mohammed@engeducation.com Tel:  +447389843499 Website
Agent name: Phoenix Zhao
Email: amberdl@amberedu.com Tel: +86 0411 8284 2288
Agent name: Dr Li-Hua Yao
Tel: +86 (0)41 1252 9518
Agent name: Ms Tran Ngoc Tram
Email: tram.tran@idp.com Tel: +84 0511 388 9828 Website
Thuan Phong
Email: danang@vanthinhphat.org Tel: +84 90 5555 657
Agent name: Zakia Nassor
Email: daressalaam@studyin-uk.com Tel: +255 677 500 800 Website
Email: info@uniserveducation.com Tel: +255 (0)212 9036/7 Website
Agent name: Mr Samir
Email: mena@ahzassociates.co.uk Tel: +4407366223131 Website
Email: denizli@studyin-uk.com Tel: +90 2129950735 Website
Agent name: Wahid Zaman
Email: n.dhaka@ahzassociates.co.uk Tel: 8801313444854 Website
Agent name: MH Shahajalal
Email: s.dhaka@ahzassociates.co.uk Tel: +8801313444855 Website
Agent name: ASHAK UN NABI
Email: Info@cfs-world.com Tel: +88 (0)1979 121 331 Website
Agent name: Abdullah Arafat
Email: Info@educationhub-bd.com Tel: +88 09666 779911 Website
Email: emon@engeducation.com Tel: +880 17040 99457 Website
Agent name: Thomas Gomes
Email: infobd@idp.com Tel: +88 04478 667 788
Agent name: Tofael Ahmed
Email: application.bd@iecc.co.uk Tel: +88 02 9860526 Website
Agent name: Nazratun Naeem
Email: partnership@lcig.io Tel: 880-1745921911 Website
Agent name: Vaskar Sharma
Email: dhaka@studyin-uk.com Tel: +880 195 1221133 Website
Agent name: Zainal Abedin
Email: bangladesh@win-ed.com Website
Email: doha@studyin-uk.com Tel: 974 5076 0041 Website
Agent name: Varun Kumar Iyer
Email: roopak@gotouniversity.com Tel: +971 504 569 927 Website
Agent name: Sabina Kosuri
Email: Info.dubai@idp.com Tel: +971 4 344 6814
Agent name: Shanthi Ramachandran
Email: shanthi@iqeducationconsultants.com Tel: 	+971552167596 Website
Agent name: Farah Siddiqui
Email: oecdubai@outlook.com Tel: +971 50 964 6629
Agent name: Dr Muhammad Yousuf Qadri
Email: info@qadri-international.com Tel: +971-4-3351390 Website
Agent name: Gerard Vandenbroek
Email: info@schoolapply.com Website
Agent name: Zaheer Abbas Malik
Email: dubai@studyin-uk.com Tel: 971 43868900 Website
Email: info@uniserveducation.com Tel: +971 58 831 5450 Website
Agent name: Mrs Tina Mcintosh
Email: edinburgh@ukec.com Tel: +44(0)131 558 9000 Website
Agent name: Mr Aly
Email: egypt@ahzassociates.co.uk Website
Email: info@uniserveducation.com Tel: +254 735 536 101 Website
Email: enugu@intake.education Tel: +234 (0) 70 5919 3156 Website
Agent name: BICAS Consultancy UK Limited, Faisalabad Office
Email: fsd@bicas.co.uk Tel: +92(0)41 854 2026 Website
Agent name: Mr Qaiser Farooq
Email: corporate@hrpakistan.com Tel: +92 418 719 401 Website
Agent name: Shahid Hafeez
Email: faisalabad@studyin-uk.com Tel: +92-41-8554200 Website
Agent name: C Niroshan Manannalage
Email: aglobehelp@gmail.com
Agent name: Serdar Çetgin
Email: serdarcetgin@atlasedu.com Tel: 0342 341 90 01 Website
Agent name: Mrs Prem O'Connor and Ms Nancy Melocowsky
Email: prem.oconnor@usglobalvision.com Tel: +860 0430 9228 Website
Agent name: Chris Kapellas
Email: kapech@otenet.gr
Agent name: Omeyma Shiakh Eldin
Email: info@gfet.co.uk Tel: +34 6555 366 129
Agent name: Mr Danny SU
Email: danny.su@ukpass.org Tel: +86 757 8209 4099
Agent name: Ms Christie HE
Email: christie.he@ukpass.org Tel: +86 20 83312756
Email: index_china@agentsedu.com Tel: +86 (0)20 3803 1937 Website
Agent name: Wallace He
Email: wallacehe@amberedu.com Tel: +86 020 2237 9900
Agent name: Chloe Guo
Tel: +86 0208 222 8762
Agent name: Christine Du
Email: guangzhou@eduglobal.com Tel: +86 020 8331 2981 Website
Agent name: Carrie Wei
Email: ad@geaworld.org Tel: +86 020 8756 4402 Website
Agent name: Jessie Zhang
Email: Jessie.zhang@idp.com Tel: +86 203 893 2797
Agent name: Grace Zhong
Email: partnership@lcig.io Tel: 86-21-20575588 EXT 606 Website
Agent name: Peng Kai
Email: 1505256883@qq.com Tel: +86 (0)133 0229 1366
Agent name: Chris Francis
Tel: +86 (0)20 8331 1612
Email: guangzhou@studyin-uk.cn Tel: +86 18819277774 Website
Agent name: Cathy Tu
Email: clientrelationship@eduglobal.com Tel: +86 0851 855 4466 Website
Agent name: Girish Bhavnani
Email: oecindia@live.com Tel: +91 265 6545447 Website
Agent name: Bhargav Shah
Email: bhargav@sagarconsultants.co.uk Tel: 0091-7874355655 Website
Agent name: Mayur Patel
Email: soecagreements@gmail.com Tel: (+912692) 233075 / 76 Website
Email: info@ukecpakistan.com Tel: 0092 (0) 553251712 Website
Agent name: Ms Namrata Katyal
Email: gurgaon@tcglobal.com Tel: +91 0124 416 5400
Agent name: Amit Chaturvedi
Email: amit.chaturvedi@idp.com Tel: +91 124 4411 8888
Agent name: Studyin Gurugram
Email: lakshmi.iyer@studyin-uk.com Tel: +91 81 30498881 Website
Email: hfd@ukecpakistan.com Tel: 0092 (0) 547640294 Website
Agent name: Mrs.
Hong Anh
Email: haiphong@vanthinhphat.org Tel: +84 912 261 016
Agent name: HELEN WANG
Email: helen.wang@ukpass.org Tel: +86 898 68574276 Website
Agent name: Dr Hailiang Du
Email: hailiang.du@ukpass.org Tel: +86 573 87799725
Agent name: Mr Jason Wei
Email: goldenarrowxs@ukpass.org Tel: +86 571 86935879
Agent name: Ms Lynn ZHANG
Email: lynn.zhang@ukpass.org Tel: +86 571 87795331 Website
Agent name: Simon Xu
Email: simon.xu@idp.com Tel: +86 571 2892 6997
Agent name: Ms Lan Anh Le
Email: lananh.le@idp.com Tel: +84 04 3943 9739 EXT.406 Website
Agent name: Billy Xu
Email: indexld005@gmail.com Tel: 0044 79010136193
Email: hanoi@isc.education Tel: +84 024 3941 1906 Website
Email: hanoiwest@isc.education Tel: +84 024 3792 5288 Website
Email: loc.nguyen@jackstudy.vn Tel: +84 4 3553 7555 Website
Agent name: Ngoc Bao Duong Adams
Email: san.adams214@gmail.com
Agent name: Lucy Lu
Email: hanoi@studyin-uk.com Tel: +84 998709698 Website
Agent name: Ms HoangHa Minh
Email: StudyinEngland.vn@gmail.com Tel: +84 (0)903 83 13 55
Email: zimbabwe@ieabroad.com Tel: +263 71 548 90 39 Website
Agent name: Ms Lu Liu
Email: lu.liu@ukpass.org Tel: +86 45153002233 Website
Agent name: Quach Mai Duy
Email: info@geaworld.org Tel: +8491 719 2498 Website
Email: nam.tran@idp.com Tel: +84 08 3835 0133
Agent name: Lan Anh Phi
Email: lananh.phi@idp.com Tel: +84 08 3910 4205 Website
Email: hochiminh@isc.education Tel: +84 028 3824 6622 Website
Agent name: Tran Phuoc Luan
Email: partnership@lcig.io Tel: 84-842767589 Website
Agent name: Duong Thi Thuong
Tel: +84 (0)83 827 7666
Tel: +84 (0)8 824 7840
Email: hochiminh@studyin-uk.com Tel: +84 28 3929 3998 Website
Agent name: Ms Tran Xuan Ngoc Thao
Email: Thao.StudyinEngland@gmail.com Tel: +84 (0)908 80 60 86
Agent name: Dinh Le Tuan Anh
Email: hanoi@vtcorp.vn Tel: 0084 83 823 1111 Website
Agent name: Dickson Ma
Email: study@beo.jp Tel: +81 (0)3 5367 3315 Website
Agent name: ON YIN AMY LI
Email: onyinamy@gmail.com Tel: +85 (0) 297 869 598
Email: hsinchu@intake.education Tel: +886 3 531 6441 Website
Agent name: Elina Zhang
Email: wuhan@eduglobal.com Tel: +86 027 8571 4460 Website
Agent name: Daniel YU
Email: goldenarrowwh@ukpass.org Tel: +86 27 87260276, Website
Agent name: Swaroop
Email: Cochin@ahzassociates.co.uk Tel: 919288002620 Website
Agent name: Ms Swaroopa K
Email: hyderabad@tcglobal.com Tel: +91 040 4036 1000
Agent name: Kaushal Chowdbay
Email: info.hyderabad@idp.com Tel: +91 040 441 18888 Website
Agent name: Lakshmi Iyer
Email: hyderabad@studyin-uk.com Tel: +91 40 4015 7110 Website
Agent name: Daniel Opeyemi Abatan
Email: lagosisland@ahzassociates.co.uk Tel: +234(0)7042246364 Website
Email: manager_ibadan@bcie.co.uk Tel: +234 022 913 532 Website
Email: ukoffice@gloryeduserve.com Tel: +234 806 7046 443
Email: ibadan@intake.education Tel: +234 (0) 9037233489 Website
Email: nigeria@ahzassociates.co.uk Tel: +234 08141719878 Website
Email: nigeriaikeja@bcie.co.uk Tel: +234 0134 276 00 Website
Agent name: Mr Theo Oladimeji
Email: theo.oladimeji@gloryeduserve.com Tel: +234 01 773 3800 Website
Email: nigeria@sableinternational.com Tel: +234 90 5689 6282 Website
Agent name: Tolu Adeusi
Email: toluadeusi@tgmeducation.com Tel: +234 811 111 1054 Website
Agent name: SUNANDO MAJUMDAR
Email: sunando@seekhle.org Tel: +919674739435 Website
Email: info.indore@idp.com Tel: +91 0731 441 1888
Email: indore@studyin-uk.com Tel: +91 8368662790 Website
Agent name: Sujata Vora
Email: info.bahrain@idp.com Tel: +973 1750 2946 Website
Agent name: Liaqat Sabbir
Email: pak@ahzassociates.co.uk Tel: 923470999111 Website
Email: islamabad_pk@bcie.co.uk Tel: +92 336 577 3277 Website
Usman Sherazi
Email: hr5@hrpakistan.com Tel: +92 347 4747079 Website
Agent name: Arafat Shahid
Email: ashahid@hrpakistan.com Tel: +92 322 506 417 Website
Agent name: Mr Arafat Shahid
Email: ashahid@hrpakistan.com Tel: +92 323 2307007
Email: corporate@hrpakistan.com Tel: +92 3215101791 Website
Agent name: Shiraz Rasheed
Email: info.islamabad@idp.com Tel: +92 51 272 6798/ 6799 Website
Agent name: Mohammad Ahmed Aslam Chaudhry
Email: ahmad.qac@gmail.com Tel: +92 (0)333 5757 274 Website
Agent name: Sinem Kızrak
Email: sinem@atlasedu.com Tel: +90 212 249 53 10 Website
Agent name: Esra Aydın
Email: esra@atlasedu.com Tel: +90 216 411 11 55 Website
Agent name: Ismail Fenerci
Email: ismail@atlasedu.com Tel: +90 216 301 13 25 Website
Email: info.turkey@idp.com Tel: +90 (0)212 245 1588 Website
Email: istanbul@studyin-uk.com Tel: (+90)2129950735 Website
Agent name: Murat Seyfi
Email: izmir@atlasedu.com Tel: +90 232 441 9755 Website
Email: izmir@studyin-uk.com Tel: +90 2129950735 Website
Email: jaffna@studyin-uk.com Tel: 0094771215879 Website
Agent name: Ms Taranjot Sachdeva
Email: jaipur@tcglobal.com Tel: +91 0141 404 5901
Email: info.jaipur@idp.com Tel: +91 141 441 1888
Email: jaipur@studyin-uk.com Tel: +91 14 1401 1629 Website
Agent name: Hengky Hasiholan
Email: hengky.hasiholan@idp.com Tel: +62 021 252 3291 Website
Agent name: Ms Yonela Tananda
Email: info.jakartakelapagading@idp.com Tel: +62 021 4587 4351
Kresna Adhi Dharma
Email: info.southjakarta@idp.com Tel: +62 21 7234 944 Website
Agent name: Juwita Megasari
Email: juwita@jackstudy.com Tel: +6221 275 18878 Website
Agent name: David Matthews
Tel: +62 (0)21 522 8125
Agent name: Gianti Atmojo
Email: jakarta@studyin-uk.com Tel: +62 838 11141214 Website
Email: Info.jalandhar@idp.com Tel: 0181 4411 8888
Tel: +961 9 542 806
Agent name: Mr Adnan Al-Jarrah
Email: admin@visionedu.co.uk Tel: +966 02 261 1202 Website
Agent name: Hussain Saeed
Email: Hussain.saeed@idp.com Tel: +966 920 001 705 Website
Agent name: Miss Elaine WANG
Email: Elaine.wang@ukpass.org Tel: +86 25 83356321, Website
Email: jinan@eduglobal.com Tel: +86 0531 8601 9880 Website
Agent name: Vigilance Mbonyeya
Email: admin@int-edulink.co.za Tel: +27 (0)11 442 9101 Website
Agent name: Marilyn Tai
Email: info.johorbahru@idp.com Tel: +607 364 0080 Website
Agent name: Brenda Ramirez
Email: mexico@studiesplanet.com Tel: +5215569302917 Website
Agent name: Alina Dobara
Email: eu@ahzassociates.co.uk Tel: +40 771 677 231 Website
Agent name: Ravi Chand
Email: info.dubai@idp.com Tel: +971 (0)4 344 6814 Website
Agent name: Ivan A Mutasingwa
Email: director@globalstudyuganda.com Tel: +256752129963 Website
Email: uganda@sableinternational.com Tel:  +256 70 142 2584 Website
Agent name: Josphat K Karinga
Email: kampala@studyin-uk.com Tel: +256 770688532 Website
Email: info@uniserveducation.com Tel: +256 709 688 080 Website
Agent name: Swapna
Email: kochi1@ahzassociates.co.uk Tel: 917994000724 Website
Email: manager_kano@bcie.co.uk Tel: +234 0813 540 3294 Website
Email: kano@intake.education Tel: +234 8166575768 Website
Agent name: Mandy Huang
Email: Info.kaohsiung@idp.com Tel: +886 07 311 2280 Website
Email: kaohsiung@intake.education Tel: +886 7-2360600 Website
Agent name: Haroon Khan
Email: haroon@cityeducations.com Tel: +923 002 937 604 Website
Agent name: Hamid Rauf
Agent name: Mr Hamid Rauf
Agent name: Khurram Bhatti
Email: info.karachi@idp.com Tel: +92 21 3432 0978/ 0979 Website
Agent name: Salman Khurshid
Email: s.khurshid@index.net.pk Tel: +92 (0)21 34390724 Website
Agent name: Abdul Qadir
Email: partnership@lcig.io Tel: 92-3253029973 Website
Agent name: Mohammad Natasha
Email: natasha.j.mohammad@gmail.com
Agent name: Imran Khan
Email: imran@thenext.com.pk Tel: +92 (0)21 3455 9067 Website
Email: karachi@studyin-uk.com Tel: +92 342 2227043 Website
Agent name: Maaz Khattak
Email: info@studynetwork.org Tel: +92 311 1178839 Website
Agent name: Mr Hassan Baweja
Email: hbaweja@successfactor.org Tel: +92 (0)21 3432 4048 Website
Agent name: Mr Mubarak Hossain
Email: nepal@ahzassociates.co.uk Tel: +977 9851077182 Website
Agent name: Shishir Regmi
Email: kathmandu@studyin-uk.com Tel: +977 15903980 Website
Agent name: Doğan Bulut
Email: dogan@atlasedu.com Tel: + 90 352 222 01 22 Website
Email: keelung@intake.education Tel: +886 (0)2 2424 1973 Website
Agent name: Mr Shinto / Mohammad Ramzi
Email: Cochin@ahzassociates.co.uk Tel: 917994000724/917902897979 Website
Agent name: Orachorn Ruangchoengchum
Email: info.khonkaen@idp.com Tel: +66 (0)43 321331 Website
Email: info@uniserveducation.com Tel: +250 (0)785 556 511 Website
Email: kisumu@uniserveducation.com Tel: +254 733 311 727 Website
Email: help@applyboard.com Tel: + (00) 18449727759 Website
Email: mohammed@engeducation.com Website
Agent name: Ms Bhuvaneswari S
Email: info.kochi@idp.com Tel: +91 0484 4411 8888 Website
Email: kochi@studyin-uk.com Tel: +91 93 1040 4716 Website
Agent name: Mr Ujjal Sarkar
Email: kolkata@tcglobal.com Tel: +91 033 2282 1555
Agent name: Sukanti Ray
Email: admin@globaleduconnects.com Tel: +91 9851199108 Website
Agent name: Sandip Sarkar
Email: info.kolkata@idp.com Tel: +91 033 4411 8888 Website
Agent name: Nirmalya Majumder
Email: nirmalya@nirmalyaentertainment.org Tel: 91 - 7738041147 Website
Email: kolkata@studyin-uk.com Tel: +91 93 1040 4714 Website
Agent name: Musa Bulut
Email: konya@atlasedu.com Tel: +90 332 354 0413 Website
Agent name: Audrey Lorraine
Email: info.kotakinabalu@idp.com Tel: +60 088 242 336 Website
Email: kota.kinabalu@intake.education Tel: +6014 552 2727 Website
Agent name: Joy Lui
Email: admin@amberedu.com.hk Tel: +852 2377 7889 Website
Agent name: Cory Lee
Email: mongkok@amberedu.com.hk Tel: +852 2377 7880 Website
Email:  info@britishunited.net Tel: +852 3426 9976 Website
Agent name: Theresa Chan
Email: info@ely-edu.com Tel: +852 2730 8018 Website
Agent name: Vanessa Cheng
Email: partnership@lcig.io Tel: 852-23112689 Website
Agent name: Connie Tan
Email: info.kualalumpur@idp.com Tel: +60 03 2162 3755 Website
Agent name: Tina Yeung
Email: malaysia@studyin-uk.com Tel: +60378861936
Agent name: Alvina Lau
Email: info.kuching@idp.com Tel: +60 082 233 645 Website
Email: kuching@intake.education Tel: (06)106647218 Website
Email: kumasi@intake.education Tel: +233 (0)553 173346 Website
Agent name: Jay Li
Email: jay.li@ukpass.org Tel: +86 21 39206156-667 Website
Agent name: ACCEPTIX
Email: ranim@acceptix.com Tel: +44 (0) 7377228886 Website
Agent name: Dr.
Omar Jaber
Email: omar@gescoedu.com Tel: 962 6 5562033 І 5562022 Website
Agent name:  Hamad Alshamlan
Email: info@alshamlanedu.org Website
Agent name: Valentina Ballan
Email: valentina@easyapplyedu.com Tel: +447575223081 Website
Agent name: Muizz Ahmed Mirza
Email: mecstudygroup@outlook.com Tel: +965-50272509 Website
Agent name: Ms Aisha Abdel Khamid
Email: admin@visionedu.co.uk Website
Agent name: Mr Rosan Sapkota
Email: kyiv@studyin-uk.com Tel: +380 67 588 2525 Website
Agent name: Anthonia Sawyerr
Email: fasawyerr@altsconsulting.com Tel: +234 818 000 0500 Website
Agent name: Ernest Obiesie
Email: eagletrendconsults@gmail.com Tel: +234 080 3080 4133 Website
Email: adeyemi@elyoneduconsult.com Tel: +234{0}7036139484 Website
Email: highachievers.schools@gmail.com Tel: +234 8139744739
Agent name: Lebari Ukpong
Email: info@inside-edgeconsulting.com Tel: 2348035352685 Website
Kemi Dawodu
Email: dawoduk@aol.com Tel: 44 7833964979
Email: lagos@myio.org.uk Tel: +234(0)9099809701 Website
Email: lagos@studyin-uk.com Tel: +234 (0) 81 0484 1013 Website
Email: lagos@studyin-uk.com Tel: +234 8104841013 Website
Agent name: Emmanuel Gbadega
Email: info@studyacrossglobe.com Tel: 08065007668 Website
Agent name: Sunday Bello
Email: info@sunfolconsult.com Tel: +234 (0)803 395 6229 Website
Email: ikeja@intake.education Tel: +234 0134 290 59 Website
Agent name: Peace Ekott
Email: nigeria@ahzassociates.co.uk Tel: +234(0)7018696248 Website
Agent name: Mr Matthew
Email: lagosmain@ahzassociates.co.uk Tel: +234(0)7061179668 Website
Agent name: Waleed Malik
Email: lahore@ahzassociates.co.uk Website
Email: lahore_pk@bcie.co.uk Tel: +92 42 3578 5514 Website
Agent name: Taimoor Qureshi
Email: info.lahore@idp.com Tel: +92 42 3662 9427/ 9428 Website
Agent name: Imran Fayyaz
Email: imranfayaz@hotmail.com Tel: +92 (0)321 401 7100
Hina Zahira
Email: prospectivestudent@mkengineerlinks.com Tel: +92 3134052078 Website
Agent name:
Zuhair Tahir
Email: info@prospects.pk Tel: +92-309-4442240 Website
Email: info@prospects.pk Tel: +923-48-8882929 Website
Email: info@prospects.pk Tel: +92-341-1111080 Website
Email: info@prospects.pk Tel: +923-22223337 Website
Tel: +92-301-4434942 Website
Email: lahore@studyin-uk.com Tel: +92 42 32332608 Website
Mohsin Baweja
Email: mail@successfactor.org Tel: + 92 (0) 42 35693063-4 Website
Agent name: Ahmet Ataner
Email: cyprus@studyin-uk.com Tel: +357 22778700 Website
Agent name: Stephen Smith
Email: stephen@illuminareeducation.com
Agent name: Mr Michael Wang
Email: michael.wang@ukpass.org Tel: +86 411 39078699 Website
Agent name: Lessly Torres
Email: peru@studiesplanet.com Tel: +51 924020123 Website
Agent name: UKEC Liverpool
Email: liverpool@ukec.com Tel:  +44(0)151 244 5668 Website
Agent name: Khalid Hassan
Email: int@ahzassociates.co.uk Tel: +44 02073779630 Website
Agent name: Maite Grande
Email: m.grande@altiumtravel.com Website
Agent name: Ming Yuen
Email: marketing@amberedu.co.uk Tel: + 44 0207 734 0274 Website
Agent name: Angela Taylor
Email: info@atava.co.uk Tel: 020 3651 3265 Website
Agent name: Vishal Joshi
Email: vishal@edlogica.com Tel: +44 (0) 7557 527870 Website
Agent name: Michael Addison
Email: m.addison@infoundationgroup.co.uk Tel: 44 (0)7814 993368 Website
Agent name: Catherine Zheng
Email: London@eiceducation.com.cn Website
Agent name: Mr Farani Javid
Email: info@globaladmission.co.uk Tel:  02080035971 Website
Email: info@globalstudyuk.com Tel: +44 20 7486 4762 Website
Email: andrew@globalstudyuk.com Tel: +44 020 7486 4762 Website
Agent name: Awais Shahid
Email: info@hrglobaleducation.com Tel: +44 0207 402 1366 Website
Email: indexld005@gmail.com Tel: 0044 7910136193
Agent name: Daniela Leon
Email: student.placements@intoglobal.com Tel: 44 (0) 203 752 2228 Website
Agent name: Rachel Kimber
Email: Rachel.Kimber@kaplan.com Tel: + 44 (0)1202 962990 Website
Agent name: Mr Shaddie Jibeili
Email: info@langservice.com Tel: 07958414293
Agent name: Ryan Henderson
Email: ryan@lhglobal.co Tel: 044(0)2037535345 Website
Agent name: Alyona Scholze
Email: partnership@lcig.io Tel: 44-7748771777 Website
Agent name: Dr Iyad H.
Nasr
Email: inasr.ceo@consultantslondon.co.uk Website
Agent name: Margarita Sudar
Email: puma_sinelshikova@yahoo.com Tel: 0207 231 75 13 Website
Agent name: Rizwan Ali
Email: mkengineeringlinksltd@gmail.com Tel: +44 (0) 7490180490 Website
Agent name: Terence Murray
Email: hi@intergreat.com Tel: +44 (0) 203 856 8180 Website
Email: info@studyin-uk.com Tel: +44 (0)20 7287 7040 Website
Agent name: Mr Clive Wood
Email: SiE.GoPlaces@gmail.com Tel: +44 (0)20 8858 3728
Agent name: Erika Rodriguez
Email: Erika.rodriguez@studiesplanet.com Tel: +44 (0)7877 254370 Website
Agent name: Ms Gloria Wang
Email: london@ukec.com Tel: +44(0)207 383 2000 Website
Agent name: Amanda Ding
Email: jing.ding1225@gmail.com Tel: 07841426125 Website
Email: application@win-ed.com Tel: 44 2032061312 Website
Agent name: Ms Gitika Mehta
Email: lucknow@tcglobal.com Tel: +91 0522 415 1111
Email: lucknow@studyin-uk.com Tel: +91 88 8291 4694 Website
Agent name: Hariot Singh Thind
Email: Info.ludhiana@idp.com Tel: +91 161 4411 8888
Agent name: Rebecca Vilas
Email: info@geaworld.org Tel: +853 02835 2877 Website
Agent name: Beatriz Semprun
Email: bsemprun@astex.es Tel: +349 159 034 80 Website
Agent name: Paula Helguero
Email: paula@donegalcentre.com Tel: +349 1220 0007 Website
Agent name: Ovyanti Marloana
Email: info.jakarta@idp.com Tel: +62 411 831 534 Website
Email: manila@intake.education Tel: +63 995 1913082
Agent name: Andrew Prince-Burns
Email: andrew.m.burns@hotmail.co.uk Tel: +44 783 840 9454
Agent name: Muhammad Sqib Siddique
Email: saqib@bicas.co.uk Tel: +44 0161 300 6985 Website
Agent name: Mathew James
Email: admin@ealoorconsultancy.co.uk Tel: 02034057168 Website
Agent name: Tania Huang
Email: Manchester@eiceducation.com.cn Tel: +441612093330 Website
Agent name: Harsith Vora
Email: manchester@studyin-uk.com Tel: +(44) 0161 209 3311 Website
Agent name: Carolina Suarez
Email: partner@ukec.com Tel: +44 (0)161 236 0660 Website
Email: london@ukuni.net Tel: TEL: +44 (0) 203 856 8180 Website
Agent name: Mr Shyamprasad G Rao
Email: mangalore@tcglobal.com Tel: +91 0824 4289 445
Agent name: Dianne M Siozon
Email: manila@studyin-uk.com Tel: +63 2 88179437 Website
Agent name: Livia Salim
Email: info.medan@idp.com Tel: +62 061 452 5598
Agent name: Erika DE Veyrac
Email: mexico@studyin-uk.com Tel: +52 5535627881 Website
Email: mexico@studiesplanet.com Tel: +52 (0)55 8421 4016 Website
Agent name: Lauren Shawky
Email: lauren@masterstudio.it Tel: + 39 02 295 33 748 Website
Agent name: Ola Abolade
Email: Olayabolade@gmail.com Tel: +44 (0) 7916298521
Agent name: ZIKANG LI
Email: pandaconsultation@outlook.com Tel: +44 (0) 74225 80856
Agent name: Franky Chitson
Email: ovec@ovec.ms Tel: +230 (0)433 2220 Website
Agent name: Aresi Thylamayylamay
Email: mauritius@uniserveducation.com Tel: +230 5 735 9926 Website
Agent name: Siham Omar
Email: mombasa@studyin-uk.com Tel: +254 (0) 780 450 642 Website
Email: info@uniserveducation.com Tel: +254 (0)738 861 664 Website
Agent name: Jessica Huang
Email: info@geaworld.org Tel: +852 2110 3354 Website
Email: multan@studyin-uk.com Tel: +92 616211008 Website
Email: india@ahzassociates.co.uk Tel: +91 84509 87755 Website
Agent name: Mr Kamaleshwar Sanga
Email: mumbai@tcglobal.com Tel: +91 022 3209 2500
Agent name: Sushil Sukhwani
Email: sushil@edwiseinternational.com Tel: +91 22 4081 3333 Website
Agent name: Palak Mayekar
Email: info.mumbai@idp.com Tel: +91 022 4411 8888 Website
Agent name: Shailendra Amin
Email: Info.mumbai2@idp.com Tel: +91 022 4071 9000
Agent name: Gauri Jadhav
Email: info.thane@idp.com Tel: 022 – 41144333
Agent name: STUDYIN Mumbai
Email: mumbai@studyin-uk.com Tel: +91 2249700446 Website
Email: mumbai@intake.education Tel: +91 9152931571 Website
Raed Abu AlRub
Email: oman@visionedu.co.uk Tel: +968 024 499 744 Website
Agent name: Bourton Meadow SCITT
Agent name: Alpha Plus Group
Agent name: Beds Schools SCITT
Agent name: Chiltern Group SCITT
Agent name: Cognita
Agent name: Hurstpierpoint College
Agent name: Premier Pathways
Agent name: Shire Foundation SCITT
Agent name: STEP Academy
Agent name: Wycombe High School SCITT
Agent name: Piyush Kumar
Email: piyush.kumar@idp.com Tel: +91 0712 6684 222
Email: nagpur@studyin-uk.com Tel: +91712-3583079 Website
Siham Omar
Email: nairobi@studyin-uk.com Tel: +254 (0) 755688242 Website
Tel: +254 719284278 Website
Agent name: Jogina Kuria
Email: uniconnectcentre@gmail.com Tel: +254 720 366374
Agent name: Ms Dorcas Otieno
Email: dorcas@uniserveducation.com Tel: +254 (0)20 445 2732 Website
Email: info@uniserveducation.com Tel: +254 734 004 003 Website
Agent name: Vivian Zhao
Email: infonanjing@EduGlobal.com Tel: +86 025 8470 5170 Website
Agent name: Yannis Zhang
Email: Yannis.zhang@idp.com Tel: +86 25 8470 6366 Website
Email: index_china@agentsedu.com Tel: +86 15221486217 Website
Agent name: Yvonne Liant
Tel: +86 (0)25 5186 1226/7
Email: agencylca2030@gmail.com Tel: +972524210700 Website
Agent name: Mr Gulshan Verma
Tel: +977 980-1055206
Email: info@globalstudyuk.com Tel: +20 2 2306 7394 Website
Agent name: Tushar Kakkar
Email: delhi@ahzassociates.co.uk Tel: 009193114 56665 Website
Agent name: Ms Ritu Sharma
Email: delhi@tcglobal.com Tel: +91 11 4160 8466
Agent name: Ms Anchal Walia
Email: westdelhi@tcglobal.com Tel: +91 11 4928 3000
Agent name: Ms Kavita Sharma
Email: northdelhi@tcglobal.com Tel: +91 11 2746 8524
Agent name: Sidharth Gupta
Email: ceo@global-opportunities.net Tel: +911 147 141 414 Website
Agent name: Mukta Sanjeev
Email: info.newdelhi@idp.com Tel: +91 011 4411 8888 Website
Email: info.newdelhi@idp.com Tel: 91 011 4411 8888
Agent name: Honey Bhatia
Email: partnership@lcig.io Tel: 91-11-46585500 Website
Agent name: Gurpreet Singh
Email: plabcoach@gmail.com Tel: +918130014412 Website
Agent name: Mrs Mrinal Singh
Email: premnkapur@foreignstudy.co.in Tel: +91 (0)11 2924 5855 Website
Agent name: Studyin Connaught Place
Email: delhi@studyin-uk.com Tel: +91 (0)11 42028200 Website
Email: Sandhyak@gostudyin.com Tel: +91 080 35242396 Website
Email: newdelhi@intake.education Tel: +91 1143570099 Website
Email: banqiao@intake.education Tel: +886 2-2951 7330 Website
Cindy Yang
Email: newcastle@ukec.com Tel: +44(0)191 230 6464 Website
Agent name: Rachel Burgon
Email: Rachel.burgon@uk-universities.co.uk Tel: +44 (0) 7873311298 Website
Agent name: Akis Papakyriacou
Email: info@eliteeducation.consulting Tel: +357 (0) 96762187
Agent name: Koumis Poyiadzi
Email: info@kmpeducamp.com Tel: +357-99223233
Agent name: Georgia Marta
Email: nicosia@studyin-uk.com Tel: +357 22778700 Website
Agent name: Marlene Philippou
Email: smartoptionseducation@gmail.com Tel: +357 9613 1300 Website
Agent name: Dr Scott Fraser
Email: scott@frasersgamsat.com.au Tel: +61480020271 Website
Agent name: Yasir Majid
Email: headoffice@studentssolution.co.uk Tel: +1 (0) 416 628 3815 Website
Agent name: Michael Blake
Email: osaka@ukeducation.jp Tel: +81 (0) 66 147 5681 Website
Agent name: Ms Marie Li
Email: marie.li@bcic.co.uk Tel: +44 1865 339 598
Agent name: Julia Beuzeval
Email: jbeuzeval@studygroup.com Tel: +44 01273 339 300 Website
Agent name: Cherry Che
Email: cherry.che@ukcec.com Tel: +44 1908 688 280 Website
Agent name: Carolyn Llewelyn
Email: international@oxintstudycentre.com Tel: +44 (0)1865 201009 Website
Agent name: Yan Zhang
Email: yanzhang@ukchinaconnection.org
Agent name: Sarah Waters
Email: sarahwaters@outlook.com Tel: 0776449939
Agent name: Richard Morgan
Email: morganrichard1164@yahoo.com.sg Tel: +4477 1076 3474 Website
Agent name: Cecilia Mundo
Email: cecilia.mundo@idp.com Tel: +632 535 3320
Agent name: OON Hooi Ting
Email: hooiting.oon@idp.com Tel: +60 04 226 1811
Agent name: Martin Ma
Email: info@geaworld.org Tel: +61 8 6161 5313 Website
Email: perth@jackstudy.com Tel: +61 0431 290 436 Website
Agent name: Usama Hamid
Email: hr1@hrpakistan.com Tel: +92 321 510 1791 Website
Email: peshawar@studyin-uk.com Tel: +92-91-5840322 Website
Agent name: Sreng Mao
Email: info.phnompenh@idp.com Tel: +855 023 222 325 Website
Email: pokhara@studyin-uk.com Tel: +977 61 590052 Website
Agent name: Anunobi Uchechi
Email: info.nigeria@ahzassociates.co.uk Tel: +234(0)8111509481 Website
Email: manager_ph@bcie.co.uk Tel: +234 0708 501 0020 Website
Email: ukoffice@gloryeduserve.com Tel: +234 0703 3745 247
Email: ph@intake.education Tel: +234 (0) 8116 709 992 Website
Agent name: Christine Faugoo
Email: christine.faugoo@idp.com Tel: +230 0210 1971 Website
Agent name: Vernera Kolshi Shala
Email: pristina@studyin-uk.com Tel: +383 4844 1246 Website
Agent name: Jingqi Li
Email: jingqi.li@hotmail.com Tel: +86 (0)186 3584 6987
Agent name: Ms Tina Saigal
Email: pune@tcglobal.com Tel: +91 020 6561 4441
Agent name: Sundeep Malhotra
Email: info.pune@idp.com Tel: +91 020 44118888 Website
Agent name: STUDYIN Pune
Email: pune@studyin-uk.com Tel: +91 20 4861 1079 Website
Email: pune@intake.education Tel: +91 9156391764 Website
Email: china@eduglobal.com Tel: +86 0532 8576 0791 Website
Agent name: Ms Mary Sun
Email: mary.sun@ukpass.org Tel: +86 532 55675202 Website
Agent name: Queenie Zhang
Email: queenie.zhang@idp.com Tel: +86 0532 8578 0660
Email: Indexqingdao@gmail.com Tel: +86 15221486217 Website
Agent name: Maggie Dowlut
Email: maggie1dowlut@yahoo.co.uk Tel: +230 466 5366
Agent name: Maria Jose Valarezo
Email: majo@studiesplanet.com Tel: 0984681340 Website
Email: info@globalstudyuk.com Tel: +212 766 309 607 Website
Agent name: April Rashal
Email: april@campus-studies.co.il Tel: +972 3535 4449 Website
Email: rwp@bicas.co.uk Tel: +92 51 8733903-04 Website
Email: ashahid@hrpakistan.com Tel: +92 323 2307007 Website
Email: rawalpindi@studyin-uk.com Tel: 0092-51-4264181 Website
Agent name: Mohammad Yusuf
Email: middleeast@ahzassociates.co.uk Tel: +4407828560202 Website
Agent name: Ahmed Zedan
Email: info.riyadh@idp.com Tel: +966 92000 1704 Website
Agent name: Mansour AlMudaifier
Email: riyadh@studyin-uk.com Tel: +966 59 252 7859 Website
Agent name: Rajeshwari Jayasankar
Email: campus-abroad@usa.net Tel: +23 0467 6200 Website
Agent name: Eunice Lo
Email: info@geaworld.org Tel: +6088 261 261 Website
Email: sahiwal@studyin-uk.com Tel: +92-40-4550137 Website
Email: info.kuwait@idp.com Tel: +965 02 574 3843 Website
Agent name: Sabrican Odabaşı
Email: sabrican@atlasedu.com Tel: 0850 227 52 55 Website
Agent name: Helton Tan
Email: info@geaworld.org Tel: +632 546 2189 Website
Email: info@globalstudyuk.com Tel: +968 9521 2672 Website
Agent name: Ms Stella Zhu
Email: malaysia@ukec.com Tel: 603 56127213 Website
Endah Prihati
Email: info.semarang@idp.com Tel: +62 024 831 7961
Agent name: Monica Jeong
Email: info.gangnam@idp.com Tel: +82 02 739 7246 Website
Email: seoul@peopleloving.co.kr Tel: +82 2 566 1240 Website
Tel: +82 (0)2 552 7571
Agent name: ms Fen Wei
Email: Emily.wei@ukpass.org Tel: +86 29 85267933
Agent name: Jill Zhang
Email: jill.zhang@ukpass.org Tel: +86 21 39206156-667 Website
Agent name: LIYAO ZHOU
Email: liyao.zhou@idp.com Tel: +86 021 6390 7071 Website
Agent name: Marjorie
Email: Index_china@agentsedu.com Tel: 15221486217 Website
Email: hezuo@51liucheng.com Tel: 8621-20575588-866
Agent name: Richard Yang
Email: shanghai@ukuni.net Tel: 15000849428 Website
Agent name: Marnie Watson
Tel: +86 (0)21 5836 0260
Agent name: Wang Wei
Email: kevin@shu-acca.com Tel: +86 (0)15800501565
Agent name: Banny Li
Email: marketing-uk@51liucheng.com Tel: 13679208658 Website
Email: shanghai@studyin-uk.cn Tel: +86-13818109632 Website
Agent name: Le Ying
Email: leying@wiseway3.com Tel: +86 (0)21 6288 3001 Website
Email: hello@edlogica.com Website
Agent name: Freeman Yeung
Email: info@geaworld.org Tel: +852 2110 3835 Website
Email: info@globalstudyuk.com Tel: +20 23865 3821 Website
Agent name: Ms Tianshu XU
Email: tianshu.xu@ukpass.org Tel: +86 24 23243833 Website
Agent name: Viki Zheng
Email: vikizheng@amberedu.com Tel: +86 0755 3398 1100
Email: info.shenzhen@idp.com Tel: +86 0755 8212 5009 Website
Email: shenzhen@ukuni.net Tel: +86 (0)755 8656 8500 Website
Agent name: Matthew Heard
Email: matthewheard@adventus.io Tel: +44 7912111968 Website
Agent name: AKM G Kibria
Email: singapore@ahzassociates.co.uk Tel: 656781 5850 Website
Agent name: Natasha Chopra
Email: natasha@tcglobal.com
Agent name: Desmond Ng
Email: desmond.ng@idp.com Tel: +68 190 560
Email: info.singapore@idp.com Tel: +65 06736 7025 Website
Agent name: Eric Wang
Email: indexsingapore@indexedu.com Tel: 065-87522579
Agent name: David Few
Email: info@jackstudy.com Tel: +65 6737 6734 Website
Agent name: Irina Sherbakova
Tel: +7 (0)812 320 9971/18
Agent name: Khoo Tang Wooi
Email: info.subangjaya@idp.com Tel: +60 03 5636 5548 Website
Agent name: Ajay Bhatia
Email: info.surat@idp.com Tel: +91 261 4411 888
Agent name: Gavin McGuire
Email: ual@bcic.co.uk Tel: +61 292 833 028 Website
Agent name: Grace Liu
Email: partnership@lcig.io Tel: 61-2-91825868 Website
Agent name: MD.
Tafjir Zaman
Email: applyuk@ahzassociates.co.uk Tel: 8801713558204 Website
Agent name: Charlie Liao
Email: info.taichung@idp.com Tel: +886 04 2326 1722 Website
Email: taichung@intake.education Tel: +886 4 2328 5946 Website
Agent name: Tim Greenwood
Email: tainan@intake.education Tel: +886 6 222 4790 Website
Agent name: Cindy Chang
Email: info@geaworld.org Tel: +886 961 354199 Website
Agent name: Irene Liu
Email: Info.taipei@idp.com Tel: +886 2 27738111 Website
Agent name: Jon Fang
Email: indexapp@indexedu.com.tw Tel: +886 (0)2 2369 2928 Website
Agent name: Claire Lai
Email: partnership@lcig.io Tel: 886-928922889 Website
Agent name: Tiffany Lee
Tel: +886 (0)2 2375 5095
Agent name: Angela Shih
Email: taipei@studyin-uk.com Tel: +886 2 27556365 Website
Email: taipei.office@intake.education Tel: +886 2-2778 2600 Website
Agent name: Vance Chen
Email: vance@win-ed.com.tw Tel: +86 6912 752 989 Website
Email: china@eduglobal.com Tel: +86 0351 522 8855 Website
Agent name: Mr Jacky BAO
Email: jacky.bao@ukpass.org Tel: +86 351 7823998 Website
Email: juwita@jackstudy.com Tel: +6221 547 6600 Website
Email: taoyuan@intake.education Tel: +886 3 338 4716 Website
Email: tashkent@studyin-uk.com Tel: +998 97 170 00 66 Website
Agent name: Maia Gurgenidze
Email: maia.gurgenidze@englishbook.co.uk Tel: +995 5999 77002 Website
Agent name: Youssef El Shaikh
Email: youssef.elshaikh@mknccglobal.ac.uk Tel: +44 7889486791 / +995 550002467 Website
Agent name: Elnaz Atashbiz
Email: info.tehran@idp.com Tel: +9821 2676 9880
Agent name: Mr Mohsen Ghasemi
Email: internationalrelations@MyArman.com Tel: 0098 2191004190 Website
Agent name: Orion Judge
Email: qatar@studyin-uk.com Tel: +98 (0)21 88104776 Website
Agent name: Tandis Beynolmelal
Email: education@ukstudy.com Tel: +98 (21) 8865 2080-2 Website
Agent name: David Adler
Email: david@ustudy.co.il Tel: +972-3-616-7210
Email: thane@studyin-uk.com Tel: +917304687305 Website
Agent name: Peter Zhang
Email: tianjin@eduglobal.com Tel: +86 022 8386 5545 Website
Agent name: Tina
Email: index_china@agentsedu.com Tel: +86 (0)21 3223 1071 Website
Agent name: Erlinda Koci
Email: tirana@studyin-uk.com Tel: +355 67 400 5360 Website
Agent name: Kazuhiro Tobisawa
Email: kazuhiro.tobisawa@jcom.zaq.ne.jp
Agent name: John Crick
Tel: +81 (0)3 5365 9552
Agent name: James McGregor
Email: tokyo@ukeducation.jp Tel: +81 (0)3 5272 9143 Website
Email: toronto@studyin-uk.com Tel: +001 416 998 8532 Website
Agent name: Ms Sangeetha Vaidyanathan
Email: trivandrum@tcglobal.com Tel: +91 0471 326 3399
Agent name: Nishant Patel
Email: nishant@emigrantsvisa.co.in Tel: +91 9726155002 Website
Agent name: Vaibhav Nagpal
Email: Info.vadodara@idp.com Tel: 0265-2324606
Agent name: Overseas Education Centre India
Email: info@oecindia.com Tel: +91 02656545447 Website
Agent name: Stephanie Korour
Email: stephaniekorour@gmail.com Tel: +1-778-833-3395
Email: manager_ikoyi@bcie.co.uk Tel: +234 013 427 601 Website
Email: ukoffice@gloryeduserve.com Tel: +234  0807 449 1896
Email: vi@intake.education Tel: +234 0129 159 72 Website
Email: VIENTIANE@studyin-uk.com Tel: +8562059829329
Agent name: Mr V Uday Kumar
Tel: +91 0866 248 3894
Agent name: Raghunath Thota
Email: info@vijayawada@idp.com Tel: 0866-2454888
Email: vijayawada@studyin-uk.com Tel: +91 86 64614032 Website
Agent name: Daniel Cano
Email: chile1@studiesplanet.com Tel: +56 9 44134089 Website
Agent name: Elena Lam
Email: marketing@amberedu.com.hk Tel: +852 2377 7888 Website
Agent name: Dahlia Leng
Email: info@aston.edu.hk Tel: +852 2866 9933 Website
Agent name: Kathy Mak
Email: info@cisedu.com.hk Tel: +852 3521 0688 Website
Agent name: Calvin Chan
Email: info.hongkong@idp.com Tel: +852 02179 3600 Website
Agent name: Kevin Yuen
Email: hongkong@studyin-uk.com Tel: +852 6513 5719 Website
Agent name: Mr Kemal Tatar
Email: warsaw@studyin-uk.com Tel: +48 730 75 74 85 Website
Agent name: Shalinda Halinda Hemal Perera
Email: perera_shalinda@yahoo.com
Agent name: Bhargav shah
Email: bhargav@sagarconsultants.co.uk Tel: 020 35448901 Website
Email: info@uniserveducation.com Tel: +44 (0)7813 976 257 Website
Thomas Nisslmüller
Email: tn@internate.org Tel: +49611 180 58 80 Website
Agent name: Thomas Nisslmuller
Email: tn@internate.org Tel: +49 (0) 611 180 5880 Website
Agent name: Anna Chen
Email: amberwh@amberedu.com Tel: +86 027 5960 1122
Agent name: Kaylee Hu
Email: uk@xdf.cn Tel: +86-0（0）2787706032 Website
Agent name: Cecilia Lei
Email: Cecilia.lei@idp.com Tel: +86 (0)27 8726 5361 Website
Agent name: Anna
Email: index_china@agentsedu.com Tel: +86 (0)27 8787 0205 Website
Agent name: Sulan Sui
Email: partnership@lcig.io Tel: 86-21-20575588 EXT 541 Website
Minni Cheng
Email: xian@ukec.net.cn Tel: +86 (29) 8522 1018 Website
Tina Bao
Email: xiamen@ukec.net.cn Tel: +86 (592) 6167 625 Website
Agent name: Ms Joanna WANG
Email: joanna.wang@ukpass.org Tel: +86 971 8825328
Agent name: Wai Yan or Adam Zaw
Email: waiyan@safenetgroups.com Tel: +95 9967561128 Website
Agent name: Ilmi Firmansyah
Email: info.yogyakarta@idp.com Tel: +62 (0)274 550 278 Website
Email: info.yogyakarta@idp.com Tel: +62274 550278
Agent name: Mr James XU
Email: james.xu@ukpass.org Tel: +86 570 3045353 Website
Agent name: Vincent Fu
Email: partnership@lcig.io Tel: 86-21-20575588 EXT 856 Website
Agent name: Golden Arrow Zhengzhou Office
Email: yuan.chen@ukpass.org Tel: +86 371 55672786

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/international/visas:
Jump to: EU Settlement Scheme | Visa requirements | Visa fees | Visa extensions | Family members | Graduate visas | Academic Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS) | Visa refusals/rejections | Visa cancellations/curtailments | Contacts
Welcome to the student visa section of the website.
Here you will find useful information on how to apply for a visa and what the requirements are.
The information on this page is based on the latest UKVI guidance.
Please note that there are changes for international students from 2024.
Most non-UK students wanting to study in the UK will require either a visa or to have applied under the EU Settlement Scheme (if you’re an EU, EEA or Swiss citizen).
If you are not sure please visit the UK Visa and Immigration (UKVI) website where you can check.
If you’re an EU, EEA or Swiss citizen, you and your family can apply to the EU Settlement Scheme to continue living in the UK after 30 June 2021.
You can also apply if you’re a family member of an eligible person of Northern Ireland .
The deadline for most people to apply to the EU Settlement Scheme was 30 June 2021.
If you or your family are from the EU, Switzerland, Norway, Iceland or Liechtenstein, you can still apply if you or a family member were living in the UK by 31 December 2020.
You must also either:
You can also apply if you already have pre-settled status, and you’re applying for settled status.
You may be able to stay in the UK without applying – for example, if you’re an Irish citizen, or you already have indefinite leave to enter or remain.
If your application is successful, you’ll get either settled or pre-settled status .
In some cases, you can still apply after 30 June 2021.
For example, if you’re joining a family member who was living in the UK by 31 December 2020, your deadline will be based on when you arrive in the UK, as long as:
You can also apply if you can show ‘reasonable grounds’ (such as medical reasons, or being the victim of domestic abuse) for why you did not apply by 30 June 2021.
Check if you can still apply to the EU Settlement Scheme , including further examples of what counts as reasonable grounds for not applying by the deadline.
If you applied to the EU Settlement Scheme and were given pre-settled status, you need to apply for settled status before your pre-settled status expires.
Settled status will let you stay in the UK for as long as you like.
You can usually apply for citizenship once you’ve had settled status for 12 months.
Check what you’ll need to do to apply
You must have an unconditional offer of a place on a course with a licensed student sponsor , The University of Buckingham is a Student (General Student) licence holder.
To prove this, we will send you a reference number, called a Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS), once we’ve offered you a place on the course.
You need a CAS before you can apply for your visa.
You must have enough money to pay for your course and support yourself in the UK.
How much money you need depends on your circumstances and what you’re applying for.
More information can be found at, Student visa: Money you need — GOV.UK
You must prove your knowledge of the English language when you apply.
You can prove your knowledge of English by:
To find more about the levels of English required and who doesn’t need to prove their knowledge of English please go to, Student visa: Knowledge of English – GOV.UK
When you apply for your Student visa you must provide:
You may also need to provide:
When you can apply depends on whether you’re applying from inside or outside the UK.
The earliest you can apply for a visa is six months before you start your course.
You’ll usually get a decision on your visa within three weeks.
The earliest you can apply is three months before your course starts.
You must apply before your current visa expires.
Your new course must begin within 28 days of your current visa expiring.
You’ll usually get a decision within eight weeks when applying from inside the UK, three weeks when applying from overseas.
You must apply online for a Student visa.
Here is a checklist you will need to follow.
As part of your application, you’ll need to prove your identity.
How you do this depends on where you’re from and what type of passport you have.
You’ll either:
You’ll be told what you need to do when you apply.
Once you’ve started your application, you can save your form and complete it later.
Student visa: Apply – GOV.UK.
A biometric residence permit (BRP) can be used to confirm your:
You’ll usually get a BRP if you:
You do not have to apply separately for a BRP.
More information can be found at, Biometric Residence Permits (BRPs).
How long you can stay depends on the length of your course and what study you’ve already completed.
If you’re 18 or over and your course is at degree level, you can usually stay in the UK for up to five years.
If it’s below degree level, you can usually stay in the UK for up to two years.
Read the guidance to find out exactly how long you can stay .
You may be able to:
You can arrive in the UK before your course starts.
This can be either:
You can:
You may be able to work, how much depends on what you’re studying and whether you’re working in or out of term-time.
You cannot:
If your application is successful, you’ll be told what you can and cannot do on a Student visa.
When you apply for a visa you will have to pay a visa application fee and your Immigration Health Surcharge (IHS).
For up to date visa application fees visit Student Visas – Gov.uk .
The Immigration Health Surcharge is a fee that is charged at the time when you submit your visa application.
Immigration Health Surcharge is £470 per year for students, check Healthcare Immigration Application – Gov.uk for up to date costs.
Health surcharge payers will be able to access the National Health Service in the same way as a permanent UK resident, i.e.
they will receive NHS care generally free of charge but may be charged for services a permanent resident would also pay for, such as dental treatment and prescription charges in England.
There are a limited number of exemptions to paying the health surcharge.
You can read the full list of exemptions and further information about the health surcharge on the Home Office website.
You may be able to extend your Student visa to stay longer and continue your course or study a new course.
This includes if you currently have a Tier 4 (General) student visa.
To extend your visa you must:
If you’re currently studying in the UK, you’ll usually need to show your studies will be at a higher academic level than your current course.
Your new course must be one of the following:
Your new course must begin with 28 days of your current visa expiring.
For example, if your visa expires on 1st December, you must apply for a new visa before 1st December.
Your new course must begin by 29th December.
You can stay in the UK until you get your decision.
If you applied for an administrative review because your application was refused, you can stay in the UK until you get your review decision.
More information on extending your visa and applying can be found at, Student visa: Extend your visa – GOV.UK.
If you are studying on a full-time postgraduate programme of nine months or longer, your partner and children may be able to apply to stay in the UK with you.
Any visa will expire at the same time as yours.
If your postgraduate level course starts on or after 1 January 2024, it must be either:
A dependant partner or child is one of the following:
More information can be found at, Your partner and children – GOV.UK.
You’ll need to provide evidence of your relationship when you apply, for example:
If your child is 16 or 17 on the date you apply you’ll need to prove they are not living an independent life, for example, that they’re not married or in a civil partnership.
Unless you and your partner or child are from a country listed under the ‘differential evidence requirement’ and you’re applying at the same time then, your partner and child must each have a certain amount of money available to them.
This is in addition to the money you must have to support yourself.
Your partner and/or children must apply online and they’ll need your application number, you get it when you apply.
This number is called a Global Web Form (GWF) or a Unique Application Number (UAN).
You’ll find it on emails and letters from the Home Office about your application.
If you have a baby while you’re studying in the UK, then you’ll need to find out how this affects you and your child.
Being born in the UK doesn’t automatically make a baby a British citizen.
This baby needs to have a parent with British citizenship or settled status in the UK in order to be British.
If your baby isn’t a British citizen, they can remain in the UK without making an immigration application.
However, from April 2015, babies born in the UK are not entitled to free healthcare from the age of 3 months old, unless it is emergency treatment.
Therefore in order to access healthcare, parents of babies born in the UK will need to make an immigration application within the first 3 months of the child’s life and pay the Immigration Health Surcharge.
To make any immigration applications on behalf of a child, you’ll need to get a national passport or travel document for the child from the relevant embassy, consulate or issuing authority in your country.
Applications can be made on behalf of babies born to students with a Student Visa/Tier 4 Visa for permission to remain in the UK or entry clearance as a student dependant if:
To make an application for leave to remain in the UK:
UK Visas and Immigration has confirmed that babies born in the UK who are eligible to make an immigration application as your dependant from inside the UK can apply online.
If your child doesn’t meet these requirements, it may be possible for you to make a different application via form FLR (HRO).
You’re advised to seek specialist advice if this applies to you.
Applications can be made on behalf of babies for entry clearance from your home country as your dependant if:
A Graduate visa gives you permission to stay in the UK for at least 2 years after successfully completing a course in the UK.
You must be in the UK when you apply.
You can apply for a Graduate visa if all of the following are true:
Check if your course is eligible and how long you need to have studied in the UK .
If you’re not eligible for a Graduate visa, you may be eligible for another type of visa to stay in the UK .
A Graduate visa lasts for 2 years.
If you have a PHD or other doctoral qualification, it will last for 3 years.
Your visa will start from the day your application is approved.
You cannot extend your Graduate visa.
However, you may be able to switch to a different visa, for example a Skilled Worker visa .
Check you can apply for another type of visa to stay in the UK .
You must apply online .
Your partner and children can also apply to stay in the UK if they are eligible.
To be eligible for the Graduate visa, your student visa must still be valid at the date your degree is awarded.
Your degree can only be awarded having been ratified at an Exam Board and an Exam Senate.
These events only take place a few times per year.
If your course end date is delayed due to a deferral, an extension, a re-submission, or a resit exam, your results may not go to an Exam Board and Exam Senate until after your student visa expires, and so would not be eligible for the graduate visa.
Please note, it is not possible to extend your student visa for the purposes of waiting for results, or due to deferrals or re-submissions.
The only way to ensure eligibility for the Graduate route is to successfully complete your studies on time.
You can only submit your Graduate visa application to the UKVI after the university has confirmed your eligibility to the UKVI.
This can only happen after your degree award is ratified and your results communicated to you.
Within 3 days of the Exam Senate, we check who has received their award and who has an eligible visa, and then we confirm their eligibility to the UKVI.
Applications made before this may be rejected by UKVI.
The deadline for submitting a graduate visa application is midnight on the last day of your student visa.
Once you’ve applied online, proved your identity and provided your documents, you’ll usually get a decision on your visa within 8 weeks.
You can stay in the UK while you wait for a decision.
When you apply for a Graduate visa, you’ll need to:
Check how much it will cost .
If you’re a doctor or nurse, or you work in health or adult social care, check if you’re eligible to apply for the Health and Care Worker visa instead.
It’s cheaper to apply for and you do not need to pay the annual immigration health surcharge.
With a Graduate visa you can:
If your application is successful, you’ll get a full list of what you can and cannot do with a Graduate visa.
You can only study with a Graduate visa if your chosen course is not eligible for a Student visa .
If your course is eligible for a Student visa, you can extend your Student visa instead.
You may need an Academic Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS) certificate if you’re studying or researching sensitive topics.
More information can be found at: Graduate visa – GOV.UK (www.gov.uk)
The Academic Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS) applies to all international students (apart from exempt nationalities) who are subject to UK immigration control and are intending to study at postgraduate level in certain sensitive subjects.
The subjects are those where students’ knowledge could be used in programmes to develop Advanced Conventional Military Technology (ACMT), weapons of mass destruction (WMDs) or their means of delivery.
These students must apply for an Academic Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS) certificate before they can study in the UK.
Students who are nationals of EU countries, the European Economic Area (EEA), Australia, Canada, Japan, New Zealand, Singapore, South Korea, Switzerland or the United States of America do not need an ATAS certificate.
The requirement for an ATAS certificate applies to all other students irrespective of the country of residence when they apply.
To check if you need an ATAS certificate you will need to know the CAH3 code that applies to your course.
Your Higher Education Institute (HEI) will either include this on your official offer letter or will be able to confirm it for you separately.
Check if you need an ATAS certificate – GOV.UK
More guidance can be found here, How to apply for an ATAS certificate – GOV.UK.
There is a significant difference between an application that has been rejected and one which has been refused.
Any visa refusal or rejection must be reported to us immediately.
A refused application is a valid application that has been assessed by a caseworker but does not meet the student visa requirements.
In this instance, you will receive a refusal notice explaining why your application was refused; in other words, which requirement was not satisfied.
There are a number of reasons why your visa may be refused.
Some of the most common reasons are:
If your application for leave to remain is refused, you will receive a refusal notice from the Home Office.
The notice will tell you why your visa was refused and will tell you whether you have the right to an administrative review of the decision.
The following provides more information on how to appeal the decision based on where you are:
If you apply for a student visa in the UK and it is an invalid application then it will be rejected instead of refused.
If your visa application is rejected, you will not be covered by Section 3C Leave and may become an ‘overstayer’ straight away if your visa has already expired.
Under the Student Sponsorship duties, we are required to report to the UKVI changes in student circumstances.
In the following circumstances we will curtail our sponsorship with the result that the student’s visa will be cancelled and they will need to leave the UK:
We are required to report on these to the UKVI within 10 days of being notified and the student will have 60 days in which to leave the UK.
Where university regulations permit an appeal, the 10 day period starts once all stages of the appeals process have been completed.
Failure to leave within the permitted period is likely to result in the student being considered an ‘overstayer’ by UKVI which is likely to result in future visa applications being rejected for at least a period of 12 months.
If the student is required to leave the UK as a result of their visa being curtailed, they should provide us with details of their flights (including scanned copies of tickets/boarding cards) and if possible scanned copies of any entry stamps when they arrive home.
Providing evidence that they have left the UK as requested may help with any future visa applications, though acceptance cannot be guaranteed.
If you experience any difficulties during the visa application process, please contact the Visa Office, studentvisa@buckingham.ac.uk or telephone +44 (0)1280 820126
Visit our Student visa FAQs page.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/international/general-advice:
The University, banks and other services and businesses adopt a 09:00 – 17:00 working day.
Shops are generally open from 09:00 – 17:30 but some supermarkets are open late at night or even for 24 hours.
Restaurants and pubs tend to shut at 23:30.
Tap water in the UK is generally safe to drink.
If it isn’t it will have a clear notice, for example, water on trains is not safe and will have a notice stating “not for drinking”.
It is advisable not to use water from the hot tap for making drinks.
British attitudes to sexuality may be different from your own and may be more relaxed.
You are free to live by your own personal standards and should not feel pressured to change.
If there are any issues you may be concerned about, please do not hesitate to contact the International Office who are always on hand to help.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/international/already-in-the-uk:
If you’re already in the UK and thinking about starting a degree at Buckingham, you’re not alone.
Many of our international students were already at a UK institution before joining the University.
The International Office regularly visits language schools and pathway providers to counsel students about the application process at Buckingham.
We also attend various Higher Education fairs across Britain.
We strongly recommend that you visit our campus, where you will be given the opportunity to meet with the Admissions Tutor.
Many departments also hold open days , tasters or webinars from time to time where you can find detailed information about the courses and speak to current international students about their experience at Buckingham.The International Office can help with arranging your visit so please get in touch .
If you are in the UK on a Visitor Visa you will need to return home to obtain a Student visa.
If you are in the UK on another type of visa it may be possible for you to make a Student visa application in the UK.
You are welcome to apply for a place to study through UCAS or by completing our Online Application Form.
If you have any questions about the University we would be delighted to hear from you either by telephone: +44 (0) 1280 820155 or email: international-office@buckingham.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/international/studymethods:
Buckingham is small and friendly and, with a great student:staff ratio we’ll get to know you as an individual.
Oxbridge-style teaching, in small seminar groups and tutorials, is the common method of teaching at Buckingham.
If you want to learn more about the style of teaching generally used in the UK and tips on how to study effectively, UKCISA have a guide especially written for the international student called ‘Study Methods in the UK’.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/international/overseas-trips:
The University of Buckingham’s International Office makes regular trips overseas, often accompanied by University academics.
We also attend many of the major international Higher Education fairs.
We will list any forthcoming events and visits to fairs below; if you would like to meet a member of the team, why not come along and see us!
Alternatively, you can contact our International Office for more information.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/international/contact:
The International Office may be contacted from Monday to Friday between the hours of 9am and 5pm (UK time).
The International Office The University of Buckingham Hunter Street Buckingham MK18 1EG United Kingdom
Telephone: +44 1280 820263 Email: international-office@buckingham.ac.uk
Prospective agents: please note that the university is currently not appointing any new agents until October 2024 .
If you would like to apply to become one of our agents please contact us then.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/life/library:
Current students, please use the Library SharePoint page .
The Library aims to provide a personalised, high-quality service to support the University’s teaching and research programmes and to encourage the development of creative and independent thinking.
Most students will have access to a free digital copy of their textbook accessed via their modules.
Ebooks are available via the Library catalogue.
Students have access to online journals and databases to support their studies such as EBSCO Business and Academic Source, JSTOR, Psychinfo and industry standard Law databases such as LEXIS and WESTLAW.
Full training is given as part of the students inductions.
The Franciscan Library holds all the core textbooks and reference books for Medicine, Law, Psychology, Mathematics and Computing.
We support the Faculty of Computing, Law and Psychology.
The Hunter Street Library supports the Faculty of Business, Humanities & Social Sciences.
If you are looking for books on Business and Accounting, Politics and Economics, History, History of Art and English Literature then Hunter Street will hold all your core texts and required reading.
Edward Legg bequeathed his collection of local history material to The University of Buckingham on his death.
The collection is currently based at the Franciscan Library
There are over 800 local history books covering topics from steam trains to Bletchley Park.
Journals and pre-1900 local history materials are available for reference use only at the Franciscan Library.
The Edward Legg collection is open Mon-Fri 09:00-17:00 Please call 01280 823267 for further details and to make an appointment.
For any enquiries please email library@buckingham.ac.uk or telephone 01280 820218 / 823267.
The Library Rules can be found in the University Handbook.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/life/library/authorship-plagiarism:
Respect for authorship and the cultivation of the highest possible standards in academic and scholarly writing are fundamental values of The University of Buckingham, as in all British universities.
The culture of personal, small-group teaching at Buckingham offers an ideal setting for such values to be shared.
We look forward to working with you throughout your period of study to ensure that you develop a full and nuanced understanding of best practice in academic writing and how to avoid plagiarism.
These pages represent only a fraction of the guidance that is offered.
Advice from staff on a one-to-one basis will always be available, and we hope you will seek it.
In the meantime, please make use of the resources we have created to assist you, via the links on the right.
As part of your induction into University life, you will also be required to complete an online examination of your understanding of our policy and procedures in this area, before submitting work for assessment.
Full details will be given with your joining instructions.
As further reading we also strongly recommend Referencing and Understanding Plagiarism by Kate Williams and Jude Carroll, and Richard Pears and Graham Shields’s Cite them Right: the Essential Referencing Guide ; both titles are readily available in the University Library .
Ask Librarians for guidance in using referencing software.
Zotero is a free and open-source reference management software to manage bibliographic data and related research materials.
Zotero collects all your research in a single, searchable interface.
You can add PDFs, images, audio and video files snapshots of web pages and much more
https://www.zotero.org/
Mendeley is a free reference manager and academic social network.
Make your own fully-searchable library in seconds, cite as you write, and read and annotate your PDFs on any device.
https://www.mendeley.com/
There is a basic referencing tool in Word under References, although it only includes a few referencing styles.
Use the online booking system to book a 1:1 appointment for academic support.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/life/services:
From academic support to careers and employability, the range of services we offer is second to none.
Here at The University of Buckingham, student support is at the centre of everything we do.
From our small-group teaching and emphasis on positive psychology, to our huge range of support services, our student’s happiness and wellbeing is our focus.
This is echoed by the fact that Buckingham is proud to have been top or near the top of the National Student Survey (NSS) in student satisfaction since 2006.
Find more information on our specific services below.
“The student support has helped me a lot at Buckingham.
It’s been so helpful and it’s made me really confident in myself and my ability to get the degree I want.”
There are plenty of chances to socialise with events and activities happening every week both on campus and further afield: like karaoke evenings, chilled out BBQs, themed parties, clubbing trips, and cultural days, all organised by our Students’ Union.
They also make sure that students’ interests are at the heart of University policy and decisions, communicating to the senior leadership team on your behalf.
The University’s Sport and Fitness programmes offer students the opportunity to participate in a wide variety of activities at both a recreational and competitive level.
Our Fitness Centre on Hunter Street is open from 6am to midnight, seven days a week, and is well equipped with weights, resistance and cardiovascular equipment.
We can help you develop the skills you need to support your academic performance, including research and writing skills.
Our Academic Skills team are available in Buckingham and Crewe, and they work closely with the University departments, personal tutors and the various schools of study.
Our Wellbeing, Skills and Diversity team offer personalised support to any student who may be having problems with university life or their mental or physical health.
We have various clinics and initiatives designed to promote health and wellbeing and we have a university doctor who holds an on-campus surgery during the week.
During your time at Buckingham the Careers and Employability Hub is here to help you plan and prepare for your future career.
With their strong links to industry and graduate recruiters, you will be able to develop the professional skills and experience to make you stand out from the crowd.
Our advisors can help you with interview practice, CV writing, and planning your next career steps.
As well as being a short walk from Buckingham town (with its many pubs, restaurants and tea houses), we have an on-site cafe in the Vinson Building and a restaurant in the Old Tanlaw Mill (OTM).
On warm days, our outdoor seating area alongside the river is a popular spot to lunch and study.
The University of Buckingham is committed to providing reliable and accessible resources to its students and staff as well as investing in the future.
The IT Services department provides, maintains and supports the University’s IT facilities and infrastructure.
Enjoy the quiet study spaces, breakout rooms and lounges at the two libraries on our Buckingham Campus.
There’s space to study, read, use University PCs, browse the shelves or carry out research.
We host a wide range of leading academic databases to provide you with the articles, data, cases and information you need to complete your assessments.
The Vinson Building on Hunter Street is home to the University Bookshop, selling everything from course books and stationery to University merchandise and local Buckingham products.
– All post, internal and external is delivered here and students can take their letters and packets there for posting.
The Post Room staff are also there to help with postal queries and they quickly become familiar with student names, so you can be assured of a smiling face and warm welcome.
Whichever language you are trying to learn, good language learning facilities will make a difference to your progression.
The Language Centre is housed in the spacious and newly renovated Chandos Road Building.
One of Registry’s main functions is the maintenance of all student records.
It is therefore essential that all information provided by you is up-to-date.
You must keep Registry informed of any changes in your registration details, which include: contact address, telephone number, and next of kin etc.
From hoodies to mugs to cufflinks, The Univeristy of Buckingham has plenty of mechandise for you to purchase to remember your time at the Univeristy.
Mechanidise is available to buy at the bookshop or online.
The Friends of the University are members of the local community that love to support our students and get involved with our activities.
There are lots of ways they can help support students during their time at Buckingham.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/student-life/university-facilities/academic-skills:
The Academic Skills Know-how (ASK) team provides academic skills strategies to support your studies at the University.
ASK specialises in the area of Academic Communication, including academic writing, critical thinking and presentation skills.
We work with students in all disciplines and at all levels of academic study, from Foundation to PhD students.
You may wish to consult ASK for a one-off session on, for example, revision techniques or book a series of appointments in order to develop your essay structure and build critical thinking into your work.
ASK offers an inclusive learning environment and supports students from a wide range of educational backgrounds.
We welcome students who have been away from education for a while, international students, and those who are looking for tools to become independent learners.
ASK offers you friendly, professional and confidential learning development during your studies.
It can help you:
ASK can support you with:
and much more!
ASK works with students in three ways:
One-to-one Tutorials
These confidential sessions last for 30 minutes and we will discuss your requirements when we first meet.
You can book a tutorial by using ASK’s online booking calendar .
You will be given the option of an online tutorial via Teams or a face-to-face meeting.
Workshops
Our weekly workshops take place in a relaxed environment to allow for an informal discussion.
We focus on key topics specifically requested by students and believe working in groups, sharing and tackling problems with others in a similar situation, can often be a highly effective way to address common difficulties.
We aim to provide the right balance of theory and practical examples with plenty of time for your questions too!
Current students can find details of the workshop programme on ASK’s pages on the Students’ Union website .
Drop-ins
Drop-ins are a very effective way of receiving support for all those last-minute problems that require a quick-fix solution.
The great thing about the University campus is that you are never more than 10 minutes away from a drop-in!
Current students can find time and location of the drop-ins on ASK’s pages on the Students’ Union website
“Thank you for helping me in overcoming the challenges that I faced … Without your help I would not have been able to successfully complete my LLB.” (Law student, 2021)
“Got my results back.
It was a 2:1.
Just wanted to thank you again for all your help and your patience!
Looking back over my scores there was a noticeable improvement in my grades as soon as I started getting help from you and I think it made a lot of difference in the end.” (Psychology student, 2021)
“Without your help, I would not have been able to make those improvements and I loved working with you.
You did not just help me with my academics but also you made my time at the university better.” (Business student, 2020)
“Thank you for all the help you gave me this year.
Sometimes words are not enough to describe someone’s feelings of gratitude and this is exactly how I feel, I simply have no words.
The appointments I had with you were crucial for me … because it was a quite challenging year for me but with your help, I did manage to overcome.
Thanks for giving me confidence and for teaching these academic skills … [T]hanks for your kindness and expertise and for making me feel understood and valued.” (Law student, 2020)
“Finding the academic skills 1:1 sessions was like finding a treasure …  With the help of the Academic Skills Tutor, my presenting skills became much better [and] I grew more confident …” (Business student, 2019)
For more information, please contact ASK at ask@buckingham.ac.uk
The Academic Skills Service at the University of Buckingham hosts a Writing Fellow from the Royal Literary Fund (RLF) in London.
The RLF is a charity which supports professional writers through a variety of schemes.
The RLF Fellowship scheme places experienced writers into higher education institutions to offer confidential one-to-one tutorials to undergraduate and postgraduate students on any aspect of writing and presentation, whether academic assessed and non-assessed work, exam writing or seminar presentation.
The RLF Fellow can offer help across the full range of academic disciplines.
The Fellow is available one day a week during term time and students make appointments by emailing the Fellow directly.
University of Buckingham students who are in the UK at the time of the consultation are entitled to sign up.
The role of the Fellow is external to the University and students can check their data privacy policy .
The RLF website provides more information about the Fellowship scheme.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/life/facilities/bookshop:
The University Bookshop is open to students and the public.
We sell a wide range of recommended texts for all academic subjects.
Outside of academic texts, we have a range of fiction and non-fiction, all recommended by us or our customers, as well as children’s books and gifts.
• Blue Dot Books are 50% off – this includes many children’s books and a selection of fiction and non-fiction
• Blind Date with a Book – a wrapped mystery book for just £5
• Next day ordering – most books can be ordered to arrive in the shop the following day
• Free gift-wrapping service
• Events – the bookshop works with the University to host guest speakers and run book signings
Varsity jackets, hoodies, sweatshirts, and joggers are available in store in a range of sizes and colours.
If we don’t have your size, we can order them in for you.
University Bookshop The University of Buckingham Hunter Street Buckingham MK18 1EG
Tel: +44 (0)1280  820365 Email: book.shop@buckingham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/student-life/university-facilities/careers-service:
The Careers and Employability Service supports our students as they prepare for the future.
This includes:
We offer one-to-one careers consultations, on-demand mock interviews, and an online hub of resources to support career preparation and job hunting.
Our popular workshops run every term and we work closely with academic faculties to tailor these to students’ needs.
Students also have the opportunity to interact with recruiters and professionals, including Buckingham alumni from around the world, at our guest speaker events.
We typically offer a mix of both virtual and on-campus activities throughout the year, giving students, employers and guest speakers the flexibility to engage remotely or in person.
We also support our graduates and alumni – see below for more details.
Log into Horizons to access our service.
We are proud to link with local, national and international organisations to help employers find fresh talent and to enrich the experience of our students.
You can get involved in:
If you are interested in participating in any of these initiatives, or learning more about them, please contact careers@buckingham.ac.uk .
We can advertise your vacancies for free.
This includes casual part-time work for students and full-time graduate employment.
Please visit careers.buckingham.ac.uk , register with us to create an employer account and then post your vacancies.
B-Enterprising is a micro-internship scheme designed and run by the Careers and Employability Service.
Our aim is to provide you with access to highly motivated students who will fulfil your short-term project needs, bringing fresh ideas and perspectives to your business.
In turn, you will be providing students with meaningful work experience.
Projects will be undertaken on a part-time, flexible basis to fit around the student’s studies.
For more information, see our Employer Handbook and contact b-enterprising@buckingham.ac.uk .
Did you know that you may still receive support from the Careers and Employability Service long after you have finished studying at The University of Buckingham?
All our alumni have free unlimited access to our online careers portal, Horizons .
Simply select ‘Alumni sign in and registration’ to create your alumni account in order to:
Appointments with a careers adviser are 30 minutes long and may be held over the phone, by video call, or even in person if you are still local to Buckingham.
Whether you are seeking employment and need support with applications, would like a mock interview, or want some coaching to help you consider your future career path, we would be happy to help.
Up to two appointments with a careers adviser may be booked by alumni in a 12 month period.
If you need help accessing Horizons please contact us at careers@buckingham.ac.uk .
Add your voice to the thousands of graduates who complete the annual Graduate Outcomes survey.
The survey takes under 10 minutes to complete, and gives you a voice that provides vital data for the University and prospective students.
Make your voice count – find out more.
The University of Buckingham has partnered with Student Circus, a job-search platform for international students and graduates that provides up-to-date job listings from employers who will sponsor your Skilled Worker Visa in the UK.
Email careers@buckingham.ac.uk to request your unique alumni activation link, giving you unlimited access to Student Circus as a graduate of The University of Buckingham.
We are delighted to partner with Bright Network, whose mission is to connect ambitious young people from all backgrounds with the opportunities, advice and insights to get ahead in their careers.
With 300+ leading partner employers and 280,000+ members already on board, Bright Network is future-proofing the workforce, empowering members with access to brilliant opportunities at global companies, ensuring that you, as the next generation, find the future that you deserve.
Join the Bright Network.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/student-life/university-facilities/friends-of-the-university:
There are lots of ways they can help support you during your time at Buckingham, such as:
If you are interested in taking part in any of these activities, please email fubsecr@gmail.com .
Interested in becoming a Friend?
Membership can offer the following benefits:
If you wish to find out more about the Friends, and possibly become a member, do have a look at the Friends website: http://www.friendsuob.uk/

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/life/it-services:
The IT Services Helpdesk is the first point of contact for all requests and queries related to the University’s IT facilities.
This friendly team is always happy to welcome and support our users, whether they are using specialist equipment or simply having trouble checking their email.
Norton House from Hunter Street – entrance is via the driveway, at the right of the picture
The Helpdesk is located in Norton House, Hunter Street ( view map ).
A ramp is available for wheelchair access and reserved disabled parking marked out.
The Helpdesk is open weekdays 09:00 to 17:00.
Below are a few helpful resources:

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/life/facilities/registry:
Registry’s main functions are:
Please contact Registry if you require any assistance with these items.
Examination results are released by Registry following examination board meetings.
Emails and letters are sent to students.
When you graduate, you will receive a Graduation Certificate showing your result.
Make sure you keep this safe, as a replacement costs £50 and is issued at the discretion of the Registry Manager.
Letters you can request from Registry include
Please give at least three working days notice if you require a letter.
When you have completed your studies, Registry will send you your results with an academic transcript.
This shows all the marks obtained for all the modules throughout your course.
Once you have left the university, you can request more copies of your transcript for applications for jobs, or other universities.
These are currently priced at £10 for the first copy and £5 for any additional copies requested in the same transaction.
There are additional costs for faxing and sending by courier.
Registry can provide you with a new uCard if yours becomes lost or damaged.
The card costs £10 to replace, so keep it safe.
We are working with Hedd Verifications and now offer an online verification service for employers to check University of Buckingham awards.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/life/communications:
The Student Post Room is so well-frequented that it has become a focal point for students, for meeting and socialising – the place where they come in the morning to collect their mail and catch up on the day’s news.
Opening Hours: Monday – Friday,  9.00 am – 5.00 pm
Location: We are located on Hunter Street in Nortons House, the entrance is through the main Red Door and is swipe access only.
Students will need to show their Uni ID card to collect any post.
We are unable to accept any fresh food or perishable items in the postroom but can sign for any other deliveries on your behalf.
All letter post, internal and external is delivered here and students can take their letters and packets there for posting.
Post to students should be addressed as follows:
<Student Name> Student Post Room The University of Buckingham Hunter Street Buckingham MK18 1EG United Kingdom
Deliveries cannot be made to accommodation addresses so please make sure you use the above address.
Also, please use the same name that is on your Student UCard.
Microsoft Outlook is the email program supplied in student computer rooms.
This is an easy to use, fully featured client that allows you to send and receive both internal and external email.
Additionally, you can access your University email account from anywhere in the world with an Internet connection using Outlook Web Access .
So there’s no excuse for not keeping in touch!

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/life/accommodation/dining:
There are plenty of self-catering dining options for our students living on campus.
Throughout the day, there are hot and cold snacks available, speciality teas and coffees and a wide range of cold drinks to eat in or to take away.
At lunchtime we serve a variety of freshly-made meat, vegetarian and pasta dishes.
There are a number of Fast Food Menus to choose from where items are cooked to order and can take approximately 8 to 10 minutes.
If you are in a hurry you can choose from a variety of freshly made sandwiches and wraps, home-made cakes, or the Deli Bar.
The Refectory is open until 17:30 Mondays to Friday in term time.
There are “Meal Deals” and “Special Offers” available on a regular basis.
Out of hours, there are vending machines dotted around the campus.
And, if you fancy something to remind you of home, just bring in a recipe and the catering staff will be delighted to put it on the menu!
We have self-catering dining options at our Verney Park campus too.
CaféDirect at Verney Park serves freshly ground fair-trade coffee and a wide range of other fair-trade products which are available to eat in or take away.
Items for sale include cakes, Danish pastries, breakfast rolls, paninis, pane tascas, tostatos, meat and vegetarian pies (hot and ready to eat in minutes!), fresh sandwiches, salads, fruit, soft drinks and much more.
Monday – Friday 08:00 – 16:00 (hot food served 10:00 – 14:30)
Throughout the year, our speciality theme days are popular and fun.
We try to cater for our many nationalities so themes are very often cultural in flavour, with authentic menus from the world’s cuisine.
Themes have included Mexican Day, Mardi Gras and Asian Wraps.
Daytime and evening BBQs are often held throughout the summer, some alongside events in The Bar, such as our Calypso barbecue with steel band.
We also cater for special University events & for the SU Societies.
For example, the Law Society’s hot Indian buffet and the Osaka students’ oriental buffet.
You can find the Bar, more commonly known as the OTM in Tanlaw Mill.
A hive of activity, day and evening, full of special deals on drinks, just for students of Buckingham University.
You’ll come here to meet up with friends, make new ones, enjoy one of the many themed nights running all week long, dance the night away or kick back in the comfortable booths while enjoying one of the many Cocktails and Mocktails on offer.
Look out for the special nights on Wednesday’s and Friday’s when the societies pump out special themed parties for the student population.
Monday – Saturday: 11:00 – 23:00 (Extended to 2am / 4am on special nights) Sunday: 11:00 – 22:30

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/student-life/wellbeing-skills-diversity:
The Wellbeing, Skills and Diversity department offers person-centred wellbeing support to students who are experiencing difficulties with university life.
For example, a student may have health concerns or be experiencing emotional difficulties.
They may need to develop their academic skills or they could be facing disability-related barriers to learning.
We want to make a positive difference to students’ health and wellbeing and endeavour to make their time here successful.
The Wellbeing, Skills & Diversity team works closely with students, Faculties and other departments around the university to ensure all students have the best chance to complete their studies successfully.
In order for us to help students maximise their potential while they are at university, we encourage them to tell us about anything that adversely affects their studies.
The Wellbeing, Skills & Diversity department promotes students’ health and wellbeing as much as possible.
We run various awareness campaigns and initiatives designed to encourage students to adopt healthy lifestyle choices in line with NHS guidelines.
Learn more about how we deliver our support services and meet the team.
Phone: +44(0)1280 820200
Email: wellbeingskillsanddiversity@buckingham.ac.uk
For more details about our opening hours, location on campus as well as our email and phone number visit the Wellbeing, Skills and Diversity contact page.
Students based in Crewe should note that we are a separate service from Apollo Buckingham Health Science Campus (ABHSC) which manages some facilities on the Crewe campus.
How to report concerns confidentially for students and staff .
Find out more about Physical Wellbeing.
Find out more about Social and Cultural Wellbeing.
Find out more about Intellectual and Academic Wellbeing.
Find out more about Environmental Wellbeing.
Financial Wellbeing support and guidance.
Occupational Wellbeing support and guidance.
Find out more about Psychological, Emotional and Mental Wellbeing support and guidance.
Applying for university is an exciting time, marking an important new phase in a young person’s life.
We’ve brought together some key information to help you support them through the process.
More information for Parents, Carers and Sponsors
If someone is in danger or a crime is being committed, phone 999 to contact police, ambulance or fire services.
More emergency contacts, including University of Buckingham Security Services.
Want to get in touch with the Wellbeing, Skills and Diversity Team?
Find out our opening hours, location on campus as well as our email and phone number.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/life/accommodation:
All full-time students can apply for our accommodation.
We guarantee on-campus accommodation for your first year provided you meet the application deadlines.
We believe by choosing our on-campus student accommodation, it will enable you to make lifelong friends straight away and feel at home, right from the beginning, in the heart of our student community.
You can see our full range of accommodation below in the section ‘ Inside our accommodation ‘.
We’ve signed up and abide by The Student Accommodation Code .
The code has been designed to protect your rights to safe, good quality accommodation, and to make sure you get the best out of your time living in our residences.
We can guarantee you on-campus accommodation for your first year, provided that you apply by the relevant accommodation application deadline.
The application portal is now open.
Room offers will start Monday 12 May 2025 for Monday 7 July start date.
The application portal opens Tuesday 22 April.
Room offers will start Monday 18 August for Monday 22 September start date.
The application deadline for a guaranteed room on campus is Friday 12 September 2025 .
The application portal opens Friday 4 July.
Room offers will start on Monday 10 November 2025 for Monday 12 January 2026 start date.
The application deadline for a guaranteed room on campus for either January intakes is Friday 12 December 2025.
If you are applying for a Visa, you do not need to wait for your room offer as you should use The University of Buckingham address for your application.
Before you make your application, we strongly recommend that you read all the campus and room descriptions below, so that you can see all the different types and styles of accommodation.
We also advise you to read the Terms and Conditions that will be attached to your accommodation licence and the FAQs , particularly those relating to applying for accommodation and arriving at university.
This will ensure that you fully understand the application process, that you appreciate the expectations that we will have for you once you arrive on campus and also your obligations to the University and to your housemates.
Apply for accommodation ❯
Please contact the Accommodation Office .
Take a good look at what we have to offer you.
Read our Service Level Statement document here
The Hunter Street campus is located on a beautiful site, at the heart of the University, and is the ideal place to live if you are a new student wanting to make the most of the student experience.
This is where it is all happening!
The Tanlaw Mill (OTM) is not only home to the Students Union, the bar and the gym, but it is where you go for your breakfast, lunch and dinner, all at a reasonable price.
There is also a café in our thriving new Vinson Building.
Grab a drink and snack and chill on the comfy seating with your friends.
Hunter Street offers plenty of free car parking and a large bicycle storage rack.
There is a laundrette situated in Hailsham House, accessible to all students.
The town centre is less than a 10 minute walk away and contains a good mix of shops.
The following departments are located on Hunter Street – Accounting, Business, Economics, Communications, Marketing, Journalism, English, Languages, History, Life Sciences, Politics, International Studies and Medicine.
Ensuite  rooms
Accommodation for couples.
Self-contained & Standard rooms
Standard rooms
Ensuite & Standard rooms
Ensuite rooms
Our newest campus is located on a residential housing estate, just off the Moreton Road in Buckingham.
The University bought a block of flats and several houses when the estate was being built.
This accommodation would suit more mature students, Post Graduates, or those of you who appreciate the quieter things in life.
It is a little bit further away – a 15 minute walk to the town centre, a 25 minute walk to the Hunter Street campus.
However the properties are very nice and have a modern feeling about them.
The kitchens all have washing machines and there are clothes lines in the gardens.
Car parking is on the side of the road; bicycles can be kept in the gardens.
Ensuite & standard rooms
Our Mount Pleasant Campus offers over 50 rooms for our students.A great place to live and study, Mount Pleasant boasts large, open study spaces, as well as a quiet study space for students to focus.
In addition to convenient weekly bathroom cleans and term time catering, the campus also hosts a gym, pool and bar.
Offering over 50 rooms.
The Verney Park campus is located in Buckingham, and it will take you about 10 minutes to walk to the Hunter Street campus.
There is a Leisure Centre just across the road and large Tesco and Lidl supermarkets about a 5 minute walk away and Aldi is a 15 minute walk.
Buckingham town centre, in the other direction, is a 10 minute walk away.
There is plenty of free car parking and some storage for bicycles.
There is a laundrette situated in the Franciscan building, accessible to all students.
Although the University’s main facilities are located on Hunter Street there is a library and a café inside the Franciscan building.
The following schools are based here – Applied Computing, Law and Psychology.
Standard rooms  *RECENTLY REFURBISHED  4FT BEDS*
Self-contained, ensuite & standard rooms

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/life/accommodation/livingon:
Students are required to live in or around Buckingham during term time and, unlike some universities, we are able to guarantee accommodation for all new students for their first four terms of study (providing you have booked and paid for your accommodation within the required timescale).
Our beautiful university is small enough for everything to be within walking distance.
Study and lecture rooms, the library, computers, social facilities and accommodation are all just a short walk from each other.
Our campus is also very safe, ranked within the Top 15 Safest Campuses in the UK (The Complete University Guide, 2023).

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/life/accommodation/livingon/costis:
Our accommodation fees are based on weekly rates and are payable on or before the first day of each term.
The amounts that you need to pay will be detailed on your room offer.
All students who reside in our accommodation are required to pay a £700 accommodation security bond.
This is returned to you when you move out of our accommodation (minus any damage charges or outstanding fees).
If you are new to the University, your security bond or the first terms rent needs to be paid within 10 days of receiving your room offer in order to confirm your booking.
Both of these amounts must be paid before you can collect your keys.
Please make these payments via our accommodation on-line portal .
Our prices are inclusive of wi-fi, contents insurance, cleaning of communal areas, utilities and heating.
(Our heating is switched off during the summer months.)
Meals are not included.
All of our accommodation is self-catering.
All students have the opportunity to use the kitchen facilities as rents do not include meals.
On each campus catering facilities are available.
The Refectory is at the Hunter Street campus and there is a smaller coffee shop at Verney Park, both serving drinks and hot and cold food.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/life/accommodation/livingon/houseke:
Our Domestic Services team are busy each week, keeping kitchens, bathrooms, showers, toilets and all communal areas clean.
These are cleaned daily, Monday to Friday.
Students are responsible for keeping their own rooms and communal areas clean and tidy.
Domestic Services can also advise on storage of foods.
Domestic Services The University of Buckingham Hunter Street Buckingham MK18 1EG United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)1280 820353 Email: accommodation@buckingham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/life/accommodation/livingon/faq:
The following information should answer any questions you may have about University of Buckingham student accommodation.
If you do need any further help, please get in touch with our Accommodation Office .
Contact the Accommodation Office

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/life/insurance:
Howden for Students, the new name for My Endsleigh.
Your contents are insured!
Don’t forget to register with Howden for Students to access your cover.
Did you know your belongings are insured while you’re staying with us?
Find out what is and what isn’t covered, by checking your cover online through the Howden for Students app.
To access your cover, please register with the Howden for Students app .
It’s easy to underestimate the value of your possessions.
We’re not just talking about your laptop and phone, but items such as your clothes, hairdryers, and other gadgets, like Fitbits, and smart watches can all add up.
The great news is, through our insurance partner, Howden, we provide contents insurance for all the students who live with us, so your belongings are covered while they’re in your accommodation.
Once you’ve registered with Howden’s student app, you can instantly access your cover details and policy documents, as well as contact the claims team at any time.
Howden for Students is packed with loads of useful products and information to help you through your time at uni, including:
Visit the app to find out more.
Log in to Howden for Students

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/life/accommodation/livingout:
Buckingham town and the surrounding villages provide a range of accommodation, from cosy cottages to modern flats.
Please make sure you organise your accommodation before you arrive at the University as we don’t, unfortunately, have rooms for temporary stays while you look for private accommodation.
We can help you by supplying:
Please contact us for further details on any of the above.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/life/accommodation/advice:
There are many different types of housing agreements, but the most usual is a written shorthold tenancy for at least 6 months.
Whatever agreement you are offered, make sure that you know what you are committing yourself to before signing any contract.
Do not be rushed into signing or handing over money if there is anything you are concerned about or do not understand.
Remember, you are entirely responsible for any signed agreement with the landlord / landlady.
See also: Living on campus See also: Wellbeing, Skills and Diversity

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/life/accommodation/visitor:
Prospective students, as well as alumni, who are visiting the University and would like overnight accommodation should contact the Accommodation Office for advice and further details.
We also have a small number of rooms available in our staff house for visiting academics and staff.
Our recently acquired Mount Pleasant Campus offers accommodation for visitors, visiting academics and staff.
Guests would have full use of the onsite swimming pool and sauna included in their stay (subject to opening times).
Bed and Breakfast packages are available (conditions apply).
Rates for accommodation are as follows:
Bed & breakfast and hotel accommodation in Buckingham and the surrounding villages is plentiful, the tourist information site, Discover Buckingham , has a list of places to stay in the area.
Alternatively, visit Trip Advisor for a range of hotels and B&Bs.
Please note, at certain times of the year rooms are scarce, particularly during the British Grand Prix at nearby Silverstone.
Have a question about Buckingham Campus accommodation?
Please contact the Accommodation Office for details.
If you are visiting the Crewe campus please check Visit Cheshire for accommodation options in the surrounding area .

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/life/accommodation/contact:
Tel: +44 (0)1280 820351 Email: accommodation@buckingham.ac.uk
You are welcome to contact the team Monday to Friday, 8.30am to 4.30pm, excluding weekends and public holidays.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/student-life/the-students-union:
The SU supports you throughout your time with us, from organising fun ways to socialise and make friends, to making sure your voice is heard by the University.
Visit the SU website here
We represent you.
This means that we make sure students’ interests are at the heart of University policy and decisions.
We communicate to the senior leadership team on your behalf and feedback our work to you.
That way, you can hold us accountable and make sure we honour your votes.
We want to make sure that we give you opportunities to shape your own student experience.
This means supporting students in creating clubs and societies, as well as delivering a range of activities, and training student leaders.
We think it's important to support students in every positive way possible, and that means running campaigns and raising awareness about issues that matter.
We do not attempt to have all the answers, but we are a friendly bunch, and if additional support is needed, we will always aim to signpost you to such sources of support in the wider Student Experience team.
“Within the OTM I experienced great parties led by the Students’ Union, along with consistent activities hosted by different societies, allowing me to create a brilliant work-life balance and have so many fond memories.”
We have a wide range of clubs and societies that you can join when you start at Buckingham.
Take a look and find something that suits you.
Get to know your Students’ Union!
Find out more about the SU, the staff and student executives.
Find out what's coming up in the Students' Union.
No question is too big or too small – get in touch and we will be happy to help.
Keep up to do date with all things SU by reading our latest news.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/research:
The University of Buckingham is home not only to some of the most well-known research-active academics in their fields but also to dozens of keen research students reading for postgraduate degrees in their specialist areas.
From molecular and genetic research into diabetes to the psychological importance of music and the effects of government proposals on the state and independent education, research underpins the lives of many of our academics here at the University.
We have specialist research groups set up in different fields, as well as independent research published by solo academics following their own interests.
You may also find it useful to visit our:
Grounded in our ethos of intellectual independence and mentorship, the Research Environment Document (RED) outlines how Buckingham provides a distinctive space for researchers to flourish across disciplines and career stages.
The Research Environment Document (RED) describes and showcases the research culture, infrastructure, support systems, and overall research environment one can expect at the University of Buckingham.
The document serves staff, students, collaborator, funding bodies and other external stakeholders who have interest in the research activities and the overall environment at The University of Buckingham.
Research Environment Document (PDF)
Applicants may apply to study (full-time or part-time) research degrees remotely.
Applicants are advised to discuss a schedule of attendance and engagement with their potential supervisor.
Applicants wishing to study with the university remotely (from overseas) may require a visa to visit, depending on what is agreed on a case-by-case basis.
Students studying remotely from overseas will have access to online electronic resources.
If you would like to support the research that we do at Buckingham, why not become a Friend of the University or donate to the UB Foundation?

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/about/handbooks/research-degrees-handbook:
This Research Degrees handbook is for use by postgraduate research students and staff involved in delivery research provision.
It covers regulations for the award of research degrees, and arrangements for postgraduate research students and their supervisors relating to admissions, supervision, progress monitoring, annual review, student feedback, external examining, vivas, and appeals.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/research/conference-papers-and-debates:
Our academics are frequently invited to talk at conferences or debates.
Here are some of the events they have attended (in chronological order, with the most recent first):
Dr Patricia Covarrubia was invited by the European Intellectual Property Teacher’s Network (supported by the European patent Office and European Union Intellectual Property Office) to talk in the Annual Conference, this time in Copenhagen, on “Diversity on IP: Assessing Different Strengths” ( 06 October 2023).
Dr Max Wallis, Professor Chandra Wickramasinghe and Dr Steve Coulson of the Buckingham Centre for Astrobiology gave a paper at RAS NAM2017 National Astronomy Meeting at the University of Hull: “Early Life Traces in the Hadean – compatibility with post-Accretion Bombardment” (4 July 2017).
Dr Nicholas Cambridge gave a Gresham College lecture: “From Mr Pickwick to Tiny Tim – Charles Dickens and Medicine” (30 May 2017).
Dr Barbara Lasic spoke on “‘Une exquise expression artistique’: Spectacularising the Rococo at the 1935 Exhibition of Eighteenth-Century French Art in Copenhagen” at The Rococo in Scandinavia Conference, Palais Thott, Copenhagen (30 May 2017).
Dr Patricia Covarrubia was invited by the Enterprise Europe Network and the Portuguese Intellectual Property Office to provide a training session in Porto on “The importance of IP in internationalization strategies: The case of Latin America” (4 May 2017).
Dr Sarah Sargent presented a paper on “Horses and Intangible Cultural Heritage: Identity, Community and Conflict” on 11 April 2017 at the symposium on Horses, Law and Society: Past, Present and Future, hosted by De Montfort University (Leicester) and of which she was a co-convener.
Dr Philip Fine and Dr Kathryn Friedlander, K.J.
gave a presentation on “The grounded expertise components approach: A new methodology for investigating expertise” at the BPS Cognitive Section Annual Conference in Barcelona on 31 Aug-2 Sep 2016, and a symposium presentation “‘The penny drops’ – Insight moments in cryptic crossword solving” in the Creative Problem Solving and Insight symposium at the conference.
Dr Patricia Covarrubia was invited to participate in the UK Trade & Investment Roadshow in Reading on 18 May 2016.
She provided guidance and advice as an Intellectual Property expert and gave a presentation together with the UK Intellectual Property Office on why Intellectual Property is relevant and important to SMEs.
Read more .
Professor Sabah Jassim and two Applied Computing research students attended the SPIE Defense + Commercial Sensing (formerly DSS) symposium in Baltimore in April 2016.
Professor Jassim is a co-chair of the Mobile Multimedia / Image Processing, Security, and Applications conference of this symposium that focuses on advanced research in defence and commercial sensing.
The team presented 4 publications that covered research into machine learning, image processing and bio-medical pattern recognition.
Dr Sarah Sargent presented a paper on 18 March 2016 as an invited presenter at the Heirs to Luhmann Workshops: Vulnerability Across Bodies and Systems , at the University of Westminster.
Dr Sargent’s paper was titled “The Vulnerability of Native Title: A Systems Theory Analysis”.
On 22 April she was an invited presenter at the University of Lincoln’s conference on the theme of Responsibility to Protect, Evaluating the Impact of R2P—10 Years On, An Idea Whose Time Has Come and Gone?
, with her paper entitled “Explaining R2P’s Ineffectiveness: International Norms and Domestic Salience.” At the Socio-Legal Scholars Association (SLSA) conference held at Lancaster University on 5-7 April she presented four papers in different streams.
Dr Julian Richards participated in a one-to-one debate with Shami Chakrabarti, Director of Liberty, at the University of Essex on 20 January 2016.
The debate was part of the university’s “Think” programme of public policy debates, and was entitled “Nothing to hide, nothing to fear: the balance between surveillance and privacy”.
Dr Sarah Sargent made a presentation on 3 December 2015 as part of the  Aston Law Group Research Seminar Series at Aston University, Birmingham.
She spoke on the subject of “What’s in a name?
The contested meaning of free, prior and informed consent in international financial law and indigenous rights”.
Her presentation was based on her recently published book chapter of the same name, published in Culture and International Economic Law (ed.
Valentina Vadi and Bruno de Witte, Routledge, 2015).
Professor Susan Edwards took part in a debate on “Rape culture: menace or myth?” in the 2015 Battle of Ideas at the Barbican (18 October 2015).
Professor Anthony Glees spoke at a conference on Extremism and Higher Education at the Institute of Advanced Study at the University of London and debated legislation and freedom of speech at the University of Cambridge’s ‘Festival of Ideas’ (October 2015).
Dr Adriano Aymonino spoke at the Georgian Group’s symposium on Robert Adam and His Brothers (23-24 September 2015).
His paper was entitled “Robert Adam and the birth of the ‘true style of antique decoration’: the interiors at Kedleston Hall and their antiquarian sources”.
Read more.
Dr Pete Orford delivered a keynote address on 18 September 2015 at the Charles Dickens Museum, London, as part of the Dickens and Drama Symposium, with a rare staging of Charles Dickens’ play Is She His Wife?
Dr Adriano Aymonino was co-organiser of a conference at the Courtauld Institute of Art on 14 September 2015: Artists & the Classical Ideal: from Workshop to Humanity .
He gave a paper at the conference on “The Antique and the Teaching of Art from the Workshop to the Academy”.
Dr Sarah Sargent presented a paper on 1 April 2015 in the Art, Culture and Heritage Stream of the annual Socio-Legal Scholars Association (SLSA) conference, hosted this year by the University of Warwick.
Her paper was entitled “The Horse Culture of “Cowboys and Indians”: Cultural Heritage, Stereotypes and Safeguarding”.
She was also the stream convener for the Indigenous and Minority Rights Stream, and chaired 2 panels of presentations on 2 April.
Dr Adriano Aymonino and Jonathan Yarker (Lowell Libson) gave a paper on “Theory and practice of art in France and Britain in the long 18th century” on 28 February 2015 as part of View , A Festival of Art History, at the Institut Français, London.
Dr Aymonino spoke at the William Shipley Group Symposium on Drawing: A Pre-eminent Skill (27 March) on “The Antique in British workshops and academies before the foundation of the Royal Academy: theory and practice”.
Dr Barbara Lasic spoke on “The evolution and dissemination of draped ‘tent rooms’ in France, 1770-1840″ at the Decorative Arts and Phenomenology Conference (Kellogg College, University of Oxford, 4 December 2014.) and on “De Bons Citoyens: John and Josephine Bowes’ collecting of French revolutionary ephemera” in the  History of Collecting and Displays Seminar Series (Institute of Historical Research, Senate House, London, 2 February 2015).
Dr Philip Fine attended the joint ICMPC-APSCOM 2014, held in Seoul, South Korea.
This is the International Symposium on Performance Science hosted by the Asia-Pacific Society for the Cognitive Sciences of Music.
He gave two oral presentations and one poster presentation there.
Dr Sarah Sargent was invited to speak at the Stanford Archaeology Centre, at Stanford University, California on 28 May 2014.
She spoke on the topic of “The Horse Culture of the American Indians: Past, Present and Future”, considering legal aspects of preservation of intangible cultural heritage and international human rights.
Mr Nigel Adams was invited to give a Best Practice Paper about his experience developing and running the Business Enterprise programme at the 9th EFMD Entrepreneurship Education Conference, Babson College, Boston, USA, on 24 February 2014.
On 25 February he took part in a Westminster Higher Education Forum debate with Rt Hon.
the Lord Young and others: Supporting student and graduate enterprise .
He also gave a paper at the Association of Business Schools’ Marketing Business and Management Education conference (27-28 February)
Dr Sarah Sargent presented a paper on the protection of the rights of minority and indigenous children in intercountry adoption at the University of London, at the UK Network on Minority Groups and Human Rights Annual Conference on 28 October 2013.
On 12 December she was invited to speak at a round table discussion hosted by Minority Rights Group International at the University of London: Reducing inequalities in minority and indigenous health: Rights, participation and the post-MDG framework .
Dr Sargent spoke on issues of healthcare and healthcare access for minority children.
Professor John Drew gave a paper to the Central Branch of the international Dickens Fellowship in Bloomsbury, London, on the Dickens Journals Online Project (19 September 2013).
Dr Nick Cambridge , Honorary Research Fellow in Humanities and the History of Medicine, gave a paper to the 25th Congress of the British Society for the History of Medicine (Canterbury, 29-31 August 2013), on the topic “From Great Ormond Street Hospital to the Tooting Cholera Disaster: Charles Dickens and Medicine”.
Professor John Drew and Research Fellows Dr Tony Williams and Dr Nick Cambridge presented papers on 9 July 2013 at the Association of Medical Humanities Global Health Humanities conference in Aberdeen.
Professor Drew and Dr Williams also gave lectures in the evening at the Sir Duncan Rice Library, University of Aberdeen, where the English and Digital Media Department’s ‘Charles Dickens and the Mid-Victorian Press’ travelling exhibition is on display until 24 August.
Professor Drew also gave a paper entitled “Is there a Digital ‘Cheap Edition’?” at the Institute of English Studies’ Digital Victorians seminar at Senate House, University of London, on 29 June.
Dr Sarah Sargent gave a presentation at a conference hosted by Maastricht University on Culture and International Economic Law (20 June 2013): “What’s in a Name?
The Contested Meaning of Free, Prior and Informed Consent in International Financial Law and Indigenous Rights.”
Professor Anthony Glees represented BUCSIS at the Ninth Annual Conference of the International  Association for Intelligence Education (IAFIE) meeting at El Paso University in Texas (20-23 May 2013), giving talks on the work that BUCSIS does as well as on the current and future challenges facing intelligence education and training in the UK.
In June Anthony Glees attended the European Ideas Network summer conference in Porto, Portugal, where he spoke on security policy and in July he gave a talk at Wilton Park, the Foreign Office conference centre in Sussex, to the British German Forum on the future of Europe and on a similar theme to the European Academy in London.
Dr Julian Richards represented BUCSIS at the annual convention of the International Studies Association (ISA), in San Francisco (3-6 April 2013).
He delivered papers on links between intelligence analysis and cognitive psychology; on the training and professionalisation of intelligence analysts; and acted as a discussant on a panel concerning risk management strategies.
Dr Valentina Kostadinova presented a paper called “Saudi-EU Relations: Recent Impediments, Current Trends and Future Options” at the Geography Department Seminar, King Saud University, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, 12 March 2013.
She gave a paper entitled “What is the Status of the EU-GCC Relationship?” at a workshop in Doha organised by Qatar University’s Gulf Research Centre and the Institute for European Studies at Vrije Universiteit Brussels, Promoting an EU-GCC Dialogue on Foreign Policy Issues , on 29-30 April 2013.
Dr Sarah Sargent was invited to give a presentation in one of a series of seminars that are part of the David Price Memorial Seminar Series: Faith, Belief and Healthcare Law.
She spoke at a seminar whose theme was The Influence of Faith and Belief on the Formulation, Content and Operation of Health Law in the United Kingdom , held 29-30 April 2013  at Nottingham Trent University.
Dr Sargent’s paper “Traditions and Challenges: Healthcare for Indigenous and Minority Children in the 21 st century” focused on the need for health care delivery to develop an integrative approach that is cognisant of differing cultural meanings and contexts of health and health care.
Dr Sargent gave a presentation on 24 March 2013  as part of the Maastricht University seminar on Art and Heritage Dispute.
She was invited to be part of the opening panel of speakers.
Her presentation focused on elements of intangible cultural heritage and dispute resolution mechanisms through an examination of the horse culture of the indigenous peoples of the American Plains.
She examined dispute resolution mechanisms of the Inter-American system of human rights and the UN system of human rights.
Dr Sargent also gave a paper entitled “Saving Pe Sla: Sustainable Self-determination and Indigenous Activism in a post-UNDRIP World” at the Socio-Legal Studies Association (SLSA) annual conference at York (26-28 March 2013) and chaired panels in the Indigenous and Minority Rights stream.
Dr Francis Grimal was discussant at the International Law Association’s British Branch on Nuclear Weapons, Non-Proliferation and Contemporary International Law ‘Round Table 3’ on International Law, Nuclear Energy, and Nuclear Weapons in London, 15 February 2013.
Professor Susan Edwards presented a paper to the Annual Conference of the Association of Sri Lankan Lawyers UK on Sunday 28 October 2012 at Manor House, London.
The paper was entitled “The regulation of religious symbols in the workplace”.
Dr Sarah Sargent was a participant at a round table hosted by Baroness Lola Young of Hornsby and organised by the NSPCC on 16 October 2012 in London.
The round table discussed the merits of proposed legislative changes to remove the current  requirement that due consideration should be given to a child’s cultural and ethnic background in the adoption process.
Dr Sargent’s recent research on inter-racial adoption laws published in the Denning Law Journal in 2011 was cited in the briefing paper prepared for the round table.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/research/ceer:
The Centre for Education and Employment Research aims to speak to those who make education happen – the policy makers and practitioners.
Its findings are published in books, reports and articles.
Many are covered in news items and Centre staff are often asked to comment on the issues of the day.
The Centre has been directed since its inception by Professor Alan Smithers and one of its first members was Dr Pamela Robinson who is now Deputy Director.
At one time they acted as research managers to a large team of researchers and research students.
But it was found that educational research is as much art as science and not everyone, no matter how well qualified, is capable of it.
The core team, therefore, conduct all the research themselves, hiring help as necessary.
They are able to call on the support of Mandy Bungey, an IT specialist, and a team of 20 interviewers and clerical assistants.
Research assistants and students are appointed for particular projects.
CEER has attracted grants from a wide range of sources enabling it to take an independent stance in a field where the narrative is often driven by what people want to believe rather than what is, in fact, the case.
Also in this section:
Information about CEER can also be found at www.alansmithers.com

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/pg-medicine-allied-health/institute-for-biomedical-and-biosciences-research:
The Institute for Biomedical and Biosciences Research (IBBR) is an internationally recognised research group with a track record in drug discovery, including beta3-adrenoceptor agonists for obesity, orexin and MCH-antagonists, and the insulin sensitiser drug rosiglitazone.
Our focus is encompassed by 3 research themes, which highlight our combined basic research, drug discovery and clinical expertise.
The aim of our pre-clinical research is to inform drug development and enhance underlying biological understanding.
As part of The University of Buckingham Medical School and our long-standing academic, clinical and pharmaceutical collaborations we are translating our key research themes into clinical studies and ultimately therapeutics.
Professor Mike Cawthorne
The Institute for Biomedical and Biosciences Research (IBBR), formerly the Buckingham Institute for Translational Medicine (BITM), is based within the Clore Laboratory.
The Clore Lab was founded in 1986 by distinguished biochemist Professor Anne Beloff-Chain, with funds from the Clore Foundation.
Initially multi-disciplined biology research including obesity/diabetes, plant cell culture and biology.
In 1991, Professor Mike Cawthorne ran the research group on a part-time basis, and from 1994, He led BITM until his death in 2015.
Mike orientated the Lab interests towards diabetes and obesity research with funds from industry and private Foundations.
He was awarded the 2001 Society for Medicines Research award for drug discovery in recognition of his work on the discovery of rosiglitazone.
Our research programme brings together expertise from across many subject areas in the biomedical sciences to provide you with training in several key areas of current research interest.
The MSc by Research in Biomedical Science programme focuses on experimental science and a research-informed dissertation.
It will provide you with practical laboratory-based experience with access to specialist techniques in state-of-the-art facilities.
We also offer a three-year PhD Biomedical Science programme .
Students will be placed in one of our research labs to undertake a three-year tailored research project.
During this period, they will receive formal training in research-related skills.
At the end of your research project, students are expected to write a thesis on their studies and to defend this in a viva examination.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/research/dyslexia-hub:
For Innovation and Research in Higher Education

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/business:
Here at the Buckingham Business School, we always put you, our student, first.
We pride ourselves in a personalised and small group teaching approach so you won’t get lost in a crowd.
At the Buckingham Business School, you are a person, not a number.
Our degrees are tailored to give you a global, ‘real world’ perspective and are highly regarded throughout the world.
We place a high emphasis on innovation in course design and believe strongly in stimulating an entrepreneurial mindset.
Furthermore, several of our modules are accredited by professional bodies, giving you exemptions from their exams.
We also ensure that the modules you take part in are up-to-date and deal with current topics such as artificial intelligence, sustainability, business ethics, global business, and big data analytics.
The lecturers in the Buckingham Business School also have decades of experience in industry.
Indeed, a number of our lecturers have started and run their own businesses, with some still running a business alongside their academic work.
That means you will get to hear about real-world business situations from your lecturers, as well as from the constant stream of visiting and guest lecturers who are from the business world.
You will benefit from the wealth of practical, real-world business knowledge that is at the centre of what we teach.
“Much of my undergraduate university experience was during lockdown.
I still very much felt part of the student community (albeit, working remotely) and the teaching/support was excellent.
Having gained a First-Class score in my BSc, I was given the opportunity to study a postgraduate MBA.
I believe attaining both my undergraduate and postgraduate degrees in 3 years, has put me ahead of my peers in the graduate job search.
This is a testament to the quality of teaching and support at the university, which has driven me to challenge myself and complete my academic journey.” – Tom
“The idea of getting a business degree in two years seemed extremely appealing and this is why I chose Buckingham University.
The first few months were the hardest as I had no formal business education background.
Instead of reaching out to the lecturers, I retreated into a shell and became disengaged and inactive.
Thankfully my personal tutor noticed, reached out and offered extra support.
As the months went by, the lecturers poured into me, and I gained more confidence and my grades improved significantly.
Unfortunately, tragedy stroke my family and again the university showed up and supported me immensely.
I will never forget the emotional supportive email another one of the wonderful lecturers sent to me when I told him what had happened.
I believe most universities in the UK can provide students with quality education, but it takes a special kind of dedication and student-centred management to do what Buckingham University Business School did for me when my back was against the wall.” – Kiki
“Whilst I was initially sceptical about conducting my undergraduate studies in Business Management, the University of Buckingham has proved to be the perfect choice for me personally.
I have thoroughly enjoyed all the modules which included a combination of stimulating group and individual assessments.
Throughout my studies I, with all fellow students have been encouraged to work collaboratively as a team and have embedded ourselves in the diverse culture that forms an integral part of the University, which fosters a sense of community with a common purpose.
The ability to complete my desired degree within two years and the smaller sized classes demonstrates Buckingham’s commitment to prioritise student learning.
This in particular has transformed my personal development and provided me with the confidence to commit to undertaking a master’s degree at the University of Buckingham, which I would never have thought possible.” – Luke
The Buckingham Business School has repeatedly been highly rated by students in the annual, independent, National Student Survey (NSS).
We have come in the Top 5 for several areas of the survey.
We are joint first for “Academic Support” as well as for “Freedom of Expression”.
In the NSS we are one of the most consistently highly rated business schools in the UK.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/business/bseu:
Welcome to the Buckingham Sustainable Enterprise Unit.
Sustainable enterprise pursues excellence by becoming a competitive, resilient organisation that preserves the planet for future generations.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/international/beloff:
Liberty has underpinned the Judeo-Christian ideal for millennia, and it was the idea of liberty that moulded Europe.
Britain, too, was forged by liberty, and British leadership in commerce and politics flowed out of the Glorious Revolution of 1688 which established the Bill of Rights and the rule of law.
But liberty is ever fragile.
One takes it for granted at one’s peril and each generation has to rediscover it afresh, lest it becomes stale and withers away.
The Max Beloff Institute for the Study of the Constitution of Liberty, was set up in memory of the founding Principal of Buckingham as the first and to date only independent University in the UK with a Royal Charter.
The Max Beloff Institute is affiliated to the Vinson Centre for the Public Understanding of Economics and Entrepreneurship at the University of Buckingham.
For more information on the Institute and on programmes and events in the Classical Liberal tradition, please visit the Vinson Centre’s website .
Contact: beloffinstitute@buckingham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/research/law-school-research:
The University of Buckingham Law School is a supportive and nurturing family of researchers who provide their research students with an enriching environment.
The school possesses expertise across a wide range of areas, including commercial and company law, public law, judicial studies, maritime law, family law, criminal law, jurisprudence and sex and gender.
Our staff are not only academic researchers, but incorporate a range of practice-based experience, working as international consultants with the likes of the UN , OSCE , ABA Rule of Law Initiative , EU , and Council of Europe .
These experiences inform their research and supervisory support to postgraduate research students.
This environment has encouraged growth in research and has offered support for members of academic staff and a growing body of postgraduate research students.
We currently supervise a wide range of research projects (LLM by Research/MA/PhD).
Current areas of research projects include Public International Law, International Human Rights laws, Governance, Intellectual Property,  Financial Services & Regulation, Family Law, Sex & Gender, Comparative Constitutional Law, Judicial Studies; Jurisprudence; and Corporate Law.
If you are interested in any of these subjects, please contact the following staff:
Visit our how to apply page to find out everything you need to know about the application process.
If you have any questions, please get in touch with us on admissions@buckingham.ac.uk or call us on +44 (0)1280 828205.
“Deferred Prosecution Agreements and D&O Insurance”
Read more about Natalie’s experience at Buckingham.
“A Legal Framework for Regulating Autonomous Weapon System Deployments”
Read more about Michael’s experience at Buckingham.
“The militarisation of the Indigenous Peoples in the Niger Delta Region by the Nigerian government: from a constructivist grounded theory to an action-based policy”
Read more about Angela’s experience at Buckingham.
“Towards an effective anti-corruption regime in Nigeria.
Examination of the anti-corruption Legal Framework of the United Nations, the African Union and Nigeria”
Read more about Ernest’s experience at Buckingham.
“Traditional Medicine : The case for its inclusion in sustainable development – no one should be left behind”
“The Health and Safety and Environmental Risk Regulatory regime governing the Nigerian offshore Oil & Gas Industry : Lessons from the United Kingdom’s safety case regime”
“Nuclear first strike”
Read more about Poyan’s experience at Buckingham

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/research/denning:
Many Law schools publish their own law journals.
In the United Kingdom, these are most often edited by faculty staff.
At The University of Buckingham, the Law School staff edit and publish an annual journal – The Denning Law Journal .
It is named after one of the most famous British judges of the 20th Century, if not the most famous.
Lord Denning was an enthusiastic supporter of the fledgling university at Buckingham.
It seemed natural when the Journal was founded in 1986 to name it after him.
We were greatly honoured when he consented to the use of his name.
Law journals act as forums for legal scholarship and thought.
They include articles by academics which record their research in a particular area or on an identified problem in the law.
Occasionally current and retired judges and practitioners (solicitors, advocates or barristers) also publish articles.
Journals are sometimes described as “refereed” which means that each article is scrutinised by experts in this area of law.
They certify that the logic of the article and the legal statements are correct and consistent.
The Denning Law Journal is such a refereed journal.
The aim is to provide a forum for the widest discussion of issues arising in the common law and to embrace the wider global and international issues of contemporary concern both of which Lord Denning would have approved:

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/humanities:
It is my pleasure as Associate Dean to welcome you to the School of Humanities and Social Sciences.
The School comprises of these teaching areas:
There are also a number of specialised research and teaching centres, including the:
The School has attracted outstanding teachers and researchers, as well as having high-profile visiting professors and practitioners.
All our teaching is research-led, and we hold fast to our commitment that our higher education is about students working directly in tutorials or small groups with leading academics and sometimes practitioners in their fields of study.
The School is extremely proud of its graduates, many of whom have gone on to hold high profile positions in private and public organisations in the UK, in Europe, and internationally.
For further information about courses in Humanities and Social Sciences, or to arrange a visit, please email us .
Professor Julian Richards Dean of School of Humanities and Social Sciences

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/research/hri:
Founded in 2008, The University of Buckingham’s Humanities Research Institute exists to bring together internationally distinguished scholars working in the field of the humanities, to support their research, and to engage them in the life of the University.
The Institute’s Fellows and Visiting Professors are drawn from a wide variety of disciplines but have notable concentrations in the areas of military history and security studies, political history, the history of art and connoisseurship, and nineteenth-century literature and social history.
The Institute is composed of some thirty Fellows in various categories and supports a series of Visiting Professorships, with a particular focus in history, history of art, modern war studies and international relations.
Click here for the listing of current Fellows , which also provides short biographies and details of major and recent publications.
The Humanities Research Institute’s seminars are open to all research students and faculty in the University, subject only to the constraints of space.
If you are interested in attending a seminar, please email the Humanities Research Secretary ( seminars-hri@buckingham.ac.uk ) stating which seminar you would like to attend.
Please also include its date in your message.
The Institute actively promotes academic and inter-disciplinary collaboration with other leading institutions, and over recent years has worked in association with the Wallace Collection, London, in the development of teaching and research in the study of the decorative arts and curatorship; with the Royal Military Academy, Sandhurst, in the development of the University’s new research programme in Modern War Studies; and with the Royal United Services Institute in the production of a major policy paper examining the lessons of history for the formulation of contemporary British strategy.
Research degrees in the School of Humanities .
Raymond Tallis, Fellow and Professor of Philosophy, Freedom: An Impossible Reality (New York: Columbia University Press, 2021)
Adrian Tinniswood, Fellow and Course Director in Country House Studies, The Long Weekend: Life in the English Country House between the Wars (London: Jonathan Cape, 2016)
Simon Heffer (ed.), Fellow and Course Director in Twentieth-Century British History, The Diaries of Sir Henry ‘Chips’ Channon , 3 vols.
(London: Hutchinson, 2021-22)

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/research/bucsis:
Centre for Security and Intelligence Studies
Browse BUCSIS courses: Further your Security and Intelligence education
Current research interest and research centres
Discover our valuable connections
Find the latest BUCSIS updates
Follow BUCSIS on socials
Staff and associates linked to the Centre

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/djo:
On 25 May 2006, an immensely valuable digital project was launched on a six-year mission.
It is already proving an extremely exciting journey – one that combines the phenomenal potential of the Internet and computing technology with literary scholarship, the enduring power of great journalism, and the lives and stories of our Victorian ancestors.
DJO successfully created, by the time of the Charles Dickens bicentenary in February 2012, a complete online edition of Dickens’s weekly magazines, Household Words and All the Year Round .
In their day, these were phenomenally popular journals, which not only carried instalments of such well known novels as Great Expectations , Hard Times , North and South , and The Woman in White , but also poetry, investigative journalism, travel writing, popular science, history, and political comment.
It is free at point of delivery.
Readers have access to high-quality facsimile downloads of each weekly number, which are also fully indexed and searchable, not only on the text but on keywords (i.e.
a search under “firearms”, “exploration”, or “Medway towns” will produce a comprehensive list of hits).
Authors’ names are supplied where known, linked to biographical profiles and bibliographies.
The site also documents and where possible makes freely available all good scholarship relating to the journals.
Resources and ‘learning journeys’ based on National Curriculum requirements are being developed for school readers of Hard Times and Great Expectations at GCSE and A-level.
The project is led by John Drew , author of Dickens the Journalist , and co-editor with Michael Slater of the final volume of the Dent Uniform Edition of Dickens’s journalism.
He authored entries on All the Year Round and Household Words in the Oxford Reader’s Companion to Dickens , in the forthcoming Dictionary of Nineteenth-Century Journalism , and is an ardent admirer of the journals.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/computing:
Welcome to the School of Computing within The University of Buckingham, an institution I hold dear.
You are entering into a close-knit environment where different cultures unite under one roof with the same goal in mind.
At Buckingham, we emphasize excellence in teaching and research with our unique small group teaching methods, the personal tutor system, weekly supervision of research students and open door policy.
Professor Harin Sellahewa Dean of Computing
At Buckingham, we work together as a community of staff and students where your views and opinions are valued.
We are delighted that Computing at Buckingham has been ranked 1 st , Computing , Teaching, The Guardian University Guide 2025 .
In our school, the academics and the administrators are passionate about delivering a friendly environment and consistently supporting students to achieve their utmost best.
Our aspiration is to come together with students and enhance your learning experience through establishing the importance of regular attendance, communication with tutors and administrators as well as timely coursework submission.
Our goal is to assist students to achieve their goals beyond a computing degree.
I hope you find the information you require and gain a better understanding of our activities.
Should you have any questions, my team and I are always available to speak to you.
In the current competitive IT job market, in-depth knowledge in specialised areas of computing is increasingly in demand.
Our taught Undergraduate and Masters degree programmes are designed to answer this market need.
Our aim is to provide teaching, learning, research and scholarship in the fields of computer science and information systems within a friendly and informal environment.
Our professional academic staff are academically and practically well experienced in teaching the concepts of the main aspects of computer science.
They work very hard to reflect the new technologies and updates across all taught courses.
Our programmes have the following distinctive features:
If you want to study one of the programmes, you can apply directly via the ‘Apply Now’ button on the individual course information pages .
Our Dean (Professor Harin Sellahewa – see his profile or email him ) is always happy to help with any questions you might have.
CITP This degree has been accredited by BCS, The Chartered Institute for IT.
Accreditation is a mark of assurance that the degree meets the standards set by BCS.
An accredited degree entitles you to professional membership of BCS, which is an important part of the criteria for achieving Chartered IT Professional (CITP) status through the Institute.
Some employers recruit preferentially from accredited degrees, and an accredited degree is likely to be recognised by other countries that are signatories to international accords.
CEng/IEng (partial) This degree has been accredited by BCS, The Chartered Institute for IT on behalf of the Engineering Council.
Accreditation is a mark of assurance that the degree meets the standards set by the Engineering Council in the UK Standard for Professional Engineering Competence (UK-SPEC).
An accredited degree will provide you with some or all of the underpinning knowledge, understanding and skills for eventual registration as an Incorporated (IEng) or Chartered Engineer (CEng).
Read the accreditation visit report.
Read our Study Computing guide to learn more about the School of Computing

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/research/computing:
The School of Computing is a young school of modest size but is successful in attracting research funding from various sources in the UK and the EU (including industry, research councils and charitable foundations).
It supports a significant range of research interest and over the last few years, the number of research students has grown steadily.
The School of Computing has a history of involvement in EU framework projects.
More recently, we were partners in two EU FP6 funded projects: SecurePhone and BroadWan .
We have been working and collaborating with many European research institutions including The Technical University Graz, CNUCE, Pisa, Thales, Thomson, TELENOR, RAL, Salzburg, Telefonica – Spain, Atos Origin, The University of Saarbrucken – Germany, INFORMA – Italy, and ENST – France.
The main research areas of interest in the School cover image/video processing and analysis techniques and applications; wireless mobile network technologies; and biometric-based authentications for constrained devices/environments.
In image processing we mainly, but not exclusively, use wavelet transform techniques for facial feature detection and recognition, online image/video compression for constrained devices, visual speech recognition, feature detection in biomedical images, digital watermarking, content-based video indexing for biometric video databases.
In the wireless networking area, our research effort focuses on the convergence and integration of different wireless technologies and standards, wireless mesh technologies, intrusion detection and prevention, efficiency and stability of ad hoc networks.
The School of Computing is highly active in different research areas.
Currently, the School has a number of research groups consisting of 8 research-active academics, over 20 MPhil / DPhil and 5 MSc students at various stages of their studies.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/research/bcab:
Welcome to the webpages of the Buckingham Centre for Astrobiology (BCAB).
The Buckingham Centre for Astrobiology (BCAB) was affiliated to The University of Buckingham in August 2011.
The new centre is a continuation of the pioneering programme of research carried out between 2000 and 2010 at the Cardiff University Centre for Astrobiology (CCAB) under the directorship of Professor Chandra Wickramasinghe.
Together with the late Sir Fred Hoyle, Chandra Wickramasinghe developed ideas that connect astronomy and biology.
These two scientists can legitimately be seen as pioneers of the new discipline of astrobiology.
Universities throughout the world are beginning to see astrobiology as a way forward to understand our place in the Universe.
Taking note of the many relevant discoveries that have been made in recent years, the Centre aims to combine the expertise of astronomers, biochemists and microbiologists to generate cutting edge science that will eventually enable us to answer the age-old question: where did we come from?

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/psychology:
Psychology is the study of human behaviour and mental processes.
Psychology scientifically investigates how thoughts, feelings and motivations influence how people act and interact with others.
The programme is accredited as conferring eligibility for the Graduate Basis for Chartered Membership of the British Psychological Society , provided the minimum standard of a Second Class Honours is achieved ( read the accreditation report here ).
This is the first step towards becoming a Chartered Psychologist.
Contact us at admissions@buckingham.ac.uk or Tel: +44 (0)1280 820227.
Interested in Postgraduate options?
We offer Psychology taught and research courses .
Explore Psychology degrees at Buckingham.
T: +44 (0) 1280 820227 M: +44 (0)7711 589260 admissions@buckingham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/research/psychology:
MSc (Research) Psychology
PhD Psychology

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/about/schools:
The world of business is constantly changing.
It has become more global, more entrepreneurial and more concerned with the environment.
The Business School at Buckingham is small and flexible enough to keep pace with such change.
With over 1000 teachers and school leaders studying with us, our primary aim in all of our courses is to improve teaching and leadership in schools.
The frameworks and assessments for each course weave into school teachers’ day-to-day work lives, so that study and practice are relevant to their role and aspirations.
Even if you have not yet achieved the necessary academic qualifications, or your English language is not yet at the required standard, the Foundation Department will help you to identify your needs and direct you towards the programme that is tailored to your needs.
Our student to staff ratio puts Humanities and Social Sciences in the top 5 faculties in the country.
Nationally- and internationally-recognised academics and dedicated teachers work with students within a personalised tutorial teaching system that sets the highest academic standards.
Our small group tutorials allow your teachers to know you personally and offer you maximum academic support.
That and the rigorous nature of our two-year undergraduate LLBs have helped the School to achieve its remarkable employability record.
Medicine today poses considerable challenges.
Ageing populations, innovative technology and a far more consumerist approach to healthcare in all societies are changing the educational requirements for doctors globally.
We are creating novel courses to meet the demands of the new age by giving our students the ability to be more effective throughout their careers.
The School of Postgraduate Medicine and Allied Health will be a hub for professional healthcare and medicine courses which will include Podiatric Medicine, Biomedical Sciences, CPD health courses and a range of Postgraduate Medicine programmes which include Masters in Medicine and in Surgery.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/study-education:
We offer a successful online degree course for staff working in schools but lacking a degree – see our BA (Hons) Primary Education degree.
Initial Teacher Training and Professional Development
The University of Buckingham Education degrees and teacher training courses are amongst the most successful and accessible in the country.
With over 1,000 teachers and school leaders studying with us each year, we are one of the country’s leading providers of teacher training and professional development.
Our Primary , Prep and Secondary PGCE programmes are all available with Qualified Teacher Status (QTS) enabling teachers to teach in state-maintained and special schools in England.
For those wishing to use their schools’ Levy to fund their training, we also offer a Postgraduate Teacher Apprenticeship with QTS and PGCE .
For teachers in the Independent Schools’ sector, we have an Independent PGCE which has been developed in close consultation with The Heads’ Conference (HMC).
Those teaching abroad can achieve their PGCE by studying our PGCE for International Trainees or they can gain the International Qualified Teacher Status with optional PGCE , the main qualification required for teaching in England.
These qualification are available online with regular virtual seminars and support sessions throughout.
All of our master’s courses are available completely online and are a fantastic way to develop your expertise in a particular aspect of the sphere of Education.
Whether your interest is in leadership and management , or something else entirely, we can support your career progression and aspirations.
Semele, PGCE
“The residential was very clear and had a lot of thought had put into finding a good range of speakers to interest people from all backgrounds.
I’ve returned back to school today full of ideas (and I’m sure annoying my colleagues!).
It was also really nice to meet the other PGCE students finally and our subject day was very well thought out too.“
Our Faculty of Education programmes range from the PGCE with Qualified Teacher Status (QTS) to tailored master’s programmes or a doctorate.
We believe good teacher training focuses on the practice of classroom management and apply what good research and experience tells us works best.
Our PGCE is available for those teaching in state, independent and international schools.
Our master’s programmes offer structured and accredited professional development opportunities, enabling you to progress your career and extend your knowledge of a particular area within the field of education.
Graduating from the Faculty of Education will equip you with the knowledge and skills needed to make a positive, lasting difference to those you teach and work with.
We have many partners that we work with at the Faculty of Education including: Anspear, ASTRA TSH Buckinghamshire, Birmingham City Council; Boarding Schools Association (BSA), Chiltern Learning Trust, Council of British International Schools (COBIS), Duke’s Education; EAST SCITT, HMC, IAPS, Inclusion Education, Leadership Matters/National College of Education, Oxfordshire Wiltshire Berkshire Teacher Training, St.
Edward’s School Oxford, STEP Ahead Teaching School Hub, The Anglo Institute of Education in Mexico.
Internationally we work with: ILM Consultants (Qatar) and The Buckingham International School of Education (China).
We are also members of COBIS, FOBISIA and BSME.
Our Dean, Professor Barnaby Lenon, was brought up in south London and educated at Eltham College and Oxford University.
He won the Cambridge University prize for Education.
He taught at Eton for 12 years, was Deputy Head of Highgate School, Headmaster of Trinity School, Croydon, and Headmaster of Harrow (also for 12 years).
He then helped set up a state school in east London, the London Academy of Excellence, and was Chair of Governors there for nine years.
He is currently trustee of the two independent and 12 state schools in the King Edward’s Birmingham Foundation.
He is Dean of Education at The University of Buckingham and a trustee of the Yellow Submarine charity.
He has recently published two books, “Much Promise: successful schools in England” and “Other People’s Children: what happens to the academically least successful 50%?”
He is one of the most widely quoted educationalists in the media.
In 2019, he was awarded a CBE for services to Education.
Dr Kelly has worked in education for over twenty years with all but the first three years in leadership roles.
This led first to a Masters in Educational Leadership and then to her doctorate looking at Leadership, Identity and Gender.
As well as overseeing the academic programmes for the department, Bethany continues to write and speak in the UK and internationally on a range of educational topics including her own research interests.
Marilena has a microbiology and immunology background and worked in science education for 22 years.
Her teaching experience ranges from Secondary to Further to Higher Education.
Following her training she worked at More House School in Frensham before accepting the role of Head of Biology at King Edwards School, Witley.
Her teaching interests , besides Biology, include creating authentic assessment strategies and cross-curricular links in science education.
She is a lifelong learner, currently working towards her EdD looking at contribution of coaching in Education.
Stephen started his teaching career in 1999 and taught Geography and Business Studies in three schools in Essex as a teacher, a middle leader and senior leader between 2000 & 2010.
During this time, he also completed a Masters in Educational Leadership.
In 2010 he left full time teaching and started educational consultancy work and in 2013 he moved to West Africa where he spent one year as Headteacher of a football academy in Sierra Leone.
Upon his return to UK, Stephen started working in Initial Teacher Education for Canterbury Christ Church University, then joined the team of tutors at University of Buckingham.
Holly started her teaching career in 2010 as a teacher of Physical Education and Music.
She then moved to West London Free School to become Head of Girls’ Games before moving to the role of Director of Sport.
Holly then returned to the school she went to as a pupil, Stamford Endowed Schools as Head of Physical Education and lead of ITT.
Holly has always maintained an interest in developing young teachers and is currently studying on the University’s EdD programme with a focus on teacher learning and professional development.
Holly is a passionate sports woman and has played Hockey at national league level.
She has completed her Great Britain Advanced coaching programme certification and currently coaches a men’s national league team.
Francesca has had a successful career primary school teacher and leader, winning Pearson’s Silver award for new teacher of the year in her early career.
She has lead Mathematics as a subject specialist, worked with the Maths Hub and published articles in the Mathematics Association Magazine.
This work inspired Francesca to focus her Master’s thesis on improving attitudes towards Mathematics in primary aged children.
In addition to Mathematics, she is interest in developing new teachers, which culminated in her completing the NPQ in Leading Teacher Development.
Lucille has worked in primary schools for 13 years, leading English as a subject specialist.
She has a degree in Psychology and Early Childhood Studies and a PGCE.
Lucille has a keen interest in building teachers’ subject knowledge and has extensive experience in mentoring and training developing teachers and ECTs.
In addition to primary English, Lucille’s teaching interests include early reading, assessment strategies and curriculum design.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/foundation-dept:
Even if you have not yet achieved the necessary academic qualifications, or your English language is not yet at the required standard, the Foundation Department at The University of Buckingham will help you to identify your needs and direct you towards the programme that is tailored to your needs.
Doing a foundation course at Buckingham will allow you to complete your foundation and undergraduate programme in just three years.
This means a faster – and smoother transition into university study in a supportive and stimulating learning environment.
We work closely with all departments to ensure our foundation programmes prepare you with the necessary academic, intellectual and practical skills for your chosen programme of study, be it in Business, Humanities, Law or Science.
Our foundation programmes will expose you to all of the most useful teaching and learning methods used in British universities to help you become an independent learner who is prepared for university study.
The University of Buckingham has a range of foundation courses across various subjects.
To find the right one for you search our foundation courses .
If you have any questions about our Foundation courses, please email foundation-admissions@buckingham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/law:
Creating commercially and socially aware graduates fit for employment.
A law school where students flourish and succeed
Buckingham Law School is small and personal, but also diverse and connected with the world.
Our distinguished and dedicated staff want to make a difference to your lives and help you develop confidence and integrity.
We are very proud of our graduates, past and present, who carry our commitment to excellence and change to the outside world.
Buckingham Law School prides itself on the individual attention it gives to its students, ensuring a fully supported learning environment.
This learning environment combines the highest standards of teaching with a rich and diverse set of opportunities for professional development provided by our clinical legal education programme.
Do not just take our word for it: please listen to our students and read our graduate success stories to see the diversity and excellence that characterises Buckingham Law School.
Professor Adolfo Paolini, Dean of the School of Law
We provide legal education that not only develops your mind but also prepares you for employment and the challenges of the wider world.
You will be taught by a dedicated team of academics, benefiting from their expertise in small group tutorials and completing your LLB in two years.
Though committed to teaching, Buckingham Law School is not a teaching factory.
Our academics nourish their teaching with cutting edge research.
Professional development is integrated into our curriculum and your life as a law student with work placements, professional mentoring, pro-bono opportunities and clinical legal workshops.
We have a dedicated Lecturer in Clinical Legal Practice, a former commercial litigation solicitor, to help guide you through the schemes available.
We were third for Graduate Prospects in Law 2023 (Complete University Guide League Tables 2023).
Do not just take our word for it: please read our graduate success stories to see the diversity and excellence that characterises Buckingham Law School.
Buckingham has always been an global law school and we are proud of our diverse and international community of students and alumni.
The international dimension of Buckingham Law School enriches the social and learning experience of our students and is a vital part of why our students are ready for the workplace.
This programme is designed to offer a unique method of study.
It combines the advantage of motivational, productive feedback at our regular Wednesday evening seminars with the convenience of flexible learning around full-time work, home/care responsibilities or other commitments.
Combining our excellence in teaching with leading research and a thriving postgraduate research training programme, provides our PG students (Taught LLM, LLM by Research, and PhD) with every opportunity to complete their studies successfully, and go on to become experts in their respective fields.
Meet our dedicated and highly skilled team that reside here in the Law School.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/medicine:
Building on from the Buckingham ethos of putting the student first and above all else, our medical school is small enough for our students to be part of a coherent and supportive community, and large enough to provide all the experience you need to become a medical practitioner.
Our condensed 4.5 year MB ChB programme is derived from a well-established curriculum.
Its every aspect is engineered to help you develop the knowledge, skills and attitudes necessary to become a professional and ethical doctor.
The University of Buckingham Medical School received General Medical Council (GMC) accreditation in May 2019.
The GMC has commended the University for the ‘ excellent professional, academic and pastoral support that extends throughout the University and clinical learning environments ’ and ‘ the robust systems that ensure the quality of all aspects of the MB ChB programme, including teaching and assessment’ .
Our Medical School is suited to both UK and international students.
As an independent medical school, we have no cap on international student places.
Our admissions process consists of three stages: the first stage is to submit an application with all supporting documents (either via UCAS or directly to us), via the Apply button.
If the applicant meets or is predicted to meet, our entry requirements, they are invited to the second stage to complete the Multiple Mini Assessment (MMA), a computer-based test made up of a series of tasks intended to test students’ analysis, interpretation and judgement abilities.
Applicants that achieve a satisfactory grade in the Multiple Mini Assessment (MMA), are invited to the third stage which is the Multiple Mini Interview (MMI), consisting of a number of observed structured selection examinations.
Exceptionally high performing students may receive an offer after stage 2 in the process, all other offers are made after the multiple mini interview events.
We hold numerous selection days during each admissions cycle.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/pg-medicine-allied-health:
The University of Buckingham, in partnership with Apollo Hospitals Group, acquired the former Manchester Metropolitan University’s campus at Crewe, Cheshire, where the Faculty of Medicine and Allied Health teach a range of health programmes.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/contact-us/contact-a-department:
Here you can find phone numbers, email addresses and, where relevant, links to web pages for the various departments and schools at the University.
+44 (01)280 828266 apprenticeships@buckingham.ac.uk
+44 (0)1280 820229 FMHS-Admissions@buckingham.ac.uk
+44 (0)1280 820226 beiu@buckingham.ac.uk
+44 (0)1280 820124 schoolofbusiness@buckingham.ac.uk
+44 (0)1280 828219 / (0)1280 828340 SchoolofComputing@buckingham.ac.uk
+44 (0)1280 820171 economics@buckingham.ac.uk
Admissions: +44 (0)1280 820222 Day-to-day operations: +44 (0)1280 827666 education@buckingham.ac.uk
+44 (0)1280 820377 FBHS@buckingham.ac.uk
+44 (0)1280 820297 foundation@buckingham.ac.uk
+44 (0)1280 820310 art-history@buckingham.ac.uk
+44 (0)1280 820204 london-programmes@buckingham.ac.uk
+44 (0)1280 820171
+44 (0)1280 820184 / (0)1280 828270 SchoolofLaw@buckingham.ac.uk
+44 (0)1280 820120 FBHS@buckingham.ac.uk
+44 (0)1280 820144 / (0)1280 820132 SchoolofPsychology@buckingham.ac.uk
+44 (0)1280 820358 info@vinsoncentre.com
01280 820351 accommodation@buckingham.ac.uk
+44 (0)1280 820227 Contact Admissions
alumni@buckingham.ac.uk
+44 (0)1280 820365 book.shop@buckingham.ac.uk
+44 (0)1280 828218 careers@buckingham.ac.uk
+44 (0)1280 820304 catering@buckingham.ac.uk
collaborations@buckingham.ac.uk
+44 (0)1280 820257 estates@buckingham.ac.uk
fitnesscentre@buckingham.ac.uk
+44 (0)1280 828267 library@buckingham.ac.uk
+44 (0)1280 820142 friends@buckingham.ac.uk
+44 (0)1280 820260 housekeeping@buckingham.ac.uk
+44 (0)1280 820280 hr@buckingham.ac.uk
+44 (0)1280 820218 library@buckingham.ac.uk
+44 (0)1280 820155 international-office@buckingham.ac.uk
+44 (0)1280 820248 helpdesk@buckingham.ac.uk
+44 (0)1280 820308 legal@buckingham.ac.uk
+44 (0)1280 820352 maintenance@buckingham.ac.uk
+44 (0)1280 827624 marketing@buckingham.ac.uk
+44 (0)1280 820225 postroom@buckingham.ac.uk
0774 893 7484 publicity@buckingham.ac.uk
+44 (0)1280 820211 handbooks@buckingham.ac.uk
+44 (0)1280 820221 registry@buckingham.ac.uk
+44 (0)1280 820343 marketing@buckingham.ac.uk
+44 (0)1280 820165 security@buckingham.ac.uk
+44 (0)1280 820242
student.conduct@buckingham.ac.uk
+44 (0)1280 820250 studentfees@buckingham.ac.uk
studentsunion@buckingham.ac.uk
+44 (0)1280 820339 international.studies@buckingham.ac.uk
Applicants: +44 (0)1280 820126 Existing students: +44 (0)1280 820359 studentvisa@buckingham.ac.uk
+44 (0)1280 820207 vc-office@buckingham.ac.uk
+44 (0)1280 820200 wellbeingskillsanddiversity@buckingham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/about-buckingham/collaborations:
Creating unique opportunities for students around the world
Our mission is to inspire and empower individuals around the world and in the UK to achieve the extraordinary through collaborations with renowned and like-minded institutions.
By widening access, Collaborations at University of Buckingham gives more students the opportunity to receive a quality education from a reputable British University.
The University of Buckingham has developed a number of partnerships which are geographically spread and culturally diverse.
We recognise that collaborative partnerships provide unique opportunities for students to benefit from higher education, and learn the knowledge and skills required to equip them for the workplace.
The University is therefore always keen to hear from prospective partners, particularly in Computer Science, Law, Psychology, Business, Education and within the field of Humanities.
View our existing partnerships and join our community
Meet the team and get in touch

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/inclusion-committee:
We are committed to creating and maintaining an environment within which inclusive learning, fair treatment and diversity are valued and discrimination is challenged.
The Inclusion Committee are dedicated to constantly improving everyone's experience at Buckingham through its focus on equality, diversity and inclusion issues.
The committee monitors the University’s procedures and practices, regularly undertakes data analysis and work with students and staff to understand their experience across all of our academic, administrative and student support areas.
Working closely with teams across the University, for example our Wellbeing Skills and Diversity (WSD) and Academic Skills and Know-how (ASK) teams, the committee also provides extra teaching and learning resources to help students with their study skills and overall university life.
Likewise, we work with HR to provide an inclusive environment for staff to thrive.
The committee’s purpose is for the scrutiny of equality of opportunity across the University and to ensure that the University fulfils its statutory obligations in respect of equality and diversity for our students, staff and wider community.
Full details can be found in the Inclusion Committee terms of reference
Our Diversity and Inclusion Committee has 20 members from across the University, with representatives from academic and professional services as well as the student’s union.
The committee chair is Dr Gillian Hill and vice chair is Dr David Holliman.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/events:
There are lots of events taking place around the University, from open days, webinars and engaging talks, to fun social activities.
See what’s coming up…

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/study/visit-us/open-days:
Whether you are embarking on your first degree as an undergraduate student or pursuing further study as a postgraduate student, choosing where to study is an important decision.
Joining our university open days is the perfect way to find out if The University of Buckingham is right for you.
Our Open Days allow you to explore our campus, check out our accommodation, hear from our Students’ Union and let our students and staff tell you everything you need to know about living and studying with us.
If you’ve got questions, we’ve got answers.
You will also discover all the reasons why we have been ranked in the top 10 for Student Satisfaction (The Complete University Guide 2023 ), from our personalised teaching model with small class sizes, to our dedicated student support team, and beautiful, safe campus.
We look forward to meeting you!
If you can’t make it to any of our university open days, you can:

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/events/tasters:
If you cannot make it to our tasters, you can come to an Open Day or book a personal Campus Tour .
We’re also running virtual information sessions on a variety of subjects.
Book to join our virtual information sessions.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/study-at-buckingham/visit-us/virtual-information-webinars:
By attending our free virtual information webinars you can find out more about all sorts of useful topics, such as “What is a two-year degree?” and “What to expect from a University Open Day”.
You can even chat along and ask us questions as we go.
We will also be running subject-specific virtual information webinars, giving you in-depth information about your area of interest.
Take a look at our calendar of events below.
To find out more about each topic, and to register to attend, just click on the event.
Our virtual information webinars allow you to watch, listen and interact with live sessions run by the University from the comfort of your own home.
To access, all you need is a computer, tablet or mobile phone and to register via the link on the event page you wish to attend (below).
The same link can be used to join the live session at the advertised date and time.
Please note that you will not be required to use your camera during any of the webinars.
If you have any questions relating to these webinars, please email: info@buckingham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/events/vc-speaker-series:
Throughout the year our Vice-Chancellor we will be in conversation with a whole host of interesting and talented people.
Events are open to all students and staff.
Future guest speaker events will appear here once they have been scheduled.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/events/guest-speakers:
Throughout the year we will be in conversation with a whole host of interesting and talented people, including celebrated authors and heads of well-known charities.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/events/matriculation:
Matriculation is the formal process by which a student is entered onto the University’s register of students.
Matriculation confers the privileges of membership of the University and also the obligation to abide by the University’s Charter, Statutes, Ordinances and Regulations.
Your matriculation ceremony is the celebration of your Matriculation to the University and serves as a formal welcome by senior members of staff.
During the ceremony, student names are read and you will be asked to stand in your place until the whole school is read before a welcoming round of applause is given.
Following the closing speech, the Colour Party Recess will gather by the entrance for you to greet and shake hands with on departure.
The ceremony is followed by a complementary reception to close.
Formal – no jeans or trainers please.
Matriculation is an event for students only, unfortunately we cannot accommodate guests.
The ceremony typically lasts around 90 minutes and the reception usually lasts around one hour.
The reception includes a complementary glass of prosecco or orange juice, and buffet style refreshments.
The University of Buckingham holds matriculation ceremonies at The Vinson Building, Hunter Street, MK18 1EG; the reception takes place at the Old Tanlaw Mill, which is also on campus.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/study/visit-us/campus-tours:
We’re delighted that we’re able to offer in-person tours of our Buckingham campus.
Visiting a campus can be one of the most important decision-making tools when choosing a university.
Our 45-60 minute campus tours are conducted by our experienced Student Ambassadors.
We do our best to match you up with a Student Ambassador studying your chosen subject and they will take you to the most relevant spaces.
They will answer all your questions about studying and life at The University of Buckingham.
Our Buckingham campus is in the heart of south-east England, situated in between Oxford and Cambridge, nestled in a bend of the Great River Ouse.
The campus runs across three sites: Hunter Street, Chandos Road and Verney Park, with accommodation close to each of these.
Hunter Street is our main site and is where you can find the Students’ Union building, bar and restaurant, and other student facilities.
We have plenty of study spaces: from quiet areas in the Hunter Street Library to group working areas in the Vinson Building.
Chandos Road is the home to our Medical School.
It is adjacent to the main campus and contains teaching, studying and academic spaces for our medics.
Our Verney Park site is just a 15-minute walk from Hunter Street.
If you are based here, all of your course materials will be located on-site at the Franciscan Library, or can be found online.
Campus tours are by appointment only and subject to availability.
To book, simply complete our booking form .
We will contact you to arrange a convenient date and time for your tour.
Our campus tours are run by our Student Ambassadors, therefore advance bookings are required.
Please note that we may not be able to accommodate walk-in tours.
Book a tour ❯
For urgent enquiries, please e-mail tours@buckingham.ac.uk with your name, e-mail and a contact telephone number, and we will be in touch with you as soon as possible.
In order to ensure the safety of yourself and our students, our campus tours are limited to one household per tour, with no more than four people per household.
You can experience our top-quality teaching and small-group style in your chosen subject by coming to one of our Tasters .
Or for a chance to meet our lecturers and learn more about studying at The University of Buckingham come to an Open Day .
You can take a look around our Buckingham campus including our on-site accommodation and hear from our students via our virtual tour .
Alternatively, you can attend one of our virtual information webinars , for in-depth information about your area of interest as well as other useful sessions, covering topics such as: “What is a two-year degree?” and “What to expect from a University Open Day”.
How to get to our Buckingham campus
Accommodation

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/alumni-giving/stay-connected:
Get involved with your alumni community
Could you spare some time to support and inspire our current students?
Follow our social media pages to network with your fellow alumni.
Look back at the Alumni team's newsletters, with updates on the University at the time.
Read about some of our alumni; their lives, achievements and careers since graduating.
Ensure you stay connected – update  your contact details.
Have your say and help improve the experience of future students
Daniel Xu, Director of Fundraising & Alumni Relations
Anne Matsuoka, Alumni Relations Manager
Charunika Rathnayake, Fundraising Administrator
We are always happy to hear from you, so please email us at alumni@buckingham.ac.uk if you have:

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/alumni-giving/alumni-groups:
The Alumni Relations Office welcomes the formation of Alumni Groups with the aim of connecting University of Buckingham alumni who are based in the same geographical region or who share a particular interest.
Alumni Groups are run by alumni, (in connection with the University), for the purpose of networking, socialising and career advancement.
This may be through organised events, informal meetings or social media.
Below is a list of our existing official Alumni Groups.
If you are interested in joining a Group or finding out more about their activity, please email them directly at the address provided.
University of Buckingham Malaysian Alumni Association Area of focus: Malaysia Email address: TBC
University of Buckingham Nigerian Alumni Association Area of focus: Nigeria Email address: excoubaanc@gmail.com
University of Buckingham Chinese Alumni Group Area of focus: China Email address: buckinghamchinesealumni@outlook.com
If you have any questions about the above information, please email us at alumni@buckingham.ac.uk
To become an officially recognised Alumni Group, you will need to read our guidelines and submit an application form.
If your application is successful, you will be required to sign a Terms, Expectations and Standards document as an agreement with the University.
Official Groups are able to use the University’s name and logo, they will work collaboratively with the Alumni Relations Office and will be advertised throughout the year across a number of University platforms.
Please see below a copy of our guidelines for the creation and running of Alumni Groups, as well as the application form.
Application forms must be completed after the guidelines have been read carefully, and should be submitted via email to alumni@buckingham.ac.uk
Update your details to make sure you stay up to date with all the latest University and alumni news .

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/alumni-giving/stay-connected/alumni-stories:
The two-year degree model, small class sizes and a beautiful, rural campus were what first put Buckingham on my radar.
I was eager to have a full university experience, but I wanted to achieve my qualification as quickly as possible.
The excellent lecturers, with their passion and commitment to their students, helped me achieve my goal of gaining my degree in the desired two-year window.
But although the degree was intense, Buckingham wasn’t all work.
I met some incredible people from all over the world, one of my favourite memories is having a full Indian feast with my Kashmiri friends in a room the size of a cupboard!
I was also lucky to help lead a tour of US universities with the University rugby team (although we only managed to play two games because of poor weather).
After many years working around the world, I am now settled back home in Hay on Wye in the Welsh Marches and am currently working as Governor of the Royal Ballet School, Trustee of Michael Morpurgo’s Farms for City Children and my main position is as CEO of National Trust Cymru.
I have run National Trust Cymru for the past 10 years.
It is a fabulous charity with 850 employees and 4000 volunteers that looks after the most beautiful places in Wales.
Walking in the mountains and along the coastline of Wales is a definite perk of my job, but I also love meeting some of the 4 million people who come to our free outdoor spaces and 1.6 million who come to our amazing houses, castles and gardens each year.
As a result of my work, I have won numerous awards.
These include awards for my documentaries on the environment and culture, an honorary MA degree for services to the Arts, and most recently an OBE in the 2021 Queens Birthday Honours List for services to the natural and historic environment in Wales.
Having a Law degree from The University of Buckingham gave me the opportunity to spend time working in Law firms in both the US and the UK.
It is now over 30 years since I graduated with my LLB and I would never have imagined my career taking the turn that it did.
When I decided to step away from the traditional Law path, the skills I had learnt at Buckingham gave me the confidence to believe I could achieve anything.
Originally from a small town in India called Mandya, I studied Master of Science at The University of Buckingham in 2011 and Doctor of Medicine from 2012 to 2013.
I initially chose Buckingham because of the shorter duration of the course.
However, whilst studying I discovered several other perks of doing a degree at The University of Buckingham, such as flexibility, diversity and opportunities for individuals to explore and grow.
I have many fond memories of my studies and I love that we were encouraged to have fun whilst learning.
I am now based in Birmingham, UK, working as a Welcome Trust Clinical Research Fellow at the University of Birmingham and an Honorary Specialist Registrar in diabetes, endocrinology and general internal medicine at University Hospitals Birmingham NHS Foundation Trust.
My job can be split into three parts: academically, as part of my clinical research fellowship, I am pursing a PhD on how androgen activation in adipose tissue impacts glucose and lipid metabolic phenotype in PCOS (Polycystic Ovary Syndrome).
Clinically, I lead the DKA (Diabetic Ketoacidosis) Registry initiative to bring uniformity to the care of people with DKA in the West Midlands by learning best practices from one another.
In regards to Medical education, I lead SIMBA (Simulation via Instant Messaging-Birmingham Advance) and CoMICs (Concise Medical Information Cines).
I love that my job allows me to explore my passion for academic research, improving care provided to people and medical education with no limitations.
In 2018 I was awarded the Quincentennial lectureship for West Midlands for my work on DKA in 2018 and in 2020 I was awarded the Turner-Warwick Lectureship for West Midlands for my work on SIMBA; both by the Royal College of Physicians London.
I was also conferred the John Munro Award for excellence in teaching by the Royal College of Physicians Edinburgh.
I feel Buckingham has played a big part in my success, initially because my degrees from The University of Buckingham were instrumental in getting shortlisted for my current job, but also because I learnt a great deal of academic science during my MSc which has helped me to further build my career and gain recognition for my work.
I started looking at universities when I was in my mid-twenties.
As a mature student, The University of Buckingham stood out from the crowd because of its short two year course length – I was keen to complete a degree quickly and that was an imperative factor in my decision making.
Buckingham certainly fit the bill perfectly.
I loved student life at Buckingham.
The sporting opportunities were great, (I was involved in both Rugby and Polo), and the small group seminars were so engaging and effective.
However, it was the interesting people I met within Buckingham’s diverse staff/student community that made my experience particularly memorable.
Since graduating from The University of Buckingham in 2016, I’ve worked as an Analyst for a private equity firm and a boutique Asset Manager for a sustainably focused fund.
I’m now based in Parsons Green, London and working as an Investment Research Analyst at Buck plc.
My role includes reviewing how fund managers and their products perform, how they’re run and whether they incorporate sustainability into their investment process.
I love the fact that my input and research has a direct and positive impact on how people’s pensions are invested.
Without my degree from The University of Buckingham in Accounting and Financial Management, my chances of securing my current role (or any of my previous roles) would have been dramatically reduced.
It has definitely given me a great foundation of financial knowledge to build upon within each of the jobs I’ve held since graduating.
Hoping to become a qualified teacher, I came across the School of Education at The University of Buckingham.
Buckingham had a great reputation and offered a highly regarded teaching qualification which allowed me to study and train as a teacher whilst working in a school at the same time.
I was able to experience being a teacher during term time, work on reading and coursework, and then attend the lectures and contact modules during the school holidays.
I was always well supported by my tutor and it was fantastic to mix with a large group of friendly, like-minded people who I was able to share experiences with, and relax with when not studying.
After completing my PGCE I worked as a Geography Teacher at a secondary school in Yorkshire for two years, before leaving to work as a Luxury Travel Consultant specialising in Europe.
The travel industry was hit hard by COVID-19 and after being furloughed for a period of time I decided to take voluntary redundancy.
Since then, I have started my own yoga and meditation business, “Root to Rise”.
My passion for teaching the practice of yoga to others stems from the significant changes it has brought to my own life.
Yoga builds mental resilience, courage and confidence, and I believe that it has something for everyone.
It can have huge benefits in the corporate workplace, as well as on the sports field, or in day to day life.
I love being able to spend my time sharing a practice I am passionate about and putting all my energy into something which is completely my own.
My experience working and training as a Secondary School Geography Teacher at Buckingham has undoubtedly given me valuable skills in communicating and transferring skills and information to others.
My teaching degree gave me the confidence to stand up in front of people and share my knowledge and passion with them, and it gave me the skills and tools to do so in an effective way.
It was certainly an important stepping stone on the pathway to being where I am today.
Originally from Russia, I attended a boarding school in Dorset and realised I wanted to remain in the UK for University.
I decided to study at The University of Buckingham because the idea of small group teaching really appealed to me and I found my perfect course in the BA English Literature with Psychology (a combination that I’d struggled to find elsewhere).
I haven’t regretted my decision, I love the fact the staff here really care about their students and always go above and beyond.
I am the current Students’ Union President at the University.
My role is to represent the interests of students to the University’s senior staff and make sure they are taken into account during policy-making and strategic decision-making (particularly important in the context of the pandemic this year).
I also oversee the work of the student executive, so students have the best experience possible at Buckingham.
As well as my SU responsibilities, I am the Happiness Champion, a voluntary role for the organisation Action for Happiness.
I attend and advertise online webinars related to wellbeing, distribute helpful resources to students and before the pandemic I ran workshops.
I take great pride in both of these roles and I love the idea that every day brings an opportunity to make a positive impact on people’s lives.
My time at Buckingham is almost complete, I have thoroughly enjoyed my degree and hope to go on to further study.
In the long-term I aspire to work with Olympic athletes as a Positive Psychology Life Coach.
I have a very positive outlook on life and what people can achieve, and I would love to help as many people as possible feel the same way.
The knowledge I have gained during my degree will be incredibly valuable to me in my future endeavours.
This is thanks to the empowering, inspiring, and supportive experience I had and the wonderful people I met.
I do not think I would be following the path I have planned today without Buckingham.
I began racing racing go-karts in Spain when I was 13 years old, aspiring to one day take part in Formula 1.
I won my first National Championship in 1988 and in 1990 I won the Spanish Karting Championship in the Senior category, being the youngest driver ever to do so.
After qualifying fifth in the Spanish Formula Ford championship in 1992, I thought I’d try my luck at the European championship.
I was racing for a team based at Silverstone when I decided I wanted to study alongside my racing career.
It was important to me to have something to fall back on, should I ever need it.
Buckingham’s location so close to Silverstone was what first attracted me, and when I learnt about the international atmosphere and the shorter study time, Buckingham fit my plans perfectly.
I completed a two year economics degree and a Masters at Buckingham and I’d have to say what I loved most about my time at the University was the different cultures and nationalities of the students.
There was also a great Spanish community and I still see friends from that time.
Graduation also sticks in my mind as one of the most important days of my life; Margaret Thatcher gave me my degree.
In 1997 I competed in the International F3000 Championship and in 1998 I won the Open Fortuna by Nissan.
Finally, I made it to Formula 1 in 1999.
Three things stand out in my career.
The 24 Hours of Le Mans: I’m the first and only Spanish driver to win that race and the day I won it was a big day in Spain.
Then there was the day I first signed for Ferrari as a test driver, and finally, in the history of Spain, only ten drivers had made it to Formula 1 before me.
I’m now based in Barcelona working as an ambassador for Scuderia Ferrari.
I attend all Formula 1 GP races and coach the engineers and drivers as well as interacting with clients and sponsors.
I also get to drive the F1 cars, which is a real highlight.
I’m lucky that my life did end up following the racing driver path, however, my Economics degree has given me a better understanding of the motorsport world and has been very useful in running my companies.
My degree was the best investment I made.
It’s like having a passport.
You might not need it, but it’s always there
I attended Buckingham from June through December in 1977, as part of a semester abroad program run by Bucknell University.
Thinking back to my time at UCB, as it was called then, it was a wonderful experience.
The school had just been founded with high hopes, and it had attracted a very diverse and cosmopolitan student body.
I lived in a little house at the other end of town on Page Hill, and the 5 housemates each hailed from a different continent.
I remember some outstanding teachers in various economics classes, visiting from Oxford (Bootle), LSE (Allyngham) and the US (Beazer).
And a great German class where each Wednesday we went to a pub The Barrel (Das Faß) and had to speak German the whole evening.
England was in bad shape back then, it was pre-Thatcher and North Sea Oil.
There were blackouts, queues galore, and my Nat West account paid 3% when inflation was 20%!
We all decided that we would adapt and drink bitter (31p/pint) rather than lager (36p/pint) since we calculated a saving of over £100 from that pivotal decision.
My friend Jeff Gartzman used to wear a yellow slicker raincoat wherever he went; even when it was sunny he knew it would rain at some point during the day.
I remember Mrs Kay Long, who ran the cafeteria, as one fine cook and fine woman; she treated me like a son.
Life is an accumulation of choices, and a series of seemingly trivial decisions that I made at Buckingham led me via a scattered path to my current job in Paris, France.
I originally enrolled at Buckingham to study BA International Studies.
However, after two weeks I changed course to BSc Economics with French.
During orientation I had come across the Modern Foreign Language department desk and, purely out of personal interest, decided to change course and take French as a minor.
After graduating from The University of Buckingham in March 2014, I started my career as an Analyst Intern at an event-driven hedge fund in Geneva, Switzerland.
It was my minor in French that landed me the role.
Little did I know that my interest in learning a little French would give me a kick-start in my career.
After finishing my internship and wanting to further my interest in economics, I joined The Economist’s Club at Buckingham.
A small group of caring professors and interested students met weekly for a discussion of articles in the latest issue of The Economist.
I thoroughly enjoyed the intellectual stimulation I experienced during these discussions, so I decided to pursue a master’s degree in International Economics and Finance at Johns Hopkins University in Washington DC, US.
After completing my master’s degree in 2015, I moved to Mexico City, Mexico, to work in corporate banking, providing financing to multinational corporations in Latin America.
This move, again, was supported by Spanish courses I took at Buckingham.
I found languages at Buckingham challenging, but the struggle of confusing Spanish with French bore fruit in a way that I could not have predicted at the time.
I am now a Junior Economist / Policy Analyst at the OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development) in Paris, France, working with policy analysis on capital flows and clean energy finance.
Sometimes, life can only be explained backwards, and the little senseless choices you make can lead you to an adventurous path.
A refugee from Rwanda, Sean Obedih has had a lot to contend with.
When he arrived in Britain he was put into a refugee centre in Weston-super-Mare.
He was 19 and it took nearly eight years for the Home Office to sort out his case.
He moved around the country finding a series of jobs until finally, in 2007, he was given leave to stay.
“It wasn’t until I got my papers that I was allowed to do what I should have done when I first arrived, which was to catch up with my education.
I read about the scholarship to study for a BSc in Business Enterprise at the University of Buckingham and applied,” he said.
By that time he was already working on a business plan for skin-tone sticking plasters: “A friend’s son came home from school in tears saying he had been bullied for wearing a white plaster on his forehead after an injury in the playground.
We couldn’t find any skin-tone plasters in the shops and I realised that here was something I could change.” He won the scholarship from SEGRO plc, the industrial property developers, and was able to develop his business as part of the honours degree.
The expense of getting the plasters to market was daunting for someone without family money or influential friends.
After a struggle to raise funds, he managed to get them manufactured and sells them now through his Urban Armour website.
Meanwhile he has started another business called the Founders Hive; an online platform supported by a series of events he organises on the Google campus in London to bring entrepreneurs and inventors together with suitable partners and investors.
Entrepreneurs present their business plans and have a chance to “speed date” with people who could bring expertise or funding.
“After what I went through, the idea is to help people get a team together with the right expertise to be able to go out and look for funding,”.
Faith studied for a Bachelor’s Degree in Law at Buckingham.
After completing her degree Faith was appointed a Vice Chair of the Progressive Liberal Party, she was invited to join the writing team for those elections.
She quietly became a contributing strategist and writer to the Party, and its Leader, former Prime Minister Rt Hon Perry Christie for some 20 years.
She eventually retired as head speechwriter of the Progressive Liberal Party after the 2017 General Elections.
It was after the 2012 Elections that, notwithstanding her continued political work as an analyst, writer, and consultant, and eventual formal employment in the office of the Prime Minister, Faith explored the more creative side of writing.
She has been the editor in chief of Up and Away Magazine (the inflight magazine of Bahamasair), and has also become a sought after ghost autobiographer.
One of her poems dedicated to the late Maya Angelou can also be heard on the latest album (Black Current Jam) of 7 x Grammy Awarded American bassist, Robert Hurst.
Faith says: “At present I am working on the story of a climate refugee who has also survived the Nigerian BiAfra conflict as well as the US invasion of Grenada.
While I never held the desire to practice Law, I credit The University of Buckingham’s Law programme and faculty with training me to love research, history, justice, and methodical/analytical thinking.”
After graduating with my MBA in February 2005, armed with a student visa that would expire in 8 months’ time, I started applying for jobs.
In the meantime, I worked for the Student Union, living in subsidised accommodation on campus.
I got my first job offer in Hertford working as a marketing developer for scientific instruments.
I was there for a year and was grateful to have a job.
I worked hard, but truth be told, my heart wasn’t in it after the first 6 months.
I didn’t like the job much and because I didn’t know anyone or have any friends in the area, I used to bake as soon as I got home just to keep myself busy.
I would take the cakes in to work and my colleagues would rave about them.
In fact, my first real order for a fruit cake came from one of my colleagues.
I stayed on for another six months before I handed in my resignation.
I went to work for a different company within the marketing department where I was enticed by the prospect of creating exciting campaigns.
But I wasn’t particularly happy there either as I struggled with a lack of creative outlets.
Baking was still important to me, so when I went on maternity leave, I made the decision to leave my job and invest my savings in starting a cake making business.
It wasn’t long before the orders started coming in and I mustered up the courage to sign up for a wedding fayre.
I was aiming to earn £500 a month, which meant I would need to make one wedding cake per month.
I set this target because that was exactly how much I would be left with if I went back to work and placed my son in a nursery.
I now run a multi-award winning cake shop, have won several entrepreneurial awards and was honoured by The Queen in the 2017 New Year’s Honours list.
You may even have seen me on the BBC programme ‘The Sweetmakers: A Tudor Treat’!
Many people’s lives seem to be planned from an early age.
Sometimes you can be lucky, like my son Oscar, and know that you want to direct films from the moment you saw your first movie.
Others have careers imposed on them, as a result of parental pressure or a rigid education system that makes children fit the system rather than finds out what the child will do best.
I don’t fit into either of these camps.
I was a very dyslexic student in the 1970s when dyslexia was neither accepted nor understood.
If it were not for a few people and institutions who believed in me, my life could have gone in a very different direction.
Firstly and crucially, I have loving and supportive parents who understood that raising a dyslexic child is an adventure in tolerance, understanding and challenge.
When I came home at age eleven from Fox Primary School I showed my mother a merit certificate for making tie dye T-shirts (it was the late 1970s).
She realised that while I could clothe myself in fun colours I could not read aloud the words on the award.
Two years later the brilliant headmaster and educator, Dr.
John Rae, interviewed me for a place at Westminster School.
Just like my parents, he saw past my bad spelling, atrocious writing and appalling reading and gave me a chance.
He gave me a copy of the Times newspaper and asked me to talk through all the articles.
Three hours later he approved my conditional admission with me promising to work hard so that I could ‘get the boring stuff out of the way’ and choose my own path.
I am forever grateful for his trust and friendship.
A few years later and Buckingham gave me the same chance.
With good teacher reports but appalling A-levels, the Law School decided to take a chance.
For the next two years I flourished.
Admittedly, I may have achieved more in the Student Union bar and rugby field than in my law classes, but I left the University and Westminster School with a confidence and optimism that has served me well.
This confidence has allowed me to run TV channels like Animal Planet and the Science Channel, ride a horse down the spine of Chile, make films in China, give speeches to thousands, and most recently, be Director of the National Trust for Wales.
Bravery is not inherited, it is learnt and given, and my courage was given to me by my parents, my school and The University of Buckingham.
I met my husband, Jamie, while studying at Buckingham and in the seven years since leaving, we’ve had a combined four house moves, two deaths in the family, four job changes, and two beautiful children, Gabrielle and Caspien.
We’re interested in urbanisation and health: two words that aren’t linked a great deal.
Over the last twenty years, the rate of urbanisation across the globe has been unprecedented.
We’ve seen a resurgence of cities and this is expected to continue.
So, travelling on a packed train to work, standing in line for a coffee, or sweating in a club were all insightful opportunities that allowed us to think about the future – and how we can make a difference.
Our latest “child” is our business, which we founded last September.
Vertical Future (www.verticalfuture.co.uk) is a London-based technology start-up focused on improving health in cities.
We identify specific problems in cities and develop technology-focused initiatives to assist in solving them.
In short, we want to make cities healthier places to live for our children and future generations by acting now.
A new business should indeed be viewed as a baby that must be fed (with cash), nurtured (through many long hours), and rested (debatable in this context).
Babies also learn quickly and that is what we’ve had to do.
Our initiatives address three separate urban issues: food sustainability, pressure on healthcare resources, and air pollution.
For this article, we’ll talk about the first of these only.
Looking back almost a decade, Buckingham helped form the theoretical basis for our thoughts and understanding of the business world, as well as preparing us for the personal challenges of life in general.
Buckingham also taught us the importance of networking and surrounding ourselves with those who believe in our cause.
Why did I choose Buckingham?
My reason was simple.
A friend recommended the University to me.
This word-of- mouth recommendation is the Buckingham way.
I think it is true to say that when you have had a good experience, you can’t help but share it with those closest to you.
People are central to the Buckingham story.
People who embody the values and ethos of the University.
I have been privileged to be impacted and influenced by them over the course of the years that I have been at the University, first as a student and then as a member of staff.
The first person I met was Professor Alistair Alcock.
I was introduced to him by a lovely couple whose bed and breakfast I stayed in on first arriving in Buckingham, prior to my registration at the University.
I was touched by his willingness to meet me and to offer me an informal introduction to the University.
I went on to meet the most amazing academics, firstly in the Law School and latterly in the School of Humanities.
Working for the University, first in the Marketing Department/Central Admissions, then in the School of Humanities and in the Alumni Office and now in Central Admissions, I have met and worked with the most exemplary individuals.
People who go the extra mile.
So, how do I sum up my time at Buckingham?
The only words I can find are, “thank you”.
Thank you to all the people, staff, colleagues, students and alumni who have made and continue to make this a worthwhile journey.
I am sure many alumni will share my sentiment when they think of their own Buckingham experience.
I live and work in Abu Dhabi in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and sat for my Law degree at The University of Buckingham having started my course in 1977 – the second year after the opening of the University.
In the most extraordinary turn of events, Christian (my brother) and I had read the news about a new, independent University about to open its doors – we both, quite separately, decided to apply.
Christian was accepted into the first intake in February 1976 and I in 1977.
We both decided to read Law.
In 1976 I spent a lot of time at Buckingham with Christian, and I got to know most of the 60 or so students and the staff.
With hindsight, the thing that appealed to both Christian and I was the shortness of the course, the obvious internationalism of the new University and the whole premise upon which it had been built.
It was a risk – but there was a sense of excitement about being at the start of something with huge potential.
Our days at the University were happy times and our decision to go to the University was not something that either of us ever regretted.
It had been fun as well as educational – in every sense!
Christian went on to qualify as a barrister and I as a solicitor.
Christian found Chambers in London.
He then became Legal Counsel for the International Fund for Agricultural Development in Rome, where he lived for some 22 years before sadly passing away in 2006.
I joined a firm of solicitors in London and rose to become a Partner, conducting some massive litigation on both sides of the Atlantic.
Some years later, after leaving the city, I set up a business called ‘Codrai Photographs’, and I later joined the National Archives of the UAE, where I continue to work.
I like to think I am helping them build up their country’s historical records, both for posterity and for the education of generations to come.
If there is a common thread throughout my working life it is that the training I had at the University to become a lawyer has served me well – I have always acted as my own lawyer with the contracts I have had to sign and the many negotiations in which I have been involved.
The University also continues to play a part in my life of internationalism – for example, the Executive Director of the National Archives, an Emirati, is also a graduate of The University of Buckingham!
I will always be grateful to the University.
It is the main reason why both my children, Lorna and Ben, are currently studying for their degrees at the University – it has become a family tradition!

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/alumni-giving/stay-connected/alumni-volunteering:
Our students are inspired by hearing about the professional experience and career paths of our graduates.
Whether you are a recent graduate in the early stages of your career or you have been a member of our alumni community for many years, you will have valuable advice to share with current students who are navigating their career options and developing their employability skills.
If you would like to volunteer a little time to help our students prepare for life after university, we’d love to hear from you!
If you are an alumni of our Medicine and Health Science programmes we have a range of volunteering opportunities that are specific to you.
Medicine and Health Science volunteering opportunities
The university’s Careers team is seeking alumni volunteers to participate in the following activities:
This might involve speaking with a student (by phone or video call, or in person if practical) approximately four times over a three-month period to support the student’s career thinking and employability skills development.
For example, our Law School currently runs a successful mentoring scheme that connects current students with legal practitioners.
We are interested in running a similar scheme for other professions and recruiting more mentors for our law students.
This would typically be a one-off conversation (conducted by phone or video call) with a student who has an interest in working in the same (or closely related) profession as you.
You would be contacted by someone in our Careers Service before a student is introduced to you, no more frequently than once per month.
This would involve being one of a panel of guest speakers at a careers event (virtually via Zoom, or in person on campus), talking informally to our students about your work and career path and answering their questions.
This would involve hosting a student at your place of work, in person or remotely, for a short period (e.g.
half a day or up to two days) unpaid, to help them gain insight into a career avenue that they are considering.
If you or your organisation is in a position to offer paid work experience or an extended work placement/internship to our students (remotely or in person), then we would be pleased to help you promote such opportunities to our students.
To register your interest in any of these volunteering opportunities please email careers@buckingham.ac.uk .
To find out how our Careers and Employability team supports alumni, visit The University of Buckingham, Careers and Employability Service.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/alumni-giving/stay-connected/alumni-webinars:
Welcome to the Alumni Webinars where we like to provide a great opportunity for our alumni to engage with Buckingham.
Here you will find a wide range of interesting topics and expertise delivered by our academics as well as our alumni.
Below you will find links to the recent webinars.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/alumni-giving/stay-connected/update-your-details:
To ensure you stay connected with the University and the alumni relations team, please update your details using the form below.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/alumni-giving/stay-connected/connect-on-social-media:
Wherever you are in the world, you can keep up to date with what’s happening around the University and within the alumni community by following our social media channels.
No matter where in the world you are, you can keep up with what’s happening around the University by through social media.
Follow the Alumni Department on some of the platforms below, we love reading your comments.
Follow our LinkedIn Showcase page to receive updates from the university, news from alumni, upcoming alumni events and post-event updates.
You can always contact us through LinkedIn to share your stories and memories, asking for careers advice, or sharing job vacancies.
Our Facebook page is regularly updated with interesting news and events, as well as plenty of fun and nostalgic content to help you remember your time at Buckingham.
Follow us on Instagram to view news and events from around the University, plus fun and nostalgic posts.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/alumni-giving/services-for-alumni:
Here are some of the services we offer to University of Buckingham alumni.
If you can’t find what you’re looking for, please email us at alumni@buckingham.ac.uk
As an alumnus/alumna of The University of Buckingham, you could be entitled to a discount.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/alumni-giving/services-for-alumni/get-your-transcript:
Do you need a copy of your academic transcript for a job or university application?
Not a problem, Registry can provide you with this.
Transcripts are priced at £10 each.
There are additional costs for sending by courier.
If you have lost your degree certificate you can also get in touch with Registry who can supply you with a new one at a cost of £50.
Please contact registry@buckingham.ac.uk to request your transcript or degree certificate.
Please note that costs are different for Collaborative partnership replacement transcripts.
Feel free to contact us at collaborations@buckingham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/alumni-giving/services-for-alumni-2/access-our-careers-service:
Did you know that you may still receive support from the Careers and Employability Service long after you have graduated?
All our alumni have free unlimited access to our careers portal, Horizons .
If you need help accessing Horizons please contact careers@buckingham.ac.uk .
To gain access, register on Horizons as a graduate and click on the Student Circus tile once you login in.
You will have unlimited access to Student Circus as a graduate of The University of Buckingham.
If you have any questions, email careers@buckingham.ac.uk .
Are you, or your employer, interested in providing work experience to our current students?
If so, please contact careers@buckingham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/alumni-giving/services-for-alumni-2/using-the-library:
Even once you’ve graduated, you are always welcome back at the Library.
Our alumni are welcome at any time to peruse the books and chat with our helpful staff.
However, if you’d like to borrow books from the Library, you will need to subscribe.
We offer this at a reduced rate of £40 per year for our alumni, and this lets you borrow up to five general loan books at a time.
All you need to do is pop in with ID and we can get you set up.
For more information about our libraries, see Library Services

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/alumni-giving/giving:
To be a world leading university recognised for its academic excellence and a beacon for independence.
To provide a distinctive and distinguished educational experience for all students to flourish as individuals and achieve success.
You can support the area of the University you feel most passionately about.
Please choose any of the following three campaigns – Foundation, Pillar, or Rooftop – and your impact will be felt by students, staff and the wider University community.
To improve the student experience and create a robust infrastructure
To support the Schools through academic research and improving teaching facilities
This fund supports Scholarships, Bursaries, Hardships and Sports
Daniel Xu , Director of Fundraising and Alumni Relations | Anne Matsuoka , Alumni Relations Manager | Charunika Rathnayake , Fundraising Administrator
E-mail: fundraising@buckingham.ac.uk
Phone: 01280 827567

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/about:
The University of Buckingham is unique.
It is the only independent university in the UK with a Royal Charter, and one of the smallest with approximately 3,300 students.
Honours degrees are achieved in two intensive years of study.
We keep class sizes small, with Oxbridge style tutorial groups which are personalised and exhilarating.
The University campus is well known for being one of the most attractive locations in the region.
The Great Ouse river, home to much wildlife, winds through the heart of our campus.
Much of our teaching takes place in our restored buildings such as the Franciscan Building, formerly a friary, and, Chandos Road Building, a converted turn-of-the-century milk factory, while students can also enjoy the Hunter Street Library, once military barracks.
Each student mixes with over 100 other different nationalities and so being at Buckingham is just like being in a mini global village.
These contacts, acquaintances and friendships, carry on long after life at Buckingham is over.
Our graduates find jobs all over the world, and the friendships they make here go a long way to broadening their experience and to giving them links that, possibly, no other university can do at such an intense level.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/about/strategic-plan:
Our ideals of innovation and entrepreneurship, as well as principles of academic freedom and independence have been threaded through the University’s vision from its commencement.
This document sets out our proposals to developing this vision in the 40th anniversary year of our Royal Charter, and into the future.
The University of Buckingham’s Learning and Teaching Strategy 2022-27 , and the associated underpinning operational framework, is shaped by our distinctive mission within British Higher Education, as outlined in our Vision and Values Statement.
The University of Buckingham’s Research Strategy 2022 – 2027 , and underpinning operational framework, is shaped by its unique vision and distinctive mission within British Higher Education, as outlined in our Strategy and Vision Statement.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/about/rankings:
Join us at The University of Buckingham, where independent minds thrive.
You won’t just be a number here, we see your potential to shape the future.
We will embrace your unique qualities and nurture your creativity.
At Buckingham, we’ve picked up a top 5 and a top 10 ranking at the WhatUni Student Choice Awards (WUSCAs), landed in the top 10 for Student Satisfaction in England (Complete University Guide 2023), and earned a silver rating in the Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF).
It’s all part of how we’re making sure you get a university experience that’s genuinely worth it.
The WUSCAs is the only Higher Education awards ceremony in the UK where institutions are judged and reviewed solely by students.
The National Student Survey provides all final-year undergraduate students in UK higher education institutions and further education colleges with the opportunity to express their opinions on what they liked during their time at university.
Our University rankings include:
We rank in the top 10 for Freedom of Expression and Learning Opportunities (2024).
We rank in the top 10 for Mental Wellbeing Services (2024).
We rank in the top 10 for the overall positivity score, Teaching on my course, Learning opportunities, Academic Voice, Student Voice, Organisation and Management, Students’ Union and Mental Wellbeing Services (2024).
We rank in the top 10 for the overall positivity score, Student Voice, Teaching on my Course, Learning Opportunities, Organisation and Management, Mental Wellbeing Services, Academic Support, Students’ Union and Freedom of Expression (2024).
We rank in the top 10 for Freedom of Expression, Learning Opportunities and Academic Support (2024).
We rank in the top 10 for Freedom of Expression, Student Voice, Assessment and Feedback, Teaching on my Course, Learning Opportunities and Academic Support (2024).
We rank in the top 10 for Mental Wellbeing Services in Law, (2023).
The University is proudly ranked by The Guardian University Guide 2025:
The Complete University Guide rankings are based on information collected from the Higher Education Statistics Agency (HESA) and Research Excellence Framework (REF).
Our rankings include:
The University is proudly ranked by The Times and The Sunday Times Good University Guide 2024 as:
The University of Buckingham has achieved a SILVER rating in the Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF) for 2023.
This means the student experience and outcomes are typically very high quality, with some outstanding features, according to the Office for Students (OfS), which organises the TEF.
We create a space for our students to express themselves, which has seen them rank us 1st for Freedom of Expression in the National Student Survey 2023.
Top 20 for Graduate Salaries’ in The Mail University Guide 2024 .
Find your perfect course

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/about/quality:
The Pro Vice-Chancellor (Academic) & Provost is the senior manager with overall accountability for academic compliance (as prescribed by the Office for Students’ Conditions of Registration) and quality assurance and enhancement (as defined in the Quality Assurance Agency’s UK Quality Code for Higher Education); operational responsibility is delegated to Deans of Schools and the Deputy Head of Academic Services (Quality) with support from the Head of Academic Services.
The Pro Vice-Chancellor (Academic) & Provost provides assurance to the University’s Council that the University has met its obligations in respect of academic compliance and quality assurance and enhancement by means of an annual Assurance Statement.
This Assurance Statement is supported by the minutes of meetings of the University’s Senate as well of those of its key sub-committees: the University Research Committee, the University Assessment Learning & Teaching Committee and the University Partnerships Committee.
The Quality Assurance Team is led by the Deputy Head of Academic Services (Quality), with Faculty Quality Managers based within each of the faculties.
The team provides advice, training and support to the University in meeting the expectations of the Quality Code.
Consistency with these expectations provides confirmation that the University’s degrees meet UK thresholds for academic standards and that the quality of learning opportunities meet national expectations.
Key areas of responsibility for the Quality Assurance team include:

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/about/employment:
Our graduates have gone on to further study at most of the world’s leading universities, including Harvard, London, Oxford and Cambridge and secured jobs in senior positions around the world.
Among our alumni we have a graduate who became the head of his country’s civil service and one who became a leading Formula One motor-racing driver.
Another secured a position as the Minister of Sabah and one female law graduate became the first British lawyer to become a French Advocate.
We offer high quality, traditional Oxbridge-style teaching, which leads to our degrees being recognised around the world.
The standards of degrees and awards are safeguarded by distinguished external examiners – senior academic staff from other universities in the UK – who approve and moderate assessed work.
Most of our academic staff teach for three terms out of four, with the remaining term used for research.
Because of this, we have no difficulty in attracting high calibre, highly respected lecturers, many of whom also have a background in business or industry and can offer networking opportunities for students.
All our degree courses combine academic challenge with the transferable skills that will stand you in good stead for future employment.
Many of our more vocationally-focused degrees offer the opportunity of work placements and experience in industry.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/about/history:
The history of University of Buckingham is a interesting one.
It is the oldest of Britain’s independent universities.
On 27 May 1967, The Times published a letter from Dr J.
W.
Paulley, which said, “Is it not time to examine the possibility of creating at least one new university in this country on the pattern of those great private foundations in the USA, without whose stimulus and freedom of action the many excellent state universities in that country would be so much poorer.” This idea was taken up by a number of people in the business and academic worlds and three London conferences followed, two in 1968 and one in early 1969
A suitable site was found in Buckingham and on 29 March 1973 the University College at Buckingham (UCB) was incorporated, in the form of a non-profit making company registered as an educational charity.
The then Council of Management held its first formal meeting on 3 April 1973, with its foundation stone laid in May 1974.
UCB was formally opened in February 1976 by the Rt.
Hon.
Mrs Margaret Thatcher, MP, as former Secretary of State for Education.
It had 65 students.
The University of Buckingham was incorporated by grant of Royal Charter on February 11th, 1983 and became a registered charity (number 1141691) on May 4th, 2011.
As of 2020, the University has a student population of 3300 students originating from more than 70 countries.
Chandos Road Building, formerly the Milk Factory
Buckingham pioneered the two-year degree – abolishing the traditional long vacation and saving students valuable time and money, but while the University was innovative in some respects, it was traditional in others: for example, the small-group academic tutorial system allowed students to receive more individual attention than at many other universities.
In the first instance, Buckingham offered courses in law, languages, politics, economics and life sciences; over the years more programmes were added – in history, English literature, accounting, management, computing, psychology and, most recently, in education, medicine and allied health.
Postgraduate provision – both taught and research – has also flourished.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/life/community:
Buckingham is a small quiet market town set on the banks of the river Great Ouse.
The University has been here since 1976 and has restored and developed many of the historic buildings in the town, thanks to donations received from our valued supporters.
The students (and staff) play a part in supporting local businesses by shopping in the town, and providing cultural opportunities for its residents.
We expect our students to show courtesy and consideration to all they come into contact with, including fellow students, staff members and residents of the town.
They are encouraged to play a part in the local community, alongside their studies, and many have engaged in sport, charity fundraising, membership of bands, theatre production and local initiatives.
A list of local charities and voluntary organisations can be found at: www.ibuckinghamshire.co.uk.
The continued success of the University depends partly upon the maintenance of amicable relations with the local community and members of staff and students have worked hard to develop and enhance these relations over the years.
For many students, this will be the first time they have lived away from their parents and that brings with it an increased personal freedom.
The University’s community is also culturally very diverse and what is considered perfectly normal behaviour in their home country is often considered a nuisance for the local community.
Recognition of these facts by both the student community and the local townspeople is a step towards a future harmonious relationship.
If you have complaints about the way in which the University or its members interact with the town, please ring +44 (0)1280 820242 and leave a message.
We undertake to quickly respond to your concerns.
The information within these pages is designed to help to maintain the good relationship the University has with the local community.
Any suggestions for additional information are very welcome by contacting us via info@buckingham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/about/governance-structure-and-committees:
The University of Buckingham is an established provider of over 40 years’ standing.
Founded in 1976, the University was incorporated by Royal Charter (RC000730) on 11 February 1983 and is authorised to award taught and research degrees in perpetuity.
The University is a Recognised Body under Statutory Instrument No.
573 (The Education (Recognised Bodies) (England) Order 2020).
The University is listed on the UK Register of Learning Providers (UKPRN 10007787) and is registered with both the Office for Students as an Approved Provider and the Charity Commission for England and Wales as a not-for profit Charity (Charity Number 1141691).
As articulated in its Charter and Statutes, the University has a bicameral constitution comprising the Council and the Senate.
Whereas the Council is the governing body, and its members are Trustees of the University, the Senate is the governing academic authority, responsible for the setting and maintaining of threshold academic standards and for assuring and enhancing the quality of students’ learning opportunities.
The Council of the University is its governing body.
It has responsibility for the stewardship of the University’s assets; its members focus on strategic decision making and ensuring adherence to its charitable objectives whilst delegating day-to-day operational responsibilities to the Vice-Chancellor.
It receives assurances that the University meets all legal and regulatory requirements imposed on it as a corporate body.
The work of the Council is supported by several sub-committees, each of which operates in accordance with approved Terms of Reference.
The Senate of the University is its governing academic authority.
The powers of the Senate are also stipulated in the Statutes and include: the regulation and control of all academic awards as well as the programming and teaching that facilitates students’ admission to said academic awards, the management of the formalities associated with making academic awards and the regulation of University discipline.
The Senate is responsible for overseeing the development of the University’s academic portfolio (including all associated research, learning and teaching and assessment activities), for the admission of students and for all areas pertaining to academic delivery and support.
The work of the Senate is supported by several sub-committees, each of which operates in accordance with approved Terms of Reference.
The work of the Council and Senate are also supported by two joint committees, each of which operates in accordance with approved Terms of Reference.
The principal academic and administrative officer of The University is the Vice-Chancellor, who has a general responsibility to the Council for maintaining and promoting the efficiency and good order of the University and who is the Chair of the Senate.
The Vice-Chancellor also chairs the Executive Group, comprising members of the University’s senior management.
The Executive Group supports the Vice-Chancellor with the day-to-day management of the University’s financial, academic, administrative, estates and personnel functions as well as with risk management.
The Executive Group ensures that an appropriate level of consideration is given to strategic decisions, that there is accountability for said decisions and that there is effective leadership of, and communication with, University stakeholders.
Please view the Compliance Handbook for information regarding regulations and policies relating to statutory compliance.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/about/governance-structure-and-committees/university-chancellor:
The Chancellor is the ceremonial head of the university.
At The University of Buckingham, we have been fortunate to have many distinguished Chancellors who represent us on the public stage and provide invaluable guidance and advice.
Dame Mary started her career as a physical chemist and taught chemistry at both Oxford and Cambridge Universities, where her research interests centred on sustainable energy production and solar energy conversion.
She has written and contributed to various volumes of work concerning solar energy.
She is a Companion of the Energy Institute and was awarded the Institute’s Melchett Medal in 2002 and the Eva Philbin Award of the Institute of Chemistry of Ireland in 2007.
Chair of Cambridge University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust for ten years from 2002 to 2012, Dame Mary was appointed Dame Commander of the British Empire (DBE) for her services to the National Health Service.
From 2005 to 2008 she led a pioneer NHS-funded initiative to create patient decision aids for patients with prostate conditions, and later she introduced an information and advice service for bladder cancer patients in Addenbrooke’s Hospital, and across the Anglia Cancer Network.
She was a founder director of Cambridge University Health Partners and chaired Imperial College Health Partners External Advisory Board from 2013 to 2017.
She currently chairs the Centre for Personalised Medicine at Oxford.
Dame Mary is a very distinguished Chair of the Science Museum Group and its allied museums.
As well as being a Companion of the Energy Institute, she is the Patron of the National Energy Foundation and President of the UK Solar Energy Society.
She is also an Honorary Liveryman of the Fuellers’ Company and an Honorary Member of the Salters’ Company and she holds honorary DSc degrees from Imperial College London and the Universities of Hertfordshire and Bradford.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/about-buckingham/governance-structure-and-committees/university-vice-chancellor:
James Tooley, PhD, was appointed Vice-Chancellor at The University of Buckingham on 1 st October 2020, where he is also Professor of Educational Entrepreneurship and Policy.
For two decades he was professor of education policy at Newcastle University.
During those two decades, he also took five years’ unpaid leave, to enable him to foster entrepreneurial projects in education in the developing world, tied to his research.
He was previously an academic at the Universities of Oxford and Manchester.
James’ ground-breaking research on low-cost private education has won numerous awards; including gold prize in the first International Finance Corporation/Financial Times Private Sector Development Competition, a Templeton Prize for Free Market Solutions to Poverty, and the National Free Enterprise Award from the Institute of Economic Affairs, London.
His book based on this research, The Beautiful Tree: A personal journey into how the world’s poorest are educating themselves”, (Penguin), was a best-seller in India and won the Sir Antony Fisher Memorial Prize.
Other of his books include Education, War and Peace and Liberty to Learn .
James has co-founded chains of low-cost schools in Ghana (Omega Schools), India (Cadmus Education), Honduras (Cadmus Academies) and, most recently, in England (Independent Grammar Schools).
He is also involved with large associations of low-cost private schools, including as Patron of the Association of Formidable Educational Development (Nigeria) and Chief Mentor of the National Independent Schools Alliance (India).
James’ work has featured in documentaries on American PBS television and the BBC.
He has been described in the pages of Philanthropy magazine as “a 21st century Indiana Jones” travelling to “the remotest regions on Earth researching something that many regard as mythical: private, parent-funded schools serving the Third World poor.”

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/directory/professor-harriet-dunbar-morris:
Harriet was appointed Pro Vice-Chancellor Academic and Provost, and Professor of Higher Education at the University of Buckingham in 2023.
Previously, she was Dean of Learning and Teaching and Professor of Student Experience at the University of Portsmouth.
Over the course of her more than 20-year career, she has held a number of positions in the higher education sector including: at UCAS; the 1994 Group; and the universities of Bath, Bradford, and Oxford.
Harriet is on the Board of the University of Buckingham Press and a member of Buckinghamshire’s Skills Strategy Board.
She is also an external member of BIMM University’s Learning and Teaching Enhancement Committee and Professorial Appointments Committee, and the University of Sussex’s Education and Scholarships Promotions Panel.
She initially studied French and Linguistics at the University of Sussex and completed her BSc, MSc, Post Graduate Diploma (DEA), and PhD, in Sciences du Langage, at the University of Toulouse II – le Mirail in France, before returning to the UK and starting her research career in the field of Higher Education.
She is a Principal Fellow (PFHEA) and a National Teaching Fellow (NTF) of the Higher Education Academy, awards she obtained for her sustained leadership and her ‘authentic leadership’ approach to ensuring an enhanced student learning experience for all students.
She is also the founder of The Spinnaker Group for those who lead Learning, Teaching and the Student Experience in their institutions.
Over the course of her career she has led projects with colleagues and institutions across the sector.
Such projects include:
A QAA-funded collaborative enhancement project with the universities of Nottingham, Manchester Metropolitan, and Solent, which explored the differing perceptions of quality of teaching and learning among undergraduate students during the COVID-19 pandemic.
A project supported by evasys, and some additional funding from the Association of National Teaching Fellows (ANTF), to pilot the Being, Belonging, Becoming survey with institutions across the sector.
A project, funded by AdvanceHE, with Principal Fellow (PFHEA) co-investigators from the universities of Swansea and Bangor, which resulted in a Compendium of case studies about embedding wellbeing in the curriculum .

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/about/handbooks:
These Handbooks outline our frameworks, policies, procedures and guidance for the setting and maintenance of academic standards and the quality and enhancement of student’s learning opportunities.
They provide key information, procedures, regulations, templates and forms for prospective and current students, and members of staff.
Please contact the Quality Assurance Office if there are any queries about the contents of these Handbooks.
General Regulation of the University – Force Majeure (PDF)
This outlines the key procedures and guidance for the management of our apprenticeship provision, including employer engagement, quality assurance, complaints and appeals, operations and end-point assessment.
This outlines the key procedures and guidance for the management of our collaborative provision arrangements, including partner approval and due diligence, validation, monitoring and review of provision.
Our reference point for all regulations and policies relating to statutory compliance.
It covers equal opportunities, office for students compliance and data protection compliance.
This Handbook provides members of staff and students, both current and prospective, with a comprehensive list of Codes of Practice, policies, standards and guidance documents pertaining to the MB ChB Degree.
An essential summary of our main quality assurance procedures.
It includes procedures and guidance for the approval of new and revised taught academic provision, the annual and periodic review of programmes, external examining, student feedback and representation, and published information.
Our reference point for all academic and non-academic regulations and policies.
It includes regulations for taught first and higher degrees, academic misconduct, mitigating circumstances, complaints and appeals, and examinations.
It also includes policies for admission and registration, the library and IT resources, student welfare, equality and diversity, and the environment.
For use by postgraduate research students and staff involved in the delivery of research provision.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/about/financial:
In relation to the University’s financial statements published on its website, the University’s management is responsible to Council for the maintenance and integrity of The University of Buckingham website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Financial statements for the University are available in PDF format from 2018 onwards.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/contact-us:
The University of Buckingham contact address:
The University of Buckingham Vinson Building (Main reception) Hunter Street Buckingham MK18 1EG United Kingdom
Find us on Google Maps or What3Words – /// engine.dreamers.media
Main reception: +44 (0)1280 814080 Email: info@buckingham.ac.uk
Registered Charity: 1141691
Monday to Friday: 9am to 5pm Saturday to Sunday: CLOSED
Follow us on:
Instagram TikTok LinkedIn Facebook X YouTube

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/contact-us/emergency:
If you are on or around the Buckingham campus and need immediate assistance, please contact Security Services on 07860 834 802 (24-hours) or if you are on the Crewe campus contact Security Services on 01270 323545.
If emergency services have been called to The University of Buckingham premises, contact Security Services on 07860 834 802 (24-hours) for the Buckingham campus or 01270 323545 for the Crewe campus and explain your location so that they can direct the emergency crew when they arrive.
Dial 999 from any phone
Security Services are based at the Hunter Street Campus and provide 24-hour cover and regular patrols of all the campuses at Hunter Street and Verney Park.
In an emergency and out of hours you can call Security.
All Security staff are First Aid Trained
Buckingham Campus: 07860 834 802 (24-hours)
Crewe Campus: 01270 323545
If you require First Aid while you are on campus, you should contact the Security Team.
Call 111 or visit 111.nhs.uk
Call 101 or visit Police.uk
Someone to listen 24 hours a day, 365 days a year.
Call: 116 123 (Freephone)
Website: Samaritans.org

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/contact-us/directions:
How to get to University of Buckingham campuses.
Buckingham is in the heart of south-east England, a thriving market town in Buckinghamshire.
We are located approximately 60 miles from central London and 25 miles from Oxford.
Easily accessible by road and rail.
A close proximity to London’s airports support our strong national and international connections.
Buckingham’s two campuses are just a 10-minute walk from each other (see Transport Links and Maps ).
Details of how to find us are as follows:
For live and up-to-date public transport routes to Buckingham, input your journey on TravelLine .
The University of Buckingham is situated in the centre of Buckingham, and has three campus sites all within one mile of each other, at Hunter Street, Chandos Road and Verney Park, all of which are easily accessed via the UK motorway network.
The University’s postcode (MK18 1EG) takes you to Hunter Street.
While our Verney Park campus does not have a dedicated postcode, it is accessed via Bernadines Way off London Road, the postcode for which is MK18 IBF.
Please see the campus maps and area maps for further location information.
The following directions are for Hunter Street, where the main Reception is located.
From the M1 (Southbound): leave the motorway at Junction 15 and join the A508 west/south, signposted Stony Stratford.
Continue along this road for approx 9 miles to a large roundabout at its junction with the A5.
At this roundabout take the third exit onto the A422 and continue for approx 7 miles to Buckingham.
At the first roundabout on the outskirts of Buckingham, take the first exit onto the Buckingham by-pass and continue to the third roundabout (Tesco), taking the third exit onto London Road.
Travel along this road for about ½ mile and take the second left turning into Chandos Road.
Continue along Chandos Road following the road round into Station Road, and at the T junction turn right into Hunter Street.
Follow signs to car park.
From the M1 (Northbound): leave the motorway at Junction 13 taking the A421 westward.
Keep following the A421, signposted to Buckingham over at least 14 roundabouts across Milton Keynes, and then keep following the A421 for another 7 or so miles, passing signs to Great Horwood and Thornborough, until finally joining and turning left onto the Buckingham by-pass.
At the next roundabout (Tesco) take the third exit onto London Road.
From the M40 (Southbound and Northbound, avoiding Bicester): Leave the motorway at Junction 10 and join the A43, signposted Northampton, Silverstone.
Continue along this road for approx 4 miles and at the first roundabout take the third exit onto the A421, signposted Finmere, Buckingham.
Continue along this road for approx 8 miles and at the fifth roundabout (Tesco) take the first exit onto London Road.
Buckingham’s nearest railway station, Milton Keynes, is a mere 15-20 minutes away by taxi or coach.
It is on the main West Coast line so is served by direct trains from everywhere from London to Glasgow.
The frequent “Virgin Euston” service takes you from the heart of London in just 40 minutes.
When you arrive at Milton Keynes Central station, you can take the X5 coach towards Oxford.
Buckingham (town centre) is the first stop after about 20 minutes.
X5 coaches run every 30 minutes throughout the day.
The Verney Park and Hunter Street campuses are about a 10 minutes walk from the bus stop.
Taxis from Milton Keynes to Buckingham cost between £15 and £25.
Buckingham is linked to those other Great British seats of learning, Oxford and Cambridge, by the half-hourly X5 coach.
National Express Coaches provide a frequent service between London and Milton Keynes Coachway.
There are also services to Milton Keynes Coachway from many other places.
From Milton Keynes Coachway, take the X5 coach towards Oxford.
Buckingham is the third stop (approximately 40 minutes).
There are are very frequent Oxford Tube coaches from London to Oxford (Gloucester Green / George Street).
On arrival at Oxford, take the X5 coach towards Cambridge (approximately 50 minutes).
Our strong global links are facilitated by our proximity to the international airports of Heathrow , Stansted , Gatwick and Luton .
From these a short tube or train-ride takes you into London where you can catch a train to Milton Keynes.
There are also coach services from the airports.
From Heathrow , you can travel by Underground to Euston .
London Transport underground trains leave from Heathrow Airport every 9 minutes on the Piccadilly Line (maps of the underground system are displayed prominently at the station), changing at Green Park onto the Victoria Line to Euston .
At Euston follow the signs for Euston railway station .
Take a London Midland or Virgin train to Milton Keynes .
Alternatively you can take a direct National Express coach from Heathrow to Milton Keynes or Oxford.
More information about Heathrow: Heathrow Airport Guide .
From Gatwick , there is an hourly train service to Clapham Junction , where (except on Sundays) you can change for a train to Milton Keynes .
Otherwise you can take a train from Gatwick to London Victoria , Underground from Victoria to Euston , then a London Midland or Virgin train to Milton Keynes .
Alternatively you can take a direct National Express coach from Gatwick to Oxford or Milton Keynes.
From Stansted , there is a train service to London Liverpool Street .
From there you can travel by Underground to Euston , where you can take a London Midland or Virgin train to Milton Keynes .
There is also a direct National Express coach service from Stansted to Milton Keynes.
From Luton , you can take a National Express coach to Milton Keynes.
On arrival at Milton Keynes railway station, Milton Keynes Coachway or Oxford (Gloucester Green), you can travel to Buckingham by the half-hourly X5 coach service.
From London Heathrow, London Gatwick, Luton, Stansted and Birmingham International to Buckingham.
If you would prefer to travel by taxi from the airport to Buckingham, a local firm offers competitive fares which compare very favourably with the prices airport taxis would charge: Carlton Car Service
A nominal car park charge may be incurred when meeting flights.
Also, if you are held up, for example by baggage claim or immigration, be prepared to be charged extra for this.
You should agree the price with Carlton Car Service.
Bed and breakfast and hotel accommodation are available in Buckingham town and the surrounding area.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/crewe-campus:
We are Campus University meaning that our facilities, teaching and research are all based on one site.
Our safe and inclusive campus environment and our student-friendly town provide everything you need to make the most of your university experience.
The University of Buckingham is working in partnership with Apollo Hospitals Group to create a centre of excellence for healthcare education and research.
Watch this short video to discover our Crewe campus and programmes you can study there.
At our Crewe campus we offer CertHe Medical Sciences (Pre-Med) and Medicine.
All you need to know about living and studying at our Crewe campus, including wellbeing services, accommodation, student clubs and societies.
Our Crewe campus is a centre of excellence for healthcare education and research.
Learn about our courses, our partnership with Allied Health, what our students say and how we're investing in the student experience.
Details of how to find the Crewe campus or get in touch with us.
Depending on what you want to do with your life, university could be a great way to get there.
You’re already here, giving it some thought, so it must be something you can see happening.
The University of Buckingham produces more well-adjusted doctors, it shapes the minds of great clinicians who have the practical skills, knowledge, and empathy to go out into the world and become the best doctors possible.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/crewe-campus/getting-here:
Jump to: Where to find us | Getting to us | Campus map
Crewe is a railway town and civil parish within the borough of Cheshire East, 35 miles (56km) south of Manchester and 158 miles (254 km) north of London.
Click here to download the campus map
University of Buckingham Crewe Campus Crewe Green Rd, Crewe CW1 5DU
View on Google Maps
///hints.third.stared
The nearest railway station to The University of Buckingham North is:
From the train stations, you can get to Crewe Campus via bus, taxi, cycling or a short walk.
Walking: It is a short 10-12 minute walk from Crewe station to the Campus
Taxi: There is a taxi rank outside Crewe and Stoke-on-Trent railway stations.
The journey takes
3 minutes from Crewe railway station.
20 -30 minutes from Stoke-on-Trent railway station
Cycle: From Crewe railway station it’s a quick 5 minutes cycle ride to the campus.
It’s a 1 hour 2o minute cycle from Stoke-on-Trent railway station.
Use the M6 exiting at junction 16 followed by the A500 and then the A5020 to reach Crewe; or exit the M6 at junction 17 and follow the A534 to Crewe.
Heathrow airport Take the Heathrow Underground to London Euston.
Then take an over ground train route north, as outlined above.
Gatwick airport Take bus 26 from the North Terminal (stop 4) to Stockwell Station, followed by the Underground (Victoria line) to London Euston.
Manchester airport There is a Northern train every hour from the airport train station to Crewe; the journey takes approximately 40 minutes.
Birmingham airport There are four services an hour from Birmingham International to Crewe; journey times vary from 1 hour 11 minutes to 1 hour 31 minutes.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/student-life/campus-maps:
Location: Buckingham | London | Crewe
Our Buckingham campus runs across three sites: Hunter Street , Chandos Road and Verney Park .
Hunter Street is our main site and this is where you can find the Students’ Union building, bar and restaurant, and other student facilities.
We also have plenty of study spaces: from quiet areas in the Hunter Street Library, to group working areas in the Vinson Building.
Tip: Click the button in the top left of the map for a list of buildings and facilities.
Chandos Road, which houses our Medical School, is adjacent to the main Hunter Street site and contains teaching, studying and academic spaces for our medics.
Our Verney Park site is just a 15-minute walk from Hunter Street .
It includes teaching spaces, Franciscan Library, accommodation and on-site facilities for our Computing, Law and Psychology students.
Our Humanities Research Institute students have access to our London Offices.
View our HRI, London Offices page to find us.
Download our Crewe Campus Map (PDF)

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/about/hr:
The University of Buckingham has a unique atmosphere, unlike that of any other higher educational institution.
Despite being the UK’s smallest university and the only independent university to hold a Royal Charter, Buckingham has staff from over 25 countries, making it a truly distinctive work environment.
It is small and friendly, with a student:academic staff ratio of 10.4:1, which allows us to offer genuine personal attention.
Buckingham is thus a place where teachers, support staff and students will get to know each other personally and staff have the opportunity for full involvement in University life.
The University’s surrounding area has many picturesque walks, beautiful villages and heritage buildings of national importance which make a very pleasurable working environment.
For further information about working at Buckingham, take a look at our current job vacancies or contact the Human Resources Department .
To find out how to make a direct application for a job with the University, visit our Application Portal .

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/about/hr/contact:
Human Resources The University of Buckingham Hunter Street Buckingham MK18 1EG United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)1280 820280 Email: hr@buckingham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/latest-news:
Discover the latest news and stories from The University of Buckingham:
Recent graduates Malindi Mwangi and Zackari Lawanson have won the 2025 Octopus Entrepreneur Awards for innovation in Afro Haircare and Black Identity.
Professor Barnaby Lenon, Dean of the Faculty of Education, has been awarded with a Lifetime Achievement Award at the Tes Schools Award.
Nick Hillman has been awarded with an OBE, recognising his work in higher education policy for nearly two decades/
We are delighted to achieve a 4th place ranking for Lecturers and Teaching Quality, and 7th place for Student Support at the WUSCAs.
The University of Buckingham offers its condolences to those involved after the recent tragic events at Bicester Heritage.
The University of Buckingham Law School hosted its annual Law Fair at the Vinson Centre, gathering legal professionals and key stakeholders from the legal and professional recruitment sectors.
The Dyslexia Hub at The University of Buckingham, co-founded by Sarah Myhill and Patricia Covarrubia, has received prestigious Royal Recognition.
The 10th anniversary of our medical programme was celebrated with our founding cohort of Medicine students in April.
Buckingham Medicine student Samh Jain has won the Student Athlete of the Year award in the Keystone Awards.
PhD Computing students, Madara Premawardhana and Rashmi Perera, recently took part in the Alan Turing Institute - AI UK 2025

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/contact-us/information-for-the-media:
The University of Buckingham Hunter Street (Press Office) Buckingham MK18 1EG United Kingdom
Our press office can be contacted via email at pressoffice@buckingham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/clearing:
Call: 01280 820299 Monday-Friday, 9am to 5pm
Clearing is open to anyone not already holding an offer from a university or college, and where courses still have available spaces.
It is also for those who are holding an offer but have changed their minds about their course or university, and for students who miss out on the grades required for their firm and insurance choices.
Clearing runs from July until the end of September, you don’t need to wait for A Level results day to apply!
Clearing is the perfect opportunity to look for more options, refine your search and ensure you make the best decision for the future.
Every year, a large number of students go through Clearing at The University of Buckingham and successfully apply to our courses.
If you need to go through Clearing, our experienced team will be very happy to provide you with the help and support that you need so please contact us.
You can apply for clearing if you have:
Applications for our MB ChB Medicine course are still open for our January 2026 intake.
Applications via UCAS clearing cannot be accepted.
Please apply directly via the 'Apply Now' button on the MB ChB Medicine course page.
If you'd like to find out more about applying to study at The University of Buckingham or if you need help with your application please do not hesitate to call us.
Just have your UCAS ID number handy.
Our Undergraduate programmes for September 2025 entry are still open to direct applications.
Use our course finder to find the right course for you.
COURSE FINDER
Take a virtual tour of our Buckingham campus and let our students and staff tell you what it's like to live and study at Buckingham.
VIEW TOUR
We guarantee accommodation for your first year of undergraduate study.
All the information you need to know about paying your tuition fees.
Register for one of our open days that available throughout the year.
Momna joined The University of Buckingham through Clearing, read her journey and discover why she chose Buckingham.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/study/prospectus:
Jump to: Undergraduate prospectus | Postgraduate prospectus | International student guide
Find out about all our courses in our undergraduate and postgraduate prospectuses.
These will give you a great overview of what we have to offer, including our foundation, undergraduate, postgraduate and professional courses.
The prospectuses are available to view or download.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/study-accounting-and-finance-degree:
Ranked in the top 10 in the UK for Student Satisfaction*, studying an undergraduate accounting and finance degree at Buckingham gives you the opportunity to learn about the world of business and finance alongside our industry partners.
The programme will equip you with a strong understanding of the principles of finance, whilst giving you the essential transferrable business skills you will need in your future career.
Our alumni have gone on to great things, from being nominated as Vice-President of Ghana, to featuring on the cover of Forbes magazine at 25.
As a graduate from Buckingham, you will be joining an esteemed group.
Students who successfully complete our BSc in Accounting and Finance are also eligible to apply for exemptions from many accounting professional bodies, such as the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants.
Take your studies further through our postgraduate programmes in MSc finance and investment, or in Money, Banking and Central Banking.
In just three years at Buckingham, you could graduate with a master’s degree and be launching your business career.
*The Complete University Guide 2023
Study Accounting and Finance at Buckingham, the home of the two-year degree, ranked in the top 10 for Graduate Prospects (The Sunday Times, Good University Guide 2022).
Students are at the heart of everything we do: our award-winning small class tutorials ensure every student is known by name and supported throughout their studies.
You will love our personalised teaching model, dedicated student support team, and beautiful, safe campus.
“I honestly loved my time at The University of Buckingham and I learnt lots about my chosen degree as well as about myself.
The accounting and finance course was a mixture of accounting modules and business modules which I think is perfect for my future career in the business industry.”
Megan, Accounting and Finance
Deba is Dean of the Business School and has strong interests in enhancing the teaching and learning experience for students at all levels.
Her areas of expertise are Service Management and Cross-cultural Management and she supervises Master’s and PhD dissertations.
Dr Gurcharan Singh is the Programme Director for the MSc in Accounting and Finance, the MSc in Finance and Investment and the MSc Financial Fraud, Intelligence and Investigation.
His areas of expertise are in finance (portfolio management, investment, corporate finance) and operational research.
The accounting and finance degree programme provides a great platform for a career in the accounting and finance sectors, by giving graduates wishing to become accredited accountants a ‘fast-track’ route to achieve their qualification.
Our graduates regularly join the accountancy programmes at international professional services firms, including Deloitte, Grant Thornton and PwC.
The skills developed on the degree will also serve as a basis for a career in business management, banking, financial services and consultancy.
We support your employability through a Professional Development Portfolio, in which you write reflectively about the professional skills you acquire and use during your time at university.
These skills will help you in your studies as well as being crucial for your future career.
We have strong links with local accountancy firms including PwC and Grant Thornton across Buckinghamshire and have ongoing internships opportunities available for undergraduate students.
The Institute of International Monetary Research, based at The University of Buckingham, also offers paid internships to students that have an interest in the financial and banking sectors.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/study-business:
Study Business and Management at Buckingham, ranked 2nd for Graduate Prospects (on-track, The Complete University Guide, 2023) and 1st for Teaching, Learning Opportunities and Academic Support (National Student Survey, 2024).
Our business degrees prepare you for the world of business or entrepreneurship, helping you gain the confidence you need to enter the world of business and make a real contribution right from the start.
You will develop knowledge and skills that are relevant to today’s business world including entrepreneurial thinking, artificial intelligence, global business, sustainability and big data analytics.
Our two-year or three-year business management degrees are innovative, stimulating and developed to help you naturally adopt an entrepreneurial mind-set and a global, ‘real world’ perspective through integrated case-based and practical learning.
Because we embed everything we do in the real world of business, for our Business Management programmes we have abolished exams.
Only the accounting modules have exams, as that is a requirement of professional bodies.
But the assessments you will do for the business modules range from writing reports, to giving presentations or taking part in debates.
In other words, we will assess you using the kind of work you will be expected to do in the workplace.
Nobody in a typical management office is asked to write an essay for the boss, or to take an exam.
So we won’t ask you to do those things either.
Instead, we’ll ask you to do the things that you will do in the office.
Our students find they are highly attractive to employers with Discover Uni , showing that 90% of our students gain employment or go on to future study.
Oh – and we also get 100% student satisfaction on our Business Management degree!
Business management courses at Buckingham involve practical exercises and real-world business engagement .
We strive to get you guest lecturers for every module you study.
These are people in business or who have started their own companies and can tell you “like it is” in the real world of business.
Our lecturers also have worked in business, and our Visting Lecturers are either business owners or senior people in business.
In other words, studying Business Management at Buckingham means you get to understand the current reality of business .
However, we do not neglect the academic aspects.
Our lecturers are also researchers, they write books and papers, plus several are “external examiners”, checking that other universities are doing their job right.
“Unlike other universities, The University of Buckingham Business School not only taught us necessary theories but also developed our soft skills.
These skills have not only helped me develop as a person, but have also boosted my employability.”
Nicola, Business and Management with Spanish
Graham is a psychologist who specialises in understanding how people use the internet, particularly in the world of e-commerce.
His career has spanned from being a radio presenter, an author, running his own consultancy business and being a CEO of a national organisation.
Sudi’s teaching expertise centres around business strategy, corporate sustainability, and research methods.
Her research focuses on exploring the impact of corporate governance on corporate sustainability.
Prior to joining academia, she worked for over 12 years in a variety of positions and roles in the banking industry.
Graduating with a business degree will give you a solid foundation of skills that can be applied across not only the business sector but across many other industries.
You will develop your marketing, research, entrepreneurial and decision-making skills that will be valuable in the working environment.
Our Business alumni have gone on to great things.
From being nominated as Vice-President of Ghana, to featuring on the cover of Forbes magazine at 25, becoming fashion, finance and media entrepreneurs, and driving change as Vice President of international consulting or capital firms.
Many of our courses introduce you to real-world projects as an integral part of the programme.
This includes team-based assignments with local and regional companies, allowing you to apply your learning in real-life situations.
We also offer short commercial internships and placements either during or after your degree.
In the past students have been involved in Ikea, MK Dons, Civil Service Fast Stream, SBD Automotive, MK Lightning, Aira Digital and Ernst &amp; Young, OCS group, Alvine Capital to name a few.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/study-computing:
A computing degree equips you with the knowledge and practical skills required to design and develop innovative tech-based solutions to complex information and real problems faced by businesses, the community and global industries.
Are you interested in how artificial intelligence, data analytics, the internet of things, virtual reality and robotics are changing our world?
Our computing undergraduate degrees and master’s programmes will equip you with the skills and competencies needed to design and develop data-driven computing solutions.
Learn on the latest state-of-the-art AI, robotics and immersive technology equipment, including a Boston Dynamics “Spot” (a robotic dog) and a Birdly.
There are also a variety of postgraduate research programmes available.
Our current areas of specialism include (but are not limited to): personal identification, cybersecurity, and image analysis.
We are committed to promoting the benefits of STEM careers for all.
Our state-of-the-art computing suites are equipped with world leading technologies, including Spot by Boston Dynamics , and Birdly by Somniacs .
Part-funded by a Local Growth Fund grant from the Buckinghamshire Local Enterprise Partnership (BLEP), we are investing £3.2 million into Computing, AI, Robotics, Cyber security and Immersive Technologies so you can experience, train and develop alongside the latest tech.
Study Computing at Buckingham, the home of the two-year degree, ranked 3rd for Teaching and Learning Opportunities (The National Student Survey, 2023).
“I have never been in a more supportive environment.
The tutors really make sure you’re doing the best you possibly can and are always helpful.”
Alisha, Computing student
Harin’s research interests are Artificial Intelligence, Computer Vision, and Machine Learning.
He has co-authored over 50 peer-reviewed journal/conference papers and a book chapter.
He is the module lead for Image Processing, Software Project Management, and Software Engineering and supervises PhD projects.
Dr Al-Jawad teaches different courses like Fundamentals of Computing, Multimedia Systems, Networking, Web Technologies, and Programming at different levels.
He also supervises undergraduate and postgraduate projects.
Maysson holds a PhD in Bioinformatics and BEng in Software Engineering and Information Systems.
She is the module lead for the Data Exploration and Visualisation, and Systems and Tools for Data Science in the MSc Applied Data Science programme.
Hongbo’s primary areas of research are in Big Data Processing, Data Mining and Machine Learning, and Image and Time Series Analysis.
He is broadly interested in applying machine learning methods and techniques to solve practical problems.
Our Computing School graduates now work at technology leaders like Microsoft, IBM and Abode, and broadcast companies, such as the BBC.
Other industries our graduates have entered include higher education, finance and publishing.
Demand for workers with specialist computing skills, like data scientists, has more than tripled in the UK over the past five years.
By enabling students to specialise in the second year of their undergraduate degree, they gain the specific skills needed to progress into careers in AI and robotics, cybersecurity or computer games and immersive applications development.
Our Careers and Employability service can help you build your portfolio and a network of employer contacts to make you a great prospective employee for any business.
They can also help you find a job that matches your aspirations and puts your new computing skills to work.
Our students have the opportunity to gain experience through our established partnerships within companies spanning a wide breadth of industries, from data analytics providers like Zizo and multi-factor authentication vendors, Deepnet Security, to charitable organisations such as the Florence Nightingale Hospice.
We also have a number of connections with professional bodies such as CPHC and BCS.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/study-law:
Whether you aspire to work in a top-tier law firm, improve access to justice, or pursue a career in international business, studying a degree in Law, Law and Criminology or Law with Business Management at Buckingham lets you take the first step.
Our Law programmes provide the foundations to build your legal career.
If you study on our Law and Criminology degree, you’ll also graduate with knowledge relating to crime, criminal justice and criminal behaviour.
All our law programmes provide thorough preparation for the Solicitor’s Qualifying Exams and satisfy the academic component of training for becoming a barrister.
They also provide the foundation to practise across the common law world.
You can also undertake our Master of Laws (LLM) upon finishing your undergraduate degree, to gain specialist knowledge, completing your graduate studies to Master’s level in three years.
Studying Law is also valuable experience for other careers such as banking and finance, local and national government and employment in industry.
We also offer a part-time law degree study option, which offers more flexibility: attend lectures one evening a week and graduate with a law degree in just four years.
Study Law, including Law and Criminology and Law with Business Management at Buckingham, the home of the two-year degree, ranked 2nd for Graduate Prospects (on-track, The Complete University Guide, 2023).
To hear more from our law students, watch our video about Law at Buckingham .
“I found the staff in both the Law School and Buckingham as a whole to be nothing but supportive and encouraging of my goals.
The accelerated degree program gave me an advantage over graduates from other universities and allowed me to complete both an LLB and LLM within 3 years.
Buckingham also provided me with many opportunities for work experience with senior practitioners and judges.
I was also given the opportunity to provide consumer advice in the Law Clinic.
This practical hands on experience is not present in most universities and gave me an edge over other candidates in job interviews.”
Aaron Tate, LLB and LLM graduate
Pursue a career as a lawyer or adapt to roles in a wide range of sectors, including non-government organisations (NGOs) and the public sector.
A law degree will develop your abstract and critical thinking and practical problem solving, all of which are key skills for not only lawyers, but managers, consultants, politicians, journalists, financiers, international aid workers, and more.
Within the first five years of their career, graduates earn an average of around £31,000.*
Read what our law students have gone on to achieve.
*Legal Cheek 2019
A specialist in insurance law and company law, Professor Paolini is the joint author of the practitioner reference, Directors’ and Officers’ Liability Insurance which received the prize for the ‘Best Book 2009’ from the British Insurance Law Association.
Professor Paolini holds the Insurance Law Consultant position at the international law firm Clyde & Co.
Professor Paolini has been ranked twice, as a notable practitioner and foreign expert in Banking and Finance by one of the world’s leading guides to the legal profession, Chambers and Partners.
Director of the Full-Time LLB Programme Dr Covarrubia is a Reader in Law and an IP consultant at the Latin America IPR SME Helpdesk, cofounded by the EU Commission.
Dr Covarrubia holds an LLM in European Law and a PhD in Intellectual Property.
Her research interests include geographical indications and indications of origin, compulsory licences in the pharmaceutical industry, and the protection of traditional knowledge.
Dr Covarrubia has also been the recipient of scholarships and grants from Brunel University, the World Intellectual Property Organization and The University of Buckingham, allowing her to further her research in her areas of interest.
Director of the Part-Time LLB Programme Dr Slater graduated from the University of Sussex with a degree in Law and French.
He also has an LLM from Harvard Law School and a PhD from the University of Birmingham.
He is qualified as a solicitor (non-practising).
His area of specialist interest is criminal law, which was the subject of his PhD.
He teaches this subject along with Jurisprudence, Tort and Introduction to Legal Studies.
Director of LLM Programmes As a qualified Solicitor (non-practising) with experience of working and studying in various jurisdictions, Dr Walsh’s research and teaching focuses on the process and administration of justice and dispute resolution from a comparative and socio-legal perspective.
She is a graduate of the trilateral and trilingual Integrated Common Programme run jointly by the Universities of Warwick, Lille II (France), and Saarland (Germany), which specialised in comparative European commercial law.
She completed her PhD on a full Studentship at the University of Surrey on the topic of judicial independence and accountability.
Law School Research Officer A dual-qualified lawyer, Dr Jae Sundaram practised for several years before moving to academia.
Jae’s research interests focus on the Maritime Law, International Trade/ World Trade, Conflict of Laws, Access to Medicines and TRIPS Agreement, and International Law relating to the proportionality in the use of weaponry in modern conflicts.
His textbook on world trade law, WTO Law and Policy: A Political Economy Approach published in April 2022, is the first by a British author on the subject of world trade law, and also the first to be sole authored.
Enhance your legal professional development and put your studies into context.
Work experience for our Law students offers invaluable opportunities to connect you to local law firms and chambers for internships and other legal workshops.
These schemes offer an excellent insight into the legal workplace and are an great starting point for exploring alternative careers in areas such as governance, banking and finance.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/study-digital-media-and-journalism:
Our practice-based degree opens the door to a world of creative media opportunities.
We have our own TV news programme, website and social media.
The local community radio 3Bs is at the heart of the campus.
Students are regularly involved with filming events and working on outside projects.
You will get a chance to develop a broad range of media skills with modules in reporting, digital video editing, podcasting, photography, graphic design and social media.
A special feature of the course is the ongoing studio practice, putting together TV news programmes and web content for our public-facing Buckingham News channel, with stories on real events happening in the community.
Your training will prepare you for a wide variety of careers: journalism, publicity and marketing, publishing, or you may use your entrepreneurial and creative skills to produce web content or become the next big social media influencer.
You learn from industry professionals committed to giving you real-world experience that will help you develop in depth understanding of the media environment.
Kick-off your digital media career with us, build a range of practical skills and produce a stand-out portfolio of industry-standard work.
Study Content Creation, Digital Media and Journalism at Buckingham, the home of the two-year degree, ranked 2nd for Graduate Prospects (on-track, The Complete University Guide, 2023).
“ Choosing a two-year degree has been one of the smartest decisions I’ve made.
It’s brought out my confidence, challenged me to achieve my best, and really developed my critical thinking.
”
Samantha, Communication, Media and Journalism
Dr Aleksandar Donev is an experienced designer, lecturer and researcher.
He has over 15 years of experience in creative industries as a visual designer and consultant.
His research interest lie in typography in action, interaction design and design influence.
Justine is a freelance photographer and traveller, having photographed in over 25 countries.
Her images have appeared in The Telegraph , The Sunday Times , The Huffington Post , the BBC, as well as a number of international publications for travel photography.
Simon has over 20 years’ experience in radio, podcasting and television.
Still actively involved in broadcasting and production, he works for the BBC, Sky, IMG and Talksport among others.
Simon has extensive contacts and is fully versed in the latest industry trends.
Graduating with a digital media and journalism degree will enable you to explore a career in lots of different industries.
Media and journalism skills are particularly sought after in the areas of journalism, publishing, public relations and marketing.
Additionally, as data becomes ever more important, business is always on the lookout for those who can make the numbers sing.
You will be in demand as a data visualiser, where you’ll be able to tell the powerful stories behind the data.
We have strong links with a variety of industries from broadcasters like the BBC and BT Sport, to the MK Dons football team.
You also get the chance to network as most of our lectures and workshops are delivered by practising professionals and experts.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/study-economics:
“Explore the dynamic world of economics, where we bring economic studies to life against the backdrop of major global events like the transformative impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and the inflation shock of 2021+.
Ranked in the top 10 in the UK for Student Satisfaction*, our undergraduate economics programmes are led by accomplished academics who actively shape economic policy.
Leading-edge curriculum: Our forward-thinking curriculum covers traditional economic analysis and theory in macroeconomics, industrial organisation, economic policy, econometrics, and microeconomic behaviour, whilst also delving into emerging areas such as cryptocurrencies & monetary economics, energy economics and data science.
Research active faculty: Learn from leading academics, ensuring your education is informed by real-world insights and contemporary economic trends.
Global relevance: Our programmes emphasise the immediate relevance of economics in today’s fast moving and global economic landscape.
Gain the skills and insights needed to become a part of the next generation, equipped to navigate challenges and opportunities in a global context.
Graduate-level study: We also have a range of master’s programmes and PhD study linked to our excellent research institutes and centres, located on-campus, including: the Institute of International Monetary Research, Institute for Free Trade, The UN Centre and the Vinson centre for Economics and Entrepreneurship.
Study Economics at Buckingham, the home of the two-year degree, ranked 2nd for Graduate Prospects (on-track, The Complete University Guide, 2023).
“The department staff were excellent at explaining difficult concepts and always made time outside of lectures to give extra help.
The degree was enjoyable throughout and staff knew what they were taking about..”
Edward, Politics and Economics
Professor Kabiri teaches Welfare Economics, Microeconomic theory and the History of Economic thought on the undergraduate programmes.
He has a research interest in banking risk and credit, economic history and behavioural economics/finance and is a research associate at the Financial Markets Group (FMG) at the LSE and a member of the lead team at the CSDU at UCL.
Dr Castañeda has been awarded a Bank of Spain annual scholarship to develop research on the monetary history and has also developed several research projects on fiscal policy rules.
Professor Ricketts is published in the areas of theory of the firm, aspects of public finance, the new institutional economics and housing policy.
He is also a Managing trustee of the IEA and trustee of the Institute of International Monetary Research.
Ms Powis teaches maths and statistics, providing a solid foundation for students to build on.
She has experience supporting students of a wide range of abilities and has a dedicated approach to student development.
She is also a specialist in equality issues.
Dr Bassim has 18 years of experience teaching undergraduate and postgraduate students at Buckingham, pioneering modules in development economics in the MENA region, econometrics and etatistics.
A specialist in labour market economics and economic policy, Professor Shackleton teaches modules on the undergraduate programme.
He brings his vast experience in academic and real-world economics, regularly appearing on radio, TV and contributing to newspapers and websites.
Victor is a lecturer in economics at the University of Buckingham.
Previously, he was an associate lecturer in the department of economics at the University of York.
His research interest lies in the field of Political Economy and Applied Microeconometrics.
Economics degrees are a solid foundation for a career in finance and banking, economic research, economic policy analysis, the civil service, international business, non-governmental organisations (NGOs), or think tanks.
Our economics graduates are highly sought after due to the enhanaced analytical abilities they gain.
Our Careers and Employability service can help you build your portfolio, a network of employer contacts and help you find a job that matches your aspirations.
We have a varied range of research institutes and centres on campus, including The Institute for International Monetary Research, Initiative for Free Trade, The Centre for United Nations Studies and the new Vinson Centre for Economics and Entrepreneurship.
These institutes hold regular seminars and events with speakers from all over the world, providing excellent opportunities for networking and internships.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/study-english-literature:
Our English Literature degrees rank joint 1st for Freedom of Expression*, cater for interdisciplinary study and can be as individual as you.
We offer course combinations and free choice modules in related humanities and social science areas such as media, politics, film studies, history and many more topics.
Ranked in the Top 10 for Assessment and Feedback and Teaching in the National Student Survey 2024, our English Literature degrees are taught in small tutorial groups by experienced academics with international research profiles across 19th- and 20th-century studies.
*National Student Survey 2024
Study English Literature at Buckingham, the home of the two-year degree, ranked 2nd for Graduate Prospects (on-track, The Complete University Guide, 2023).
“Completing an English Literature degree at The University of Buckingham has given me a unique space to develop my critical voice, and to articulate opinions with greater clarity.
The tutorial system means that we’ve learnt to work consistently, speak up, and also listen to each other”
Daria , English Literature
Dr Peter Sloane is Senior Lecturer and Programme Director for English.
He works in Contemporary Anglophone literatures, and has published books on David Foster Wallace, Kazuo Ishiguro, and 21st Century Refugee writing.
Dr.
Sarah Waters is an expert in Shakespeare and C.S.
Lewis.
She teaches and researches the works of both of these authors (sometimes together and sometimes separately).
She also has expertise in interdisciplinary work, particularly in the fields of medical humanities and affect studies.
Dr Pete Orford is Course Director of the MA in Charles Dickens studies and a specialist in the life and works of Dickens.
His publications include a biography of Dickens as well as scholarly editions of several of Dickens’s works.
He teaches in Renaissance, Victorian, Gothic and Children’s Literature.
Studying English Literature will give you the flexibility to pursue a career in a wide range of sectors.
Key skills taught on these programmes include critical thinking, research and communication (written and spoken) that are desirable in the modern workplace.
You will graduate a creative, flexible problem solver that is able to analyse and solve complex problems.
Our graduates go on to work in the public sector, media and wider business.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/study-entrepreneurship:
Our entrepreneurship courses prepare you to start your own business, or to work in enterprising and entrepreneurial firms.
You will discover what makes entrepreneurs “tick” and the psychology behind their success, allowing you to apply that to your own business journey.
On our entrepreneurship degrees you get to meet plenty of entrepreneurs.
Not only will you hear from them as guest lecturers on almost every module you take, but they are also present within the university.
Local entrepreneurs use our “Buckingham Enterprise and Innovation Unit” as a space to work, outside their office.
They hold meetings in the Enterprise Hub, and you can even see them working alongside students in our coffee lounge.
You will have the opportunity also to attend a monthly networking meeting for business owners from across Buckinghamshire.
During our entrepreneurship programme ,  you will study a local small business and analyse entrepreneurs in action.
The University also offers “micro internships,” which are paid placements within local companies, so you can gain further insights into the world of enterprise.
Study Business and Management at Buckingham, the home of the two-year degree, ranked 2nd for Graduate Prospects (on-track, The Complete University Guide, 2023).
“We’re encouraged to feel safe and confident.
Our lecturers make sure that we grow as individuals.
You will receive that support to make sure that nothing stands in the way of you achieving the best possible degree that you can”
Joy, BSc Business Enterprise.
Entrepreneurship courses equip you with the skills to move forward as an entrepreneur, even in the corporate world, where entrepreneurial thinking is in high demand.
Graduates from our entrepreneurship courses have gone on to do amazing things, either running their own businesses or working as “intrapreneurs” within large corporates.
Our students have gone to work in a variety of settings including global banks and major consultancy firms, or they have set up their own businesses.
These include a marketing agency, an HR tech start-up, and an electric bike producer.
Our Enterprise Department works with a range of partners to enhance our students’ experience.
We are very proud of the partners we work with, as we believe we have the same aligned vision of bringing an enterprising and entrepreneurial mindset to all.
Our partners have included the Peter Jones Foundation, Bucks Business First, NatWest Accelerator, Young Enterprise, Enterprise Educators UK, and the Centre for Entrepreneurs.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/study-foundation:
Studying a Foundation course at Buckingham will help you bridge the gap between your current qualifications and the knowledge and skills required for our two-year undergraduate programmes.
With our integrated option, you can complete both your foundation stage and undergraduate degree in just three years.
This means a faster and smoother transition into university study in a supportive and stimulating learning environment.
Develop your confidence in core skills, such as debate participation, critical thinking and report writing and study subject-related modules that are tailored to give you a solid base of knowledge in your chosen study area (such as business, law, computing, psychology or the humanities).
Study a Foundation course at Buckingham, the home of the two-year degree, ranked 2nd for Graduate Prospects (on-track, The Complete University Guide, 2023).
The English Foundation Programme is designed to equip international students with essential academic English language skills necessary for academic success.
Through a combination of modules focusing on listening, speaking, writing, reading, and grammar, the programme ensures comprehensive preparation for university-level studies at foundation, undergraduate and postgraduate levels.
Each module targets specific skill areas to enhance students’ linguistic proficiency and academic readiness.
“My foundation year experience was instrumental in my academic journey.
It eased my transition from secondary school to university studies.
The academic skills modules played a crucial role in building my self-confidence.
I was able to foster good habits like study skills, time management techniques, and effective learning strategies that I went on to apply in my degree course.”
Timilehin, Foundation
“After being out of education for a year and having lost my confidence, the foundation programme at Buckingham eased me back into study and built up everything I had lost.
It helped me in my academic and personal life, as well as developing life skills I will never forget.”
Henry , BA International Relations with integrated foundation
Dr Ashour specialises in enhancing the use of technology to support meaningful learning and assessment; he enjoys creating a learning environment where students can support and learn from one another.
Poyan is a Programme Manager responsible for the Foundation Programmes in the Faculty of Computing, Law and Psychology.
He is also a lecturer in the Foundation Department mainly teaching International Studies and International Human Rights Law.
Commencing his lecturing career in 2018, he has gained experience teaching law from A-Level to undergraduate level.
Poyan holds a first-class honours in LLB Law as well as a Diploma in English Law.
Moreover, he is currently completing his doctoral studies in law.
The Foundational team will work with you to develop your confidence and employability skills: from how to present, to building cross-cultural relations.
We will also encourage you to get involved with events such as employability fairs and guest lectures in your future school of study to give you an understanding of the world of work in your chosen discipline.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/study-history-and-history-of-art:
Our History and History of Art degrees will help you develop skills of critical and historical analysis through small group teaching, frequent study trips and object-based learning.
As one of our flexible honours students, you have the freedom to tailor your History or History of Art degree to reflect your interests and passions by combining with a wide range of other subjects taught here at the University.
Alternatively, you can combine either History or History of Art with a Heritage Management Minor offering a combination of theoretical and vocational study during your degree.
For our History of Art students, two specialist MA options allow students to complete both a BA and an MA in three years which is the same time it would take to complete a BA elsewhere.
A unique feature of our BA History and History of Art degrees is the opportunity to study with an inspiring term in Florence , focusing on the historical city, it’s culture, art and architecture.
Study History and History of Art at Buckingham, the home of the two-year degree, ranked 2nd for Graduate Prospects (on-track, The Complete University Guide, 2023).
“Doing a History degree at The University of Buckingham provided me with a solid foundation for going forward with my career – and a passion for learning that remains undimmed five years after graduation.
The teaching staff truly made each lecture come alive with rich detail, anecdotes, and passion.
For those considering studying History, The University of Buckingham is an outstanding choice for both enjoyment of the subject and going forward in life.”
Alex, History
Specialising in the reception of the classical tradition in the early modern period, Dr Aymonino ’s areas of research cover the impact of the Antique on seventeenth- and eighteenth-century art and architecture, with a particular focus on Britain and the culture of the Grand Tour.
Dr Jones specialises in the history of Europe since the French Revolution, with a focus on Britain and France.
Teaching on a wide array of modules, concentrating on heritage studies, Ms Fitzpatrick is the Programme Director for the History of Art in Florence programme.
Her research focusses on board knowledge and the governance of small museums.
Lindsay Macnaughton is a cultural historian of France who has lectured and published on decorative arts and historic interiors, the history of collecting, and eighteenth- and nineteenth-century France.
She is the course tutor for the French strand of the MA in Decorative Arts and Historic Interiors.
Dr Mike Humphries is a Lecturer in History within the School of Humanities and Social Sciences.
Jeremy Howard is the Head of the Department of History of Art and Tutor for Admissions for the BA in History of Art and Heritage Management and MA in Historic Arts and Decorative Interiors, as well as Head of Research at the art dealers, Colnaghi.
Prof Jane Ridley teaches History and runs the MA in Biography.
Studying a humanities programme teaches you to think critically and independently and by the end of your degree, amongst other skills, you will be able to construct and present a strong evidence-based argument in written and spoken form.
Soft skills, such as persuasion, are in strong demand by employers – as evidenced by the 2019 LinkedIn employer research.
Our postgraduate programmes offer a range of placement opportunities: we work with leading museums and galleries across Britain and Europe – including partnering with the renowned Wallace Collection – to ensure our students have access to a breadth of experts in the field.
Aside from partnering with the likes of the Wallace Collection, each year we run a specialist careers evening where external speakers come from a broad range of organisations in the arts and creative industries.
Former speakers include Michael Prodger, from the New Statesman; Melanie Gerlis of the Art newspaper and the FT; and other speakers from museums, English Heritage and the National Trust.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/study-international-studies:
An International Studies degree at Buckingham will build your understanding of intercultural, social and political issues and prepare you for success in global organisations and government agencies.
As an interdisciplinary degree, you will engage with the challenges and opportunities of a rapidly changing world, developing a detailed understanding of economics, politics and modern (nineteenth and twentieth century) history.
As part of our new Flexible Honour programme, you will be able to pick your subject major –International Studies – and then choose from a wide range of modules from other subjects, enabling you to truly follow your interests and passions.
The degree combines history, economics and politics with (optionally) law.
There is a great deal of choice within the degree.
The knowledge you gain through the two-year degree can then be applied to countries and regions across the world, such as Latin America, China, the Middle East and Europe.
Various master’s (MA) programmes are also available, taught by local and international experts.
These include: United Nations and Diplomatic Studies , and Security, Intelligence and Diplomacy .
Study International Studies at Buckingham, the home of the two-year degree, ranked 2nd for Graduate Prospects (on-track, The Complete University Guide, 2023).
“I loved my studies at Buckingham.
I was always interested in international relations, but I never thought that studying it here would be such a rewarding experience.
The teaching staff were excellent.”
Anastasiya, International Studies with Spanish
Dr Wilkinson is considered one of the UK’s leading experts on Cuba and US-Cuba relations.
He delivers undergraduate modules in Political Communication, The Politics of China, The Politics of Latin America, US Foreign Policy and Cuban Politics.
Stephen is the Director of the International Institute for the Study of Cuba and editor of the International Journal of Cuban Studies.
Dr Graham is a political theorist who has authored one of the most widely used undergraduate textbooks on his subject – Hoffman and Graham, Introduction to Political Theory, 3rd Edition, Routledge, 2015 (fourth edition due out in 2020).
He also runs the Centre for United Nations Studies.
An expert on the European Union (EU), Dr Kostadinova has also worked on the Middle East, with particular focus on Saudi Arabia.
She has published the findings of her research in leading academic outlets, including in the Journal of Common Market Studies.
She teaches at undergraduate and postgraduate level and is a PhD supervisor.
Programmes in international studies equip graduates with a range of skills and knowledge across areas such as globalisation, development, social relations, democracies, theories of international relations, economics and security.
A BA in International Studies is especially useful as a foundation for careers in policy analysis, civil service, diplomacy, country risk analysis, non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and the charity sector, public affairs consultant, journalism and teaching.
The Institute of Economic Affairs (IEA), a leading economic think tank, provides dedicated internship places and guest lecturers.
We have pioneered collaborations with universities such as the Sarajevo School of Science and Technology and are also the home to The Institute for International Monetary Research, which offers internships.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/study-medicine-and-health:
Our Schools of Medicine and Allied Health are hubs for professional healthcare training.
We offer a range of Medicine and Health Sciences courses , from MB ChB Medicine and CertHE Medical Sciences (Pre-Med), to postgraduate courses for healthcare professionals.
Our unique 4.5-year, GMC-accredited medicine programme will develop you into a competent, safe and caring doctor, well equipped to progress in your chosen area.
We introduce patient contact from as early as term one, giving you plenty of opportunities to interact and shadow leading practitioners.
You will be taught both on-campus and at our clinical placements at nearby hospitals.
Our Medicine and Health Science courses are suited to both UK and international students.
As an independent medical school, we have no cap on international student places
Study Medicine and Health at Buckingham, the home of the two-year degree, ranked 2nd for Graduate Prospects (on-track, The Complete University Guide, 2023).
DibyeshwarI, MB ChB
“The University of Buckingham Medical School has been very welcoming and informative.
The academic faculty is always there to assist students in their studies and always makes sure students are comfortable in what they are doing.
Every member of staff from the students union, IT, student support, refectory staff help to make you feel at home.”
Professor Attila Kardos has specialist research interests in clinical epidemiology, clinical trials in the field of heart failure, angina, heart attack, valve disease and cardiovascular imaging.
He was awarded a Research Fellowship of the European Society of Cardiology; and was a post-doc fellow at the University of Oxford.
After completing several years in NHS clinical practice (including a role as clinical lead), he took up an academic post at the University of Salford before moving to Buckingham.
Professor Michael Harrison-Blount sits on the Academic and Clinical Governance Committee (ACG) for the College of Podiatry and continues to practice podiatry in Nantwich.
By studying medicine or an allied health programme, you can help to make a real difference to people’s lives.
With over 60 different specialisations in the medical profession, you can benefit from a range of career options from GPs to podiatrists.
Our degrees will teach you transferable skills such as presentation, research and communication alongside of medical knowledge, meaning you will be equipped to work in a difficult and pressured environment.
Milton Keynes University Hospital
St Andrew’s Hospital, Northampton
South Warwickshire NHS Foundation Trust
Stoke Mandeville Hospital, Bucks Healthcare Trust
The Railings
Macclesfield General Hospital, East Cheshire Trust
Leighton Hospital, Mid Cheshire Hospitals, Crewe
The GMC has commended the University for the ‘excellent professional, academic and pastoral support that extends throughout the University and clinical learning environments’ and ‘the robust systems that ensure the quality of all aspects of the MB ChB programme, including teaching and assessment’.
View our locations and travel requirements .
One of such partners is Learna , who provide flexible, affordable, and fully online postgraduate medical degrees, enabling professionals to advance their clinical careers through accessible, high-quality learning.
A full list of programmes offered by Learna and validated by The University of Buckingham, can be viewed on our Collaborations page.
Our admissions process consists of three stages.
The first is to submit an application with all supporting documentation, either directly or via UCAS.
If the applicant meets or is predicted to meet the entry requirements, they are invited to the second stage for the Multiple Mini Assessment; computer-based tests consisting of tasks that test students’ analysis, interpretation and judgement.
Successful applicants are then invited to the third stage, the Multiple Mini Interview, consisting of a number of observed structured selection examinations.
Exceptionally high performing students may receive an offer after stage two.
All other offers are made after the Multiple Mini Interview events.
View the MB ChB course page to view upcoming 2024 Selection Days.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/study-military-history:
With Britain having recently been more heavily involved in overseas wars than at any point in the last half-century, The University of Buckingham’s Masters in Modern War Studies and Military History courses are ideal programmes to exchange thoughts on security, diplomacy and the armed forces.
Directed by some of the country’s finest military historians, Professor Saul David and Professor Lloyd Clark , these rich and stimulating postgraduate programmes will let you explore your research interests.
During your studies you will be given access to historical places of interest, such as the Symposium Day at the Royal Military Academy Sandhurst.
The London-based, one-year programmes give you access to some of the most eminent scholars and authors in the field through 10 bespoke research seminars held at the Reform Club in London.
Previous speakers have included: Professor N.A.M.
Rodger, Sir Hew Strachan, Richard Overy, Sir Richard J.
Evans, David Reynolds and Gary Sheffield, and Sir Antony Beevor.
Study Military History at Buckingham, the home of the two-year degree, ranked 2nd for Graduate Prospects (on-track, The Complete University Guide, 2023).
“I had a longstanding interest in military history but little understanding of the skills involved in academic research.
The unique and exciting quality of the Buckingham programme is that it enables an interested amateur to tackle a historical question that is entirely new and to produce a work that can withstand rigorous academic scrutiny within an incredibly short timescale.”
Andy, MA Military History
Specialising in the history of the British Army and the Wars of 19th and 20th Centuries, Prof David is an experienced broadcaster and regularly appears in history programmes on British TV and radio.
Professor Clark is a senior academic in the Department of War Studies, The Royal Military Academy Sandhurst, a Fellow of the Royal Historical Society, a member of the British Commission for Military History and historian to the Airborne Assault Normandy Trust.
He lectures on all aspects of military history all over the world and is a frequent guide to battlefields on four continents.
Graduates of our Military History courses have gone on to become published authors, teachers, military tour guides, and commentators on relevant war and military topics: and the majority have contributed original ideas and research to build upon the world’s knowledge of military history.
Former students have included senior government officials, captains of industry, successful entrepreneurs and High Court judges – all seeking to deepen their understanding of, and explore their passion for, war and military history.
We organise conferences in conjunction with The Royal Collection and History Today magazine.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/study-philosophy:
How do you answer the big questions in life?
A Philosophy degree invites you to look at the fundamental questions surrounding knowledge, truth and ethics from a theological perspective, shaping your ability to reason effectively and structure a persuasive argument.
At undergraduate level, we offer our students the opportunity to study a Philosophy, Politics and Economics (PPE) degree.
This degree places a special focus on explaining how human behaviour shapes economic and political institutions.
You will be introduced to philosophy, political theory and the philosophy of social science.
Our PPE degree will equip you with a range of skills: from analysis, report writing, and group working, to developing a deep understanding of power relations, both domestic and international.
We also offer an MA in Philosophy, which is taught in London.
Pioneered by Prof Sir Roger Scruton and Prof Anthony O’Hear, this highly regarded programme allows you to specialise in your chosen area of Philosophy, and you could progress on to a Philosophy PhD.
Study Philosophy at Buckingham, the home of the two-year degree, ranked 2nd for Graduate Prospects (on-track, The Complete University Guide, 2023).
Sebastian, MA Philosophy
“Undertaking the Buckingham MA has marked one of the most enriching years of my life.
the brilliant supervisors, as well as the many excellent visiting lecturers on the course, and all the while be so well supported in the pursuit of my own interests within the discipline of philosophy.
The content is second to none, and the symposium-style form is the perfect way to convey that content.
I am deeply grateful to Buckingham for providing such a remarkable course.”
Professor O’Hear is one of the UK’s leading philosophers.
Director of the Royal Institute of Philosophy and editor of the journal Philosophy, he is author of (among other books) Beyond Evolution, Plato’s Children and After Progress.
Dr Graham is a political theorist who has authored one of the most widely used undergraduate textbooks on his subject – Hoffman and Graham, Introduction to Political Theory, 3rd Edition.
PPE can prepare you for a career in policy analysis, civil service, diplomacy, country risk analysis, non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and the charity sector, public affairs consultancy, journalism and teaching.
Our course is designed to teach you the skills that are distinctively human and unlikely to be replaced by AI: spanning empathy; problem solving; working with others; thinking creatively; and fundamental strategic thinking.
We have strong links with the Institute of Economic Affairs (IEA), a think-tank, which covers a wide range of policy areas and offers internships for our students.
We have also pioneered collaborations with other universities, such as the Sarajevo School of Science and Technology, and are also the home to The Institute for International Monetary Research and The Centre for United Nations Studies.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/study-politics:
Study how power shapes politics, governments and life in the UK and around the world.
Our Politics degree look at the institutions, processes and beliefs that societies have developed: how they shape priorities, conflict resolution and wealth distribution, while tackling some of today’s biggest challenges.
Go beyond the textbook with our politics degree and learn from leading experts who visit the University as part of the Vice-Chancellor Speaker Series and Fireside Talks, in addition to our wide range of local and international academics.
We offer international field trips as part of your course, such as travelling to the UN or Cuba, and are home to the new Centre for United Nations Studies, which was opened by the President of the UN General Assembly.
Study Politics at Buckingham, the home of the two-year degree, ranked 2nd for Graduate Prospects (on-track, The Complete University Guide, 2023).
Richard, Politics, Economics and Law
“Buckingham’s small class sizes and the tutorial-based system are invaluable educational advantages, which truly personalise education.
It’s the way it ought to be.
The only thing that I would want more from Buckingham would be to go back and do it again!”
Dr Wilkinson is considered one of the UK’s leading experts on Cuba and US-Cuba relations.
He is Chairman of the International Institute for the Study of Cuba and editor of the International Journal of Cuban Studies.
He has organised student visits to Cuba and is working on a student trip to North Korea in 2020.
Degrees in politics equip graduates with a range of skills: analysis; report writing; group working; and a deep understanding of social relations, both domestic and international.
A BA in Politics is especially useful as a foundation for careers in policy analysis, civil service, diplomacy, country risk analysis, non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and the charity sector, public affairs, journalism and teaching.
We have pioneered collaborations with universities such as the Sarajevo School of Science and Technology, and are also the home to The Institute for International Monetary Research and the Centre for United Nations Studies .

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/study-psychology:
Buckingham’s Psychology degrees are unique, thought-provoking, and designed to give you a head start in your career as a psychologist and in people-centred employment.
You will meticulously explore the study of human behaviour, mental processes, and examine how thoughts and emotions influence people’s actions.
At Buckingham, this is achieved with small-group teaching, engaging discussions and inspiring debates.
Our undergraduate degrees are BPS (British Psychological Society) accredited, and therefore respected internationally and throughout the country.
In addition to offering the only two-year Psychology degree in the UK, Buckingham offers excellent flexibility: two entry points, different lengths of study, optional minor subjects, and the opportunity to select optional modules to align your degree with your career aspirations.
Our research degrees are offered at MSc and PhD level, where you work with a supervisor to design and carry out your own unique research project.
These degrees are assessed on a final thesis examination.
Study at Buckingham, the home of the two-year degree, and where Psychology is ranked in the top 10 for Graduate Prospects-on-track (The Complete University Guide 2024).
Students are at the heart of everything we do; our award-winning small class tutorials ensure every student is known by name and supported throughout their studies.
Simoné Nel, Psychology
“The two-year degree covers all the core work that you need, including teaching you transferable skills.
Being in smaller classes has helped me to openly express my thoughts and things I do not understand so that the lecturer can explain better.”
Programme Director for the Psychology BSc programme, Dr Hill currently delivers modules on Research Methods and Statistics alongside Psychology of Emotion, and the option of Animal Behaviour.
She works as part of the University’s CREATE research team, and her principal research interests are in creative problem solving and significant ‘insight’ moments (sudden ‘a-ha’ or ’uh-oh’ moments of new understanding).
Philip joined The University of Buckingham in 1996.
He is a Graduate member of the BPS, a member of its Cognitive Psychology and Cyberpsychology sections, and was Honorary Secretary of the Cognitive Psychology Section until 2023.
He is a registered test user on the BPS RQTU.
Philip is a founding member of the CREATE hub.
His research interests include expertise, problem solving and creativity, fake news and misinformation, cyberpsychology (including cyberbullying), music psychology, and time perception.
Helen joined Buckingham’s School of Psychology in August 2018.
She is a fellow of the Higher Education Academy and a chartered psychologist and an associate fellow of the British Psychological Society.
Helen teaches modules including Conceptual and Historical Issues in Psychology, Evolutionary Psychology, Individual Differences, and Research Methods and Statistics.
Charmaine joined the School of Psychology and Well-being in April 2019.
She is a committee member for the British Psychological Society Transpersonal section.
Charmaine teaches modules in Individual Differences and Research Methods and Statistics.
Aside from developing subject-specific knowledge, a psychology degree will enable you to develop your communication, leadership and research skills; refine your critical thinking; and better understand yourself and others.
It is a degree that is increasingly valued by employers due to the analytical and reasoning skills it provides.
Psychology graduates are sought after in business, teaching, research, social work, as well as in medicine and healthcare.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/study-security-and-intelligence:
With global security intelligence increasingly at the heart of policy across all areas of business and government, issues such as migration, climate change, rapidly changing internal politics and clashes between existing and rising powers will all dominate the news and policy agendas over the coming years.
Technology is also becoming central to our thinking: not just in the shape of cyber security intelligence, but also in a range of developments, from artificial intelligence to autonomous weapons systems.
Security and intelligence degree graduates with a strong understanding of intelligence and security concerns continue to be in high demand.
Study for your Security and Intelligence degree takes place at The University of Buckingham’s Centre (BUCSIS) which has established itself as a centre of excellence in developing knowledge and career prospects in the arena of global security.
With a range of study options at undergraduate, postgraduate and professional levels, you can build a future in one of the most critical, stimulating and growing areas of policy and employment.
Study Security and Intelligence at Buckingham, the home of the two-year degree, ranked 2nd for Graduate Prospects (on-track, The Complete University Guide, 2023).
“I would highly recommend the Security, Intelligence and Diplomacy programme at BUCSIS for 3 main reasons: content and assignments, support and guidance from teaching staff, and fellow students on the programme.
The assessment structure allows you to explore topics in your own way with knowledge and leadership from the stellar teaching staff.
They are always there to support students throughout the programme, whether relating to assessments or general understanding of topics or future career ideas.”
Ian, MA Security, Intelligence and Diplomacy
Professor Richards has spent nearly 20 years working in intelligence and security for the British Government, later jointly founding Buckingham’s Centre for Security and Intelligence (BUCSIS) .
His research interests include issues concerning global security and security policy; questions of extremism and radicalization; and the development of techniques in intelligence analysis.
Dr Dobson has research interests in the new challenges to intelligence accountability and oversight in a technologically-driven modern world.
In her doctoral thesis, she focused on exploring the potential impact that unauthorised disclosures can have by tracing the stories of whistleblowers.
Graduates have secured roles in both the private and public sector.
With many different career pathways flowing into the security and intelligence world, you could move into positions in the public service (such as the military or civil service), or international organisations like the UN, NATO, EU or OSCE.
There are also a range of careers in journalism, media, NGOs and think tanks.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/news/recognition-of-excellence-at-wuscas:
23 May 2025
The University of Buckingham is delighted to achieve a top 5 and a top 10 ranking at the WhatUni Student Choice Awards (WUSCAs) .
The WUSCAs review collection team has visited over 100 university campuses across the UK, gathering over 36,000 reviews from students.
Students had the opportunity to independently review their university experiences across various categories, including Lecturers and Teaching Quality and Student Support.
For prospective students, the WUSCAs student reviews serve as an invaluable and unbiased resource for researching their Higher Education options.
Professor James Tooley, Vice-Chancellor of The University of Buckingham said:
“Congratulations to everyone who has contributed to these achievements.
Students consistently tell us they are ‘a name, not a number’ at Buckingham, and this is evident in their feedback.
We are proud to see our guiding principles of academic excellence and student partnership highlighted by the WUSCAs, as well as our commitment to support our students with person-centred services that offer the advice, guidance, and practical help they need to thrive during their time at Buckingham.”
We open our doors to prospective students on throughout the year so you can explore our riverside campus, check out accommodation, hear from the Students’ Union, and let our students and staff tell you everything you need to know about living and studying at Buckingham.
Book your place at our next Open Day .

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/help-and-advice:
Home > Help and advice
Applications
Entry requirements
Fees
Scholarships
Visas

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/life/timetable:
Download Blank Timetable | List of lecture and seminar rooms | Dates of terms

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/sitemap:
Courses | Pages | Country Pages | People | Accommodation

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/site-terms:
We take your privacy very seriously and will not pass your details to any third party without your permission (other than where we are required to do so by law or regulation).
We need the information in this form in order to process your application and to complete our student records if you are offered a place and come to Buckingham.
If you do not come to Buckingham your application will be kept on file for up to 1 year.
Applicants who have disclosed or who would like to disclose a disability or additional requirement are strongly advised to contact the Student Welfare Department ( student.welfare@buckingham.ac.uk ; tel +44 (0)1280 814080).
Students will then be able to discuss how the University may meet these needs, before formally accepting an offer.
The University of Buckingham has no control over and accepts no responsibility for the content of external sites linked to from this website.
Unless otherwise explicitly stated, copyright of all materials resides with The University of Buckingham and is asserted.
Every effort has been made to ensure the accuracy of the information presented in these pages.
If you become aware of any errors or omissions, please contact us via info@buckingham.ac.uk
It is not the University’s policy to enter into any binding agreement via the Internet.
No page of the University’s website should be interpreted as an offer.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/accessibility:
This website is run by The University of Buckingham.
The University of Buckingham is committed to ensuring that this website is accessible to everyone regardless of disability, capability or technology.
This page states our intention that our website is usable and accessible to all users and details some of the measures taken.
This website’s objective are to conform to the Guidelines for UK government websites, which support the W3C’s Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 1.0, Level AA and the Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI).
Some of the measures we have taken to ensure our site is accessible include:
We run regular checks of our pages against accessibility testing tools and perform periodic audits of our site against WAI Priority 1 and 2 checkpoints.
If you experience problems accessing any of the information on our site, please contact our digital communications team via webmaster@buckingham.ac.uk and we will try our best to fix the problem or provide the information in an alternative format.
This commitment applies only to The University of Buckingham websites on the buckingham.ac.uk domain, and not to websites that are linked from our pages.
We are aware that some of our non-HTML content is not as accessible as it could be.
Compliance with web accessibility is an ongoing process which we are working to improve.
All images on this site are accompanied by a brief alternative text which where appropriate identifies an image or its function.
This alternative text (alt-text) is generally only visible when the browser’s automatic image loading feature is turned off.
Documents on this website are provided in a variety of formats.
The most common are Adobe Acrobat PDF (PDF) and Microsoft Word (MS Word).
Most computers already have the software to open these document formats.
Most PDF files on this site allow basic accessibility.
Simple PDFs should not represent an accessibility problem.
However, despite our best efforts some PDF files may still not be fully accessible, such as scanned and older PDF files and those containing complex statistics and data tables.
If you are having trouble reading a PDF document on this website, Adobe offers a free online tool for converting PDF documents to HTML or text.
For more information about PDF accessibility see the Adobe website accessibility section.
For more help with Acrobat files generally and a link to download Acrobat Reader see the site help page.
The text on this website has been styled using a non-fixed value in a style sheet.
This means that users can easily change the text size using their browser settings.
Depending on which web browser you are using, this can be done in the following ways:
Alternatively you can change the resolution of your computer screen to make the entire screen display bigger or smaller.
Depending on which sort of computer you are using, this can be done in the following ways:
You can use your web browser options to choose your own colours.
For more information and help about changing your browser settings please visit the BBC’s My Web My Way pages.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/privacy-policy:
These policies cover any data that we collect about you (“personally identifiable data”) either through The University of Buckingham website (“the site”) or in any other dealings with you and the uses we intend to make of that data.
How we collect, use and share your personal data, and your rights in relation to the personal data we hold.
How we comply with our obligations under GDPR, setting out the obligations of staff and students.
A cookie is a small amount of data, which often includes an anonymous unique identifier that is sent to your browser from a website’s computer and stored on your computer’s hard drive.
Each website can send its own cookie to your browser if your browser’s preferences allow it, but (to protect your privacy) your browser only permits a website to access the cookies it has already sent to you, not the cookies sent to you by other sites.
Your visit to a website, including all the pages you visit and actions you take, is known as a “session”.
A cookie is set for each session so we can remember your information as you move from page to page – for example, what you have searched for in the course finder.
We use Google Analytics 4 to track how people are using our site, so we can see the number of visitors and additional information such as pages visited, actions taken and how people arrived on the website.
Google Analytics 4 sets cookies to associate multiple page visits with the same visitor.
From time to time we conduct A/B testing of different variations of pages on the website to see which work better.
We set cookies so you see the same version of the site over the course of a visit.
We use Unibuddy to provide a student-to-student chat service on the website.
Unibuddy sets cookies to identify your device across visits and chat sessions, and to store the preferences you set.
See also Unibuddy’s Privacy Policy and Cookie Policy .
We use code provided by Google, Facebook, and LinkedIn to track and measure the effectiveness of our campaigns.
This code sets cookies which allow us to target our advertising, such as retargeting based on visiting particular pages or completing particular actions.
You can opt-out through Google’s Ads Settings , Facebook Your Information , and LinkedIn Opt-Out pages.
You can also visit Your Online Choices and switch off behavioural advertising from a large number of companies.
We sometimes embed videos and other media from sites such as YouTube.
These sites set cookies to track viewing and preferences.
You can delete individual cookies or block cookies altogether in your browser settings.
Here are instructions for popular browsers:
We reserve the right to update this information without notice.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/about/modern-slavery-statement:
Please find The University of Buckingham’s most recent Modern Slavery Statement and Policy below.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/about-buckingham/harassment-and-sexual-misconduct:
If you are in immediate danger or need urgent help, call 999 and/or Security on 07860 834802 (Buckingham) or 01270 332 545 (Crewe).
Please see the security page for more information.
The University of Buckingham is committed to providing a safe, inclusive, and respectful environment for all members of our university community.
We do not tolerate any form of harassment or sexual misconduct.
We take all reports seriously and respond in a fair, timely and supportive manner.
You will find all of the information that you need on this page, and it will remain the authoritative, final and current resource.
As a student of the University, or a student enrolled with one of our collaborative partner institutions, our approach to preventing and addressing harassment and sexual misconduct will apply to you; depending on your circumstances, some of the following policies and processes may or may not be applicable to you:
You should use the most recent version of the relevant policy/procedure.
If the policy/procedure is updated after you have informed us of a case of harassment and/or sexual misconduct, you should use the version that was approved at the time your report was made.
If the policy/procedure has been updated since the incident(s) occurred, but before the university has been informed, you should use the most recent (current) version.
Sexual misconduct is attempted or actual unwanted conduct of a sexual nature.
This includes any action of a sexual nature that is unwanted and/or is perceived by the recipient as a violation of their dignity and/or an act of intimidation and also includes activity which may take place online (for example but not limited to: inappropriate use of social media, cyberstalking, sending unwanted explicit material).
An incident of sexual misconduct, whether isolated or repeated, can take many forms, including, but not limited to:
**The University also has a web page containing information specific to rape and sexual assault .**
Harassment occurs when a person or group of subjects engage in unwanted and/or unwarranted conduct which has the purpose or effect of violating another’s dignity, or creating an intimidating, hostile, degrading, humiliating or offensive environment.
This can be in-person or online.
Harassment is often defined as the act of systematic and/or continued unwanted actions of one party or group, including threats and demands; however, an isolated incident or threat could amount to harassment if it causes distress.
Harassment may also breach other legislation and may in some circumstances be a criminal offence, e.g.
under the provisions of the Protection from Harassment Act 1997 .
The Equality Act 2010 prohibits harassment related to the following protected characteristics: age, disability, gender reassignment, marital or civil partner status, pregnancy or maternity, race, colour, nationality, ethnic or national origin, religion or belief, sex or sexual orientation.
If you are affected by this type of harassment, you can report the matter to us, and you will be supported by our dedicated Wellbeing, Skills and Diversity team .
You could also report the incident to the police , and you will be able to receive university support whether you decide to follow this route or not.
The Protection from Harassment Act 1997 (Section 1) makes it unlawful to pursue a course of conduct which you know or ought to know would be harassment, which includes causing someone alarm or distress.
Our Harassment and Sexual Misconduct Policy contains further information, and staff and students are encouraged to familiarise themselves with this document.
If you, or someone you know have been affected by harassment and/or sexual misconduct, or if you have witnessed this happening to someone else, you can report it to us.
You can report concerns in the following ways:
Use our secure Report and Support platform to report an incident, either anonymously or with your contact details.
An incident does not have to be formally reported in order for it to amount to harassment and sexual misconduct and the University reserves the right to investigate cases it becomes aware of even where there is no formal complainant.
Similarly, where harassment and sexual misconduct may have occurred away from University premises, and/or by person(s) not connected to the University, you can still access sources of support through Wellbeing, Skills and Diversity (students) or Human Resources (staff).
If you are member of staff who wishes to report an incident(s) of harassment and/or sexual misconduct, please use the Report and Support system or contact your Line Manager, Department Head or Human Resources.
Similarly, you can raise your concern with one of the University’s Safeguarding Leads as noted above.
Once a report is made:
All reported cases of Harassment and Sexual Misconduct will be investigated in accordance with the Non-Academic Misconduct Policy (NAMP) (for students) or the Grievance and/or Disciplinary Procedures (staff).
The University adopts an objective approach to investigations, and the perception of the reporting party, the circumstances surrounding the case and whether it is reasonable for the conduct to have had the effect it has, will all be considered.
We aim to complete investigations and outcomes within reasonable timeframes as per our policies, and complainants will be kept informed throughout.
Any judgement reached by the University in cases of reported Harassment or Sexual Misconduct do not constitute a legal ruling and do not, therefore, draw a conclusion on whether criminal activity has taken place.
You will be offered support from the moment you notify us (or it comes to our attention) that you have been affected by harassment and sexual misconduct.
You will continue to be supported throughout any investigation procedure and thereafter.
We offer specialist and general support for students through:
We can also assist with:
We provide this support to all current students who are registered with the University.
Please reach out to us if:
You can access our support services via the Student Support Hub or by contacting your personal tutor, academic tutor or Wellbeing, Skills and Diversity directly.
The University will provide mandatory online training for all students and staff.
You will receive an invitation to access your training module via your University of Buckingham email address.
Additionally, senior staff as well as staff who are likely to handle disclosures of harassment and sexual misconduct (key staff) will receive specialist training.
This includes all of the University’s Designated Safeguarding Officers.
Information will be sent to you via your University of Buckingham email address.
The University recognises that some students and staff may have been affected by past experiences of harassment and sexual misconduct and for them participation in mandatory training may be detrimental to their wellbeing or mental health.
If this applies to you, please contact the Student Casework Manager (students) or the Director of Human Resources (staff).
The University of Buckingham is actively working to prevent harassment and sexual misconduct through:
The University prohibits the use of Non-Disclosure Agreements (NDAs) in cases of harassment and/or sexual misconduct and will never ask students or staff to sign one.
If you are a student being pressured to sign an NDA by an external party, please inform the Student Casework Manager who may contact the Legal Services team for advice.
If you are a staff member being pressured to sign an NDA by an external party, please inform the Director of Human Resources who may contact the Legal Services team for advice.
We recognise that during academic tuition and discussion, there may be certain topics that some may find offensive.
These topics, which could be controversial and/or sensitive in nature, are pedagogically relevant, form part of the course content and are intended to inform healthy academic debate.
Exposure to sensitive and/or controversial topics is not a form of harassment or sexual misconduct, and the University will facilitate academic expression as part of our commitment to the principles of freedom of speech; however, we will not tolerate abuse , malicious targeting or intimidation of an individual.
The Equality Act 2010 recognises protected characteristics and students must conduct themselves in a manner that adheres to this Equal Opportunities Statement .
Academic expression should always remain topical, relevant and respectful.
The University of Buckingham recognises the need to maintain clear, accessible policies on harassment and sexual misconduct, and ensure fair, independent investigation and disciplinary procedures.
We will regularly review and improve our prevention strategies as well as collect and analyse data to understand trends, which in turn will inform our practice and response.
The University of Buckingham is committed to upholding the highest standards of integrity and professionalism in all staff and student interactions.
To protect the academic environment, ensure fairness, and maintain appropriate professional boundaries, the Staff and Student Relationships Policy strictly prohibits intimate or romantic relationships between members of staff and students.
If you have questions or need further support, please contact:
**Remember, we are here to support you.
**

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/foundation/access-to-computing:
This programme is a pre-university access programme specially designed for Applied Computing at The University of Buckingham.
See our picturesque Buckingham campus for yourself on a Campus tour.
Why not meet us at our next online or in-person event?
This programme is a pre-university access programme specially designed for Applied Computing.
The overall aim is to equip students who have not achieved the minimum entry requirements for BSc (Hons) Computing with the fundamental knowledge and essential skills required for the intensive study of the BSc in Computing at Buckingham.
The 12-week programme consists of three modules in mathematics, fundamentals of computing and web computing.
Students must pass all modules before being allowed on to the BSc degree programme.
Successful students will be awarded a Certificate of Preliminary Studies for Computing.
At the end of the programme students will:
A-level or equivalent requirements: CCC / IB: 29 (or equivalent).
Applicants are also expected to have achieved a  Grade C / Grade 4, or above, in GCSE Maths and English (if not taken post-16).
We are happy to consider all international applications and if you are an international student, you may find it useful to visit our international pages for details of entry requirements from your home country.
The University is a UKVI Student Sponsor .
If English is not your first language, please check our undergraduate English language requirements .
If your English levels don’t meet our minimum requirements, you may be interested in applying for our Pre-sessional English Language Foundation Programmes .
Wherever possible, you will be invited to the University to meet the Admissions Tutor for an informal interview and to have a tour of our campus.
If you are an international applicant, it may not be possible for you to visit in person, so if the Admissions Tutor has any queries about your application you may be contacted by Microsoft Teams, email or phone.
Our Admissions Team will be happy to answer any questions you may have.
Call us on +44 (0)1280 820227 or get in touch via our online form.
When you are offered a place at the University you will be notified of the student contract between the University and students on our courses of study.
When you accept an offer of a place on the course at the University a legal contract is formed between you and the University on the basis of the student contract in your offer letter.
Your offer letter and the student contract contain important information which you should read carefully before accepting an offer.
Read the Student Contract.
Teaching is carried out through a combination of lectures supported by seminars, workshops and tutorials.
It is enhanced by virtual learning environments, online / stand-alone computer-based teaching, learning packages and software tools.
A key feature of the Buckingham teaching method is the use of small tutorial groups which provide the most effective means of ensuring that the students benefit from the academic expertise at their disposal.
It is also the philosophy of the University’s faculty to be available to students outside the scheduled tutorial times and to encourage good working relationships between staff and students.
Many of our Information Systems and Computing courses have supervised practical classes in the computer laboratories in which you can apply and practise the techniques you have learnt in the lectures.
These practical sessions are usually two or three hours long.
You will also be expected to study on your own, using the library for reading research and the computer laboratories to improve your practical skills.
The assessment of individual modules within each course varies according to the subject.
Assessment is usually by examination, assessed coursework, or a combination of the two.
Please check module information for more details.
The successful completion of our Access to Computing course will allow you to progress to one of our Undergraduate Computing degrees.
The fees for this course are:
The University reserves the right to increase course fees annually in line with inflation linked to the Retail Price Index (RPI).
If the University intends to increase your course fees it will notify you via email of this as soon as reasonably practicable.
Course fees do not include additional costs such as books, equipment, writing up fees and other ancillary charges.
Where applicable, these additional costs will be made clear.
We have bursaries and scholarships available for both home and international students at undergraduate and postgraduate level, and these are awarded based on location, merit or financial need.
Funded scholarships and bursaries may be awarded across all schools of study, and represent a partial remission from tuition fees.
Bursaries are means-tested and are intended for those who need a contribution towards their fees in order to study at Buckingham.
Students applying for this course may be eligible for the following:
View all scholarships and bursaries .
How to apply Apply direct Apply online from this page as: You can apply until shortly before the course starts.
There are no application fees.
You can apply directly through our website by clicking the ‘Apply Now’ button.
Apply online from this page as:

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/foundation/foundation-pathway:
The Foundation Pathway is a great way for you to prepare for undergraduate study in your chosen School at Buckingham.
Our nine-month standalone Foundation Pathway courses are suitable for you if you are a) not yet sure which degree you wish to study or b) applying for a Foundation and degree that is not yet offered as an integrated programme.
The Foundation Pathway allows you to prepare for undergraduate study in your chosen School at Buckingham:
You will take some core modules – such as Academic Writing Skills, Critical Thinking – plus specialist Pathways related to your future course of study.
Choose this course if you have successfully completed 12 years of schooling, have a good school leaving qualification and IELTS of 6.0 or above (with a minimum of 5.5 in each component).
Or if you have just missed out on your grades after year 13.
Relevant work experience is considered instead of traditional qualifications.
Each application is considered on its own merit.
Prospective mature students are welcome to discuss their suitability with the Admissions Tutor either before making an application, or in an informal interview.
Successful completion of Foundation Pathway will allow you to progress on to undergraduate programmes in the Schools of Business, Psychology, Law or Humanities.
Therefore most students can complete their foundation and degree programme in three calendar years.
On successful completion of this course, you will be awarded a Certificate in Foundation Pathway Studies.
Applicants must have a minimum of 5 GCSEs at grades 4-9, including English and Maths, or their international equivalents.
In addition, applicants must have one of the following qualifications or their international equivalents:
International Applicants: We welcome equivalent qualifications from around the world.
However, you must also demonstrate your English language proficiency by achieving an IELTS score of 6 with a minimum score of 5.5 in each component, or another approved language test.
Usually, applicants will have evidence of up to year 12.
Mature students can apply with evidence of work experience.
You may be invited for an informal interview.
The age range of our student body varies from those who have recently completed A-levels (or equivalent) to more mature students.
If you are an international student the informal interview will be held on Microsoft Teams.
Call us on +44 (0)1280 820227 or get in touch via our contact form.
Teaching is carried out through a combination of lectures supported by seminars and tutorials by highly qualified teachers who are used to dealing with mixed nationalities and vary their teaching methods according to both the tasks and the students.
It is also the philosophy of Buckingham’s faculty to be available to students outside the scheduled tutorial times and to encourage good working relationships between staff and students.
Successful completion of a Foundation Pathway programme can enable students to progress to an undergraduate degree programme in the same discipline, either at the Faculty of Business, Humanities and Social Sciences or the Faculty of Computing, Law and Psychology.
We guarantee on-campus accommodation to all new students for their first four terms of study, as long as it is booked and paid for in good time, so you’re assured of a safe and secure home from home when you arrive at the University.
Most new students choose this option.
Living on campus enables you to become involved in University activities, make friends, and integrate with the University community.
For some of you this will be your first time in the UK; for others it will be the first time living away from home – and independence brings its challenges as well as its excitements.
Whatever your circumstances, we know how important it is for you to feel comfortable in your accommodation.
All our study bedrooms are fully furnished, centrally heated, and connected to the internet.
With few exceptions they have a wash basin and small refrigerator.
We have a large number of ensuite rooms, and are upgrading more rooms each year.
There are shared kitchens for when you wish to cook for yourself.
If you’d like to find out more, visit our Accommodation pages or get in touch with our Accommodation Team .
We recommend that all prospective students visit our campus if they are able to, at one of our open days or a Campus Tour , campus tours include a typical student room.
You can apply directly using our online application form.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-accounting-and-finance-2-year-degree:
Want to become a qualified accountant?
Study accounting and finance disciplines with this 2-year undergraduate programme.
Exam exemptions for ACCA and CIMA.
Get to know Buckingham!
Tour our campus, attend a subject session, and chat to staff and students.
18 October 2025
Recent corporate scandals across the world have drawn attention to the importance of accountancy and finance.
BSc Accounting and Finance 2-year degree programmes are designed to meet the demands of the 21st Century, but which still teach the underlying skills, make it an exciting time to be studying accounting and finance at Buckingham.
The flagship BSc Accounting and Finance degree programme provides an academically rigorous study of the principal accounting and finance disciplines.
It also has a strong vocational orientation, providing significant exemptions from the examinations of the Chartered Association of Certified Accountants (ACCA) and Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA).
The combination of a fast-track two-year programme and the number of exemptions attained makes Buckingham Business School a very attractive option to the Accounting and Finance student.
Studying our Accounting and Finance programme provides exemptions for further study with many professional institutions.
Click on “After your course” for more information.
The typical A-Level offer is: BBB-BBC (or equivalent), IB: 32-30 (or equivalent), National Diploma: DMM, UCAS tariff: 112.
Applications to Buckingham are individually considered by the Admissions Tutor and other factors may be taken in to account.
Applicants with BTEC qualifications are welcome to apply, including if you have a mix of BTEC and A levels.
Where an applicant is taking the EPQ alongside A-levels, the EPQ will be taken into consideration and result in a slightly lower A-level grade offer.
Foundation options are also available.
Please contact the Admissions Office (admissions@buckingham.ac.uk or +44 (0)1280 820227) for more information.
Applicants must also have GCSE English and Maths at Grade C / Grade 4, or above (or equivalent).
IELTS requirements are as follows: Average of 6.5 (with 6.0 or above in each component).
All of our undergraduate programmes operate a flexible entry process, and the Admissions Tutor is happy to consider entrants from all backgrounds with slightly lower qualifications if they are able to demonstrate an alternative eligibility for the course.
This may be in the form of relevant work experience, keen aptitude and a passion for the subject, or unlocked potential that you feel can be discovered through your studies at Buckingham.
If you are uncertain whether you will be eligible to apply for this course, please contact the Admissions Team .
You may apply either through the national UCAS university admissions system or at any time directly to the University using our own online application form.
Because of our two-year degree, we find that the age range of our student body varies between those who have recently completed A-levels (or equivalent) to more mature students.
If your English levels don’t meet our minimum requirements, you may be interested in applying for our Pre-sessional English Programmes .
Teaching is carried out through a combination of lectures supported by seminars and tutorials.
It is also the philosophy of Buckingham’s faculty to be available to students outside the scheduled tutorial times and to encourage good working relationships between staff and students.
While the Accounting and Finance degree programme provides a platform for a career in accounting and finance, it also serves as a basis for a career in general management, banking, financial services and consultancy (for which a solid grounding in accounting and finance is increasingly recognised as desirable).
Graduates wishing to become professional accountants can ‘fast-track’ the completion of the relevant professional qualification.
Those wishing to use accounting and finance training for wider management may wish to pursue our Master’s Programme in Accounting and Finance , thus gaining an honours degree and master’s degree in just three years.
Have you thought about a career in management accounting?
Management accounting is a great career path for anyone interested in business and finance, and can lead you on to a salary in the region of £100-150,000 in senior roles.
And thanks to the CIMA and CGMA qualifications, you can work anywhere in the world, making this a great career for any driven and determined graduate who wants to explore and travel the world as well as earn a great income!
“After first studying Taxation at Buckingham I became interested in the area, I find it quite challenging and never boring.
There is always something new to be learnt with the ever changing tax legislation.
Since joining TPC, I have gained hands-on experience with many different tax issues, and I have also worked with many clients and tax professionals in the process.
A wide variety of opportunities have been made available to me such as the tax training.
I have successfully completed my Association of Taxation Technician (ATT) exams within a year, and I am currently studying for the Chartered Tax Advisor (CTA) exams, which are all funded by the firm.
Success in these exams not only enables me to gain professional qualifications, but they also equip me with the necessary skills to become a competent tax adviser.
Buckingham enabled me to gain knowledge and now I am applying it outside of the classroom.”
Ola Igun Accounting and Financial Management
“Doing an Accounting and Financial Management degree at Buckingham offered me the ability to understand the rules and principals in creating and presenting of financial information for a UK and Global perspective.
Through the professional abilities of the lecturers and the personal tutorials available, I was capable of leaving the university with a good understanding of the subject.
Unlike public university, Buckingham is provided with a student support division which can be used to help resolve any problems or difficulties which may be encountered, whilst also assist students who may have any disabilities whilst providing assistance for studying.
The degree enabled me to operate in a wide range of fields in any business environment, and allow me to enhance my skills for the job market.”
James Jordan Accounting and Financial Management
We welcome applications in two different ways – directly via our online application form or through UCAS .
Apply online via our course pages:
You can apply directly through our website by clicking the ‘apply’ button at the bottom of the course page.
You can easily make Buckingham one of your UCAS choices:
If you’re interested in transferring to Buckingham from another university then please get in touch to talk through your options.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-accounting-and-finance-with-integrated-foundation-3-year-degree:
The BSc Accounting and Finance 3-year programme is designed for individuals who wish to study an undergraduate degree but have non-standard qualifications.
The BSc Accounting and Finance 3-year programme is designed for individuals who wish to study an undergraduate degree but have non-standard academic qualifications.
Year one will follow the Foundation Pathway programme, and introduce students to key concepts and study skills.
In years two and three students will build on these skills and enhance their knowledge, understanding and practice in core subjects.
Throughout the three years a student will be equipped with the skills to reach their potential in academic studies.
Our BSc Accounting and Finance Degree programme is designed to meet the demands of the 21st Century, but which still teach the underlying skills, make it an exciting time to be studying BSc Accounting and Finance at Buckingham.
The flagship Accounting and Finance programme (previously known as Accounting and Financial Management) provides an academically rigorous study of the principal accounting and finance disciplines.
Studying Accounting and Finance provides exemptions for further study with many professional institutions.
Click on “After your Degree” for more information.
You may apply either through the national UCAS university admissions system, or at any time directly to the University using our own online application form.
The Admissions Office for Business would be happy to answer any questions you may have, email admissions@buckingham.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-business-economics-2-year-degree:
Our Bsc Business Economics programme offers the spread of subjects that are likely to be most useful for those who wish to pursue a business career.
How will the rise of digital currencies affect international business?
How will disruptions to international supply chains affect businesses post-pandemic?
How will remote working impact the management of businesses?
Our fast-track 2-year Business Economics programme will explore these topics and many others.
The course is designed to equip students with the quantitative and analytical skills to progress into economics and management related jobs in finance, business and consulting, as well as preparing them for master’s level study.
On this course, we blend business management, business strategy, macro and micro-economics, financial markets and consumer behaviour, together with practical real-world analysis and applications.
There are many optional choices built into the programme so you can tailor your degree towards economics or business to suit your career or academic preferences.
We regularly host events and seminars where we discuss the latest research from our academics and invite speakers from the world of business and entrepreneurship.
Our academics offer a supportive, diverse and creative environment for you to explore your interests and ensure a successful educational experience.
You will join an international community of students, staff and alumni.
A dedicated professional development course runs through the degree covering academic and job market skills.
You will also benefit from internships and research opportunities in the Vinson Centre for Economics and Entrepreneurship.
Our graduates continue their studies with us at master’s level or go on to careers in business management, financial markets, corporate finance and economic/business consultancy.
Studying BSc Business Economics provides exemptions for further study with the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
Full exemption from Certificate in Business Accounting:
C01 Fundamentals of Management Accounting Required module: Introduction to Management Accounting C02 Fundamentals of Financial Accounting Required module: Introduction to Financial Accounting C03 Fundamentals of Business Mathematics Required modules: Quantitative Methods 1 AND Quantitative Methods 2 C04 Fundamentals of Business Economics Required modules: Principles of Microeconomics AND Principles of Macroeconomics C05 Fundamentals of Ethics, Corporate Governance and Business Law Required module: Law for Business
CIMA Professional qualification, Operational level:
P1 Management Accounting Required modules: Introduction to Management Accounting AND Management Accounting
The standard entry requirements for Business Economics at The University of Buckingham are A-level: BBB-BBC, IB:31-32 or equivalent qualifications.
Equivalent A-level grades are also accepted (for example ABD equivalent to BBC)
Where an applicant is taking the EPQ alongside A-levels, the EPQ will be taken into consideration and result in a slightly lower A-level grade offer.
If English is not your first language you will also need an IELTS score of 6.5 (with at least 6.0 in each component).
Read the Student Contract
A range of activities is pursued within the tutorial groups depending upon the module.
Some modules emphasise problem solving as a means of reinforcing and cementing the important ideas – for example the module in Microeconomic Theory.
Occasionally we use game playing to encourage discussion and understanding – for example when competing groups of students try to control a computer model of the economy in Principles of Macroeconomics.
Other modules place greater emphasis on writing short and accurate technical pieces (Welfare Economics) or longer more discursive papers.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-business-economics-with-integrated-foundation-3-year-degree:
BSc in Business Economics with Foundation is designed for students who have a passion for business giving additional preparation for undergraduate study.
The BSc Business Economics (with integrated foundation) is designed for students who need additional preparation prior to undergraduate level study.
The first year of the programme is intended to provide a foundation in both knowledge and academic skills for the more specialist subjects in years two and three.
Our Business Economics programme will explore these topics and many others.
We are the beneficiaries of a substantial endowment from Nobel prize-winning economist Ronald Coase and offer several generous scholarships for students with a passion for Economics.
We especially encourage women and ethnic minorities to apply.
Coase Scholarship details and eligibility criteria.
Call us on +44 (0)1280 820227 or via our online form .

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-business-management-2-year-degree:
Our BSc Business Management degree is designed to equip you with the skills needed to meet the demands of today’s dynamic business world.
Our BSc Business Management programme is designed to equip graduates with the analytical and decision-making skills necessary to succeed in the wider business context.
In today’s interconnected world, business organisations cannot exist in isolation.
They have to consider artificial intelligence, sustainability and diversity.
So we cover these topics too, among many others, such as digital transformation, shifting demographics, and hybrid working.
By combining theoretical knowledge with practical application, we ensure you never lose sight of any employer’s expectations and your individual career aspirations.
There has never been a more exciting time to study the dynamics of business and its global impact.
Our programme is tailored to develop problem-solving skills that can be applied across different organisations and international business environments.
Business Management is a dynamic and versatile subject, and we enhance your learning experience by incorporating real-life projects and case studies.
This prepares you to meet the demands of today’s ever-evolving AI-enabled and sustainable business world.
Upon graduation, you will possess the professional skills, aptitudes, and behaviours necessary for successful business careers and have a comprehensive understanding of the core functions relevant to future businesses.
Our programme also emphasises the importance of ethical and sustainable practices, ensuring that you are socially and financially responsible.
In addition, our programme broadens your comprehension of contemporary business issues, keeping you informed about the latest news and developments, such as business agility, inclusion and the changing scope of business finance.
We encourage you to take a critical, enterprising, and innovative approach to business activity within the global community.
If you’re ready to embark on an exciting educational journey that will prepare you for a successful business career, our BSc Business Management programme is the perfect choice.
Apply now to expand your horizons.
By the end of the course, you will have a deeper understanding of the imperative aspects of the business world.
Buckingham’s multi-cultural environment will also enhance your ability to work in cross-cultural situations.
You will also develop the skills and qualities necessary to work individually, in groups and in teams.
We embed employability skills into our programmes and this helps you to prepare to apply your knowledge as you seek to start, and when developing, your career.
As a Buckingham graduate, you will be confident, skilled, knowledgeable and ready for the next stage of your life.
The typical A-level offer is normally BBB-BCC, IB:30-32, BTEC: DDM from relevant National Diploma or equivalent UCAS Tariff points,
Please contact the Admissions Office using our contact form or by phone on +44 (0)1280 820227 for more information.
All of our undergraduate programmes operate a flexible entry process, and the Admissions Tutor is happy to consider entrants from all backgrounds with slightly lower qualifications if they are able to demonstrate alternative eligibility for the course.
Call us on +44 (0)1280 820227 or via our contact form .
Assessment is usually by coursework, in-class tests, or a combination of these assessment methods.
Please check the module information for more details.
I have thoroughly enjoyed all the modules which included a combination of stimulating group and individual assessments.” Luke Ford, Business Management, 2023

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-business-management-including-work-placement-year-3-year-degree:
Our BSc Business Management placement degree will equip graduates with analytical and decision-making skills relevant to wider business context.
Note: This programme is only available to UK students.
We do not currently offer this course to international students.
The BSc in Business Management degree including work placement provides you with a full year working in a business so you can see what it is like “from the inside”.
You will be able to see the practical impact of what you learn in your first year of studying business management.
And when you return for the final part of your degree, you will be able to connect what you did in your year’s placement to the new topics you will be learning.
As such, this business management course equips you with the essential skills relevant to a career in businesses of all kinds, as well as providing a useful addition to your CV with the work placement.
The early part of your study is focused on understanding the way business and organisations work and they fit in with society.
You will cover topics including artificial intelligence, sustainability, globalisation, business ethics and big data analytics.
The programme provides a blend of theoretical and practical study, never losing sight of what employers want and your own career plans.
This is an exciting time to study business and its role in the global environment.
The business management course is designed to develop skills in solving current business problems.
Practical and real-life projects and up-to-date case studies are used throughout the business management degree to ensure you get to understand business as it is now.
By the time you graduate, you will be equipped with professional skills, attitudes and behaviours linked to successful business careers and you will have expanded your understanding of the core functions relevant to the businesses of tomorrow.
You will appreciate how organisations market themselves and their products/services, deliver them through networks, lead and manage their employees and stakeholders, while at the same time being socially and financially responsible and sustainable.
You will broaden your understanding of contemporary issues in business (the sorts of things that you will see and hear in the news) and be encouraged to take a critical, enterprising, and innovative view of business activity within a global community.
By the end of the business management course with work placement, you will have a deeper understanding of the current business world and how you can influence its future.
In particular, the work placement year will have given you insights into the business world from a practical sense.
Furthermore, Buckingham’s multi-cultural environment will also enhance your ability to work in cross-cultural situations.
We embed employability skills throughout your course.
This helps you get the job you want, as shown by the very high employability rates of our Business School students.
As a Buckingham graduate, you will be confident, skilled, knowledgeable, and ready for the next stage of your life.
On the business management degree our students have been placed in a variety of different organisations.
These have included government departments, marketing agencies, technology firms, the care sector, and local small and medium sized businesses.
We work closely with our Careers Department to ensure students are placed in appropriate organisations that match their career aspirations.
Call us on +44 (0)1280 820227 or contact us using the form here .
Assessment is by assessed coursework; there are no exams for this programme, though there will be occasional in-class tests which will be invigilated.
Assessment during the work placement year is based around a reflective / learning log (4 x 1,500 words) compiled during the placement as well as a presentation about your placement.
You will have regular reviews with your placement tutor.
Assessment during the work placement year is based around a reflective / learning log (4 x 1,500 words) compiled during the placement with a final presentation summarising learning and experience.
“I believe attaining both my undergraduate and postgraduate degrees in 3 years, has put me ahead of my peers in the graduate job search.
This is a testament to the quality of teaching and support at the university, which has driven me to challenge myself and complete my academic journey.” Tom Penhearow, Business Management, 2022

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-business-management-with-applied-computing-2-year-degree:
BSC Business Management with Applied Computing is perfect combination programme to develop a range of skills which business, industry and commerce require.
Join us online and discover the core aspects and unique opportunities that Buckingham's Computing degrees offer.
4 October 2025
The BSc Business Management with Applied Computing degree is a perfect combination programme, to develop skills which business, industry and commerce require from graduates.
An ability to appreciate where and how information systems can be effective and to help with their design, procurement, management, sustainability, and use, is highly sought after.
Such graduates need a sound background in information systems, with knowledge and skills in the use of current technology, techniques and tools.
Also, to make an effective contribution, they need to appreciate the impact that such systems can have on business efficiency, organisational and management structure, and competitiveness.
They must understand the range of resource management techniques available and have the skills to implement such techniques in a wide range of business contexts.
Our BSc Business Management with Applied Computing programme combines core Business Management modules with a range of relevant Applied Computing modules.
The programme is uniquely designed to produce business graduates with a sound knowledge and understanding of how technology can be applied to problems in such areas as management, administration, industrial automation, large-scale manufacturing, resource allocation, retail and service industries, aerospace, education and healthcare.
Particular emphasis is placed on the fundamentals of the underlying technologies that support the development of computer-based information systems so that students are able to cope with the rapid advances in this field.
Students are equipped to become innovative Information Systems designers with career opportunities in business, industry and commerce.
I have thoroughly enjoyed all the modules which included a combination of stimulating group and individual assessments.”
Luke Ford, Business Management, 2023

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-business-management-with-entrepreneurship:
If you are fascinated by the world of entrepreneurship and fancy becoming an entrepreneur yourself, then this could be the degree for you.
It combines the essence of our unique two-year Business Management degree together with a range of modules focused on entrepreneurship and enterprise.
In addition to studying central business management modules, you will study the psychology of entrepreneurship, innovation, and social enterprise.
Your entrepreneurship education will finish with a project dissertation focused entirely on an aspect of entrepreneurship that you find fascinating.
Plus, there is a great deal more along the way dedicated to understanding entrepreneurship through seminars and workshops.
This is not just a degree in business management.
During your Business Management with Entrepreneurship degree, you will get a chance to meet successful entrepreneurs in dedicated sessions.
You will also take part in a project to analyse how an entrepreneur became successful.
In addition, you will be able to meet local businesspeople and entrepreneurs who use our Buckingham Enterprise and Innovation Unit (BEIU) for meetings and work.
You will often find them chatting with students who are getting a degree in business management and entrepreneurship.
The BEIU also has links around the world with leading entrepreneurship educators who may also contribute to your degree from time to time.
Furthermore, we have our “B-Enterprising” scheme that allows you to work in a local business and get paid for these micro-internships.
Many students who study entrepreneurship degrees go on to set-up their own businesses; they become entrepreneurs.
We have many Buckingham graduates who are now running their own successful entrepreneurial companies.
Other students go to work in corporates.
Companies are crying out for people with skills in entrepreneurship because, as you will discover on this programme, they can innovate, be creative and deal with technological disruption.
This entrepreneurship and business management programme provides you with the skills and knowledge in high demand by businesses.
They call it “intrapreneurship” – entrepreneurs inside their company.
Sometimes, of course, students decide to stay on to complete a master’s degree.
Several take our MBA programme.
This allows them to get a B.Sc and an MBA in three years, because our Business Management with Entrepreneurship degree is a two-year programme.
Assessment is by assessed coursework; there are no examinations, though there will be occasional, invigilated, in-class tests.
This degree includes a work placement within a small or start-up business.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-business-management-with-integrated-foundation:
Our BSc in Business Management 3-year programme is designed individuals who wish to study business an undergraduate but have non-standard qualifications.
The BSc in Business Management with Integrated Foundation is a 3-year programme that will benefit you if you want to get a degree in business but do not have the standard academic qualifications needed.
The first year follows the Foundation Pathway programme and introduces you to key concepts and study skills.
In years two and three you will build on these skills as you take part in the full Business Management degree programme.
Foundation courses bridge the gap between your current qualifications and the knowledge and skills required for the undergraduate programme you want to do.
Even if you have not yet achieved the necessary academic qualifications or your English language is not yet at the required standard, we will help you to identify your needs and develop a learning programme to meet them in Year 1, enabling you to progress on to the full degree.
Our four-terms a year timetabling at Buckingham allows you to complete your foundation and undergraduate programmes in just three years.
The BSc in Business Management degree equips you with the essential skills relevant to a career in businesses of all kinds, as well as in a variety of organisations, including your own start-up.
Practical and real-life projects and up-to-date case studies are used throughout the business management degree to ensure you get to understand business as it is now.By the time you graduate, you will be equipped with professional skills, attitudes and behaviours linked to successful business careers and you will have expanded your understanding of the core functions relevant to the businesses of tomorrow.
You will broaden your understanding of contemporary issues in business (the sorts of things that you will see and hear in the news) and be encouraged to take a critical, enterprising and innovative view of business activity within a global community.
By the end of the business management course, you will have a deeper understanding of the current business world and how you can influence its future.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-computing-2-year-degree:
Accredited by British Computer Society, blending theory with practice to gain skills and expertise required to becoming an IT professional.
Advanced knowledge of fundamentals and innovations in digital and technology solutions, and their application to solve real-life problems are at the heart of Buckingham’s computing programmes.
Accredited by the British Computer Society, our undergraduate programmes blend theory with practice to ensure students gain confidence, skills, and the expertise required to becoming an IT professional in this increasingly interdisciplinary field.
Student-centred small group teaching and learning utilising state-of-art technologies and equipment, informed by cutting-edge research, prepares graduates of this programme for a rewarding career in industries of the future.
Innovations in technological solutions are essential to solve some of the most complex challenges humanity faces today.
This two-year computing degree aims to equip students with key competencies to analyse complex problems, and design, implement and evaluate innovative, ethical and sustainable digital solutions to a wide range of problems in modern society.
Software is now considered to be a complex engineering product that requires a professional, systematic, collaborative and an interdisciplinary approach to design and develop.
Thus, knowledge and understanding of software development processes, tools and techniques, as well as practical skills to implement such products are much sought-after within many sectors of the economy.
This programme is designed for students who are curious to learn the underlying theories, concepts and techniques in computing and software development, and apply them to solve previously unseen problems.
This fast-tracked programme prepares students to work in dynamic and agile organisations or to pursue postgraduate education.
Our small-group teaching and learning environment supported by personal tutors offer students a personalised learning experience to achieve their full potential.
Learning is enriched through collaborative projects, co-curricular activities and seminars by guest speakers from industry.
Opportunities for professional skills development are offered throughout the degree programme.
Students are encouraged to be innovative and enterprising whilst considering relevant ethical, sustainability, diversity and inclusivity issues.
Students on the BSc Computing programme may opt to transfer to one of the following pathways in the second year:
Each specialism pathway contains modules designed to ensure you develop the skills necessary to progress into employment in these areas of the Computing sector.
Students who wish to transfer to a specialism pathway must do so prior to the end of their first year.
The standard entry requirements for computing are: A-Level: (ABB – BBB) , IB 32.
Applicants must also have GCSE B/5 in Math and C/4 in English .
If English is not your first language you will also need an IELTS Score of 6.5 , with at least 6.0 in each component.
We welcome individuals from diverse backgrounds who are genuinely interested in learning the beautiful art of computing.
You will have a curiosity for exploring, a passion for technology and a motivation to design and develop digital and technology solutions for real problems.
Call us on +44 (0)1280 820227 or get in touch using our contact form .
The first year of this two-year programme introduces students to essential theories and concepts of computing, programming and software development that underpin modern computer science.
These theories and concepts build the fundamentals necessary to undertake advanced in the second year.
The second year focuses on advanced modules covering software development for mobile and web applications, software testing and quality assurance, cloud computing and software project management, which are some of the most sought-after skills in the IT sector today.
All modules include practical work to apply knowledge and understanding to solve problems.
All students undertake a substantial ‘Individual Project’, and a collaborative ‘Grand Challenge’ project where they get the opportunity to apply their knowledge and skills to develop an innovative solution to a real-life complex problem.
There are several opportunities to work in teams, thus developing leadership and collaboration skills.
This degree programme is accredited by BCS, The Chartered Institute for IT for the purposes of fully meeting the academic requirement for registration as a Chartered IT Professional.
This degree programme is accredited by BCS, The Chartered Institute for IT on behalf of the Engineering Council for the purposes of fully meeting the academic requirement for Incorporated Engineer and partially meeting the academic requirement for a Chartered Engineer.
Our academic staff are friendly, approachable, diverse and highly respected professionals.
All academics are research active, many of whom also have worked with business and industry partners on real projects, and can offer networking opportunities for students.
The programme is supported by a highly professional and dedicated team of faculty managers and administrators.
Teaching is carried out through a combination of lectures supported by seminars, practical workshops and tutorials.
It is enhanced by virtual learning environments, online / stand-alone computer-based teaching, learning tools and software packages.
Computing programmes have supervised practical classes in computer labs in which you can practise and apply the techniques you have learnt in the lectures.
You will also be expected to study on your own, using the library for reading and research, and computer laboratories to improve your practical skills.
Each student has a designated supervisor for the Individual Project.
Weekly supervision meetings are offered throughout the Project.
A range of assessment techniques are utilised throughout the degree programme to give students the opportunity to demonstrate achievement of the learning outcomes.
Individual and group coursework, presentations, portfolios, quizzes, projects, and exams are the key assessments.
The School of Computing has several labs to facilitate the teaching, learning and assessment of its programmes.
In addition to two general computer labs with high specification PCs, the School has specialist labs for cyber security and networks, games and immersive application development and robotics.
The Robotics lab includes a Boston Dynamics Spot, a number of indoor and outdoor ground robots, and two collaborative robots.
Several sensors/payloads such as lidar scanners, gas sensors, imaging sensors are also available for student projects.
A Birdly virtual flying machine and high-end mixed reality headsets such as Microsoft HoloLens 2 and Varjo XR3 are available to develop and test immersive applications.
The Cyber Security and Networks lab is equipped with devices to configure and secure networks and simulate attacks.
Integrated development environments and a variety of software packages are available for teaching, learning and projects.
Most software packages are available for students to install on their own PCs or laptops.
Our graduates have gone on to work at some of the world’s leading tech firms and multinational corporations such as Adobe, Amazon, Arm, BAE Systems, BT, Google Deep Mind, IBM, Jaguar Land Rover, Meta, Microsoft, PWC, and Salesforce.
Some of our graduates work for companies that are highly specialised in their business, for example ASOS, Russell IPM, Vitalograph, and Zizo.
Many of our graduates have gone on to postgraduate studies in world’s leading universities, including Oxford, Cambridge and Edinburgh, and secured jobs in senior positions around the world.
Among our alumni are successful tech entrepreneurs.
“I have been interested in computing and technology from a young age.
It always has, and continues to fascinate me how things work.
I studied computing at GCSE and Sixth Form level here in the UK, not only learning basic programming but also how vital a role technology plays in business today.
So, it was only natural to want to pursue this at a higher education level.
I loved that the course covered all aspects and areas of computing in great detail – from basic programming, to web development, cybersecurity and Artificial Intelligence with interesting and challenging projects, both in groups and individual.
My final year project was to build an image-processing application that automatically detects cracks on solar panels.
During my time, I also joined the Gaming Society, where I met new people and even went on a trip to London Comic Con.”
Mihir Raniga – BSC Computing, 2022
“I joined the September 2019 cohort and was surprised by how different the course was compared to my previous university programme.
The tight-knit classes allowed me to ask many questions and engage with the lectures more easily; the timetables gave the flexibility to organize my spare time, especially allowing me to apply in practice what I had learned in blockchain and crypto; and having my personal tutor alongside me meant I was encouraged and motivated when I most needed it.
During my time at Buckingham, I was able to form a competitive group called ‘Team Bucklers’ at the Keyloop Dealer Tech Competition and win the regional team prize worth £3000.
I was twice nominated to the Student Union body as Equity and Inclusion Officer as well as Ethical and Environmental Officer, where I was able to introduce free-cycling schemes and fundraise against deforestation.
I also co-founded a student-led start-up for connecting students on campus via a mobile application with the assistance of the Buckingham Enterprise & Innovation Unit (BEIU).
In the end, I was able to graduate with First Class Honours and with three academic awards for best performance in exam diets and for the most outstanding undergraduate project regarding conversational AI chatbots.”
Thomas Humphreys, BSc Computing, 2022
My choice in Computing stemmed from my passion for mathematics and programming.
I have always liked the challenge of logical problem solving that programming provides and I appreciate that there is opportunity for creativity too.
I was interested in working in a wide variety of industries, so the fact that every industry uses computers also gave me the freedom to pursue any area I wanted.
I knew that Buckingham felt like the right environment for me because it had everything I was looking for in a university.
I applied directly to The University of Buckingham whilst at Sixth Form, bypassing the need to apply through UCAS, as I knew I was not interested in applying to another university.
I thoroughly enjoyed my time at The University of Buckingham.
I am grateful to the lecturers at The University of Buckingham for providing me with such an enriching experience.
Overall, I found the course to be engaging and worthwhile.
My hard work was rewarded by receiving the Ede and Ravenscroft Prize for Academic Excellence over two different exam diets and I graduated in December 2019 with a First-Class honours degree and won the University’s G-Volution Prize for Academic Distinction.
Anastasia Taylor, BSc Computing, 2020
We are incredibly proud of our students’ achievements – you can read more about them on our Success Stories page.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-computing-3-year-degree:
BSc in Computing helps you fill a widening gap in the IT industry for software skills while hard technology is developing and diversifying fast.
A BSc in Computing looks at the computing and communications technologies lie at the heart of modern society.
They include hardware, software, networks, tools, telecommunications equipment and required standards that provide the technological framework on which the delivery of information services is based.
The IT industry is reporting a widening gap in software skills while hard technology is developing and diversifying fast.
The overall aim of this intensive programme is to enable all students to develop their potential so that they can apply what they have learnt to deal with computational problems and develop solutions in a real-world environment.
Through studying this programme, students learn how to specify, design, develop and operate efficient and innovative computer-based systems and gain up-to-date knowledge of the relevant computing technologies at an advanced level within a shorter space of time.
Graduates of the degree programme will be able to undertake a variety of careers in the IT industry, including programming, systems analysis and design, network and systems management, and technical support.
Alternatively, they can advance their careers in research in computing/computer science in academic institutions at Buckingham, other UK universities or universities abroad.
This is the 3-year (11-term) format of the BSc in Computing degree starting each September.
For the 2-year format of the degree see BSc Computing | 2 Years, 2 Years (+ 1 term) .
A particularly important feature of the BSc in Computing (and all BSc Computing major with minor programmes) is the individual project and involves the specification, development and testing of a substantial piece of software.
The project is a crucial element of the degree, counting for 45 units.
In support of this, you will, for example, learn to program in C# and C++>, as well as taking modules in databases, human-computer interaction, and Internet & World Wide Web technologies.
The purpose of the project is to provide you with the opportunity to obtain in-depth knowledge in a chosen area of computing or information systems, to exercise judgment in solving a major problem and to develop a working software system.
You will be expected to:
Through the project, you will gain experience in:
Through the project, you will also enhance your transferable skills in autonomy, communications and time management demanded by the industry.
The standard entry requirements for computing are A-level: BBC – BCC (or equivalent, Computing and/or Mathematics are desired, but not essential).
Applicants must also have GCSE B/5 in Maths and C/4 in English.
Equivalent A-level grades are also accepted (for example BBD equivalent to BCC)
Applicants must also have GCSE Maths and English B/5, or above (or equivalent).
Applicants who do not meet our minimum requirement may be considered for Access to Computing depending on grades.
Among our alumni, we have a graduate who became the head of his country’s civil service and one who became a leading Formula One motor-racing driver.
I have been interested in computing and technology from a young age.
During my time, I also joined the Gaming Society, where I met new people and even went on a trip to London Comic Con.
I joined the September 2019 cohort and was surprised by how different the course was compared to my previous university programme.
In the end, I was able to graduate with First Class Honours and with three academic awards for best performance in exam diets and for the most outstanding undergraduate project regarding conversational AI chatbots.
The University stood out to me because they provided me with a huge amount of flexibility and support when transferring.
It also seemed a clear choice because of the small class sizes and the emphasis on providing quality teaching.
These factors, amongst others, did in fact combine to make an unmatched learning experience.
The curriculum is kept up to date with industry standards and modules were regularly reviewed and evolved to match the ever – changing requirements of Computing.
In particular, the practical elements of modules were a highlight.
Teaching focussed on giving students relevant experience to be prepared for work.
The benefit of the smaller class sizes was clear here, as you can go further in depth on any topic with the guidance of lecturers and teaching assistants.
Asha Krishnan, BSc Computing, 2021

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/graduate-diploma-in-computing:
This programme of study is intended primarily for graduates from any non-computing background to obtain fundamental knowledge and understanding of a range of core subjects in Computing.
The overall aim of education is to either equip the graduates who want to develop their careers in their own areas of speciality with additional understanding, awareness and skills of IT and Computing, or help those who want to change their careers into IT and Computing.
The programme can also serve as a pre-requisite for advanced master’s programmes in Applied Computing at Buckingham.
It is available over 4 terms starting in January.
Graduates who successfully complete the programmes are eligible for entry into the MSc in Innovative Computing degree programme.
The Graduate Diploma programme consists of 7 taught modules and an individual project.
On completing the programmes, you will be able to understand:
The programme will also help you to develop skills in:
Applicants are normally expected to have a first or second class honours in a non-computing degree.
Please check our undergraduate English language requirements .
If you are an international applicant, it may not be possible for you to visit in person, so if the Admissions Tutor has any queries about your application you may be conducted by Microsoft Teams, email or phone.
Our modules include a mixture of formal lectures, tutorial classes and practical classes.
At the start of each module you will be given an up-to-date module outline and reading list.
Most modules will provide two or three hours of lectures each week to introduce you to the basic concepts and techniques.
These will be supported by lecture notes or handouts.
Lectures are supported by weekly tutorial classes, usually one hour in length, which are held in small groups so that all students can benefit from individual attention.
You will be expected to prepare for these classes, for example by attempting a set of exercises or by reading a case study.
Many of our modules have supervised practical classes in the computer laboratories in which you can apply and practise the techniques you have learnt in the lectures.
Course material is also available on the University’s own Virtual Learning Environment.
This allows students to download lecture notes, submit assignments and share resources in an electronic forum both within the University’s computer network and remotely.
Please note that this course is an Undergraduate conversion course which requires a bachelor’s degree as part of the entry requirements, therefore the standard loan and scholarship schemes may not be available.
You may also find it useful to visit our External Funding page .

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-computing-artificial-intelligence-and-robotics-three-year-degree:
Artificial Intelligence (AI) and robotics are increasingly being deployed to solve complex problems and to automate business processes.
Thus, knowledge and understanding of algorithms that drive AI and robotics systems, as well as practical skills to implement such systems, are much sought-after within many sectors of the economy.
Students who are keen to develop their professional and technical skills in developing autonomous solutions for rewarding career opportunities in a range of industry sectors will find this course highly relevant and stimulating.
Students on this three-year undergraduate degree programme will be trained on fundamental theories and concepts, key techniques, approaches, methodologies and tools of software development, artificial intelligence and robotics.
In particular, this pathway is designed to provide students with the practical skills required to implement AI, machine learning and robotics based autonomous digital and technology solutions for various sectors such as automobile, agriculture, education, healthcare, law enforcement, public services, transport, and utilities.
This programme prepares students to work in dynamic and agile organisations or to pursue postgraduate education.
Students are encouraged to be innovative and enterprising whilst considering ethical, sustainability, diversity and inclusivity issues.
The standard entry requirements for this Computing three-year programme are: A-Level: (BBB – BBC) , IB 31 – 32 or equivalent (Computing and/or Mathematics are desired, but not essential).
The first five terms of this three-year programme introduces students to essential theories and concepts of computing, programming and software development that underpin modern computer science.
These theories and concepts build the fundamentals necessary to undertake highly specialised modules covering AI, Machine Learning, Computer Vision and Robotics that follow in the second year.
Terms six and seven focus on equipping students with specialised skills and sound knowledge that would enable them to pursue a rewarding career in the rapidly growing field of AI, robotics and autonomous systems.
Students will learn concepts and techniques in AI, computer vision and robotics, alongside software project management and cloud computing, which are some of the most sought-after skills in the IT sector today.
All students undertake a substantial ‘Individual Project’ and a collaborative ‘Grand Challenge’ project where they get the opportunity to apply their knowledge and skills to develop an innovative solution to a real-life complex problem.
There are several opportunities to work in teams enabling students to develop leadership and collaboration skills.
Computing programmes have supervised practical classes in computer labs in which you can apply and practise the techniques you have learnt in the lectures.
Accredited by the BCS, the Charted Institute for IT, our undergraduate programmes are designed to blend theory with practice.
They combine academic challenge with professional skills that will stand you in good stead for employment in industries of the future.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-computing-artificial-intelligence-and-robotics:
Two-year degree that equips students with the knowledge and skills that are sought-after in various sectors.
Students on this two-year undergraduate degree programme will be trained on fundamental theories and concepts, key techniques, approaches, methodologies and tools of software development, artificial intelligence and robotics.
Our undergraduate programmes are accredited by the British Computer Society, and they blend theory with practice to ensure students gain confidence, skills, and the expertise required to becoming an IT professional in this increasingly interdisciplinary field.
The standard entry requirements for computing are: A-Level: (ABB – BBB), IB 32 or equivalent (Computing and/or Mathematics are desired, but not essential).
The second year focusses on equipping students with specialised skills and sound knowledge that would enable them to pursue a rewarding career in the rapidly growing field of AI, robotics and autonomous systems.
We are incredibly proud of our students’ achievements.
You can read about them on Our Success Stories page .

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-computing-cyber-security-three-year-degree:
Train on key techniques, approaches and methodologies of cyber security as practiced within the IT industry.
Cyber security professionals are in high demand by businesses and organisations worldwide.
This programme is designed to give you access to a wealth of potential career routes in cyber security by training you on key techniques, approaches and methodologies of cyber security as practiced within the IT industry.
This starts with general concepts about computing, before progressing into more in-depth training on cyber security.
The programme has a strong technical focus to give you a deep level of understanding and hands-on experience on how computing devices operate and communicate in the cyber space and how to secure them properly.
You will also learn how to actively assess and improve the security posture of organisations’ cyber systems.
This three-year programme prepares students to work in dynamic and agile organisations or to pursue postgraduate education.
Our small-group teaching and learning environment, supported by personal tutors, offer students a personalised learning experience to achieve their full potential.
Graduates of the degree programme will be able to undertake a variety of careers in the IT industry, including programming, systems analysis and design, network and systems management and technical support.
These theories and concepts build the fundamentals necessary to undertake highly specialised modules in cyber security.
Terms six and seven focuses on specialist modules starting from the fundamentals of cybersecurity and cryptography to advanced modules such ethical hacking & penetration testing, digital forensics and cyber incident management.
A substantial project to solve a problem specifically within the domain of cyber security is also undertaken alongside software project management and cloud computing, which are some of the most sought-after skills in the IT sector today.
Through our business networks and industry partners, students have opportunities to undertake micro internships, work placements and real-life projects.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-computing-cyber-security:
Learn the fundamentals of cyber security and become a stand-out candidate for various organisations worldwide.
The second year focuses on specialist modules starting from the fundamentals of cybersecurity and cryptography to advanced modules such ethical hacking & penetration testing, digital forensics and cyber incident management.
The experience I had at Buckingham was perfect for me.
The class sizes were small and the lecturers always had time to help you out if you needed it.
I picked up programming extremely quickly thanks to my lecturers’ help, although, the lecturers were also able to challenge you when you needed an extra push.
I actually ended up extending my degree into 3 years.
The staff were extremely helpful in this process and made it very easy for me to transition into it.
I’m now doing a software engineer graduate scheme course at QinetiQ – a very competitive position which I am so excited to be a part of.
I’m still not certain about exactly which area I want to go into and the graduate scheme is able to give me opportunities all around the company.
To anyone thinking about studying computing at the University of Buckingham: if you want a supportive atmosphere with kind lecturers who are always ready to help out, this is the place for you.
Bethan Gibson – BSC Computing, 2020

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-computing-with-accounting-and-finance-2-year-degree:
BSc Computing with Accounting & Finance will enable you to deal with computational problems and develop solutions in relation to accounting and finance.
BSc Computing with Accounting and Finance  will enable you to understand computing and communications technologies lie at the heart of modern society.
The overall aim of this intensive programme is to enable all students to develop their potential so that they can apply what they have learnt to deal with computational problems and develop solutions in a real-world environment in relation to accounting and finance.
Through studying this programme, students learn how to specify, design, develop and operate efficient and innovative computer-based systems and gain up-to-date knowledge and awareness of the relevant computing technologies within a shorter space of time.
Graduates of BSc Computing with Accounting and Finance will be able to undertake a variety of careers in the IT sector of related industries.
This major/minor programme of study specifically aims to produce technically sound computing graduates who are exposed to basic concepts and practice of accounting and finance, providing them with IT and computing technical know-how as well as awareness of the principles of the application areas.
The content of this fast-track programme is compatible with the UK QAA subject benchmark statement for Computing and with the Framework for Higher Education Qualifications in England, Wales and Northern Ireland.
The intensive nature of the programme requires motivation, commitment and above all good management of time.
At the end of the BSc Computing with Accounting and Finance  programme, students should be able to gain knowledge and understanding in:
A particularly important feature of the BSc Computing with Accounting and Finance is the project, which extends over the first three terms of the second year, and involves the specification, development and testing of a substantial piece of software.
In support of this, you will learn to program in C++ and Java, as well as taking courses in database and human-computer interaction.
A pass in the project is a requirement for the award of a degree.
The degree will not normally be awarded a higher classification than that awarded to the project.
This project may be the first large piece of work that you do completely by yourself.
You should first choose a suitable project topic to work on and a supervisor to direct your work throughout the project development life cycle.
It should cover one aspect of computing and should be based on theories of design, construction and use of information systems.
It could involve the development of a practical system for a real user or the prototyping of a new technique in computing.
Studying Computing with Accounting and Finance provides exemptions for further study with the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants .
C01 Fundamentals of Management Accounting Required module: Introduction to Management Accounting C02 Fundamentals of Financial Accounting Required module: Introduction to Financial Accounting C03 Fundamentals of Business Mathematics Required modules: Core modules
The standard entry requirements for computing are: A-Level: (ABB – BBB) , IB 32 or equivalent (Computing and/or Mathematics are desired, but not essential).

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-computing-with-accounting-and-finance-with-integrated-foundation-3-year-degree:
Develop your potential with a BSc in Computing with Accounting and Finance develop solutions in a real-world environment for accounting and finance.
The BSc in Computing with Accounting and Finance (including Integrated Foundation year) programme will benefit those individuals who wish to study an undergraduate degree but have non-standard academic qualifications.
Year one will follow the same structure as the BSc Computing (with Integrated Foundation) programme first year.
In years two and three our students will build on these skills and enhance their knowledge, understanding and practice in core subjects following the BSc Computing with Accounting and Finance programme structure.
Throughout the three years, a student will be equipped with the skills to reach their potential in academic studies.
Computing and communications technologies lie at the heart of modern society.
The overall aim of this programme is to enable all students to develop their potential so that they can apply what they have learnt to deal with computational problems and develop solutions in a real-world environment in relation to accounting and finance.
Graduates of the degree programme will be able to undertake a variety of careers in the IT sector of related industries.
Call us on +44 (0)1280 820227 or get in touch via our contact form .

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-computing-with-business-management-2-year-degree:
Fill the gap in understanding the computing and communications technologies of modern society with a BSc Computing with Business & Management.
BSc Computing with Business Management will enable you to understand the computing and communications technologies that lie at the heart of modern society.
The overall aim of this intensive BSc Computing with Business Management programme is to enable all students to develop their potential so that they can apply what they have learnt to deal with computational problems and develop solutions in a real-world environment in relation to business studies.
This major/minor programme of study specifically aims to produce technically sound computing graduates who are exposed to basic concepts and practice of business studies, providing them with IT and computing technical know-how as well as awareness of the principles of the application areas.
At the end of the BSc Computing with Business Management programme, students should be able to gain knowledge and understanding in:
A particularly important feature of the BSc in Computing with Business Management is the project, which extends over the first three terms of the second year, and involves the specification, development and testing of a substantial piece of software.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-computing-with-business-management-with-integrated-foundation-3-year-degree:
The BSc in Computing with Business Management foundation programme is designed for those who wish to study a degree but don't have standard qualifications.
The BSc in Computing with Business Management (including Integrated Foundation year) programme will benefit those individuals who wish to study an undergraduate degree but have non-standard academic qualifications.
In years two and three students will build on these skills and enhance their knowledge, understanding and practice in core subjects following the BSc Computing with Business Management programme structure.
The overall aim of the programme is to enable all students to develop their potential so that they can apply what they have learnt to deal with computational problems and develop solutions in a real-world environment in relation to business studies.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-computing-with-integrated-foundation-3-year-degree:
The BSc Computing with foundation year programme is designed if wish to study an undergraduate computing degree but have non-standard qualifications.
The BSc Computing with foundation year programme will benefit those individuals who wish to study an undergraduate degree but have non-standard academic qualifications.
Year one of BSc Computing with Foundation will follow the Foundation Pathway programme with the addition of the Access to Computing programme introducing students to key concepts and study skills.
This is followed by a pre-university access programme specially designed for Applied Computing.
The overall aim is to equip students who have not achieved the minimum entry requirements for BSc (Hons) Computing with the fundamental knowledge and essential skills required for the intensive study of the undergraduate degree programme at Buckingham.
These preparatory modules include mathematics, fundamentals of computing as well as web computing.
Students must pass all modules before being allowed on to the BSc Computing degree portion of the programme.
In years two and three students will build on these skills and enhance their knowledge, understanding and practice in core subjects following the BSc Computing programme structure.
The overall aim of this programme is to enable all students to develop their potential so that they can apply what they have learnt to deal with computational problems and develop solutions in a real-world environment.
In the second year of your BSc Computing degree (third year of study) you will choose to specialise in one of the following:

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-content-creation-digital-media-and-journalism-2-year-degree:
This hands-on and practical degree is ideal for aspiring journalists, photographers, marketers and storytellers.
The BA Content Creation, Digital Media and Journalism (2-year degree) comprises of study and practical training in a wide range of aspects of contemporary digital media, journalism and content creation.
You will study areas like:
The programme is very much hands on, with the emphasis on coursework rather than exams.
We believe learning-through-doing is the best way to develop skills and confidence, and to really enjoy your time doing it!
Our programme is ideal for future journalists, bloggers, filmmakers, storytellers, photographers, social media influencers, designers, content creators and marketers.
The standard entry requirements for this course are A-level BBC-CCC, IB 29-31 or equivalent qualifications.
Equivalent A-level grades are also accepted (for example BBD equivalent to BCC).
Please contact the Admissions Office (email: admissions@buckingham.ac.uk or call on +44 (0)1280 820227) for more information.
IELTS requirements are as follows: (Academic) 6.5 Average of 6.5 (with 6.0 or above in each component).
If your English language level is below the entry requirements you will be expected to complete our pre-sessional English language programme.
You do not need to apply separately for this programme, your offer will include the necessary pre-sessional English term(s).
We offer high-quality, small-group learning, most of which has a practical, workplace-oriented outcome.
Our degrees are recognised around the world.
Because of this, we have no difficulty in attracting high-calibre, highly respected lecturers.
Our visiting lectures are specialists in their fields and are often prominent figures in their branch of the media industry.
They are only too happy to offer networking opportunities for students.
Teaching is carried out in a variety of ways – lectures, seminars and tutorials and production support.
A key feature of the Buckingham teaching method is the use of small tutorial groups.
Classes are delivered by academic staff who are experts in their respective fields.
The friendly, approachable academics are available to students outside of class and pride themselves on being helpful and accessible.
Students have access to the TV and Radio studio and technical support from our studio manager.
There is also 24-hour access to our dedicated computer lab.
Producing a weekly news bulletin, podcasts and articles really makes it feel like the working world.
Students stretch their creativity with design and multimedia assignments that are truly relevant to the current media industry.
Students learn how to use industry-standard software including Adobe Creative Suite (Photoshop, InDesign, Illustrator, Lightroom, Premiere, After Effects), Final Cut Pro, DaVinci, Tableau, and Audacity, as well as DV cameras, photo cameras, audio recorders, broadcasting and live-streaming equipment (TV and radio) and much more!
A lot of the practical work revolves around Buckingham News – our own student-run multi-platform news outlet that serves the university and local community.
From their second week at university, students will find themselves reporting, editing, scripting and presenting.
These are real stories too – like the discovery of an unexploded grenade or reporting on the King’s Coronation.
The modules provide plenty of opportunities for students to build a credible portfolio to showcase their creative talent and present to potential employers.
Assessment is usually by coursework or practical projects, supported by critical analysis.
Check the module information for more details.
Our graduates have an enviable record in getting the jobs they aim for.
As well as ‘traditional’ media organisations such as the BBC, ITV, BT Sport, The Independent, and Mail Online, our students have gone on to work for organisations such as Red Bull, HarperCollins, the Department for Culture Media & Sport, the Mercedes Petronas Formula 1 team and the communications department of 10 Downing Street.
Overseas graduates have made their mark particularly in the Norwegian and Nigerian state broadcasting systems.
We even have a set designer in Hollywood!
Our past graduates are also well represented in PR and advertising firms such as Freud, Rooster PR.
Midas PR and AMV.
Many graduates, of course, have started their own companies or have entered the freelance life.
One of our graduates is now a prominent food stylist and his photos grace the pages of publications throughout Europe.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-content-creation-digital-media-and-journalism-with-integrated-foundation-3-year-degree:
The Content Creation, Digital Media and Journalism 3-year programme will benefit those individuals who wish to study an undergraduate degree but have non-standard academic qualifications.
Year one will follow the Foundation Pathway programme and introduce students to key concepts and study skills.
Our unique condensed timetabling at Buckingham allows you to complete your foundation and undergraduate programmes in just three years.
The BA Digital Media and Journalism (2-year degree) comprises of study and practical training in a wide range of aspects of contemporary digital media, journalism and content creation.
If English is not your first language, please check our postgraduate English language requirements .
As well as ‘traditional’ media organisations such as the BBC, ITV, BT Sport, The Independent , and Mail Online , our students have gone on to work for organisations such as Red Bull, HarperCollins, the Department for Culture Media & Sport, the Mercedes Petronas Formula 1 team and the communications department of 10 Downing Street.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-digital-marketing-2-year-degree:
Gain expertise in the vast array of marketing practices in our increasingly digital world.
Accredited by the Chartered Institute of Marketing.
Are you excited about the role of digital marketing in business?
Our BSc Digital Marketing degree provides an exciting and comprehensive overview of all aspects of marketing in an increasingly digital world.
The ways in which businesses broadcast themselves and connect with audiences is continually evolving, now more than ever.
Here at The University of Buckingham, we understand the importance of this, and that marketing is dynamic; it is central to the success of any business, because without customers, there is no business.
Our BSc Digital Marketing degree provides specialism in a range of marketing areas including:
We will also look in depth at the role of social media in marketing, and consider the developing role of digital in luxury marketing and experiential marketing.
Uniquely, our degree also considers the role of cross-cultural management in an increasingly connected digital world, with modules on digital economy and digital business, the importance of understanding consumer behaviour, and how to achieve business success through service excellence.
In completing this degree, you will have a comprehensive overview of all aspects of achieving customer delight, but with a digital focus.
Get a taste of our Digital Marketing degree – watch our latest taster webinar on YouTube .
Our BSc Digital Marketing degree is accredited by the Chartered Institute of Marketing, so that completing your degree at Buckingham provides exemptions in the achievement of professional status as a Chartered Marketer (additional charges payable to the Chartered Institute of Marketing apply).
Throughout your studies, you also have the opportunity to gain student membership of the Chartered Institute of Marketing which provides a range of practitioner-based resources, such as webinars, online content and networking opportunities (additional charges payable to the Chartered Institute of Marketing apply).
The BSc in Digital Marketing has been designed to elevate our students’ understanding of marketing in the modern, digital world to a professional level, with the scope to progress into prominent positions within marketing and business.
The University’s graduates as a whole have gone on to further study at most of the world’s leading universities, including Harvard, London, Oxford and Cambridge, and secured jobs in senior positions around the world.
Among our alumni we have a graduate who became the head of his country’s civil service, and one who became a leading Formula One motor-racing driver.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-digital-marketing-with-integrated-foundation:
Prepare for success with a foundation year before achieving your degree in the dynamic world of modern marketing.
Ideal for candidates who need additional preparation before undergraduate study, the first year of this programme is a Foundation course.
Offering a bridge between current knowledge and undergraduate study, the Foundation course offers students a stepping stone between the two.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-economics-single-2-year-degree:
Our Economics programme is designed to equip students with the key skills to operate effectively in the global economic system.
What was the root cause of the current inflation and when will it be tamed?
How will tackling climate change impact the economy?
Will Bitcoin become the new global currency?
What are the economic lessons from the Covid-19 pandemic?
Is Artificial Intelligence going to replace the human workforce?
Economics is one of the major disciplines that can answer these questions and others and is a subject vital to Governments, companies, and individuals.
Our fast-track 2-year Economics programme is designed to give you the tools of analysis and knowledge to develop towards understanding these questions and to develop you into skilled economic minds.
You will explore these topics and many others.
The course is designed to equip students with the quantitative and analytical skills to progress into economics-related jobs in finance, business and consulting, as well as preparing them for master’s level study.
As a student, you will study macroeconomics, development economics, financial markets, microeconomic behaviour, data science, econometrics, and energy economics.
We also add practical real-world analysis and policy applications to ensure theory and reality are given appropriate weighting.
We regularly host events with The Vinson Centre (on campus) and other seminars where you can see the latest research from academics and practitioners from across the UK and wider world, speak to alumni now working in the world of government, economics and finance and, learn from our own academics’ research.
Many students go onto careers in government, banking and financial markets, corporate finance, economic consultancy and think tanks.
Our graduates have gone on to further study at the world’s leading universities, including LSE, Imperial Cambridge and Oxford and secured jobs in positions around the world such as the World Bank, KPMG, UK Civil Service, HSBC and JP Morgan.
We aim to maintain strong links for our graduates and hold regular networking events for Alumni.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-economics-with-integrated-foundation:
The three year BSc in Economics is designed if you need additional preparation prior to undergraduate level study.
Many graduates continue their studies with us at master’s level or careers in banking and financial markets, corporate finance, economic consultancy and think tanks.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-english-literature-single-2-year-degree:
Ranked 12th in the Guardian University Guide 2020 our BA English Literature is taught by enthusiastic academics with 19th & 20th-century research,
You will encounter the canon of great authors, from Shakespeare onwards, but you also study themes like Film, Gender, and Empire.
In other words, the degree combines traditional and contemporary aspects of the subject.
Buckingham’s unique tutorial system makes for highly personalized teaching.
If you’d like to try out a tutorial, come along to one of our free taster sessions .
We don’t think that formal essays are always the best way of assessing how students understand a subject, so you will find that you have opportunities to write a book review, reportage, poems and short stories, even part of a screenplay.
You will learn a number of skills, not least how to write fluently and persuasively.
As a result, our graduates go on into a range of careers in media, teaching, publishing, academia, business, and marketing.
If you choose BA English Literature (Single Honours) in two terms of your final year you are given the opportunity to research, develop, and write a Dissertation of 6,000 – 8,000 words.
This sounds daunting, but you have six months to complete it, and plenty of guidance from us, so many of our students have found it one of the most rewarding parts of their studies.
The final dissertation has to be bound, fully ‘styled’ and sourced (in other words, a professional piece of report writing in every sense), and is your chance to connect together many of the skills you have acquired on the English Literature programme here at Buckingham.
Your bound dissertation makes an ideal accompaniment to your CV if you are applying for jobs where research and report-writing are important.
The standard entry requirements for English are A-level : BBB-BBC , IB:31-32 or equivalent qualifications.
Call us on +44 (0)1280 820227 or get in touch via our online contact form .
Teaching is carried out through a combination of lectures supported by seminars, workshops, tutorials and informal one-to-one discussion..
We believe in the surpassing value of the reading, discussing and understanding of great works of literature, not simply as processes that lead to higher levels of employability and the development of valuable critical skills (which they undoubtedly do) but as ends in themselves which are enriching and, ultimately, liberating.
Having finished an English degree at Buckingham you will be equipped with a range of skills highly desirable by employers.
This includes strong analytical and critical skills, team-working, emotional intelligence, and a fantastic command of the English language.
As a result your degree will prepare you for a range of different career paths – from teaching, the Civil Service, NGOs or the charity sector, and many more.
Our top graduates also move on to higher-level study at the University, assisted by generous scholarships for first class and upper second-class results .
Others have gone on to Master’s programmes at a range of universities elsewhere with excellent research reputations, such as Exeter and Durham.
“What attracted me to the campus initially was not only the location in terms of beauty and commutability, but the Oxbridge teaching style: small classes and tutorials, one-to-one access with teaching staff, and an open-door policy.
The course modules are diverse and engaging, the research dissertation allows for an in-depth study of your own choosing, and the library staff are most accommodating.
I find myself incredibly grateful to have worked alongside my lecturers who are experts within their field and exceptionally dedicated to each and every student’s growth and progression.”
Sophie Lowde English Literature, 2019
“The small class sizes were one of the reasons I was drawn to study English Literature at Buckingham, but I could not have expected the personalised interactions with each of my lecturers which I would be so fortunate to have.
The English department is comprised of a passionate and dedicated group of staff who truly care about their students, and are eager to see them succeed.
I will forever be grateful to them for reigniting my passion for learning, and it is because of their expertise and unrivalled support that I did not even consider looking elsewhere to continue onwards to  postgraduate study.”
Amy Coles English Literature, 2020

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-history-degree:
Explore major themes in the political, economic, and cultural history of Britain and Europe from the 1500s to today.
History is one of the most popular subjects among UK university students, and with good reason.
Having a historical perspective enables people to make sense of today’s rapidly changing world.
Employers like it because history teaches you to think for yourself, to work under pressure, and to construct a coherent argument from the evidence.
Historical research has never been more exciting than it is today, with the internet making available so many treasures from the archives.
Our BA History programme has been carefully designed and fine-tuned by Buckingham’s team of experienced and high-calibre historians.
Students begin with survey courses covering major themes in the political, economic, and cultural history of Britain and Europe from the 1500s to today.
They then advance to more specialised subjects including empire, global migration, and heritage studies.
Throughout, students take a selection of modules with significant historical content in related departments across the School of Humanities, demonstrating the widespread applicability of historical thinking and the variety of theoretical lenses from which History can be approached.
The degree culminates in an independent dissertation, utilising skills that have built up over the entire period of study at Buckingham.
So the programme not only teaches history; it hones your skills of analysis, independent thinking, and oral and written communication.
The standard entry requirements for History are A-level : BBB-BBC , IB:31-32 or equivalent qualifications.
Applications are individually considered by the Admissions Office and other factors may be taken into account.
Applicants with BTEC qualifications are welcome to apply.
Where an applicant is taking the EPQ alongside A-levels, the EPQ will be taken in to consideration and result in lower A-level grades being required.
Equivalent A level grades are also accepted (for example BBD equivalent to BCC)
Where an applicant is taking the EPQ alongside A-levels, the EPQ will be taken in to consideration and result in a slightly lower A-level grade offer.
Our undergraduate programmes operate a flexible entry process, and the Admissions Tutor is happy to consider entrants from all backgrounds with slightly lower qualifications, if they are able to demonstrate an alternative eligibility for the course.
If you are uncertain whether you will be eligible to apply for this course, please contact the Admissions team .
If your English levels don’t meet our minimum requirements, you may be interested in applying for our Pre-sessional English Programme .
Because of this, we have no difficulty in attracting high calibre, highly respected lecturers, many of whom can also offer networking opportunities for students outside of the academy.
Some of our modules offer Many of our modules offer the opportunity of work placements and experience outside of the classroom.
By studying History at Buckingham you will gain comprehensive knowledge that can be adapted to a wide range of careers.
It gives you an ideal preparation for careers in professions such as law, diplomacy, international business, journalism, politics and education, as well as the academic grounding to pursue further studies in History or other subjects in the Humanities and Social Sciences, including Politics, International Relations, Global Affairs, and Economics.
What our students and alumni say:
For those considering studying History, the University of Buckingham is an outstanding choice for both enjoyment of the subject and going forward in life” – Alex
How to apply We welcome applications in two different ways – directly via our online application form, or through UCAS.
Apply direct Apply online from this page as: The most flexible option.
You can apply until shortly before the course starts.
Apply as an additional option to your UCAS choices.
Apply via UCAS Alternatively, if you do not wish to apply directly with us, you can apply via UCAS where you can easily make Buckingham one of your UCAS choices.
Do bear in mind that the application and decision deadline are set by UCAS and there is an application fee to UCAS.
We welcome applications in two different ways – directly via our online application form, or through UCAS.
Alternatively, if you do not wish to apply directly with us, you can apply via UCAS where you can easily make Buckingham one of your UCAS choices.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-history-with-economics-2-year-degree:
So the programme not only teaches history; it also teaches you to think historically and to research and write history.
Our major/minor combinations allow you to study multiple subjects and earn a degree that truly reflects your interests.
History with Economics is a popular and illuminating combination of subjects.
Sometimes referred to as the ‘motor of history’, economic activity does not occur in a vacuum, but is instead dependent on historical circumstances ranging from the political and legal regimes of a given time and place to the available technology and transportation.
Many of our History modules, which will constitute two-thirds of your degree, focus on economic trends, change, and events.
Similarly, Buckingham’s Economics course gives insight into subjects like the history of economic thought and shows the ways that economic systems that have been historically shaped continue to operate today.
An excellent combination to hone both skills of written analysis and communication and advanced numeracy, History with Economics produces many of our most successful and employable graduates.
Applications are individually considered by the Admissions Office and other factors may be taken in to account.
All of our undergraduate programmes operate a flexible entry process, and the Admissions Tutor is happy to consider entrants from all backgrounds with slightly lower qualifications, if they are able to demonstrate an alternative eligibility for the course.
It gives you an ideal preparation for careers in diplomacy, international business, journalism, politics and education, as well as the academic grounding to pursue further studies in Global Affairs, History, Politics or International Relations.
“The international community at Buckingham brings the study of history and politics to life — imagine learning about Africa and the Dominions with people from countries who are still being affected by the aftershock of the British Empire: it really brings the subject alive.”

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-history-with-english-literature-2-year-degree:
History with English Literature is an ideal combination for those with a love for the written word.
Your History modules, which will make up two-thirds of your total course of study, all require engagement with primary sources produced in the past.
Textual analysis is therefore at the heart of what you will do as a historian.
This dovetails perfectly with our modules in English, many of which focus on periods of British or American history that you will learn about in our History offerings.
Many of the most successful students at Buckingham hone transferrable skills highly valued by employers such as reading comprehension, written and oral communication, textual analysis, and logical thinking by combining the subjects of History and English.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-history-with-politics-2-year-degree:
History with Politics is a very popular combination, pairing two highly interrelated subjects.
Your History modules, which will make up two-thirds of your total course of study, all have significant political elements, from the transformation of the English monarchy under Tudor and Stuart kings and queens to the often painful birth of democracy in the age of Atlantic revolutions, to the rise and fall of totalitarianism in the twentieth century.
Similarly, Politics modules often have a heavily historical element, presenting contemporary American or Cuban politics with reference to those nations’ pasts.
By taking History with Politics, you will finish your course with a richer understanding of both the world in which you live and the past societies that shaped it.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-international-relations:
The BA in International Relations provides a rigorous, wide-ranging education into the political structure of the world, and of a range of key countries and regions.
Our degree focuses on how global order can be achieved even in the absence of world government.
You will be taught about security, the world economy, globalisation, and the conflictual and cooperative engagement between states.
Graduates in International Relations are valued for their breadth of knowledge, critical thinking skills, writing and presentation abilities, and their capacity to work with others in groups.
Our degree will equip you for high quality, graduate-level employment, as well as postgraduate study at Buckingham and other highly ranked universities.
Buckingham itself is home to three important research centres, the Centre for United Nations Studies, the International Institute for the Study of Cuba, and the Buckingham University Centre for Security and Intelligence Studies (BUCSIS).
Central to the Buckingham experience is small group teaching and a problem-centred approach.
Lectures themselves are interactive, with classes normally no larger than 50 students and tutorials – which the forum for group discussion – typically having eight students.
Lectures and tutorials are taken by regular staff, who are experts in their field, and not by graduate teaching assistants.
And academics have an open-door policy, so if you have problems or simply want to discuss further what has been presented in class you are welcome to do so.
Politics (which includes International Relations) was ranked Second in the UK in the 2022 National Student Survey.
Buckingham is also strongly committed to free speech, as evidenced by its consistent awarding by Spiked magazine of “green” (“has not restricted or regulated speech”).
This course is offered as a two-year degree, with the option to start in September or January.
Alternatively, the course can be taken as a three-year degree starting in September.
The typical A-Level requirements for this course are BBB-BBC, IB:30-32 or equivalent UCAS Tariff points.
Applications to Buckingham are individually considered by the Admissions Tutor and other factors may be taken into account.
Call us on +44 (0)1280 820227 or contact us using the contact form here .
Quality teaching
We offer high quality, small group teaching, which leads to our degrees being recognised around the world.
High calibre staff
Because of this, we have no difficulty in attracting high calibre, highly respected lecturers.
Teaching methods
Some modules emphasise problem solving as a means of reinforcing and cementing the important ideas.
Occasionally we use game playing to encourage discussion and understanding.
Other modules place greater emphasis on writing short and accurate technical pieces or longer more discursive papers.
Assessment methods
Preparation for work
All our degree courses combine academic challenge with the transferable and professional skills that will stand you in good stead for future employment.
Graduate employment
Our International Relations degree equips graduates with a range of skills: analysis; report-writing; group working; a deep understanding of power relations, both domestic and international.
When combined with politics it is especially useful as a foundation for careers in policy analysis, civil service, diplomacy, country risk analysis, non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and the charity sector, public affairs consultant, journalism and teaching.
Because developments in artificial intelligence (AI) may threaten many careers, our emphasis is on equipping you with skills that are distinctively human and unlikely to be replaced by robots any time soon: empathy; problem-solving, where solutions cannot be learned in advance; working with others; creativity; fundamental strategic thinking; imagination.
It is also possible to build on your first degree by taking various Master’s (MA) programmes: United Nations and Diplomatic Studies; Security and Intelligence Studies; Security, Intelligence and Diplomacy.
By taking our two-year undergraduate degree plus an MA, you can get two degrees in the time in takes students to take just one at other universities.
Generous fee reductions are available for high performing undergraduates as well.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/llb-hons-law-2-year-degree:
During your study for LLB Law you will become proficient in written and oral presentation, perfect your research techniques and learn to solve problems.
An opportunity to experience our teaching and find out about our two-year LLB programme.
1 October 2025
The unique structure of Buckingham’s Law degree (LLB), with four full teaching terms per calendar year, enables you to graduate after just two years of study (eight, or nine terms with September start).
Our LLB’s concentrated mode of delivery prepares you for careers in law, governance, public service, industry, and commerce.
It also satisfies the necessary first step for qualifying as a lawyer in various common law jurisdictions, including Canada , Nigeria , the Bahamas , Ghana and Bermuda .
For those interested in qualifying as a solicitor in the UK, our LLB (single or combined honours) provides you with thorough preparation for the Solicitors Qualifying Exam 1 (SQE1), enabling you to choose the accelerated SQE1 preparation courses after graduation.
Our innovative and diverse curriculum also contributes to preparation for the practice-orientated SQE2, both SQE1 and SQE2 being necessary for qualification as a solicitor.
Buckingham Law School graduates (LLB and LLM) also benefit from a 20% discount on the SQE1 preparation course provided by the leading professional legal educator BARBRI.
For those UK and international students wishing to qualify as an English barrister, our LLB (single or combined honours) satisfies the academic component of Bar training , the necessary first step to qualifying as an English barrister.
Buckingham Law School also offers a broad range of extra-curricular opportunities to develop your professional skills and experience of legal practice.
These opportunities include the possibility, between the first and second year of your LLB, of a sandwich year placement with a professional organisation.
We often accommodate the particular requirements needed to practise in various common law jurisdictions other than the UK.
If you are an international student from one of these jurisdictions, we are happy to discuss what subjects you must take to qualify.
Our LLB graduates who gain a second-class honours degree, or higher, are guaranteed a place on our LLM programme in International and Commercial Law.
This opportunity greatly enhances specialist knowledge and enables our students to acquire two degrees in only three years.
The standard entry requirements for Law are A-level: BBB-BBC, IB:31-32 or equivalent alternative qualifications.
We offer prospective students the opportunity to see the law degree in action at one of our Law Taster.
If you are an international applicant, it may not be possible for you to visit in person, so if the Admissions Tutor has any queries about your application you may be contacted by Microsoft Teams,  email or phone.
Call us on +44 (0)1280 820227 or email: admissions@buckingham.ac.uk .
The standards of degrees and awards are safeguarded by distinguished external examiners – senior academic staff from other universities in the UK – who approve and moderate assessed work and by the The Quality Assurance Agency for Higher Education (QAA) .
Because of this, we have no difficulty in attracting high calibre, highly respected lecturers, many of whom also have a background in the practise of law either as solicitors or as barristers qualified to practice in the United Kingdom and also in other overseas jurisdictions with excellent contacts with the professions and can offer networking opportunities for students.
We also have a Citizens Advice Clinic module which assists students in gaining practical client interviewing and advice experience during clinic sessions at Citizens Advice MK.
Teaching is carried out through a combination of lectures supported by seminars, tutorials and workshops.
It is also the philosophy of Buckingham’s faculty to be available to students outside the scheduled tutorial times and to encourage good working relationships between staff and students with our excellent Personal Tutor system which supports student every step of the way:
We provide:
The University of Buckingham’s distinctive style of small group teaching makes our Law School different from almost all others in the UK.
A profession in Law invariably requires intense discussion of the nature of problems, understanding different viewpoints and analysis to resolve them and we believe our teaching style provides outstanding preparation for these challenges.
Mooting and negotiating are compulsory elements in our Legal Skills module and our students also have the opportunity of practical sessions and stimulating external competitions.
Combined Honours Law allows students to take the core foundation subjects and devote the remaining one-third (120 units) of the degree to another subject area.
This might be Computer Skills, Psychology, Business or a wide range of others.
Assessment is comprised of a variety of formats and styles, be it by academic drafting like essays and research logs; legal skills drafting e.g., legal reports, negotiation analysis; oral presentations using visuals such as poster and infographics; written exams; Multiple Choice Questions (mirroring SQE1 style); among others.
Masterclass Law Lectures are hosted regularly with eminent practitioners from the Bar and the wider legal profession.
The professional mentoring schemes allow you to analyse legal case scenarios and practise presentation skills with the legal teams.
Another secured a position as the Minister of Sabah, Malaysia and one female law graduate became the first British lawyer to become a French Advocate.
“The 2-year degree at Buckingham really appealed to me.
I have friends who had studied here so I knew it would be hard work!
The best thing is that I feel really well supported; the Law School staff are very dedicated.
Working in small tutorial groups helps – we can discuss our work with our tutors and gain a real understanding of the subjects.
The library is very modern with excellent facilities – there is everything here to help you succeed.
I’m hoping to continue studying for an LLM after completing my LLB at Buckingham – two qualifications in less than three years.”
Nnenna Ukachukwu LLB Law
The Law School of The University of Buckingham appealed to me because of the small tutorial groups, which I was used to from my previous studies.
It was important to me to get the most out of the teaching process and having a maximum of six other students with me during tutorials meant that I would not only have to get my work done, but I also had a better chance of getting to know the lecturer – this would ensure that I stayed on top of my work and any shortfalls would be noticeable.
Studying an unfamiliar legal system during the pandemic certainly was a challenge, but I enjoyed every second of it and the unique teaching style in combination with the lecturers’ support, is one of the reasons why I managed to obtain First Class Honours at the end of my studies.
Anna Mueller LLB Law

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/llb-hons-law-part-time:
Our LLB programme is ranked in the top 20 in the Guardian University Guide 2019.
This programme is designed to offer a unique method of study
Our part-time LLB programme offers a unique method of study.
We provide textbooks, written materials and access to pre-recorded online lectures as part of your fee.
The online lectures can be watched at any time and are combined with motivational, productive question analysis and feedback at face-to-face Wednesday evening seminars, 7pm to 9.15pm .
This approach provides flexible learning around full-time work, home/care responsibilities and other commitments.
The weekly seminars involve stimulating and enlightening interaction with tutors, consolidating your understanding of the law, developing your study skills and growing your confidence.
Three subjects are studied each year over three 9-week terms (October to June) and you will complete your degree in four years.
This programme is an ideal option for various students; from those who wish to begin their Law education whilst maintaining other full-time commitments, to entrepreneurs who strive to upskill their legal knowledge.
We welcome students from a wide variety of backgrounds , including those who are:
Our experience shows that all students bring their own valuable contribution to the programme and all can be successful in gaining an LLB, provided they demonstrate sufficient commitment.
For students that start studying on the part-time LLB, there is also the opportunity to switch to the full-time LLB programme at set times during the four-year programme, allowing you to complete your degree in less time.
For those interested in qualifying as a solicitor, our Part-time LLB provides you with thorough preparation for the Solicitors Qualifying Exam 1 (SQE1), enabling you to choose the accelerated SQE1 preparation courses after graduation.
For those wishing to qualify as a barrister, our Part-time LLB satisfies the academic component of Bar training , the necessary first step to qualifying as an English barrister.
There are no formal entry requirements for mature students.
Candidates who do not have conventional academic qualifications will be considered if they have a professional qualification and/or work experience that demonstrates potential.
Other relevant qualifications, together with significant experience, may also be considered.
If you are unable to locate school certificates, we will often accept proof of professional qualifications and/or work experience as an alternative.
Younger students are normally expected to have gained the equivalent of three grade Cs at A-level.
However, all applications are fully considered and all candidates are interviewed.
Motivation, work experience and, most importantly, potential are always taken into consideration.
If English is not your first language you will need an IELTS Score of 6.5, with at least 6.0 in each component.
Whenever possible, you will be invited for an informal interview via Teams or at the University.
The external relations lecturer, Dr Gar Yein Ng, is also happy to answer any questions you may have by email, garyein.ng@buckingham.ac.uk , or you can contact our Admissions Team .
Read the Student Contract .
The LLB (Part-time) programme follows a traditional three-term academic year starting in October, with a variety of assessments throughout the year .
You will complete your degree in four years.
Unlike our full-time students, your summers are free.
In addition to pre-recorded online lectures, face-to-face teaching takes place on Wednesday evenings during term time for two 60-minute sessions, and attendance is compulsory.
During these sessions, there are many opportunities to explore areas of difficulty with your tutor.
In addition to the once-a-week contact teaching hours, you will also have to make a substantial commitment to private study and seminar preparation.
Rather like a distance-learning programme, you are provided with a range of materials.
These include online textbooks, pre-recorded online lectures and bespoke study notes written by your tutor.
You are also given access to legal databases and the library, providing access to important books and articles.
It is a defining feature of our part time programme that you will be able to study at home at a time convenient to yourself, allowing time for discussion and exploration of more complex areas during the weekly seminars.
Assessment methods include coursework, exam and other forms of assessment.
Professional development is integrated into our curriculum and your life as a Part-time law student, providing numerous opportunities for work placements, professional mentoring and careers workshops.
You will benefit from our dedicated Clinical Legal Education Manager, who is also a qualified solicitor, who manages this dimension of your studies at Buckingham Law School.
Graduates from the Part-time LLB programme at Buckingham have used their law degree as a springboard to many different forms of professional success.
Some use the degree to progress their careers in a wide range of professions, including management, human resources and the police force.
Others use the degree to switch to a career in the law.
Those graduates who now work as solicitors do so in a wide range of law firms and areas of practice, including Latham and Watkins (City of London), EMW Law (Milton Keynes) and McKeag and Co (Newcastle).
Others still have started their own law firms, such as Pauline Purcell of Purcell solicitors in Milton Keynes.
“Looking back, my time at The University of Buckingham was transformative.
It not only equipped me with the knowledge and skills required for a career in law, but also demonstrated the power of determination, ambition, and a supportive academic environment.
I am now preparing to begin my SQE with Clifford Chance, eager to further combine my academic achievements and professional experience as I embark on the next stage of my legal career.” – Siobhan O’Neill, LLB 2024
Read more about what our current students and graduates think of the programme
Due to the mode of study on this course you will not normally need a room in University accommodation during your degree.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/llb-hons-law-and-criminology-2-year-degree:
LLB Law and Criminology graduates become confident, competent lawyers after just two years, understanding crime's origins, causes and impacts.
The unique structure of Buckingham’s Law and Criminology degree (LLB), with four full teaching terms per calendar year, enables you to graduate after just two years of study (eight, or nine terms with September start).
In addition to your legal studies, you will complete 120 units of criminology, allowing you to develop a deep and wide-ranging understanding of the origins, causes and consequences of crime and criminality.
This includes knowledge and understanding of legal and criminological research methods, referencing protocols and the different primary and secondary sources of law.
Criminology itself is an interdisciplinary subject comprised of the legal, social, psychological, and cultural aspects of crime.
The Law and Criminology degree also satisfies the necessary first step for qualifying as a lawyer in various common law jurisdictions, including Canada , the Bahamas , and Bermuda .
For those interested in qualifying as a solicitor in the UK, the Law and Criminology degree provides you with thorough preparation for the Solicitors Qualifying Exam 1 (SQE1), enabling you to choose the accelerated SQE1 preparation courses after graduation.
For those UK and international students wishing to qualify as an English barrister, the Law and Criminology degree satisfies the academic component of Bar training , the necessary first step to qualifying as an English barrister.
Our Law and Criminology graduates who gain a second-class honours degree, or higher, are guaranteed a place on any of our LLM programmes.
The standard entry requirements for Law are A-level: ABB-BBC, IB:31-32 or equivalent alternative qualifications.
Because of this, we have no difficulty in attracting high calibre, highly respected lecturers, many of whom also have a background in the practice of law either as solicitors or as barristers qualified to practice in the United Kingdom and in other overseas jurisdictions.
Some of our lecturers have worked in the criminal justice system.
We have excellent contacts with the professions and can offer networking opportunities for students as well as opportunities to see the criminal justice system in action, for example by visiting court sittings.
We also have strong practical legal education programme which assists students in obtaining legal practice experience.
A key feature of the Buckingham teaching method is the use of small tutorial groups which provide the most effective means of ensuring that the students benefit from the academic expertise in the Law School.
It is also the philosophy of Buckingham’s faculty to be available to students outside scheduled tutorial times and to encourage good working relationships between staff and students with our excellent Personal Tutor system which supports student every step of the way:
LLB Law and Criminology allows students to take the core foundation law subjects and devote the remaining one-third (120 units) of the degree to the criminology subject area, including modules in psychology shared with students in the School of Psychology and Wellbeing.
As with all our degree courses, the LLB Law and Criminology combines academic challenge with the transferable skills that will stand you in good stead for future employment.
You may be attracted to a legal career or a career in criminal justice, and if so, this degree will prepare you for those areas.
However, a Law is recognised as being a good basis for employment in many fields, including management, finance, local or national government and many others.
Graduates of Buckingham LLB degrees have gone on to further study at most of the world’s leading universities, including Harvard, Oxford and Cambridge, and secured jobs in senior positions around the world.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/llb-hons-law-with-business-management-2-year-degree:
LLB Law with Business Management will not only make you a better lawyer, also gives you an intetesting career in banking, the civil service or management.
LLB Law with Business Management (2-year + one term degree – September entry) combines the study of law with that of business to develop knowledge and skills that will boost your legal career.
The Business Management component contextualises your legal knowledge within a business framework and reinforces that legal knowledge, for example deepening understanding of company law and commercial law.
However, if you are not interested in qualification as a lawyer, it provides an excellent foundation for careers in banking, the civil service and management.
Law with Business Management also satisfies the necessary first step for qualifying as a lawyer in various common law jurisdictions, including Canada , the Bahamas , and Bermuda .
For those interested in qualifying as a solicitor in the UK, Law with Business Management provides you with thorough preparation for the Solicitors Qualifying Exam 1 (SQE1), enabling you to choose the accelerated SQE1 preparation courses after graduation.
Our innovative and diverse law curriculum also contributes to preparation for the practice-orientated SQE2, both SQE1 and SQE2 being necessary for qualification as a solicitor.
For those UK and international students wishing to qualify as an English barrister, Law with Business Management also satisfies the academic component of Bar training ,  the necessary first step to qualifying as an English barrister.
The Business Management component of the degree develops skills in solving business problems that are transferable, organisationally and internationally, across business environments.
We teach business and management as live subjects, incorporating practical and real-life projects to enhance learning and produce graduates equipped to meet the needs of commerce and industry.
This approach is often highly participatory and may involve visits to selected companies to complement classroom activities.
Our LLB with Business Management graduates who gain a second-class honours degree, or higher, are guaranteed a place on our LLM programme in International and Commercial Law.
Our graduates have gone on to further study at most of the world’s leading universities, including Harvard, Oxford and Cambridge and secured jobs in senior positions around the world.
Among our alumni we have a graduate who became the head of his country’s civil service and others who became UK cabinet politicians.
View our Work Experience for Law Students to see our graduate destinations and discover where your Buckingham law degree can take you.
– Nnenna Ukachukwu, LLB Law
– Anna Mueller, LLB Law

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/llb-hons-law-with-integrated-foundation-3-year-degree:
Our LLB Law degree with foundation is designed for students who can benefit from an introduction to enable them to study at undergraduate level
The three-year LLB Law degree with Integrated Foundation is designed for students who will benefit from a one-year introduction to enable them to study law at undergraduate level.
The first year of the programme provides a foundation to the more specialist ‘core’ subjects delivered in years two and three, leading to the award of an LLB.
The Buckingham LLB’s concentrated mode of delivery during years two and three of this programme prepares you for careers in law, governance, public service, industry, and commerce.
It also satisfies the necessary first step for qualifying as a lawyer in various common law jurisdictions, including Canada , Nigeria (Single Hons LLB), the Bahamas , Ghana and Bermuda .
For those interested in qualifying as a solicitor in the UK, our LLB with Integrated Foundation provides you with thorough preparation for the Solicitors Qualifying Exam 1 (SQE1), enabling you to choose the accelerated SQE1 preparation courses after graduation.
For those UK and international students wishing to qualify as an English barrister, our LLB with Integrated Foundation (single or combined honours) satisfies the academic component of Bar training , the necessary first step to qualifying as an English barrister.
These opportunities include the possibility, between the second and third year of your LLB with Integrated Foundation, to undertake a sandwich year placement with a professional organisation.
Students at Buckingham who gain a second-class honours degree or higher are guaranteed a place on our LLM programme in International and Commercial Law with its specialist pathways.
This opportunity greatly enhances specialist knowledge and enables our students to acquire two degrees in only three years, or four years if you pursue our LLB Law degree with Integrated Foundation programme.
There is also the opportunity for undertaking research degrees at LLM and PhD.
The Admissions Office would be happy to answer any questions you may have.
We also have a ‘Streetlegal’ programme which assists students in obtaining legal practice experience.
It is also the philosophy of Buckingham’s faculty to be available to students outside the scheduled tutorial times and to encourage good working relationships between staff and students with our excellent Personal Tutor system which supports student every step of the way:
An annual Legal Workshop is held, in partnership with current practitioners, allowing you to practise advising clients and to present short cases as though in court.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-liberal-arts-2-year-degree:
Liberal Arts at The University of Buckingham is a structured programme which introduces students to International Relations, Politics, Economics, History, History of Art, and English Literature.
Covering a range of methodologies, both quantitative and qualitative, Liberal Arts offers a unique blend of disciplines and approaches , which also enables students to explore different fields and to then be free to pursue postgraduate studies in any of these.
Working with experts in each subject, students will benefit from research active academics in an environment of small group teaching .
While working across areas, the programme is drawn together by its ethos of curiosity and interdisciplinary exploration, encouraging students to think not of isolated artefacts, but to develop a sense of the interrelationships between politics and the arts.
Liberal Arts fosters an open, inclusive environment within which to examine often controversial issues.
Buckingham is ranked in the top 5 UK universities for Graduate Outcomes, Student Satisfaction, and top for Freedom of Expression in the recent National Student Survey.
The Liberal Arts programme aims to:
In so doing, the Liberal Arts Programme prepares students for diverse career pathways, and/or for further study in any one of the disciplines covered.
In a general sense, the intention is to produce students with an ability to synthesise information, knowledge, and methodologies from a diverse range of disciplines to understand the complexity of their interactions.
If you are interested in gaining expertise in various fields, and learning how these work together, please do get in touch and join us in either January or September.
Dr Peter Sloane is Senior Lecturer in English and Liberal Arts Programme Director (please email for an informal chat or to ask any questions: peter.sloane@buckingham.ac.uk ).
Peter works in contemporary anglophone cultures and has published widely on contemporary literature and film, including David Foster Wallace and the Body (Routledge 2019) and Kazuo Ishiguro’s Gestural Poetics (Bloomsbury 2021).
He is currently writing From Rupture to Refuge: 21st Century Refugee Fiction and Life Writing (Liverpool University Press 2025).
The typical A-level requirements for this course are BBB-BBC, IB: 31-32 or equivalent UCAS tariff points.
If you do not meet our minimum requirements at A-level you may be considered for our Foundation Pathway, depending on grades.
If your English levels don’t meet our minimum requirements, you may be interested in applying for our Pre-sessional English Language Programmes .
Most of our academic staff teach for three terms out of four, with the remaining term dedicated to research.
Buckingham’s Liberal Arts programme will prepare students for diverse career pathways, whilst opening up options for further study in any one of the disciplines covered.
Students can pursue postgraduate study in English, History, Politics, Economics, or Philosophy, and will be well placed to apply their detailed knowledge of each field in wider contexts.
Given that the course employs qualitative and quantitative methods, students will also develop a uniquely broad range of transferable skills.
They might seek careers in journalism, content writing, public relations, teaching, or any vocation that requires critical thinking and writing skills.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-liberal-arts-with-integrated-foundation-3-year-degree:
If your English levels don’t meet our minimum requirements, you may be interested in applying for our Pre-sessional English programme .

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/certhe-medical-sciences-pre-med-9-months:
A unique course for students that wish to enhance their medical or dental school application or study the first stage of the 2-year degree.
The CertHE Medical Sciences Pre-Med (9-months) is a unique programme, awarding graduates of this course with a Certificate of Higher Education (CertHE) in Medical Science qualification.
The Pre-Med has been developed for students that wish to enhance their application to medical or dental schools.
The biomedical science content of this course focuses on how cells, organs and metabolic systems function in the human body.
Through this understanding of health and disease processes, new treatments and therapies can be created or developed, which makes it a very dynamic and exciting field of study.
As part of our standard Quality Assurance cycle, The University of Buckingham is conducting a review of the CertHE Medical Sciences curriculum.
This process may lead to updates in the curriculum for September 2025, which could differ from the current published version.
We aim to provide you with the updated details as soon as possible.
As part of our entry requirements for Pre-Med, as well as meeting our academic requirements, you would be required to attend a Selection Event – Stage 2 Multiple Mini Assessment (MMA).
Depending on your performance at this, you would then either be given an offer or will be unsuccessful in your application.
When confirmed, Selection Event dates will be detailed on the course page of the website and generally commence from February each year.
Should you enrol on the Pre-Med course and wish to apply for our Medicine course, you would be required to submit a Medicine application for your intended year of entry as well as achieve a minimum of 70% overall on the Pre-Med programme in order to be eligible for a Medicine offer.
Please note, you would not need to interview for the Medical School if you were offered a place on our Pre-Med programme, as you would have already passed the interview process.
Required grades: BBC
Required points: 28
Required subjects: an overall score of 28 points, excluding any additional points for Theory of Knowledge or Extended Essay.
These must include HL Biology and Chemistry HL3 and HL4 (in either order) or SL5 Biology and Chemistry.
For country-specific requirements, please see our Entry Requirements document .
If English is not a student’s native language, they are normally expected to have passed a recognised test in English to the level of IELTS UKVI Academic score of 6.5 or equivalent (with no less than 6.0 in each section).
IELTS General Training is not suitable for this level; other recognised Secure English Language tests (SELTs) can be found on the GOV UK website .
The selection processes operate in two stages.
The first stage is Academic Screening, and the second stage is a digital Multiple Mini Assessment (MMA).
This first stage involves judgements on the basis of the written application, primarily related to academic achievement as an indicator of intellectual suitability for a medical course and the practice of medicine.
Applicants may offer a variety of qualifications, but the overriding principle is that achievement should be at the highest level, and comparable to entrants to other medical schools in the United Kingdom.
It is not intended that ability to pay the fees for the course should compensate for academic achievement that is less than usual for entry to a medical course in the UK.
The second stage of selection applies only to those who meet the academic threshold and is intended to judge personal attributes relating to suitability for practice as a doctor.
It is a computer-based test, made up of a series of tasks intended to test applicants’ analysis, interpretation and judgement abilities related to ‘ Good Medical Practice ‘, published by the UK General Medical Council.
Applicants who successfully pass will receive an offer; unsuccessful applicants will be advised.
To learn more, view our Preparing for Medicine Selection events webinar.
This course is currently undergoing a curriculum review.
Successful applicants will be invited to attend a Selection event from April 2025 onwards.
We accept applications for Pre-Med until 23:59 on 20 of August 2025.
NB – The use of artificial intelligence (AI) within the MMA and MMI is not permitted.
Any suspicion that AI has been used will be investigated and may result in exclusion from this event and all future events.
The programme is taught using a range of teaching methodologies such as lectures, small group tutorial sessions, problem-based learning , one-to-one personal tutoring, seminars, practicals and personal assessments.
You will gain experience in laboratory work during your degree and this will equip you with the skills you need to plan, conduct and evaluate experiments.
It will also enable you to comply with health and safety regulations and research and interpret scientific literature.
Transferable skills gained on your course include:
How to apply Apply direct Apply online from this page as: The most flexible option.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/mb-chb-medicine-4.5-year-degree:
Our MB ChB Medicine 4.5-year degree programme will train you to be a highly ethical, honest and compassionate doctor who will put the patient first.
Our MB ChB Medicine 4.5-year degree programme is designed to train highly ethical, honest and compassionate doctors who will put the patient first.
The Medical School received General Medical Council (GMC) accreditation in May 2019.
The course is divided into Phases 1 and 2.
Phase 1 consists of a series of integrated and interdisciplinary units mostly based around the systems of the body and presented in a clinical context.
By the end of Phase 1, our students will be able to communicate effectively with patients, examine them clinically, and have a sufficient understanding of how the body works in health and disease to embark on full-time clinical work.
Phase 2 is about building on the foundations of Phase 1 through intensive work with patients and doctors in the clinical environment.
Over a series of themed blocks, our students will be given a structured exposure to all aspects of medicine in both the hospital and the community.
The placements take place in hospitals and general practices.
In keeping with the Buckingham ethos, the ratio of students to clinical teachers and patients are kept low so that our students have the best chance to interact with a wide variety of patients and doctors.
Amongst our partner hospitals near Buckingham are Milton Keynes University Hospital, St Andrews Hospital in Northampton, South Warwickshire NHS Foundation Trust and Stoke Mandeville Hospital; and near Crewe – The Railings, Macclesfield General Hospital, East Cheshire Trust and Leighton Hospital, Mid Cheshire Hospitals.
See 4.5 year course overview below – click to enlarge.
In the case of applicants offering UK A-levels, they should have (or be likely to obtain before the medical course begins) a minimum of grades ABB, including Chemistry or Biology.
They should demonstrate competence in English language, either in the case of a native English speaker by attainment of at least Grade 4 in English at GCSE (or equivalent), or in the case of non-native English speakers by attainment of at least 7.0 overall and a minimum of 6.5 in each component of IELTS.
They should demonstrate competence in Maths by attainment of at least Grade 4 in Maths GCSE (or equivalent).
In the specific case of the International Baccalaureate, they should be expected to achieve or to have achieved a total score of at least 32 points to include 3 Higher Level subjects.
You must achieve at least Higher Level 6 in Chemistry or Biology but have taken both and achieved at least a HL5 in the other.
Please note that the overall point score does not include theory of knowledge or extended essay.
For applicants offering a degree – they should have a Bachelor degree in a subject cognate to Medicine, and have or be predicted a minimum classification of 2.1.
Please note that we do not accept BTECs as this qualification is not sufficient.
Academic qualifications older than 5 years will not be considered.
For country-specific requirements, please see our Entry Requirements Document .
Applicants whose native language is not English must hold an IELTS UKVI or *IELTS Academic certificate with a minimum overall score of 7 and no less than 6.5 in each component.
*Please note that IELTS Academic is unsuitable for MB ChB applicants who may be offered an alternative course following Selection (CertHE Medical Sciences (Pre-Med)), so we strongly recommend all MB ChB applicants to take the IELTS UKVI test.
IELTS General Training is not sufficient for either MB ChB or Pre-Med programmes.
Alternatively, Cambridge English: Advances (CAE) certificate is accepted with an overall average score of 185, with a minimum of 176 in each paper.
Applicants whose native language is not English will be exempt from providing an English Test Certificate only if they have successfully completed a UK Bachelor degree, or are a national of one of the following countries: Antigua and Barbuda, Australia, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Canada*, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, New Zealand, St Kitts and Nevis, St Lucia, St Vincent and the Grenadines, Trinidad and Tobago, and USA.
*Applies to Canadian Nationals only.
Please refer to the UKVI guidance to learn more about the meaning of ‘native’ English, and to see the list of countries where English is considered a native language.
Read the MB ChB Student Contract .
The selection processes operate in three stages.
The first stage is Academic Screening , the second stage is a digital Multiple Mini Assessment (MMA) and the third is the Multiple Mini Interview (MMI) .
Applicants who are satisfactory at this point will be able to progress to the third and final stage of the MMI application process.
Exceptionally high performing applicants may receive an offer at this stage in the process.
The third stage of selection is intended to judge personal attributes relating to suitability for practice as a doctor.
It consists of a series of tasks intended to test abilities related to ‘ Good Medical Practice ‘, published by the UK General Medical Council.
More dates will be added to this page soon.
The use of artificial intelligence (AI) within the MMA and MMI is not permitted.
In keeping with the Buckingham ethos, the ratio of students to academic staff, clinical educators and patients is kept low throughout Phases 1 and 2.
See our Phase II Placement Allocation Policy .
We will assess your progress rigorously throughout the course so that you, the Medical School and the public can be confident that you are meeting the high standards required of a doctor.
There will be a combination of written examinations, structured clinical examinations and the use of an e-portfolio of evidence of progress, all chosen to make the most valid and reliable test of your abilities.
The other main purpose of the assessment system is to drive the learning of all students, and the Medical School has therefore chosen to place a high weight on educational impact in the design of the assessment system.
The aim is to assess students in ways that will drive deep, contextual and constructive learning that will last into life-long practice.
Through workshops and career education talks we aim to provide all medical students with the resources that they will need to make the right decision in their medical career or in selecting their chosen speciality.
The Student Support Team will assist you in providing advice or guiding you to the most appropriate person to talk to about:
The University of Buckingham is a not-for-profit educational charity that receives no government subsidies.
Tuition fees are invested fully into providing a first-class medical education and student experience.
We ask for a non-refundable deposit of £10,000 to secure your place with us when you accept an offer.
This deposit acts as a credit against your first year’s fees.
If you do not meet the conditions of the offer, your deposit will be refunded in full .
However, if you have accepted our offer and meet our conditions, but then decide not to study at the University of Buckingham, your deposit will be non-refundable.
The exceptions to this are scenarios such as force majeure events; including acts of God, war, terrorism or a global pandemic.
In this case your deposit will be refunded in full.
On receipt of your acceptance statement and payment of your deposit, we will instruct our Visa Officer to contact you directly.
Fees paid in advance will be refunded if your student visa is refused but please note that administration fees may be deducted, for example £300 will be retained if the CAS (Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies) was released to you.
Students must use their own IT devices for studying and assessments.
Please ensure your device meets the following minimum standards to be compatible with Medical School software requirements.
Please note the minimum system requirements to run the current version of the Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences applications.
Our students need to purchase a stethoscope as part of their medical training.
Students can seek advice from clinical staff.
Costs of stethoscopes typically start at around £90.
You should be aiming to have the sort of model/specification similar to that of Littman Classic III.
However, please note that you will not be able to use the type with recording facilities/Bluetooth in OSCEs, e.g.
the Littman CORE.
Our students will rotate across our partner hospitals and a number of local GP practices throughout the Clinical Skills Unit in Phase 1 of the course.
Travel costs are incurred once a week in Phase 1 and it is around 45p per mile.
We reimburse students whose travel is longer than 25 miles where we refund any mileage over 25 in one direction.
View our Locations and Travel Requirements .
As part of the Narrative Medicine component of the course, each of our students is assigned a patient whom they will contact on a regular basis.
The frequency of the contacts may vary from patient to patient.
There may be a couple of local practices where students might see their patient face to face.
Travel cost is around 45p per mile.
You can apply directly using our online application form .
Contact them on +44 01280 820229 or by email FMHS-admissions@buckingham.ac.uk
If you would like to make any changes to your current application, please email FMHS-admissions@buckingham.ac.uk (and make sure you have your application number ready!).

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-primary-education:
A three-year, online course designed for teaching assistants in schools in England who wish to become primary or prep school teachers.
This three-year BA degree course is designed for those working as teaching assistants in schools who wish to become primary or prep school teachers.
To be a qualified teacher in England, you must have a degree and the most relevant degree to take is one in Education.
While the number of teachers in schools in England has remained steady over the past decade or so, the number of full-time equivalent TAs has more than trebled since 2000, from 79,000 to 262,800.
Teaching assistants now comprise more than a quarter of the workforce in mainstream schools in England, rising to 35% in primary schools.
This degree has many significant advantages:
In addition to your contracted hours of work, you should be able to commit approximately 10-12 hours per week to the necessary reading and writing for this course.
Part-time teaching assistants are welcome.
Overseas applicants should know that the course content is about primary schools in England only.
You will not be eligible for the apprenticeship-funded QTS course but can apply for the International QTS course for which there is a fee.
There are a number of pathways into teaching and our work-based routes are creating opportunities for everyone at any stage of their career, including school leavers.
Why might a school-leaver consider this course?
If my school is part of a multi-academy trust, can the trust be involved?
Yes, we are negotiating a partnership with several MATs who can offer jobs in their school and support their trainee teachers doing the BA degree.
Course Induction Webinar: Monday 23 June 2025 (online)
Course start date: Monday 23 June 2025
Course end date: July 2028
Those who wish to apply for the BA Primary but who do not have two A-levels or other level 3 qualifications worth 32 UCAS points, or who wish to improve their academic writing skill, should take the 14-week academic writing course we offer, starting in September 2025 or January 2026.
It will cost £480 including VAT.
Those who do not have two A-levels will be assessed at the end of the course and will either be permitted to apply for the BA or not.
To register for this course you must apply though our partner, Anspear .
For application deadlines, view the ‘Key Dates’ section on Anspear’s website .
There are 10 modules of 30 credits each, and a final 60 credit Enquiry module.
The modules are:
You will study four of the above modules per year, using the online learning platform.
You will access a range of learning materials to work through and you will be assessed based on three assignments per module.
These assignments will be based on your study and require you to link this to your in-school observations and experiences.
The final Enquiry module is assessed will involve a longer, research-based assignment on an area of your choice from the programme.
This will involve a literature review of 2,000 words and a research project of 6,000 words, written over two terms.
To aid you in your studies, students receive a free Chromebook to ensure they can access the course without obstacles.
What’s more it’s yours to keep beyond they completion of the course.
Students will need to return the Chromebook if they do not complete the first module.
If you live in England, after the BA you could proceed directly onto The University of Buckingham’s one-year apprenticeship-levy funded online teacher training course, which leads to Qualified Teacher Status.
For this, there is no charge to you (unless the new government change regulations).
If you do not live in England, you can take an alternative Qualified Teacher Training course with Buckingham for which there will be a fee.
For information on fees, please contact baprim-EDU@buckingham.ac.uk
A non-refundable registration fee of £300 is also payable.
There is a limit to the numbers on this course so please apply well in advance of the application deadline.
How to apply Apply direct Apply online from this page as the most flexible option.
Need help?
Contact the Faculty of Education on +44 (0)1280 820222 or email: education@buckingham.ac.uk Some courses are limited in terms of numbers and we operate a first-come-first-served system.
Applications can take at least 6 weeks to process.
Please consider school holiday closures and ensure applications are submitted in good time to avoid disappointment.
Please click the ‘Apply Now’ button to view the application deadline and start your application.
If you have any questions you can contact The Faculty of Education by email: baprim-EDU@buckingham.ac.uk or by calling +44 (0)1280 820 222.
Apply online from this page as the most flexible option.
Contact the Faculty of Education on +44 (0)1280 820222 or email: education@buckingham.ac.uk
Some courses are limited in terms of numbers and we operate a first-come-first-served system.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-psychology-2-year-degree:
Unlock the human mind with a Psychology degree.
Gain insights into behaviour, reasoning, and emotions in this BPS accredited 2-year undergraduate programme.
Discover our unique 2-year Psychology degree!
Hear from our students and staff, and ask any questions you may have.
The University of Buckingham’s unique tutorial teaching model is central to our teaching on the psychology degree.
For every module on the psychology degree, you will have weekly tutorial meetings with your module tutor, each with a maximum of seven students.
This means your tutors will get to know who you are and encourage you to engage with the content of the modules.
Tutorials are also a great way to ask questions, get to know other students, and practice your teamworking skills.
Our emphasis on employability skills means that we approach the tutorials as a professional work meeting where there is an expectation that students prepare for and participate in the tutorial.
By choosing to study psychology at The University of Buckingham, you’ll benefit from a committed team of lecturers who genuinely care about the people they teach because they spend time with their students.
We are an in person teaching university, we do not offer an online or remote version of our degree programme.
We are proud that our teaching is based upon our unique tutorial group teaching which involves interacting in small groups within the larger cohort.
The psychology programme offers the opportunity to study each of the seven areas of practitioner psychology:
These are the areas that are recognised in the UK and are available to study as optional modules beyond the first year.
This enables you to make an informed choice about your future career as a psychologist (useful careers information can be found on the BPS website .
The lecturers delivering these modules are practitioners or experts within these fields.
Alongside the academic content, they provide valuable insights for our students in terms of what it is like to work as a professional psychologist.
Because of our tutorial teaching model, you get to interact with them and ask questions about their experiences and your future career.
Further optional modules enable the application of psychological theory to other exciting areas that reflect the research specialisms and interests within the School of Psychology.
These include cyberpsychology, animal behaviour and creativity and expertise.
In the final two terms of your degree, you will undertake your own research project .
This enables you to design your own research, collect and analyse data and write your research up.
This enables students to demonstrate many of the skills they have been taught throughout their degree programme.
In doing so you will demonstrate important project management skills.
Unlike many other universities you will be able to develop a research project within an area of your choosing with the help of a one-to-one academic project supervisor.
As one of the few BPS accredited two-year BSc Psychology degrees in the UK, you will be able to fast track your career within this popular field, or opt to consolidate your learning through postgraduate study once you have graduated.
This programme is accredited as conferring eligibility for the Graduate Basis for Chartered Membership of the BPS ( British Psychological Society ), provided the minimum standard of a Second Class Honours is achieved and you pass the final year research project module.
We encourage anyone interested in studying psychology to enquire, we are interested in hearing from all potential applicants.
We have a high quality, engaging degree programme and want students who want to engage with what we have to offer and flourish within our unique teaching model.
The standard entry requirements for psychology are 128 – 112 UCAS Tarif points (A-level ABB-BBC or equivalent).
Applications to Buckingham are considered on an individual basis by the University Admissions Office.
Many factors are taken into account so if you have a different educational and work experience please contact us and talk to our admissions team.
Applicants with BTEC and similar qualifications are welcome to apply, including if you have a mix of BTEC and A levels.
We also accept a wide range of international qualifications including International Baccalaureate.
You can use the UCAS website to calculate your tariff points to find out what your qualifications are or will be worth.
Where an applicant is taking the EPQ alongside A-levels, the EPQ will be taken into consideration and result in slightly lower A-level grades being required.
If English is not your first language you will also need an IELTS score of 6.5 , with at least 6.0 in each component.
Pre-sessional and foundation options are also available to support English Language competency and preparation for Higher Education study.
Please contact the Admissions Office.
You can call on +44 (0)1280 820227 or get in touch using our contact form for more information.
The Admissions Team will work to ensure you are provided with an offer as quickly as possible given your educational qualifications, work experience and personal statement.
Some candidates may be invited to attend an interview before they are made an offer, but this is so that we can help you to establish whether Buckingham is a good fit for you.
These interviews can be done remotely via Teams or Zoom.
Mature Home students (over 21) may be given an offer to study at the University based on their experience, together with any formal qualifications they hold.
Mature International students will be offered the same opportunities as home students.
Our Admissions Office will be happy to answer any questions you may have.
Call on +44 (0)1280 820227 or email: admissions@buckingham.ac.uk .
We offer high quality teaching using our unique tutorial teaching model.
Buckingham degrees are recognised around the world.
You will have lectures with your whole cohort, seminars of varying sizes and weekly tutorials with a maximum of seven students in total.
Our academic staff will teach three terms out of four, with the remaining term used for research and scholarly activity.
University of Buckingham lecturers enjoy spending time with students because they all teach within our tutorial teaching model.
It is also the philosophy of Buckingham’s staff to be available to students outside the scheduled tutorial times and to encourage good working relationships between staff and students.
The assessment of individual modules within each course varies.
However, most modules have a combination of within module coursework assessments and examinations.
The coursework will tend to be used to develop skills while the exams assess content knowledge.
The Buckingham tutorial teaching model means that our students are better prepared than other student to discuss their ideas and communicate their understanding of psychology.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-psychology-with-applied-computing-2-year-degree:
BSc Psychology with Applied Computing looks at the ever-larger role that computers are taking in our everyday lives and the increasing number of jobs in IT.
The University of Buckingham’s unique tutorial teaching model is central to our teaching on the psychology with applied computing degree.
For every psychology module, you will have weekly tutorial meetings with your module tutor, each with a maximum of seven students.
The combined (major in Psychology / minor in Applied Computing) degree gives you the opportunity to develop your psychological knowledge alongside skills, such as coding that are highly valued by future employers, so that you can apply these in your graduate life as a global citizen who will make a difference.
By choosing to study Psychology with Applied Computing at The University of Buckingham, you’ll benefit from a committed team of lecturers who genuinely care about the people they teach because they spend time with their students.
We encourage anyone interested in studying psychology with applied computing to enquire, we are interested in hearing from all potential applicants.
The standard entry requirements for psychology with computing are 128 – 112 UCAS Tarif points (A-level ABB-BBC or equivalent) plus GCSE: Maths B/5.
Applicants must also have GCSE English at Grade C / Grade 4, or above (or equivalent).
Selection process The Admissions Team will work to ensure you are provided with an offer as quickly as possible given your educational qualifications, work experience and personal statement.
Our Psychology degrees offer a high quality, in-person teaching experience ; we do not offer an online or remote version of our degree programme.
We are proud of our tutorial group teaching, which involves interacting in small groups within the larger cohort, offering students valuable time with their peers and tutors.
As a student, you will learn core theory in psychology in line with our BPS accreditation.
Alongside this you will have the opportunity to develop practical skills in psychology such as data collection, handling and analysis.
Your Applied Computing modules will equip you with the skills and competencies needed to design and develop data-driven computing solutions.
You’ll learn on the latest state-of-the-art AI, robotics and immersive technology equipment, including a Boston Dynamics “Spot” (our robotic dog) and a Birdly.
Through optional modules later in your degree you can also explore aspects of research and practitioner psychology.
With modules such as Clinical Psychology, you gain a taste of this professional postgraduate route to enable you to make an informed choice about your future career as a psychologist.
You can find useful careers information on the BPS website .
In the final two terms of your degree, you will undertake a final research project .
As one of the few BPS accredited two year BSc Psychology with Applied Computing degrees in the UK, you will be able to fast track your career within this popular field, or opt to consolidate your learning through postgraduate study once you have graduated.
This programme is accredited as conferring eligibility for the Graduate Basis for Chartered Membership of the BPS ( British Psychological Society ) , provided the minimum standard of a Second Class Honours is achieved and you pass the final year research project module.
Our graduates have gone on to further study at most of the world’s leading universities, including Harvard, London, Oxford and Cambridge, and secured jobs in senior positions around the world.
As our Psychology graduates gain a plethora of valuable skills, they have gone on to some of the most successful and exciting career paths, in addition to further study.
You can read a selection of them in our library of Psychology success stories .

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-psychology-with-business-management-2-year-degree:
Studing BSc Psychology with Business & Management looks at many exciting aspects of business, such as human resources, ergonomics and aptitude testing.
The University of Buckingham’s unique tutorial teaching model is central to our teaching on the Psychology with Business Management degree.
The combined (major in Psychology / minor in Business Management) degree gives you the opportunity to develop your psychological knowledge and apply this in the context of business management.
Such a combination will make you stand out to future employers, where you be able to apply these in your graduate life as a global citizen who will make a difference.
By choosing to study Psychology with Business Management at The University of Buckingham, you’ll benefit from a committed team of lecturers who genuinely care about the people they teach because they spend time with their students.
We encourage anyone interested in studying Psychology with Business Management to enquire, we are interested in hearing from all potential applicants.
The standard entry requirements for Psychology with Business Management are 128 – 112 UCAS Tarif points (A-level ABB-BBC or equivalent) .
Our Psychology degrees offer a high quality, in-person teaching experience; we do not offer an online or remote version of our degree programme.
Your Business Management modules will equip you with the skills and competencies relevant to the businesses of tomorrow.
Through optional modules later in your degree you can also explore aspects of research and practitioner psychology, with modules such as Clinical Psychology that give a taste of this professional postgraduate route to enable you to make an informed choice about your future career as a psychologist (useful careers information can be found on the BPS website ).
As one of the few BPS accredited two year BSc Psychology with Business Management degrees in the UK, you will be able to fast track your career within this popular field, or opt to consolidate your learning through postgraduate study once you have graduated.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-psychology-with-english-literature-2-year-degree:
Studying BSc Psychology with English Literature gives you the chance to apply the insights which the scientific study of psychology provides to literature.
The University of Buckingham’s unique tutorial teaching model is central to our teaching on the Psychology with English Literature degree.
The combined (major in Psychology / minor in English Literature) degree gives you the gives you the imaginative scope of an arts programme with the vocation and professionalism of a Bachelor of Science degree.
By choosing to study Psychology with English Literature at The University of Buckingham, you’ll benefit from a committed team of lecturers who genuinely care about the people they teach because they spend time with their students.
We encourage anyone interested in studying Psychology with English Literature to enquire, we are interested in hearing from all potential applicants.
The standard entry requirements for Psychology with English Literature are 128 – 112 UCAS Tarif points (A-level ABB-BBC or equivalent) .
As a central liberal arts subject, your English Literature modules will provide a clear space to address the big questions of meaning and existence, to complement the ideas you develop in psychology.
You will enjoy the complexity and beauty of great literature and learn a number of skills, not least how to write fluently and persuasively.
This enables students to showcase many of the skills they have been taught throughout their degree programme.
As one of the few BPS accredited two year BSc Psychology with English Literature degrees in the UK, you will be able to fast track your career within this popular field, or opt to consolidate your learning through postgraduate study once you have graduated.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-psychology-with-integrated-foundation-3-year-degree:
Our BSc Psychology with foundation is designed for students who may need additional preparation prior to their undergraduate level psychology study.
The three-year BSc (Hons) Psychology with foundation is designed for students who need additional preparation prior to the undergraduate level study.
When you apply for this programme, we will be able to advise whether this three-year (BA/BSc with integrated Foundation) option or our two-year Psychology degree is the best option for you.
As a student, you will learn core theory and have the opportunity to study the eight areas of practitioner psychology, enabling you to make an informed choice on your future career as a psychologist.
In addition, we have modules in distinct areas of study such as creativity and cyberpsychology.
The BSc (Hons) Psychology with foundation programme at Buckingham has been designed to integrate the unique Buckingham tutorial teaching model into the teaching of psychological science.
The programme is based on three core elements.
First, covering the core theoretical content required for British Psychological Society accreditation meaning that the degree has both national and international recognition.
Second, strong research methods and analysis skills embedded within the programme so that Buckingham graduates have begun to develop a range of highly employable skills.
Third, optional modules in all areas of practitioner psychology recognized by the BPS and HCPC as well as other areas of applied psychology so that graduates can make fully informed choices about their postgraduate pathway.
The standard entry requirements are DD at A-level, IB 25 or other equivalent alternative qualifications.
Applicants should have satisfactory completion of grade 12 plus GCSE English and Maths at Grade C / Grade 4, or above, plus evidence of genuine intellectual capacity.
Age is no barrier to learning and we welcome all applications from mature students.
Your experience in the world of work will be considered alongside any qualifications you hold.
For countries not listed, we will use ECCTIS to establish the equivalence of your qualifications to entry requirements.
A recognised formal English language test will be required.
If your first language is not English, you will also need an IELTS score of 6.0 with at least 5.5 in each component.
(Other recognised English test are listed here https://www.buckingham.ac.uk/international/english-language-requirements ).
There may also be an interview assessment.
The University is a UKVI Student Sponsor .
Please note that the first nine months of this programme constitute the Foundation stage.
Students are expected to pass in all the Foundation modules with an overall average of 60% in order to progress to the second year stage of the course.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-secondary-education-maths-and-send:
Earn a degree whilst working in a Secondary school and gain in-depth knowledge of Secondary Education, contemporary Maths teaching, and SEND.
This newly developed three-year course is designed for those without a degree working in schools, who aspire to become maths teachers.
This course has been designed to address the shortage of good maths teachers within secondary schools, especially in key stages 3 and 4.
A third of pupils fail maths GCSE nationally, and many of these are SEND students.
However, certain schools achieve higher pass rates, including those with SEND pupils and those receiving free school meals, demonstrating that achieving better outcomes is possible when teachers are trained in this particular specialism.
Teaching assistants (including part-time), lab and IT technicians, and sixth formers who have been offered a teaching assistant job after A-Levels, are ideal candidates to study on this course, and will have the opportunity to achieve Qualified Teacher Status upon its completion.
It can also be suitable for those whose degree was awarded overseas yet is not recognised as an equivalent to a UK university degree.
Based on our successful BA in Primary Education framework, this degree consists of eleven modules that are delivered across three years, and is designed to enable you to work in a paid, full-time job whilst studying.
As the course is online, you have the flexibility to complete the work and tasks at times you can manage.
You will have your own tutor from The University of Buckingham, who will support you throughout the course to ensure that you have up to date knowledge of the latest developments of Maths in schools, as well as the latest theories and strategies to support SEND pupils.
Valuably, the course is integrated with your work; much of the study is based on you reflecting on your school and what happens there.
The course content covers a wide range of topics, through interactive online delivery with assessments that are fully supported by the course staff and by your tutors.
Key topics covered include: Child Development, The Purposes of Education, The Science of Learning, an overview and in-depth study of SEND, and Mathematics Teaching At Key Stage 2, 3 And 4.
You will also study important topics for understanding effective teaching such as behaviour management, and being aware of barriers to learning.
Overseas applicants should know that the course content is about secondary schools in England only.
The BA in Secondary Education (Maths and SEND) provides a unique opportunity to reflect on the demands of delivering Maths in schools and the different ways that you can support pupils with a wide range of needs.
You will navigate the newest challenges in education and develop your critical reflection of your own practice.
By completing this course, you will be able to:
Induction Webinar: Tuesday 24 June 2025, 4.30-6pm (online) Course start date: Monday 23 June 2025 Course end date: July 2028
Throughout this course, you will complete eleven modules, enabling you to develop your understanding of Secondary Education, contemporary Mathematics in schools, as well as the importance of SEND knowledge.
Please view the Curriculum Handbook to see further details about the modules.
During this time, you will also critically engage with scholarship, which will inform your assessments, and you will learn about different educational theories and strategies.
You will be expected to read widely around your subject area, but will also be provided with a large number of relevant resources to help you work through the course.
The course culminates in an enquiry module which allows you to focus on a particular topic of your own interest.
Year one will provide a solid foundation of knowledge introducing you to important topics in Education, a knowledge of what is happening in Secondary education as well as starting your studies focusing on Maths and SEND topics.
Building upon Year 1, Year two develops your knowledge of the key areas of both Maths across the Secondary years and SEND provision.
Your focus will includes topics such as Child Development, Classroom Culture and Managing Behaviour.
In the final year key concepts are studied in depth, culminating in the Enquiry Module.
You will also have an opportunity to add depth to your study both with additional units on Educational matters, Maths and SEND.
This is a three-year course, starting in June, involving 10+ hours of work every week, meaning that you must dedicate time to studying around your existing workload.
You will have access to a range of learning materials, written by academics and leading Maths and SEND specialists, to work through.
You will complete three assessments per module.
A learning platform will provide you with a wide selection of resources to develop your understanding of the course, as well as informal activities to enable you to check your understanding.
You will also be supported with developing your Mathematical knowledge.
You are able to access materials at a time that suits you alongside your working commitments.
You will also be supported by the Course Leader and by a Tutor who will meet online with you and fellow students to guide you through the modules.
You will study four modules per year, using the online learning platform.
You will also complete formal assessments for each module, and will be supported through this process, both in terms of content and techniques.
These assessments utilise a variety of approaches to support you in understanding the content.
The assignments will be based on your study and require you to link the reading to your in-school observations and experiences.
In parallel to the assignments, we will assess your Mathematical knowledge to ensure you are up to date in the latest Secondary expectations.
The final Enquiry module involves a longer, research-based assignment on an area of your choice from the programme.
You will complete a literature review of 2,000 words and a research project of 6,000 words, written over two terms.
Upon completion of your degree, you can put what you have studied and learnt into practice.
If you live in England, after the BA you could proceed directly onto The University of Buckingham’s one-year apprenticeship-levy funded online teacher training course , which leads to Qualified Teacher Status.
For this, there is no charge to you (unless the government changes their regulations).
If you do not live in England, you can take an alternative Qualified Teacher Training course such as the International Qualified Teacher Status (with PGCE) or PGCE for International Trainees at The University of Buckingham, for which there will be a fee.
Our courses strive to effectively combine academic challenge with the transferable skills that will stand you in good stead for future employment.
The Buckingham tutorial teaching model means that our students are well prepared as they embark on their careers and future study.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability Service .
Those who wish to apply for the BA but who do not have two A-levels, or other level 3 courses worth 32 UCAS points, or who wish to improve their academic writing skill, should take the 14-week academic writing course we offer in conjunction with Anspear, starting in September 2025 or January 2026.
To register, please apply via Anspear .
Find out about our requirements and see useful information for international applicants:
If you are uncertain whether you are eligible to apply for this course, please contact our Education Admissions team .
Contact the Faculty of Education on +44 (0)1280 820222 or email: basec-EDU@buckingham.ac.uk Some courses are limited in terms of numbers and we operate a first-come-first-served system.
Contact the Faculty of Education on +44 (0)1280 820222 or email: basec-EDU@buckingham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-security-intelligence-and-cyber:
The exciting BA Security, Intelligence and Cyber programme focuses respectively on politics, diplomacy.
computing and cybersecurity.
BA Security, Intelligence and Cyber looks at global politics and diplomacy in the 21 st century which are increasingly underpinned by questions of security, both as a threat and as policy.
Diplomats and decision-makers in government and business increasingly need to understand the complex dynamics of regional and global security, whether that be the complex dynamics of the Middle East; the resurgence of assertive powers in a multi-polar world; or domestic extremist movements, to name but a few.
Processes of globalisation have taught us that two further developments are also critical.
First, in order to survive and prosper in an uncertain world, all states need good intelligence on threats and adversaries.
But how do intelligence capabilities properly interface with the business of government, especially in democratic states where security, privacy and accountability must be carefully balanced?
Secondly, the twenty-first century is and will increasingly signify a world where the virtual and the physical become intertwined.
The key managers and decision-makers of tomorrow will need to be very much at ease in the cyber realm, recognising both its opportunities and its threats.
The intersection of technology, security and politics will become the essence of modern life.
This BA Security, Intelligence and Cyber programme builds upon the success of the Centre of Security and Intelligence Studies at Buckingham (BUCSIS) which has established itself as one of the world leaders in educational provision in this subject area.
Both the centre and the university at large offer a very diverse environment.
With students coming to Buckingham from over 80 countries, it is an ideal situation to learn about matters of international concern and to discuss them with people from differing cultural backgrounds.
The programme is structured around a core set of modules, and two optional pathways, focusing respectively on politics and diplomacy; and foundational-level computing and cybersecurity.
Students wishing to pursue careers in security, intelligence, diplomacy, foreign affairs or business management will find this programme a unique and attractive foundation.
For those wishing to progress on to a Master’s or research degree, excellent options are available in the Centre for Security and Intelligence Studies (BUCSIS), with scholarships for high-performing graduates.
A-level: BBB-BBC / IB: 31-32 (or equivalent).
Applicants must also have GCSE English and Maths at  Grade C / Grade 4, or above (or equivalent).
If you do not meet our minimum requirements at A-level you may be considered for our Foundation Pathway , depending on grades.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-security-intelligence-and-cyber-with-integrated-foundation-3-year-degree:
The first year of this three year programme offers an introduction into the Security, Intelligence and Cyber landscape, ideal for candidates that need extra preparation before studying at undergraduate level.
The foundation course is structured to bridge the gap between any current qualifications and experience you have, and the start of undergraduate study.
This is the 2-year or 2-year (+ 1 term) format of the BA Security, Intelligence and Cyber degree.
You get the same number of teaching weeks as the 3-year degree but complete the syllabus in a shorter time by working an extra summer term.
This is for those who want to complete more quickly, and so begin their career, or progress earlier to further training or a higher degree.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/msc-accounting-and-finance:
MSc Accounting and Finance is designed for managers of the future who wish to advanced thier understanding to enhance their careers at international level.
The course consists of a rigorous and intellectually demanding study of the ‘core’ disciplines of, Financial Reporting and Analysis, Financial Analysis and Portfolio Modelling, Auditing, Derivatives and Financial Risk Management, Economic Analysis, Empirical Techniques in Finance and a dissertation.
The dissertation, which forms a substantial part of the assessment of the degree, will allow you to develop your interests in either mainstream or wider business and societal aspects of Accounting and Finance.
The MSc Accounting and Finance programme is designed for students who wish to extend their skills and understanding to an advanced level and enhance their careers opportunities at international accounting and finance level.
Students will be required to successfully complete 6 core modules and complete a written dissertation.
The modules will be assessed based on a combination of assignments, case studies, formal examinations and dissertation.
Buckingham Business School offers excellent facilities and resources to the postgraduate MSc Accounting and Finance students including:
Outstanding students on the programme will have the opportunity of a short work placement with either wealth management, financial services, banking or accounting related firms.
This option is available for both international and full-time home/EU students.
Dr Gurcharan Singh Tel: +44 (0)1280 820 172 Email: gurcharan.singh@buckingham.ac.uk
The minimum entry-level required for this course is as follows:
Teaching across our postgraduate programmes is through a combination of formal lectures, tutorials and seminars.
Our lectures aim to encourage healthy dialogue between faculty and students, and between students themselves, while our small tutorial groups ensure that students can engage even more closely with their teachers.
Members of the Business School faculty also make a point of being available to students outside the scheduled teaching sessions – something which our postgraduate students find particularly valuable.
We frequently use case studies to examine business decisions taken in real situations, and business simulations and games give you first-hand experience of decision making in the world of work.
Role-play and group problem-solving exercises help you to apply some of the theoretical concepts delivered in lectures and you will have the opportunity to undertake individual or group projects with local companies on topical business issues.
Please note that The University of Buckingham has four terms per year.
The tuition fees quoted are for the degree (e.g.
if you start a degree at Buckingham in January, you will pay the same termly fee for the duration of your degree – you will not be affected by the price increase in September).
Students will pay the same termly fee for the duration of their studies, unless studies are interrupted and resumed later.
The tuition fee quoted is therefore the total cost of the degree.
Fees are normally paid in termly instalments.
A system of postgraduate loans for Masters degrees in the UK is available with support from the UK Government.
The loan is available for taught and research Masters courses in all subject areas.
The loans can be used for tuition fees, living expenses or both.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/msc-applied-data-science:
Our MSc Applied Data Science will train to be a new generation data scientist needed to meet the growing demand for specialist skills in this field.
The MSc in Applied Data Science aims to train a new generation of data scientists to meet the growing demand for specialist skills in this field.
Data Science has become a new and important discipline of science that has a wide range of applications (e.g.
AgriTech, FinTech, HealthTech, EdTech, Transport).
It includes solutions that handle big data from capturing, storing, processing, analysing data to visualising insights.
These solutions can include data mining, machine learning, advanced analytics, data visualisation and in-database analytics.
Underpinned by the Department’s research expertise, a unique feature of the MSc in Applied Data Science programme is the embedding of skills and knowledge relevant to leadership in IT, technology innovation and enterprise, ethics, and research.
These skills will be developed through a series of workshops conducted by relevant experts from within the University and from industry.
This programme is a specialist master’s programme for first-degree holders in computing-related majors such as computer science, computer engineering or software engineering.
The programme consists of 3 common core modules, 3 specialised core modules, a leadership and innovation module, a work placement module, and an individual project.
The programme strikes a balance between theory and practical skills, emphasising on technical know-how, innovation and application.
We can offer an intensive delivery model of 1.5 days of contact time per week in order to accommodate those who are in full-time employment.
2:1 (or above) honours degree in Computing, Engineering, Physics or Mathematics.
If your first language is not English, you will also need an IELTS score of 6.5 with at least 6.0 in each component.
“In summary, Buckingham is more than a university; it’s an environment that equips you with the right skills, resources, and support for learning and growth.
My experiences there have laid a solid foundation for my flourishing career.
If you’re considering a place that fosters both personal and professional development, think Buckingham.
I can’t recommend it highly enough.”
Godwin Ebikwo MSc Applied Data Science, 2024 and BSc in Computing and Software Entrepreneurship, 2019

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/ma-art-market-provenance-and-the-history-of-collecting:
Investigating European and global art markets and cultures of collecting, the MA is both academic and vocational.
There is a strong focus on developing research skills, including for the practice of Provenance Research, on writing for a variety of audiences, and on the first-hand study of objects and collections within museums.
The course is taught in London by specialists from The University of Buckingham and from outside experts, with frequent visits to museums and institutions in the UK and abroad.
The MA in Art Market, Provenance and History of Collecting investigates these subjects across many centuries, from the evolution of Renaissance studioli and cabinets of curiosities to country house collections and current debates on provenance, restitution and cultural identity, from a global perspective.
Adopting an interdisciplinary approach to academic methodologies, as well as providing students with practical skills in archival research, Provenance Research and collections interpretation, the MA is intended for those wishing to work in museums, private galleries, art foundations, auction houses and the heritage sector.
The MA is taught at Buckingham’s London campus in Bloomsbury.
At the heart of a cosmopolitan city, whose institutions have been shaped by centuries of collecting and dealership, you will have globally renowned museums, galleries, auction houses, archives, and libraries at your fingertips and which we will visit frequently as a class.
You will therefore not only learn from Buckingham’s team of lecturers, but also from representatives of relevant cultural institutions, equipping you to pursue independent, original, and rigorous research in this exciting field.
This Programme has long-standing links to the Rothschild Collections at Waddesdon Manor and the British Museum.
The Country House Study Week and Study Week to Vienna or Florence make this programme unique and allow for a comparative approach and a truly international experience.
The course will include a Country House Study Week (shared with the MA Decorative Arts and Historic Interiors ), as well as a Study Week in Vienna or Florence , where students will have the opportunity to study several key European collections and participate in workshops organised in partnership with relevant institutions.
The course includes frequent study visits to the British Museum, the British Library, the National Gallery, V&A South Kensington, the Wallace Collection, Sir John Soane’s Museum, Waddesdon Manor and many others.
Find out more about our History and History of Art courses .
The minimum entry level required for this course is as follows:
Due to their flexibility, our London-based MAs attract a wide variety of applicants from a range of backgrounds, including people in full-time employment and retirees.
Our current students range in age from 21 to 75.
If English is not your first language, please check our postgraduate English language requirements.
Candidates apply online, sending in their supporting documents, by clicking the ‘Apply now’ button.
Applications will be assessed by the Programme Director.
For help in applying, please contact the Admissions Office: humanitiespg-admissions@buckingham.ac.uk
Buckingham prides itself on the focused and high-quality teaching that it provides to students.
With one of the most favourable staff-to-student ratios in the United Kingdom, the University is able to give students individualised supervision tailored to their needs.
Its small-group seminars have therefore been a strength of the University from its founding.
The MA in Art Market, Provenance and History of Collecting employs a stimulating variety of teaching strategies, including traditional lectures and seminar discussions, workshops with partner institutions, class visits to relevant museums, galleries and archive collections, and Study Weeks to various English country houses and to Vienna or Florence.
The course starts in September and finishes the following September.
It comprises four terms, three of which are taught: during the third and fourth terms, and under supervision, students research a dissertation which will be submitted at the end of September.
Subject to the agreement of the Programme Director, the course can be taken part-time over two years by deferral of the dissertation.
For more details, please feel free to contact the Programme Director Adriano Aymonino .
This module provides students with a thorough understanding of the methodologies, skills and critical thinking required for the study, research and writing of History of Art at MA degree level.
The focus is on developing ability at conducting Provenance Research at a professional level.
The course emphasises the significance of verifying the origin of archaeological material, Nazi-looted art, and ethnographic items acquired through looting, theft, seizure, or coercion during the colonial period, in line with contemporary legal and ethical standards.
This module seeks to give students a systematic understanding of the history of collecting, patronage and the art market in early modern and modern periods, in a global context.
It places emphasis on analysing and debating the historical development of the subject and discusses the changing perceptions of collecting from private to public, requiring students to engage critically with the major themes and debates in the existing literature.
This module, taught in partnership with the MA in Migration History , focuses on the changing status of objects and artefact when they move between different cultural, religious and political contexts.
Organised thematically, the module seeks to develop awareness of the current theoretical and methodological approaches to the history of collecting, patronage, the art market, and museums, as well as to provide the critical tools to assess these approaches and debates.
It is also intended to equip students to take full account of collection ethics associated with the trans-national movement of cultural objects and with societal displacement.
This module, taught in partnership with the MA Decorative Arts and Historic Interiors , gives students a thorough understanding of the Town House and Country House in Europe as sites of political and cultural power, achieved in part through architecture, furnishings and the display of collections.
This module revolves around the Country House Study Week, when students will tour country houses and gardens of Buckinghamshire and the vicinity and examine their collections.
Additional visits in the London area include Chiswick House, Syon House, Strawberry Hill and the Sir John Soane’s Museum.
This module, taught in partnership with the MA Decorative Arts and Historic Interiors , fosters collaboration with external parties and will enable students to put their research, writing and analytical skills into practice to create object-based catalogue entries, commentaries and blogs.
The module has a vocational aim, to train students in curatorial practices of object research and public interpretation.
Recent projects include the exhibition catalogue Treasures from Faraway, realised by our students in in 2023 in collaboration with Strawberry Hill House.
This module seeks to give students a systematic understanding of the role that Cabinets of curiosities and the Kunst- and Wunderkammer played in the evolution of western collecting practices and in shaping the evolution of European knowledge.
The module revolves around a five-day study week to Vienna or to Florence, where students gain first-hand knowledge of some of the most relevant Kunst- and Wunderkammer assembled in central Europe or Italy.
Recent Projects and Achievements include the exhibition catalogue Treasures from Faraway, realised by our students in in 2023 in collaboration with Strawberry Hill House.
The course provides a vocational and academic training to a new generation of art historians, museum curators and archivists, art dealers and auctioneers as well as providing a stepping-stone towards further postgraduate research.
However, we also welcome enquiries from those students wishing to pursue the study of the History of Collecting and the Art Market for its own sake.
The University’s Course Directors, students’ supervisors, and the Research Officer and Tutor for Graduate Students are available to discuss students’ post-graduation plans and how they may utilise most effectively.
A system of postgraduate loans in the UK is supported by the UK Government.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/assessment-only-ao-route-to-qualified-teacher-status-primary-and-secondary:
QTS is the United Kingdom’s professional accreditation for teaching.
The University of Buckingham is one of the leading providers of QTS.
Qualified Teacher Status is the United Kingdom’s professional accreditation for teaching.
It is often required by schools in the UK.
The University of Buckingham is one of the leading providers of programmes leading to recommendation for QTS.
The Assessment Only Route is a fast-track route (with a 12-week assessment period) to gain Qualified Teacher Status.
It is aimed at teachers with two or more years’ teaching experience or those who have completed the International ​or Independent PGCE with The University of Buckingham, and who require no further training in order to demonstrate that they are meeting all Teachers’ Standards.
Applications are welcome from teachers who do not hold Qualified Teacher Status, currently teaching in a school in the UK or abroad, providing they meet the necessary criteria.
Schools may be state-maintained or independent.
International schools abroad must be following the English national curriculum or the International Baccalaureate.
The AO Route consists of three assessment processes:
In order to assess many of the criteria for the award of QTS, during the initial assessment day the Tutor will interview the candidate, hold meetings with the candidate’s line manager, mentor and the school’s professional tutor, conduct at least 3 lesson observations and will scrutinize the candidate’s planning, marking, report writing and professional development.
The candidate will also be required to produce a Teaching & Learning File (TLF).
This serves as a portfolio of evidence in support of the candidate’s application for passing the Teachers’ Standards.
The file is used by the candidate to showcase evidence over time in meeting the Teachers’ Standards.
There is no deadline for Assessment Only applications, as the AO programme will commence at any time, once a candidate has provided all the entry paperwork, and it has been approved by the Programme Lead.
The 12 week assessment period can start any time in the academic year from the start of September up to the end of March.
The assessment period itself must be no more than 12 weeks from the date of the initial visit, and cannot run into, or over, the summer holiday period.
For entry onto the Assessment Only Route, you will be expected to have the following:
*For equivalent qualifications, contact education@buckingham.ac.uk to confirm that your qualification(s) meet the University entry requirements.
In addition, you must:
The employing school must be able to fully support a candidate through this route, enabling them to demonstrate all of the Teachers’ Standards across the full age and ability range of training, and cannot have been graded as inadequate by Ofsted.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/postgraduate-certificate-in-covert-action-humint-and-the-psychology-of-intelligence-elicitation:
Develop your security and intelligence career with this postgraduate course, exploring varied modules via Buckingham's prestigious teaching.
To survive, states require effective intelligence collection and covert action capabilities, yet both attract significant controversy.
This course will critically and systematically analyse aspects of these capabilities and the attendant practice that are designed to mitigate threats to the state.
More specifically, it will explore the state’s use of covert action as a way of limiting or avoiding war, stifling the hostile intentions of enemies, and assisting in progressing the aims of foreign policy.
It will explore the types of covert action historically deployed by states, from propaganda to political violence to paramilitary action.
It will offer a framework for evaluating the success or otherwise of covert action in an ethical context.
It will do this by anchoring the study to real-world case studies while discussing covert actions relationship with national security, civil liberties and wider international power-relations.
Safety, survival and prosperity in an uncertain world, also demands actionable intelligence.
Good intelligence can address threat ambiguity.
It can assist policymakers in making hard choices in complex and dynamic circumstances.
Intelligence can provide clarity over the nature of an adversary’s threat and inform the selection of the most appropriate operational or strategic response.
Accordingly, this course will also explore the use of an established collection discipline, that of human intelligence (HUMINT).
It will examine the application of HUMINT in both national security and serious crime operating environments.
Aligned to this study of HUMINT is the tradecraft associated with the elicitation of intelligence.
The course will undertake a scientific approach to understanding of how and why people are willing to cooperate with the state in terms of the provision of human intelligence.
It will investigate the evidence base for techniques adopted to elicit intelligence that aim to maximise the volume and quality of intelligence, interviewee recall and accuracy and the avoidance of deception and deceit.
This Postgraduate Certificate in Covert Action, HUMINT and Psychology of Intelligence elicitation programme builds upon the success of the Centre of Security and Intelligence Studies at Buckingham (BUCSIS) which has established itself as one of the world leaders in educational provision in this subject area.
If English is not your first language, please check our Postgraduate English language requirements .
The University of Buckingham is an approved learning provider for the MOD.
The programme is an approved course – (ELCAS Provider I.D.
1460.)
Alternatively, if you are not able to attend in person, the interview may be by way of Microsoft Teams, email or phone.
If the Admissions Tutor has any queries about your application, you may be contacted by Microsoft Teams, email or phone.
Call us on +44 (0)1280 820227 or email: admissions@buckingham.ac.uk.
If you would like to speak about the course content, email the programme lead, Dr Ian Stanier ian.stanier@buckingham.ac.uk, or contact directly on +4401280820179.
The programme comprises of three modules of ten weeks each, covering: Covert Action, Human Intelligence (HUMINT) and the psychology of intelligence elicitation.
These run respectively from January to September (January entry) – September to June (September entry).
The programme is delivered using an online Virtual Learning Environment, through which multimedia resources are accessed.
Assessment is constituted by a number of written assignments, including essays on big-picture issues; and short policy-paper exercises submitted online.
Tutor support is provided throughout, and there are opportunities to attend workshops and symposia in person at the university for those who are able to do so.
Each student will be assigned a personal tutor with whom online contact, advice and assistance with course work can be accessed throughout the programme.
In addition to online contact, students can also take advantage of optional physical workshops at the university for those who are able to attend.
A summary of the indicative module content is listed below:
The course fee for applicants from the MOD is £2,500.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/msc-cyberpsychology:
Why do we behave differently online?
How can AI be used for good?
Cyberpsychology helps answer questions on human interaction and technology.
Cyberpsychology intricately explores human interaction with technology and its impact on our behaviour.
Cyberpsychology helps us to answer:
Throughout Buckingham’s MSc Cyberpsychology, you’ll engage in weekly small-group tutorials with your module tutor, with in-depth and thought-provoking discussions on various topics that enhance your communication skills.
You will also acquire subject topic-specific knowledge and develop research methods skills that you will apply on a supervised dissertation research project of your choosing.
The programme has a focus on applicability, so you will be developing skills that will be relevant for future employability.
Throughout this course, you will experience:
On the taught MSc Cyberpsychology, you will start the year by developing your understanding around main concepts, theories and debates in Cyberpsychology, alongside a good understanding of Research Methods and their applicability.
This will prepare you for starting your own supervised dissertation research project that you will develop until the end of the degree, alongside topic-specific areas that will develop a range of key skills pivotal for a Cyberpsychologist.
Note: As this is a new starting programme, the content/structure of the programme is currently being refined and is subject to change before January 2026.
We keep class sizes small so you won’t get lost in the crowd.
You will be assigned a personal tutor to support you every step of the way, and our academic and student support teams will ensure you have the tools to success in your studies.
We value the quality of your learning experience.
On the taught MSc Cyberpsychology, you will receive high quality teaching using our unique tutorial teaching model.
You will have lectures with your whole cohort, seminars of varying sizes, and weekly tutorials with a maximum of seven students in total.
During your Research project in Cyberpsychology, you will be supervised by a staff member that will help you in developing your project with regular supervision meetings up until the final step of research report submission.
Our academic staff teach three terms out of four, with the remaining term used for research and scholarly activity.
The University of Buckingham lecturers enjoy spending time with students because they all teach within our tutorial teaching model.
All our degrees combine academic rigour with the transferable skills that will stand you in good stead for future employment.
The Buckingham tutorial teaching model means that our students are better prepared than other students to discuss their ideas and communicate their understanding of Cyberpsychology.
This degree is taught completely at our Buckingham campus.
You will have different types of assessments that will allow you to develop a range of skills:
• Coursework (e.g.
essay) • Portfolio • Presentations.
Once you have graduated, you can pursue further study at PhD level in an area of interest in Cyberpsychology.
You will also have the opportunity to pursue careers in the industry or academic roles where expertise in Cyberpsychology is desired.
Cyberpsychology skills are relevant to a range of different areas where technology is a part of.
Here are just some of the career opportunities and skills that can stem from studying on this course:
Further your expertise in your field of study with our doctoral degrees .
“Upon completing my postgraduate degree, I have undoubtedly obtained the necessary independent and research skills to embark on my professional journey.
The extensive knowledge I have acquired through this advanced degree sets me apart from other candidates, giving me a distinct advantage.” Eleanor , Postgraduate student
See our general University entry requirements for information on flexible entry, mature students and alternative qualifications.
The standard entry requirements for this course are: 2:1 in an undergraduate Psychology degree , or a closely related degree with an understanding of psychology research methods and statistics awarded by a UK University or overseas equivalent.
If you are uncertain whether you will be eligible to apply for this course, please contact our Admissions team .

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/ma-decorative-arts-and-historic-interiors:
Based in central London, it draws upon the outstanding collections of the nearby Wallace Collection and the Victoria and Albert Museum.
Based in central London, our unique hands-on and interdisciplinary postgraduate degree investigates applied arts in historic interiors.
This unique course offers an exciting opportunity for the study of European decorative arts in historic interiors at postgraduate level.
With a strong focus on Britain and France in the global context of the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, it employs a wide range of disciplinary approaches for students to acquire specialist knowledge of architecture, interiors, furniture, silver, textiles and ceramics, of their modes of design and production, and questions of patronage, collecting and display.
A key element of this unique course is the emphasis on in-gallery teaching and object handling with world-class specialists.
It draws on the outstanding collections and curatorial expertise of the nearby Wallace Collection , the V&A South Kensington, and Waddesdon Manor, and of other leading specialists who participate in the teaching; see our dedicated Academic Staff Page .
With a long-standing international reputation, the programme provides vocational and rigorous academic training to prepare graduates for careers in museums, auction houses, historical consulting in interior design, antique dealing, and further study.
The programme runs over four terms: Autumn, Winter, Spring and Summer.
We study the development of the decorative arts and the interior in France and Britain in the long eighteenth century.
Students then examine the nineteenth century and focus on revivalism, collecting, and the practical and historical problems of re-interpreting eighteenth-century interiors and objects.
The historical content is combined with a study skills module, and with the Professional Practice Project and the Waddesdon Files project, which are designed to equip students with experience and research skills applicable to careers in museums and built heritage.
The teaching takes place in central London (Bloomsbury), two days a week over three terms, including compulsory study visits.
A typical day of teaching will involve lectures, student-led seminars, and in-gallery teaching.
In the Summer term students complete a dissertation under supervision, for submission at the end of the term.
Subject to the agreement of the Programme Director, there are some options for part-time study, one day a week over two years, or by deferral of the dissertation.
There are frequent study visits to collections in and around London.
The Country House Study Week is part of the module ‘Architecture, Power and Display: the Town and Country House in Europe’ and explores local country houses such as Stowe, Burghley, Ditchley and Boughton, with their important decorative arts collections.
The visits include some handling sessions and the opportunity to meet with curators, conservators and other museum and heritage professionals.
Visit to Chantilly, 2022
A study week in Paris is part of the module ‘Revolution and Revival in the Age of Exhibitions, c.
1830-1900’.
Students are granted privileged access to some of the most important public and private interiors and collections from the time of Louis XIV up to the Second Empire, and students meet with curators and archivists.
Sèvres handling session at Waddesdon Manor
Students acquire valuable vocational skills and experience through the Professional Practice Project in the second term, when they plan an exhibition in a museum, or research and present a proposal to restore a historic interior.
Alternatively, each year there is a limited number of part-time placements with museums or heritage organisations for high-performing students.
Objects Interpretation Project is a compulsory module that will develop students’ research and presentation skills in the third term.
Generously funded by the Rothschild Foundation and drawing on the collections and expertise of curatorial staff at Waddesdon Manor, students will create content for the Waddesdon Files, an open-access digital resource managed by Legend Times/Buckingham University Press.
Due to their flexibility, our London-based MAs by research attract a wide variety of applicants from a range of backgrounds, including people in full-time employment and retirees.
Candidates apply online, sending in their supporting documents, and will be assessed on this basis by the Programme Director.
Additionally, most students are interviewed, either in person or via Microsoft Teams, What’s App or by telephone.
The Programme Directors and the Admissions Administrator would be happy to answer any questions you may have, email admissions@buckingham.ac.uk .
Dr Lindsay Macnaughton was appointed tutor for French decorative arts in 2020 on the University’s MA in Decorative Arts and Historic Interiors which is taught collaboratively with the Wallace Collection and other subject specialists.
Study session at the Wallace Collection, 2021
The MA is taught by staff from The University of Buckingham and leading experts from institutions such as the Wallace Collection, Waddesdon Manor, Victoria and Albert Museum, and the Soane Museum.
There are also a number of renowned independent scholars who give lectures and lead some of the seminars and class trips.
Assessment of individual modules within each course is by a combination of written examinations, essays, oral presentations and the dissertation.
The MA in Decorative Arts and Historic Interiors is a hands-on course that combines academic challenge with the transferable skills from research and practical projects that will stand you in good stead for future employment.
(See What Our Students and Alumni Say ).
The programme provides a vocational and academic training to a new generation of decorative art historians and museum curators.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/ma-education-fully-online:
This is one of the most popular Masters courses of its type in the UK and the largest Masters course in the university.
Our MA in Education is a one-year, part-time course for teachers and school leaders to develop expertise in the field of education through critical evaluation of research and scholarship.
We take students from all round the world.
This course provides students with the opportunity to follow their own interests while being given clear guidance about the requirements of a serious level 7 academic qualification.
You will complete a number of modules enabling you to develop your understanding both of the research process as well as your topic of interest.
The culmination of the MA is a 12,000 to 15,000-word dissertation.
You will also critically engage with scholarship, which informs your dissertation, and you will learn about different research methods.
You will be expected to read widely around your subject area.
Following this course helps to develop your critical thinking and your ability to present a written argument.
Master’s degrees are awarded to students who have demonstrated:
Typically, holders of the qualification will be able to:
QAA, The Frameworks for Higher Education Qualifications of UK Degree-Awarding Bodies, February 2024
The course includes:
Every Master’s student is allocated a supervisor.
You will regularly communicate for example, via Teams, Zoom, Email or another online meeting platform with your supervisor at times that are suitable for you both, to support each module.
You will also have access to regular online study sessions throughout the course.
There are induction sessions to introduce you to how the course will run – on application you will receive a choice of dates where you will indicate when you will attend.
When the course start you will have access to MOODLE, the University’s online learning platform and from there you will access the course handbook and all resources needed for successful completion of the course.
In the handbook there is a week by week guide which will indicate what work is expected that week.
This will either be:
It is important to understand that you, as a Master’s student, will be expected to work independently and you are expected to fully engage with the guidance provided to complete the required modules.
What will I gain?
The MA in Education (Evidence-based Practice) is a full 180 Masters course, therefore takes more time to complete and has more of a focus on evidence-based practice.
As it is 180 credits which means you can get a student loan in England.
If you have credits you wish to bring with you, then you may wish to opt for the MA in Education or MA in Residential Education – the topic of focus is up to you (with agreement from us).
In addition, the candidate must have either:
Applicants must also pay a non-refundable £300 registration fee.
Fees are invoiced for in September, at the beginning of the course, and can be paid in termly instalments or in one lump sum.
Termly instalments can be arranged directly with the Finance department upon receipt of the invoice.
All staff at COBIS member schools get a 5% discount on course fees.
To ensure discount is applied please select COBIS from the partnership box on your application form.
If you wish to apply for a fees loan then you should take the MA in Education (evidence-based practice).
If you would like a University of Buckingham lecturer to visit your school for additional training and support and you can assemble ten or more trainees in one place, this is possible for an additional fee.
Ask us for details.
Applicants from China should apply through the Buckingham International School of Education, not this page;  click here: https://bise.openapply.cn/
Please use the ‘Apply’ button or contact The Faculty of Education by email: education@buckingham.ac.uk or by calling +44 (0)1280 820 222.
When applying, you will need to supply:

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/ma-education-evidence-based-practice-fully-online:
An eighteen-month, part-time course for teachers and school leaders to develop expertise in the field of education.
Never has there been a time when the relationship between practice and research in Education has been under such scrutiny.
This course enables students to complete a master’s dissertation and to link this study to the way evidence-based practice has been integrated into Education.
It not only allows you to engage with Educational Research, it provides an opportunity to evaluate the application of key topics in schools today.
The MA in Education (Evidence Based Practice) will prepare you to critically analyse, engage in and reflect on educational research and evaluate the implications within your own educational setting.
You will be expected to develop your ability to explore what it means to be a critically reflective practitioner.
By taking on this fresh challenge within your teaching career, you will acquire a new set of skills as you engage in a range of arguments and learn to become critical of them, synthesise arguments, and develop your own critical and authoritative voice.
As you will be studying in an area that you have a genuine interest in, you will be making a valuable investment in yourself as a person, and your discoveries are therefore more likely have a positive and impactful affect in the workplace.
In a sector where ideas are always evolving and new research is continuously coming into effect, this Master’s, will equip you with the latest insights and research.
The MA in Education (Evidence Based Practice) provides a unique opportunity to reflect on your own practice and improve what you do.
Throughout this course, you will complete a number of modules enabling you to develop your understanding both of the research process as well as your topic of interest relating to education.
The second module will enable you to grapple with the discussions surrounding evidence based practice and you will be able to use this for your own work.
During this time, you will also critically engage with scholarship, which informs your dissertation, and you will learn about different research methods.
The course culminates in the production of a 12,000-15,000-word dissertation with a suitable research focus.
All of our postgraduate courses are taught and delivered online, so no matter where you are in your teaching career, or the world, you can study with one of the most established teacher training providers in the UK.
Every master’s student is allocated a supervisor who you will be supported by for each module.
Communication will take place at times that are suitable for you both, over channels such as Teams, Zoom or email.
There are induction sessions to introduce you to how the course will run; on application you will receive a choice of dates where you will indicate when you will attend.
When the course starts, you will have access to MOODLE, the University’s online learning platform.
You will then access the course handbook and all resources needed for successful completion of the course.
In the handbook there is a week-by-week guide which will indicate what work is expected that week.
The Twilight sessions are recorded and shared on MOODLE once the session is complete.
These Twilights are optional in terms of attendance as we know that many people struggle to be available at certain times.
However, all these sessions are recorded and should then be watched after the live event.
This means that as you progress through the course you end up having access to library of videos that you can re-visit, to support you to a successful outcome.
The course consists of a number of engaging modules, including one which questions the legitimacy of an evidence-based practice approach.
With a view to improving the candidate’s own professional practice or that of others, you will critically engage with literature, which goes on to inform a research project to explore an educational issue.
The study culminates in a dissertation involving a candidate’s own project in their school or research in a wider field of education.
The focus of this dissertation will examine the research linked to an area of the student’s own interest.
Typically, holders of a Masters will be able to:
Upon completion of your master’s, you can put what you have studied, researched and learnt into practice.
Many students use their research to develop their existing roles or to apply for specialist roles that allow them an opportunity to continue to work on their area of interest.
A number of students also share their research through conferences and publications.
Whichever route you choose your work is contributing to an area that is in need of research development.
Here are just some of the career opportunities and skills that can stem from studying on this degree:
For a list of course specific requirements, please see our typical offers below.
To see our full list of general university requirements including information for flexible entry, mature students and alternative qualifications, see our University entry requirements .
The standard entry requirements for this course are:
If you are uncertain whether you will be eligible to apply for this course, please contact our Education Admissions team .
This is a 180 credit, 15-month, part-time Master’s course and so is eligible for a Postgraduate Master’s loan ( www.gov.uk/masters-loan ).
Contact the Faculty of Education on +44 (0)1280 820222 or email: education@buckingham.ac.uk Applicants from China should apply through the Buckingham International School of Education, not this page;  click here: https://bise.openapply.cn/ Some courses are limited in terms of numbers and we operate a first-come-first-served system.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/ma-education-leading-sport-in-schools-fully-online:
This two-year online course is offered in conjunction with ICE Education, who provide training, recruitment and advisory services to stimulate high quality PE and School Sport.
There are approximately 1000 Directors of Sport in UK independent schools, and a similar number in UK curriculum schools overseas.
These positions have changed significantly in their structure, operation and success criteria over the last 10 years.
The traditional entry route, via PE teaching, does not provide an adequate preparation for the demands of this role.
There is currently no specific qualification that either prepares candidates for this role, provides a suitability indicator for employers or improves the performance of incumbents.
This programme addresses this.
For those working in international schools, an MA qualification is often required for appointment to SMT roles and in some countries higher qualifications such as Master’s degrees are required for their general teaching body.
This MA is an online programme that is made up of four taught modules and culminates in the awarding of a Master’s degree following the successful completion of a fifth module which is a dissertation.
The essence of the course is the development of a broad understanding of the context of school sport and physical activity, current sector issues and the role of the leader in determining a positive sports culture and programme success in schools.
To apply for this course, you must:
A 5,000 – 6,000-word written assignment at the end of each module and in one module a presentation.
The final dissertation will be 12,000 – 15,000 words.
Materials will be made available for each of the modules so that students can access recorded lectures, online discussion seminars, reading lists and guided study materials from wherever they are in the world.
The course will also encourage students to examine current and historical practices within their own, and other schools, and to research examples of good practice elsewhere.
A range of case studies will be presented for analysis and various practical projects will provide students with the opportunity to apply newly discovered research materials to their own school-based context.
Fees are invoiced at the beginning of the course, instalments can be arranged directly with the Finance department upon receipt of the invoice.
This is a 180 credit, 2-year, part-time Master’s course and so is eligible for a Postgraduate Master’s loan ( www.gov.uk/masters-loan ) for those living in the UK.
Please use the ‘Apply’ button at the bottom of this page; or contact The Faculty of Education on +44 (0)1280 820222 or by email: education@buckingham.ac.uk .
Before we can accept you, you will need to supply:

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/ma-education-mentoring-fully-online:
For candidates working within Education, gain the knowledge and tools you need to become a confident and effective mentor at master's level.
Are you aspiring to develop your understanding and practice in relation to coaching and mentoring?
Gain the knowledge and tools you need to become a confident and impactful mentor.
Mentoring in Education has been the subject of debate for a number of years, and recent developments in schools, teacher training and universities has heightened the importance of examining what makes an effective mentor.
Our online course has been designed for candidates working within an education setting that are looking to become a trained mentor.
From September 2024, all schools are required to have trained Mentors to monitor teacher trainees.
Already, Mentors need to be able to apply the Early Careers’ Framework (ECF) process to their Early Career Teachers.
These processes require good mentors, and whilst ITT and ECF mentoring will be covered, this course delves more deeply into the thought processes and critical thinking needed to make an excellent mentor.
You will be able to critically analyse, engage in and reflect on mentoring and evaluate the implications for your own educational setting.
You will be expected to develop your ability to explore what it means to be a critically reflective practitioner in your work as a mentor.
This is an 18-month online course, starting every January.
It is worth 180 credits and is comprised of four 30-credit Level 7 modules, where you will explore various mentoring theories, learn how to implement them in practice, and allow you to critically reflect on your practice.
You will devise your own small-scale research project with guidance from the University and your supervisor.
The course culminates with a written assignment of 12,000 – 15,000 words.
Please view the Curriculum Handbook to view further details about the modules.
All of our postgraduate courses are taught and delivered online, so no matter where you are in your teaching career, or the world, you can with one of the most established teacher training providers in the UK.
There is an induction session in early January to introduce you to how the course will run.
The twilight sessions are recorded and shared on Moodle once the session is complete.
This work-based, online course comprises of four 30-credit Level 7 modules, comprehensively covering all aspects of Mentoring.
Mentoring Standards will be thoroughly explored, combined with rigorous academic study at master’s level.
This involves evaluating and critiquing a range of academic research relating to mentoring, leadership skills and behaviours, integrating research with practice throughout.
The course culminates in a 12,000-15,000 word research project dissertation on an aspect of mentoring.
It is important to understand that you, as a master’s student, will be expected to work independently and you are expected to fully engage with the guidance provided to complete the required modules.
Master’s degrees are awarded to students who demonstrate:
Whichever route you choose, your work is contributing to an area that is in need of research development.
Fees will have a 50% reduction if you are a mentor on one of our ITT courses.
Applicants must also pay a £300 non-refundable Registration Fee.
This is a full Master’s course, so is eligible for a Postgraduate Master’s loan if you live in the UK.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/med-educational-leadership-and-management-fully-online:
Discover the latest research on Educational Leadership and Management for aspiring or existing Leaders and Managers in the Education sector.
Are you an aspiring leader in an educational context?
Or are you looking to elevate your existing managerial school role?
Engage with the latest research on Educational Leadership and Management in our wide-ranging course, covering a multitude of leadership topics.
Designed for those who are already Leaders and Managers in an educational context, or for those who aspire to take on a leadership role, this popular course explores a wide range of different topics relating to Leadership and Management in an educational setting.
It draws upon research from other disciplines, such as business theory, and applies these ideas to contemporary challenges in leading within schools today.
Throughout your research, you will learn how to synthesise arguments and further develop your own critical voice as you pick up a new set of skills.
This offers the perfect opportunity for a new and refreshing challenge that allows you to reflect on your own leadership whilst becoming up to date with the latest ideas and research within education.
As you will be studying in an area where you have genuine interest, you will be making a valuable investment in yourself, and your findings are therefore more likely have a positive and impactful affect within your workplace.
Students will engage with and have the opportunity to connect with like-minded peers throughout the UK and across the world via online delivery.
The MEd in Educational Leadership and Management is an intellectually stimulating course that allows teachers to:
Taught over an 18-month period, the structure of the course enables topics to be studied in depth.
Throughout this course, you will complete a number of modules enabling you to develop your understanding of the impact of contemporary Leadership and Management theory on practice, of the research process as well as your topic of interest.
We will cover a wide range of topics that are relevant to educational leadership today.
All of our postgraduate courses are taught and delivered online, so no matter where you are in the world, you can study with one of the most established teacher training providers in the UK.
The course is delivered through study days, online lectures, extensive course materials and independent study.
It benefits from distance-learning, with the expectation that you will attend online, four pairs of study days over the course of the 18 months.
You will hear from a wide range of valuable speakers, including experienced leaders.
These study days take place on Thursday and Friday mornings (UK time), and so you will need to be able to have time away from work to attend as they are an integral part of the course, and non-attendance may impact your work.
There is an induction session in early September to introduce you to how the course will run.
Every master’s student is allocated a supervisor.
You will regularly communicate via platforms including Microsoft Teams, Zoom and email, always at times that are suitable for both parties.
You will then access the course handbook and all resources required for successful completion of the course.
In the handbook there is a week-by-week guide which indicates what work is expected that week.
The webinars are recorded and shared on Moodle once the session is complete.
These sessions are optional in terms of attendance as we know that many students struggle to be available at certain times.
However, all these webinars are recorded and should then be watched after the live event.
As you progress through the course, you will then have access to a library of films that you can re-visit, to support you to a successful outcome.
You will complete a number of modules that link to leadership theory, as well as prepare you for the completion of a 12,000 to 15,000 word dissertation at the end of the course.
Upon completion of your MEd in Educational Leadership and Management, you can put what you have studied, researched and learnt into practice.
Research gives you an authoritative voice.
As you develop your critical voice it becomes even more possible for you to speak confidently on a range of issues., whilst opening up new career opportunities to you.
To enrol on the course you are likely to be an experienced graduate teacher who is either currently aspiring to leadership or is already in a leadership role.
This is a 180 credit, 18-month, part-time Master’s course and so is eligible for a Postgraduate Master’s Loan for those living in the UK.
Applicants from China should apply through the Buckingham International School of Education: https://bise.openapply.cn/

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/msc-finance-and-investment:
This course offers a well-focused education in the theories and methodologies that are utilised today for valuation using financial tools.
Our MSc in Finance and Investment has been developed to produce practical and proactive finance specialists, able to meet the demand of the financial sector both locally and abroad.
The programme offers rigorous and advanced intellectual training in the area of finance and investment, based on the most current and modern academic thinking and industry best practice.
We also place emphasis on our students’ roles in and duties towards the financial community to prepare them for life after they graduate.
Our MSc Finance and Investment offers a well-focused education in the theories and methodologies that are utilised today for valuation using financial tools from both the investor’s and institutional perspective.
It also examines the complexities behind the decision making processes required at all levels.
The programme is designed for students who intend to pursue a career in the financial sector who have recently acquired their bachelor’s degree in accounting, finance, investment and banking related fields.
It is for those who wish to enhance their knowledge of managing and working in organisations within an array of competing economic, social, political and cultural conditions.
Our MSc has a unique feature – it provides the opportunity for students to attempt the CFA Level 1 examination (optional) while completing the MSc qualification and support will be provided.
This Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA®) qualification, adds the professional context to the postgraduate degree and develop skills and capabilities required by investment analysts, finance managers, finance directors and chief financial officers.
Buckingham Business School offers excellent facilities and resources to the postgraduate students including:
Assistance towards registration will be provided to students who wish to attempt the CFA while studying for their MSc in Finance & Investment degree.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/msc-financial-fraud-investigation-and-intelligence:
Study key areas of financial fraud investigation and Intelligence at MSc level, and gain robust financial expertise.
Financial Fraud Investigation and Intelligence is one of the world’s most pressing challenges where elements of governance, compliance and financial crime risks are evolving rapidly which impacts societies, national financial security, infrastructure and the global economy.
This overwhelming financial threat has ensured that financial security skills and intelligence are some of the world’s most in-demand needs at present.
University of Buckingham’s MSc Financial Fraud Investigation & Intelligence is a comprehensive and rigorous study in key areas of financial fraud investigation, and Intelligence.
It is designed for graduates interested in following a career in the financial fraud investigation, security and intelligence or even conducting research at a postgraduate level.
The programme is designed to deliver financial expertise with particular emphasis on understanding the discipline of finance, financial fraud investigation, and intelligence both theoretical foundations and practice applications are provided in respective areas
The programme is designed for students who intend to pursue a career in the financial security sector who have recently acquired their bachelor’s degree in security, management, law, accounting, finance, investment and banking related fields.
It is for those who wish to enhance their knowledge of managing and working in organisations within an array of competing economic, financial, social, political and cultural conditions.
The programme has single entry points, January each year.
It can be completed through one year of full-time study / two year (part-time) and include the following modules:
For the purpose of awards, students will be required to pass all the modules (180 credits) to be awarded an MSc Financial Fraud Investigation & Intelligence.
The programme is delivered and supported by a research and teaching team led by Dr Julian Richard, a Security Studies specialist with a long experience of working in the UK government on defence and security policy issues, subject specialist and industry experts from the filed of finance, law and governance.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/independent-pgce:
The Independent School Postgraduate Certificate of Education has been developed in close consultation with the HMC.
This course has been completely reviewed and redesigned with increased opportunities for specialism and networking.
The Independent Postgraduate Certificate in Education for Independent Schools and Academies was developed in close consultation with the Headmasters’ and Headmistresses’ Conference (HMC).
Since 2002 it has been offering teachers, who have not undergone a period of formal teacher training, the opportunity to participate in a structured programme of professional development.
This course is for those teaching in Independent Primary, Preparatory and Senior Schools, as well as all Academies.
This course does not include Qualified Teacher Status (QTS), but because of this it means that this course does not need to follow the specifics set out by the DfE and enables us to provide a varied, rigorous and creative course developing teachers in all settings.
This course will not need to follow the compliance requirements that might make the QTS routes problematic, for example timetable issues and hours required for Mentor training.
There is no need for a second school placement with the Independent PGCE.
Teaching is still regarded as one of the most rewarding careers you can embark on.
This is a career where you can have an incredible impact on the next generation of learners.
When asked, 98% of students felt that the course had made them a better teacher.
You will learn about all aspects of working as a teacher including teaching strategies, child development, policies and processes and ways to ensure that effective learning takes place.
We will work with you to strengthen your subject knowledge.
For Prep and Secondary IPGCE trainees, different school subjects demand different teaching methods and resources, so part of the course will be taught by a subject specialist.
We can teach many school subjects including Art, Music, Design Technology, Food Technology, Business Studies & Economics, Biology, Chemistry, Physics, Maths, Computing, English, Drama, Classics, Modern Languages, Arabic, Geography, History, Politics, Citizenship and PSHE, Religious Studies, Psychology and PE.
For Primary and Prep teachers we will also cover an important overview of subjects that are part of the Core and Foundation curriculums.
On our PGCE programme, all teachers are encouraged to be inclusive practitioners for example to know about SEND and ways of promoting and maintaining good behaviour with an awareness of the importance of emotional regulation.
We want to help you develop your confidence and resilience in order to be able to assuredly teach different Key Stages and across different age ranges.
This is an employment-based route where you can work as a teacher and train to be a qualified teacher at the same time.
In order to apply you must have a post secured in a UK School setting.
The course lasts for 37 weeks and covers a full and demanding curriculum.
Our curriculum covers all aspects of the Core Content Framework (CCF).
On our course, you learn whilst working in the classroom, fully supported by a Mentor in your own setting along with participating in blended learning programme provided by a team of experienced practitioners working with the University.
You will be assigned a Tutor employed by the University who will visit you in your setting and work with you throughout the year.
This course will support you as you develop your identity as a teacher and help you to find and refine your own teaching style.
Training is delivered through a weekly programme based in school alongside a core programme delivered by the University.
This begins with induction in August online, followed by twilight lectures that are recorded and available throughout the course, along with three residentials.
The residentials are a significant strength of this course as you are able to network with colleagues from across the country as well as participate in a rigorous and challenging programme of lectures, seminars and workshops.
This will include two IPGCE only specialism and networking days.
We also want to include coaching for students in order to support schools with career development.
“Trainees find the programme both demanding and rewarding.
They praise the pastoral support offered and describe leaders as open, responsive, and flexible.
Trainees like the predominantly school-based design of the training and take pride in the academic rigour underpinning it.
Trainees show commitment to course reading, reflecting carefully about the impact of research on their teaching.
The dovetailing of theory and practice deepens their understanding of why certain strategies in teaching work, rather than just learning a random repertoire of techniques which teachers use.” Ofsted, 2022
We will monitor your professional delivery through the weekly programme, its accompanying lesson observations and course documentation to ensure that your teaching practice develops through the course and meets expected standards.
Both inductions will be hosted online.
Independent PGCE Primary + All PE: Monday 27 – Wednesday 29 October 2025 Independent PGCE PREP & Secondary: Wednesday 29 – Friday 31 October 2025
Independent PGCE Primary + All PE: Monday 16 – Wednesday 18 February 2026 Independent PGCE PREP & Secondary: Wednesday 18 – Friday 20 February 2026
Independent PGCE Primary + All PE: Tuesday 26 & Wednesday 27 May 2026 Independent PGCE PREP & Secondary: Wednesday 27 & Thursday 28 May 2026
You need to be available to attend these residential courses.
By taking the Post Graduate Certificate in Education you will undertake a Level 7 (Masters) qualification that, if you complete successfully, will award you 60 credits.
The PGCE is an academic qualification that allows you to reflect on your personal and professional development and respond positively to feedback.
The qualification is assessed by three assignments that collectively enable students to:
The PGCE module consists of 3 modules.
Trainees will be required to demonstrate awareness of how children learn, basic philosophical principles underlying educational theory and teaching practice.
All students will study a core of educational topics that are central to the work of a critically reflective practitioner.
These topics will be delivered across the course and assessed through a written assignment at the end of the course.
Trainees will be required to demonstrate understanding of the complexities and diversity required in teaching and assessment for learning.
There will be a choice of topics offered.
On the IPGCE you will be able to specialize from a wider range of topics including, but not only (depending on uptake).
The assessment will be through a written assignment.
Trainees will be required to reflect on their learning as well as professional development and show how educational theory is linked to teaching practice.
To build upon work completed in Module 2 there will be the opportunity to complete to specialize in a number of different areas which may include:
If QTS is still required post-IPGCE you can easily do this using the Assessment Only route as long as all compliance aspects required by the DfE are met.
A particular strength of our course is the support that we are able to offer through what can be a challenging year.
As students of The University of Buckingham you are able to access all the student support services that we offer, with specialists who are used to working with Distance Learners.
As well as this support, you are also led by the Head of Cohort who will work with you, meet with you at residentials and monitor your progress through the course.
You will also be assigned your own Tutor who will work with you throughout the course.
“The vast range of support in place ensures you grow throughout the course.” Philip Pitcher, PGCE
If you are new to the profession and are wanting to prepare for your new career with an online course designed to help you start teaching, do have a look at our new Introduction to Teaching course, put together in collaboration with Anspear.
We recommend this course as a way of developing your knowledge and skills.
The employing school must be able to fully support a candidate through the course, enabling them to demonstrate all of the Teachers’ Standards across the full age and ability range of training, and cannot be graded as inadequate.
If you work abroad, the tutor visits will be completed online.
Should you want the tutor to visit your school in person there will be an additional charge.
Please contact education@buckingham.ac.uk for further information.
IAPS members are eligible for a reduced fee.
Please select ‘IAPS’ on the partnership section of the application form.
Accommodation for all residentials will be arranged by the Faculty of Education staff.
If you have any questions, please contact us: education@buckingham.ac.uk
Please use the ‘Apply Now’ button at the bottom of this page; or contact The Faculty of Education on +44 (0)1280 820222 or email: education@buckingham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/llm-international-and-commercial-law:
The underlying philosophy of the LLM is to develop specialists in the field of International and Commercial Law.
The underlying philosophy of Buckingham Law School’s LLM is to develop specialists in the field of international and commercial law.
The programme provides you with the key principles of commercial law, whilst developing your understanding of international legal frameworks.
Our teaching team, who have extensive experience of practice, provide you with the knowledge and skills to enable you to achieve your academic and professional goals.
Discover with us the areas that will make you a future-oriented professional.
Our team identifies and fosters the potential of all our students, and keeps you motivated by stressing the importance of interaction between staff and student, as well as between students.
We believe this is an essential element in the development of effective lawyers in this area of expertise.
Following successful completion of Buckingham’s LLM in International and Commercial Law, you will have developed a range of skills, including:
Students may take the LLM over 9 months starting in January.
Students may also take the LLM over 12 months starting in September.
Students can select specific modules to have their LLM designated as specialising in:
Each designation requires the following to be taken:
Applicants are normally expected to have a first or second class honours LLB.
Seminars are the primary teaching method for this course.
They encourage the development of clear analytical skills and create a forum where you can test your ideas against the arguments of your peers.
Whether you enter the legal profession or business world you will find it is essential to have developed persuasive abilities.
LLM options are taught in the form of two-hour lectures and one-hour seminar every week of the term.
You are expected to read the cases and other materials relevant to the particular seminar in advance.
At the seminar you will be asked to support your opinions and discuss your analysis of the area with your fellow students.
In some modules you may be expected to make a presentation on a topic given to you by your tutor.
Whilst these tasks may seem daunting at the beginning of the year, you will rapidly gain confidence as your debating skills develop.
Course material is available on the University’s own Virtual Learning Environment (VLE), Moodle.
Assessment is usually done by coursework and oral presentations.
“I graduated from Buckingham with an LLB degree and returned straight after to study for the LLM.
Buckingham’s January entry allowed me to complete both my LLB and LLM degrees in under three years.
“The flexible nature of the LLM programme allowed me to study taught modules as well as having the opportunity to write a dissertation in Intellectual Property Law, an area (in) which I have become very interested and will pursue in a PhD.”
“Since successfully completing his LLM Ben has been accepted to commence research for a PhD at Exeter University.
Benjamin Carter
“I completed my master’s degree and these were the best days in my life.
I miss my tutors, professors and friends.
After I finished my LLM study at Buckingham, I returned to my country, Jordan.
I am now working as a lawyer in an international Jordanian bank.
I am a member of a human rights organisation and the Jordan Bar Association.”
Basher Alyousef

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/postgraduate-diploma-in-international-and-commercial-law:
Find out more information about our Postgraduate Diploma in International and Commercial Law based in The School of Law.
The Postgraduate Diploma in International and Commercial Law provides you with a specialisation in the field of international and commercial law.
It is attractive to law or non-law graduates alike.
The programme runs in parallel with Buckingham Law School’s LLM in International and Commercial Law but does not include the research component, in the form of a dissertation.
The PGDipl is awarded if you successfully pass 120 units of taught modules.
Successful completion will mean you have developed a range of skills, including:
If you pass all your PGDipl modules in your first term, your performance is reviewed and, if it is of a sufficiently high standard, you are encouraged to upgrade to the LLM.
If the upgrade decision is in your favour, you then undertake the research component of the LLM, in the form of a Dissertation (60 units of credits).
Successful completion of the Dissertation results in the award of the LLM.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/llm-international-law-security-and-diplomacy:
An innovative study opportunity that combines rigorous legal analysis with cutting-edge studies in security and intelligence.
The underlying philosophy of this collaborative degree is to afford students an interdisciplinary learning experience at the intersection of International Law, Security and Diplomacy.
The University of Buckingham offers a distinctive opportunity to study these intersecting themes through a collaborative programme combining the strengths of the School of Law and the Centre for Security and Intelligence Studies (BUCSIS).
This innovative degree fuses rigorous legal analysis with cutting-edge studies in security and intelligence, creating a bespoke interdisciplinary learning experience.
Students will explore critical global challenges by engaging with modules such as International Law, the Law of War, and International and Comparative Human Rights Law from the Law School, alongside BUCSIS modules in Cyber Security and Globalization, Diplomacy, Terrorism, and National Security.
By merging these dynamic fields, this programme equips students with a holistic understanding of international legal considerations and contemporary security issues, preparing them to thrive in careers that demand expertise in both domains.
You will explore relevant and highly topical case studies from both legal and defence perspectives.
These will include ongoing conflicts across the international community and continuing regional unrest in other parts of the world.
The final dissertation project allows students to take either an LLM or MA degree , depending on the research area on which they wish to focus.
This programme is designed to:
Students will have the opportunity to engage with a rich blend of modules that reflect the breadth of this interdisciplinary field, including Cyber Security and Globalisation, Diplomacy, and Terrorism and National Security.
The small size of Buckingham’s academic community guarantees a supportive learning environment.
A key feature of the Buckingham intensive teaching method is the use of small seminar or tutorial groups which provide the most effective means of ensuring that the students benefit from the academic expertise at their disposal.
The approach ensures close interaction between students and faculty staff at all levels.
Seminars and tutorials encourage the development of clear analytical skills and create a forum where you can test your ideas against the arguments of your peers.
This allows students to download lecture notes, submit assignments and share resources in an electronic forum within the University’s computer network.
You are expected to read the cases and other materials relevant to the particular modules in advance of classes.
You will be asked to support your opinions and discuss your analysis of the area with your fellow students.
In some modules, you may be expected to deliver a presentation on a topic given to you by your tutor.
Entering any profession you will find it is essential to have developed persuasive abilities.
Students will also benefit from foundational teaching such as Introduction to Postgraduate Legal Study and Research Design and Methods, which provide essential legal and interdisciplinary research skills.
Throughout your year of study, you can expect:
Students are assessed via a diverse and inclusive range of assessment methods across both faculties, which may include:
The programme includes dissertation options tailored to students’ specific interests in either law or security studies.
Note that we do not utilise exams for these programmes.
This exciting programme could prepare you for a career in one of the areas below, and will allow you to develop a number of key skills.
As current students and alumni of Buckingham, you will have continued access to our fantastic Careers and Employability services in both Law and BUCSIS who will support your future career endeavours.
Many of our in-house expertise come from staff who are currently or have previously been practitioners and are leading scholars within their various subject matter specialisms.
This programme also provides an ideal platform for those interested in the academia route to undertake a PhD with us at Buckingham.
Browse our doctoral degrees .
As this programme is delivered on campus, it is advisable for students to live within easy travel distance.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/ma-international-law-security-and-diplomacy:
This degree utilises the strengths of the School of Law and the Centre for Security and Intelligence Studies (BUCSIS).
The final dissertation project allows students to take either an MA or LLM degree , depending on the research area on which they wish to focus.
Entering any profession, you will find it is essential to have developed persuasive abilities.
Throughout your studies, you can expect:
To see our full list of general university requirements including information for flexible entry, mature students and alternative qualifications, see our Postgraduate Entry Requirements .
As this programme is delivered on campus it is advisable for students to live within easy travel distance.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/international-qualified-teacher-status-iqts:
School-based course for trainee teachers outside of the UK to achieve iQTS, with a number of subject specialists available.
The University of Buckingham is one of a small number of universities granted permission by the UK Government to offer the International Qualified Teacher Status qualification.
QTS is a requirement for teachers in many schools in England and QTS is often considered an excellent teaching qualification internationally.
Teachers from any country may apply.
All Initial Teacher Training courses at The University of Buckingham are employment-based, so this course is only available to those who are employed as a teacher in their school.
This course is open to anyone teaching primary ages (5-11) and secondary ages (11-19) and we welcome applications from countries all around the world.
The iQTS programme offers teachers based in schools outside the UK who have not undergone a period of formal training the opportunity to participate in a structured programme of professional development leading to a teaching qualification.
IQTS is awarded by the University of Buckingham.
QTS is then automatically awarded by the UK Government Applicants can also choose to undertake an additional PGCE alongside iQTS for a small fee which will result in the award of 60 Masters Credits upon successful completion of the course at Level 7.
The 37-week course starts in September 2025 (with online induction taking place in late August) and will be taught in English.
Delivery of training is online via live lectures which we feel is an important part of our provision as it allows our trainees to feel part of the university and can meet fellow trainees around the world during the training days.
Starting every September, the iQTS programme is a 37-week school-based course during which trainee teachers work under the guidance of a mentor (appointed by the school in which they work) who observes them teach and meets weekly to review progress and set targets.
In addition, there is a weekly programme of readings and reflective tasks that the trainee engages in.
Finally, trainees are allocated a University of Buckingham tutor who will visit them in their schools in term 1 (depending on UK government travel advice) and then meet with them approximately once a month online to track progress and support where necessary.
You will also participate in regular live lectures and seminars and you will be expected to attend these as a condition of the course.
Training takes place on Thursdays.
Dates of the Training Days can be found below.
Primary teachers will be expected to teach all subjects across the primary curriculum, depending on the local curriculum.
For secondary trainees our subject specialists this year include: Art, Music, Design Technology, Food Technology, Business Studies and Economics, Biology, Chemistry, Physics, Maths, Computer Science, English, Drama, Classics, Modern Languages, Geography, History, Religious Studies, Psychology, Physical Education and Personal, Social and Health Education (PSHE).
There will also be some content specifically about working in international schools.
We deliver live lectures which take place on most Thursdays either between 8.30 – 11.30am or 1.30-4.30pm UK time.
Applicants who fulfil the criteria for entry onto the University of Buckingham’s iQTS course will be invited for interview.
During the interview, applicants will be asked questions about the Teachers’ Standards, subject knowledge and their suitability to teach.
Successful candidates will be sent a conditional offer which will include a successful School Placement Approval Meeting between university and their school and any outstanding documents.
Trainees are assessed in a number of ways:
If you wish to add an optional PGCE (Postgraduate Certificate of Education) you need to know:
Applicants must pay a £300 non-refundable Registration Fee.
Most people who pay the registration fee and are interviewed are accepted onto the course.
You need to pay the registration fee to begin the application process.
iQTS: £8000
PGCE add-on: £1,000
Fees are invoiced at the beginning of the course but instalments can be arranged directly with the Finance department upon receipt of the invoice.
To ensure the discount is applied please select ‘COBIS’ from the partnership box on your application form.
For further information please contact: IQTS-EDU@buckingham.ac.uk
Student Complaints Policy and Procedure
If you have any questions you can contact The Faculty of Education by email: education@buckingham.ac.uk or by calling +44 (0)1280 820 222.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/pgce-for-international-trainees-hong-kong:
The Postgraduate Certificate in Education for International Trainees (Hong Kong) offers teachers based in primary and secondary schools in Hong Kong, who have not undergone a period of formal training, the opportunity to participate in a structured programme of professional development.
The PGCE is a 37-week school-based course, during which time you will work under the guidance of your in-school mentor.
Each week you will be observed by your mentor, reflect on your practice and have a one-to-one meeting with your mentor to review progress and set targets.
Every week you will meet with your school mentor, agree targets, be observed teaching a lesson, do some reading.
Every week you and your mentor upload evidence of these things on our platform.
This element of the course is based on the UK Teachers’ Standards.
The three essay titles are based on the following:
Assessment will be through a written assignment.
We are able to offer the course in most subjects and to all age levels.
The three assignments enable students to:
the weekly programme of course online resources.
In addition, there will be two induction days in August to attend online.
You will be assigned a university tutor who will meet you regularly (approximately once a month) to assess your progress and guide your development.
Attendance for all training is mandatory.
Training will delivered on Zoom.
Training dates for academic year 2026/27 will appear here when finalised.
You will need to meet each of the Teacher Standards as set by the Department for Education in UK in order to pass the course.
Every week you will meet with your school mentor, agree targets, be observed teaching a lesson, do some academic reading.
In addition you will write three academic essays which require you to think critically about the relationship between academic theory and your experience in school.
The PGCE is a recognised teaching qualification around the world.
Upon course completion, you can put what have learnt into practice in the classroom, benefiting not only your career prospects, but also the generation of pupils that you are teaching.
You might also want to consider joining one of our Masters programmes.
We have a range of MA courses, an MEd in Educational Leadership and if you already have a Masters, you might consider our EdD doctorate programme.
If QTS (Qualified Teacher Status) is something of further interest then you could consider taking the using the Assessment Only route (AO) as long as all compliance aspects required by the UK government are met.
The employing school must be able to fully support a candidate through the course, enabling them to demonstrate all of the English Teachers’ Standards and releasing them for the compulsory live online lectures on Thursdays.
Fees: £5,500
Registration fee £300
Fees are invoiced at the beginning of the course.
Instalments can be arranged directly with the Finance department upon receipt of the invoice.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/llm-law-with-sqe1-preparation:
Specialise in an area of law of your choice and become equipped with the skills and knowledge required to sit your SQE1 with confidence.
Set yourself up for success in SQE1 and beyond with our collaborative 12-month LLM Law with SQE1 Preparation programme.
Complete BARBRI’s SQE1 preparation programme under the individual mentorship of experienced lecturers, supported by in-person workshops to purposefully track your progress, and build your professional competencies and career trajectory.
In addition, hone your legal research, critical analysis, and communications skills through our dissertation module and a range of advanced law modules to tailor to your interests.
This programme gives you the time, tools, and regular support necessary to process, practise, and perfect your knowledge, skills, and competence, ensuring you feel confident sitting SQE1 and entering legal practice thereafter.
Whilst completing the programme is not contingent upon sitting SQE1, September starters are expected to sit SQE1 in July.
January starters are expected to sit SQE1 the following January.
BARBRI’s industry-leading SQE1 preparation programme has been incorporated into this 12-month LLM degree to ensure a holistic approach to professional development.
This is not only focused on passing SQE1, but develops an understanding of professional expectations as well as legal knowledge and skills more broadly.
Students are taught to engage in reflective practice to track their professional development and deliberately optimise their preparation for SQE1 and beyond.
You will have regular in-person support in this journey, from an individual Learning Coach experienced in legal practice and legal education, as well as group workshops.
You can tailor this programme to your interests by picking elective modules, allowing you to graduate with a specialisation in one of the following:
Students across all of our LLM programmes join together in seminars, engaging in academically rigorous evaluation of complex legal issues at the forefront of their chosen areas of law.
On our dissertation module, you will dive deep into a particular aspect of your chosen specialisation.
Training in advanced legal research enables a practical understanding of the creation and interpretation of knowledge.
Rigorous academic training, smart SQE1 preparation, and individual mentoring allows you to combine the best of academic and professional development courses.
You will also graduate with an LLM that speaks to your advanced research and critical analysis abilities, your subject specialisation, and your readiness for SQE1 and legal practice.
Our 12-month LLM degree is being delivered in partnership with BARBRI, to ensure you sit your SQE1 with confidence.
Throughout the course, you will complete three parallel components of study: your dissertation, an SQE1 preparation module, as well as elective modules worth up to 60 credits.
You will have three terms to undertake BARBRI’s SQE1 preparation course, tracking your professional development with a reflective practice supported throughout by regular individual and group sessions.
The dissertation module starts with workshops that introduce you to advanced legal research.
You then have three terms to write up your dissertation under the supervision of a member of staff.
Your elective modules can be spread across our autumn, winter, and spring terms.
Depending how you spread your electives, you will study a maximum of two electives in a term, and may have one or two terms dedicated solely to SQE1 preparation and your dissertation.
Please note that students on a visa will need to spread their electives more evenly across three terms to comply with visa requirements.
Please see the Programme Specifications, as well as our list of Elective Modules for further module details.
As a member of Buckingham’s academic community, you will benefit from a supportive learning environment.
The majority of teaching will be in the form of interactive small group lectures, seminars and workshops.
You are expected to come prepared to contribute to these classes, as part of the confidence and competence building learning experience.
The diverse international legal and commercial backgrounds of our students fosters open discussion from a variety of perspectives, allowing students to develop their critical thinking and persuasiveness.
In addition, you will be allocated a Learning Coach, who you will meet on a weekly basis over three terms to mentor your progress on BARBRI’s SQE1 preparation course.
Group SQE1 preparation workshops additionally develop a supportive community and space to discuss and reflective the professional competences and skills expected of solicitors.
The ultimate purpose of this supportive environment is to nurture independence.
The teaching and assessment methods on this programme reflect the ultimate aim of students being able to independently undertake advanced research, analysis and communications, as well as act autonomously in planning and implementing tasks at a professional level.
The reflective practice integrated into this programme facilitates the self-reflection necessary to evaluate your own performance and learn from practice.
In your first year, you can expect:
The remaining time will be dedicated to independent study on your elective module as well as working on your dissertation.
You will be assessed via a diverse and inclusive range of assessment methods, depending in part on their choice of elective modules, including:
Note that we do not utilise exams for this programme.
This programme supports students in their journey to qualify as Solicitors.
Students starting our programme in September are expected to sit SQE1 the following July.
Students starting our programme in January are expected to sit SQE1 the following January.
The programme also supports students to thereafter progress onto Qualifying Work Experience (or legal practice for those who are exempt or have already accrued 2 years of QWE) and subsequently SQE2 with confidence.
As part of our programme, students will begin to explore and develop the professional competences that they will be required to demonstrate as part of their Qualifying Work Experience (QWE) and in SQE2.
During their studies, students can opt to participate in our extensive extra-curricular Clinical Legal Education Programme which includes opportunities for mentoring, shadowing, court visits, and work experience with a wide range of legal professionals.
“If you want to study at a place where your voice is heard, your needs are met and where you are certain to have a great time while receiving top tier education – Buckingham is the place for you.” Karina , Law LLB and LLM student
In addition to our fees for this programme, students will need to pay the SRA Examination Fee for taking SQE1.
Please check the SRA website for details.
These fees are subject to review annually by the SRA.
Students will also need to factor in the cost of travel to an SQE1 test centre.
We will discuss the logistics of registration for SQE1, as well as any financing options as and when they become available, with students on our programme to support them in that important stage of their journey towards qualification.
Please note that there is no obligation for students to sit the SQE1 in order to complete our LLM Law with SQE1 Preparation, and students can therefore graduate without having sat the SQE1 if they wish, for example if they prefer to take it at a later date.
Please note however that sitting SQE1 at a later date will require students updating themselves on any changes in the law since completing our SQE1 preparation programme, and it therefore not advised.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/master-of-business-administration-mba:
Our new flagship MBA programme takes advantage of Buckingham’s unique student-centred pedagogical approach.
Embark on an exciting journey in business education with our newly revamped MBA programme.
Experience the dynamic synergy and interactive learning that redefine success in the modern business world.
At Buckingham, our student-centred approach cultivates collaboration and real-world applications, empowering you to excel.
Immerse yourself in an agile learning environment, honing teamwork, and transferable skills crucial for leadership.
Accredited by the Chartered Management Institute (CMI) , our MBA offers the opportunity to gain CMI’s professional qualification in Strategic Management and Leadership in Practice upon successful completion of the MBA.
Join us to gain knowledge and to be inspired and empowered for leadership in the ever-evolving business landscape – a landscape to which we at Buckingham are continually adapting.
The Buckingham MBA focuses on 13 main areas of learning, equipping you with skills needed for modern leadership in the dynamic globalised world of business:
Our MBA programme is taught both full-time and part-time.
Each have two entry points available: September and January.
The full-time programme is just one-year, creating an excellent opportunity for individuals eager to join the workplace in the shortest possible time.
The part-time programme is staggered across two-years, making it more suitable for working individuals.
To join the MBA you need to have attained a good 2.2  or above in any degree subject.
In certain circumstances, these entry requirements can be relaxed if you have substantial relevant work experience.
We provide a dynamic interactive high-quality teaching and learning environment that moves away from traditional passive methods.
This has led to our degrees being recognised internationally.
Because of this, we have no difficulty in attracting high calibre, highly respected lecturers, most of whom also have a professional background in industry.
Our academic staff use their business experience to supplement teaching with real world examples and case studies, making theories more tangible for our students.
The Buckingham MBA is taught through a combination of learning methods.
Dependent on the learning outcomes of each module this can vary slightly.
Lively discussions and debates play a significant role in our teaching.
Generally, we have four methods:
Collaborative Learning these are the main contact hours and can include but are not limited to the below.
These may differ slightly for each module depending on learning outcomes.
Analytical learning these are sessions designed to complement the collaborative learning hours and usually take place in small group sizes run in the format of workshops.
Guided Learning this is the learning achieved through exploring the material provided on the module.
It can include but is not limited to any of the below and will differ slightly for each module depending on learning outcomes.
Independent Learning at a level 7, a significant amount of learning is done through independent research and learning.
Our beautiful Hunter Street library or the Vinson Building lobby are just the place for independent learning.
Also, our online resources provide students with additional learning opportunities.
Assessment is usually by assessed coursework, presentations, posters, group work or a combination of these methods.
We frequently use case studies to examine business decisions taken in real situations.
Also, business simulations and games give you first-hand experience of decision making in the world of work.
Role-play and group problem-solving exercises help you to apply some of the theoretical concepts delivered during collaborative learning time.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/master-of-medicine-mmed:
The programme is broad-based consisting of four to six placements in medical specialities - The University of Buckingham.
The Master of Medicine (MMed) is a comprehensive 3-year medical training programme providing structured postgraduate training in General Medicine leading to the award of a Master of Medicine from The University of Buckingham.
It is designed to deliver core training for speciality training by the acquisition of knowledge and skills as assessed by the workplace based assessments and the MRCP.
The programme is broad-based consisting of four to six placements in medical specialities.
These placements must include direct involvement in the acute medical take.
The key features of the MMed are:
The current training hospitals are Milton Keynes University Hospital, Blackpool Teaching Hospitals and University Hospital of North Durham.
We encourage candidates to obtain MRCP.
Candidates need to have a primary medical degree and will need to obtain full registration with the General Medical Council ahead of starting the course.
Additionally, they should also have the following:
The university is now running a GMC sponsorship Scheme for international students, if you are an overseas student applying for the University GMC Sponsorship Scheme, you will be required to have English Language overall score of 7.5 with a minimum requirement of 7.0 in all four areas.
You will be required to complete a Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) check and Occupational Health screening prior to any clinical placements.
You will also be required to undertake a telephone interview, which will be conducted by the Head of Postgraduate Medicine.
Students will be placed at one of the following placement hospitals:
The principle methodology will be bedside teaching.
Each student will be assigned to a clinical team and will be supervised by a consultant.
The student will see patients at speciality clinics and on the ward together with the supervisor.
The student will also undertake medical ward duties and outpatients as defined by the hospital.
There will also be on-call duties.
Students will be required to undertake self-directed reading of medical journals based on their clinical specialism in order to build up an understanding of the leading edge medical practice.
Students will be required to maintain an e-portfolio detailing their clinical experience and they will need to show reflection on that experience.
The e-portfolio will be monitored by the supervisor to ensure that it meets requisite standards.
Attainment of MMed and MRCP will allow the student to consider higher medical training.
Fees are payable in six monthly instalments.
Payment of a minimum of the £10,000 is required within four weeks of the date shown on the offer letter to secure a place on the programme (of which up to £5,000 is non-refundable if the applicant withdraws for any reason other than a genuine visa refusal).
The remainder of the first six months’ fees would be required four weeks before the start date of the course.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/master-of-surgery-msurg:
The MSurg is designed for international doctors who wish to expand their surgical training in the UK - The University of Buckingham.
The MSurg is designed for international doctors who wish to expand their surgical training in the UK.
Our students will take part in training analogous to the Core Surgical Training offered by the Joint Committee on Surgical Training (JCST) which forms the first stage of speciality training for most doctors training in surgical specialities.
The expectation is that students will take their MRCS to coincide with the award of the MSurg.
The MRCS is an internationally recognised qualification that could lead to further surgical training in  the UK.The key features of the MSurg are:
Affiliate Membership to the RCSEd will be granted to all MSurg students.
Regular workplace-based assessments will be conducted throughout training.
Students will be assessed on the following units:
The assessments will be carried out via:
Attainment of the MSurg and MRCS will confirm fulfilment of completion of early years training allowing the student to consider higher surgical training.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/postgraduate-certificate-in-medical-education:
This part-time, Master’s level programme is designed for healthcare professionals involved in medical education and training.
This part-time, fully online Master’s level programme is designed for UK and international healthcare professionals interested and involved in education and training.
There are growing expectations that those with educational roles and responsibilities should engage in professional development to enable them to model and uphold the highest standards.
Our flexible programme which offers you the chance to study at times which work for you, will provide you with the skills and knowledge you need to deliver outstanding health professions teaching, assessment, and course design.
This programme provides a sound educational foundation for professionals from across the health professions who support undergraduate students and/or postgraduate trainees’ learning in Higher and Professional Education settings, including the clinical workplace.
Through our core and option modules, you will develop an understanding of the key principles of effective teaching, learning, and assessment as they relate to your own practice.
Our option modules focus on clinical teaching, supervision, and work-based learning, lending a unique practical focus to the PGCME that should help you excel as a clinical educator.
We cover several topics of contemporary interest within health professions education (such as technology enhanced learning, developments in simulation, mentoring and supporting learners in difficulty) not commonly included in generic programmes.
The programme has been designed in collaboration with clinicians and other healthcare professionals.
As a result, the structure of the programme allows students flexibility over module choice and when they study, minimising the potential for service disruption and allowing students to develop areas of expertise relevant to their role responsibilities.
We aim to produce graduates who are able to:
The programme is accredited by the Academy of Medical Educators (AoME), in recognition of the high quality of teaching and feedback provided on the programme.
AoME is a multiprofessional organisation that sets standards for clinical teachers in the UK.
As our course is accredited by AoME, upon successful completion of the PGCME, students can apply for membership of AoME, which entitles them to use the postnominals MAcadMEd, an achievement which demonstrates they have met AoME’s professional standards for clinical teachers in health professions education.
We receive consistently excellent feedback from our students across all modules.
“Overall, I’ve been pleasantly surprised at how engaging and motivating an online course can be.
I chose the course because I didn’t think I’d be able to make regular fixed times for teaching but wasn’t optimistic about how much I’d learn.
There seems to be a really good balance between reading, activities and forum discussions.
All of this is backed up by very engaged and responsive tutors which means that the course feels very much “live” despite being completed in our own time.”
“It has been a wonderful opportunity; I have been exposed to new information and key concepts in education.
Having the course being held online has helped me better manage my time and has made it easier for me to complete the course, in comparison to the course being held in person.
I appreciate how available both the tutors were throughout the course always being there for us.”
All our modules offer learners the chance to engage with educational content in a variety of ways.
Learning activities across the below modules include: reviewing video and audio recordings; live and recorded online presentations; directed reading; live evening seminars; one-to-one tutorials; written reflections; engaging in our online discussion forum; a journal club activity; peer observation of teaching; and lesson planning.
There is a mixture of asynchronous and synchronous content and activities to cater to a wide variety of learning needs and work around busy clinical schedules.
Undergraduate degree in Medicine, Dentistry or related health profession.
Applicants must be able to access opportunities to teach/support learning.
If English is not your native or first language, you must evidence your ability to write Masters-Level academic assignments, regardless of your country of residence.
This can be done by providing an IELTS certificate (Overall 7.0, with minimum 7 in reading and writing).
You must ensure that your personal statement demonstrates your ability to produce an accurately-written explanation of your reasons for applying.
The programme is delivered online, with “live” taught sessions and seminars scheduled in both core and option modules to consolidate learning of topics and key concepts.
Our online virtual learning environment includes weekly online discussion forums to further consolidate and extend this learning.
Participants are also assigned to Communities of Practice, small groups in which they interact with colleagues to support one another’s learning.
All modules contain experience-based assessments and students are expected to read widely and critically throughout the programme.
All modules involve self-directed activity, for example, written reflections and teaching observations.
Other self-directed tasks require students to design, implement, and evaluate authentic clinical teaching/supervision activities with one or more learners in a range of contexts.
For example, students are required to review their own practice and suggest evidence-based changes.
In the core module this is based on observation of teaching, while in the optional units, this is based on a recorded feedback session that students self-critique.
We see feedback as a central part of the learning process.
This structure ensures that students can personalise their programme to align with their professional interests and development needs, whilst still meeting the professional standards of AdvanceHE, the Academy of Medical Educators, and the GMC.
The PGCME is facilitated by expert educationalists and physicians.
Read more about our course lecturers, below.
Dr Allam is a medically qualified doctor with several years of experience as a practicing paediatrician.
She is also an internationally recognised medical and healthcare professional educator.
Dr Allam has also led a strong multidisciplinary academic career for almost three decades.
After obtaining two Master’s Degrees and a PhD in Technology Enhanced Learning in Medical Education, she has held leadership, teaching and academic research roles in multiple UK universities.
She has also been an external examiner across several UK and overseas universities and an academic referee for peer reviewed international conferences and journals.
She is particularly interested in curriculum design and review, assessment and technology enhanced learning in Medical Education.
Rishen is the Lead for the Option modules and a Teaching Fellow at The University of Buckingham.
He is a practicing clinician, also working as an anaesthetist at Milton Keynes University Hospital NHS Foundation Trust.
Rishen is also an honorary clinical lecturer at The University of Buckingham, where he leads the clinical rotation peri-operative block for undergraduate medical students, associate lecturer at Edge Hill University, and tutor at Brighton and Sussex Medical School.
Students are guided through the course by a calendar of weekly activities, some required, some optional or recommended.
The course comprises one 15-week Core Module, and a one 15-week Option Module, which students choose from the available Option Modules, either Simulation and Work Based Learning, or Clinical Teaching and Effective Supervision.
Core Module: 3 February 2025 – 16 May 2025 Option Modules: 1 September 2025 – 12 December 2025
Core Module: 1 September 2025 – 12 December 2025 Option Modules: 2 February 2026 – 15 May 2026
Upon successful completion of the programme, you will be eligible for membership of the Academy of Medical Educators (AoME).
We offer a bursary of 10% of the fees to all staff working in one of our partner LEPs (please contact admissions to check if your LEP applies).
This fee is payable in full in advance.
The University accepts letters of support from sponsors.
If you’re considering applying to the course we encourage you to contact us, either before or after making your application.
We welcome applications directly via our online application form which can be accessed from the ‘Apply now’ button.
Contact them on +44 (0) 1280 820229 or by email FMHS-admissions@buckingham.ac.uk
For any queries relating to fees, please contact the expert staff of the student fees department at studentfees@buckingham.ac.uk , or phone +44 (0) 1280 820250.
If you would like to make any changes to your current application, please email, FMHS-admissions@buckingham.ac.uk , or phone +44 (0) 1280 820229 (and make sure you have your application number ready).

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/postgraduate-diploma-in-mentoring-fully-online:
Refine your mentoring expertise in Education with our Postgraduate Diploma in Mentoring.
Designed to further your career in mentoring roles.
Mentoring in Education has been the subject of debate for many years, and recent developments in schools, universities and teacher training in general have emphasised the importance of examining what makes an effective mentor.
Since September 2024 all schools are required to have trained Mentors to monitor teacher trainees in schools.
Whilst ITTECF process cover mentoring, this course delves much more comprehensively into the thought processes and critical thinking needed to make an excellent mentor.
The course is ideal for those currently in mentoring roles as the practical needs of mentoring in education are covered, alongside a wide range of scholarship on this topic.
The Postgraduate Diploma in Mentoring is delivered across four modules.
The first provides you with an introduction to a range of theories relating to mentoring in education.
The second module expands on the initial learning and explores the application of theory to practice, and in particular how that works in your own context.
The third module recognises the practical nature of mentoring, and this work enables you to have an opportunity to reflect on and develop the skills that can help to develop you as an effective mentor.
The final module looks at the Wider Context of Mentoring.
The Postgraduate Diploma in Mentoring is suitable for:
The first two modules run from January, with the second assessment submission at the beginning of the following September.
The first module runs from January to April, and module two runs from after Easter until July, with time to write up assignments for submission at the start of September.
Module three starts in August with guided reading, and is followed by the final module on the Wider Impact of Mentoring, which runs until December.
There are induction sessions to introduce you to how the course will run, and upon application you will receive a choice of dates where you will indicate when you will attend.
You will then access the course handbook, and all resources required for successful completion of the course.
Every student is allocated a supervisor.
You will regularly communicate with your supervisor to support each modules.
These sessions will be at times that are suitable for you both, and will be via platforms such as Teams, Zoom and email, You will also have access to regular online study sessions throughout the course.
Each week you will receive the course content via one of the following methods:
The twilight sessions are recorded and shared on Moodle.
Once complete.
These twilights are optional in terms of attendance as we know that many students can struggle with availability.
However, all sessions are recorded and can be watched after the live event.
This means that as you progress through the course you end up having access to a library of videos that you can re-visit, to support you to a successful outcome.
You are expected to engage with the course materials, which will enable you to complete two assignments.
Each module is assessed by a 3000-word essay.
After completing the Postgraduate Diploma, you will have the option to continue by completing a 12,000-15,000 word dissertation to turn your Diploma into a MA in Education (Mentoring) .
Upon completion of your Diploma, you can put what you have studied, researched and learnt into practice in your own educational setting.
“The course has been a real eye opener.
At first, I was worried.
I hadn’t written essays for about seven years and had quite a bit of help that time round.
However, throughout the course, there has never been a question to silly and all the lecturers have been more than happy to provide their time, above and beyond their allocation.
The essay clinics were a great help and strangely enjoyable.” – Mr Craig Nevard , Head of D and T, Wycombe High School
How to apply Apply direct You can apply online from this page as the most flexible option.
You can apply online from this page as the most flexible option.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/postgraduate-certificate-in-mentoring-fully-online:
Evolve your mentoring skills and critically examine what makes an effective mentor in the Education sector.
Mentoring in Education has been the subject of debate for a number of years and recent developments in schools, teacher training and universities have made it even more important to examine what makes an effective mentor.
Whilst ITTECF process covers mentoring, this course delves more thoroughly into the thought processes and critical thinking needed to make an excellent mentor.
The course works well for those currently in mentoring roles because the practical needs of mentoring in education are covered, alongside a wide range of scholarship on this topic.
The Postgraduate Certificate in Mentoring is delivered across two modules.
The first introduces you to a range of theories relating to mentoring in education.
The second module builds upon the introduction and looks at the application of theory to practice, and in particular how that works in your own context.
Given the practical nature of mentoring, you also have an opportunity to reflect on and develop the skills that can help to develop you as an effective mentor.
The Postgraduate Certificate in Mentoring is suitable for:
The course runs from January each year with the final assessment submission at the beginning of the following September.
Module One runs from January to April and Module Two runs from after Easter until July, with time to write up assignments for submission at the start of September.
There are induction sessions to introduce you to how the course will run.
You will receive a choice of dates once you have applied to indicate when you will attend.
When the course begins you will have access to MOODLE, the University’s online learning platform.
From there you will access the course handbook, and all resources needed for successful completion of the course.
The handbook provides a week-by-week guide which will indicate what work is expected that week.
You will regularly communicate for example, via Teams, Zoom, email or another online meeting platform with your supervisor at times that are suitable for you both, to support each module.
The twilight sessions are recorded and shared on Moodle once complete.
These twilights are optional in terms of attendance as we know that many students struggle to be available at certain times.
As you progress through the course, you will then have access to a library of videos that you can re-visit, to support you to a successful outcome.
After completing the course you will have the option to continue with the course to complete either the Postgraduate Diploma on Mentoring by working on an additional two modules – Critical Reflections on Mentoring: Literature Review and The Wider Context of Mentoring .
It is then possible to complete a 12,000-15,000 word dissertation to turn your Diploma into an MA in Education (Mentoring) .
Upon completion of your Certificate, you can put what you have studied, researched and learnt into practice in your own educational setting.
“A fascinating course and extremely beneficial for developing practical skills with mentoring as well as engaging with relevant, cutting-edge academic research” Mr P Bray , Director of Studies at New Hall School

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/ma-migration-history-people-objects-cultures:
Explore the movement of people, both voluntarily and involuntarily, across borders in this unique research programme.
The MA in Migration History: People, Objects, Cultures offers a unique opportunity to undertake advanced study of one of the oldest, most constant, and still searingly relevant phenomena in human history: the movement of people, both voluntarily and involuntarily, across borders.
The MA in Migration History is a taught Master’s, based in Bloomsbury in central London, which runs for one year, from September to September.
In the autumn, winter, and spring terms, students take a range of modules, each of which is dedicated either to the history of migration in a particular geographical region, including a comprehensive grounding in the history of emigration and immigration in the British Isles, or to specific themes in migration history, from the role of war and repression in generating mass exoduses of refugees to the transoceanic movements forced and facilitated by the rise of global empires.
These modules will meet weekly at Buckingham’s London campus at 51 Gower Street, and will consist of a mixture of lectures, seminar discussions, and class visits to relevant archives, libraries, and museums.
In the spring and summer terms, students undertake a significant and independent research project in the form of a dissertation.
Students may write their dissertation on any subject to do with migration history, so long as there is sufficient evidence to illuminate it.
Students’ supervisors, as well as the knowledge, skills, and experience of working with relevant primary and secondary sources acquired during the taught modules, will help students to select and hone a dissertation topic of their choice.
This module gives students a systematic understanding of the history of emigration and immigration in the British Isles since the eighteenth century.
Each week focuses on a crucial ‘moment’ in migration history, from early modern British emigration into and colonization of North America and Ireland to the impact of the Windrush generation in creating a multicultural United Kingdom in the second half of the twentieth century.
The study of several of these themes will be facilitated by workshops highlighting relevant primary sources at institutions like the National Archives and the Migration Museum.
Throughout, students will consider how this history is presented to the public and its role in current political discourse.
The module therefore serves as a thematic introduction to the MA in Migration History while providing a comprehensive grounding of the migration history of this country.
This module provides students with a thorough understanding of the methodologies, skills and critical thinking required for the study, research, and writing of History at the MA degree level.
These will include practice in critically reading primary and secondary sources, a dissection of existing historiography and its relationship to theory, and considerations on the ethics of historical practice, including personal interviews and oral sources.
Using examples and sources of migration history drawn from across the globe, the module culminates with tutorials on planning a dissertation.
Refugees, exiles, and the divisive international and domestic politics of asylum have emerged as some of the great global issues of the last generation.
But they are hardly new.
This module gives students a history of refugees from the exiles of Europe’s early modern religious wars to the global displacement of people in the twentieth and twenty-first centuries.
The causes of displacement, from international and civil war to political, religious, and economic marginalization are explored.
So too is the evolution of the concept of ‘asylum’ from religious notions of ‘sanctuary’ to the international refugee protection regime constructed after the Second World War.
Empires have always been a crucial factor in the global movement migration.
This module will convey how the actions, objectives, and cultures of empire have shaped the migration of peoples and materials, the transmission of cultural ideas and practices, and the ecological consequences of imperialism not least through the movement of flora and fauna.
By nature global in its approach, the module’s topics range from the forcible transportation of enslaved peoples and indentured servants to the impact of decolonization on migration patterns after 1945.
This module, taught in partnership with Buckingham’s MA in the Art Market, Provenance and the History of Collecting focuses on the changing status of objects and artefact when they move between different cultural, religious and political contexts.
A counterpart to ‘Emigration and Immigration in the Modern British Isles’, this module provides a history of movement to and within France.
It begins with five weeks of classes on the migration history of France, covering the seventeenth century to the twenty-first.
Students then travel to Paris for a week-long study trip.
There, the class will meet with historians and fellow students across the Université de Paris and with curators at institutions such as the Carnavalet Museum and the National Museum of the History of Immigration.
Students will use source material encountered on this trip in their written work, and are invited to draw comparisons between the histories and current immigration debates of Britain and France.
In the spring term, students begin preparation for their dissertations.
With the aid of their lecturers, students will select a dissertation subject and be assigned a supervisor.
Through the term, in discussion with their peers, students will hone their subject and begin to build up a base of evidence to examine.
By the end of the term, students will have produced a research exercise, often consisting of a single chapter, introduction or literature, or other portion of the dissertation deemed appropriate by their supervisor.
This will constitute the culmination of students’ work on the MA in Migration History.
Building on the work done in the spring term, students will turn their full attention in the summer to researching, drafting and completing their dissertations, with support from their supervisors.
In doing so they will acquire unmatched expertise in an area of migration history.
Dr Thomas C Jones
Dr Jones is one of the UK’s leading historians of refugees and asylum.
He has authored numerous articles on the subject and his forthcoming book on the history of asylum in Britain, Liberty’s Refuge , will be published by Harvard University Press.
He is a founding member of AsilEuropeXIX, an international network dedicated to the comparative study of the history of refugees.
He convenes Buckingham’s PhD in Refugee History and also teaches migration history at the undergraduate level.
Candidates apply online, sending in their supporting documents, by clicking the link below.
Applications will be assessed and will be assessed by the Programme Director.
For help in applying, please contact the Admissions Office at humanitiespg-admissions@buckingham.ac.uk
The MA in Migration History employs a stimulating variety of teaching strategies, including traditional lectures and seminar discussions, workshops with partner institutions, class visits to relevant cultural institutions and archive collections, and a week-long study trip to Paris.
A number of core modules are designed to instil skills crucial to the study of migration history and provide a comprehensive grounding in the history of emigration and immigration in the British Isles.
Meanwhile, students can tailor their studies to their particular interests by choosing among optional modules on subjects such as the history of political and religious asylum, international cultural transmission, and the intersection of global empire and global movement.
In the spring, students make a week-long study visit to Paris, to gain a further comparative and international perspective on these subjects, and begin work on their dissertations.
The dissertation, submitted at the end of the summer, will allow students to make a serious and distinct contribution to the rapidly growing field of Migration History.
For more details, please feel free to contact the Programme Director Thomas Jones: thomas.jones@buckingham.ac.uk .
Graduates of the MA in Migration History will be well prepared for an array of opportunities for further study and employment.
You will have honed the skills necessary to pursue a PhD in wide variety of historical periods, from the early modern period to the contemporary era, and will have attained excellent knowledge on subjects ranging from the history of the modern British Isles to that of the rise and fall of global empires and the foundation and operation of international institutions in the twentieth century.
Such knowledge is of direct relevance not only to further academic study, but also in professions ranging from law to the charitable sector.
Moreover, the skills of critical analysis and written and oral communication that you will develop are highly sought after by employers across many different sectors.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/msc-operational-excellence:
The MSc in Operational Excellence is designed to give practicing managers the skills to drive efficiency and improvements within business.
The MSc in Operational Excellence is a unique and dynamic programme designed to equip professionals with the knowledge and skills needed to drive efficiency, innovation, and continuous improvement within organisations.
Through a combination of academic rigour and practical application, this programme prepares you to lead operational transformations and solve complex business challenges.
Credits from the MSc in OpEx permit a Blackbelt accreditation with the “International Lean Six Sigma Institute” and Fellowship membership with the “Institute of Continuous Improvement for Public Services”.
This two-year, part-time MSc is specifically designed for practicing managers working, or aspiring to work, in operations/business improvement/transformation and other areas aligned towards operational excellence.
All participants should have considerable experience as they will be expected to contribute ideas and share experiences.
The University of Buckingham prides itself on the support it provides to its students, and this has been reflected in appearances in the National Student Survey for student satisfaction for 7 consecutive years.
Graduates of the MSc in Operational Excellence will not only gain a world-class academic qualification, but the Lean Six Sigma Black Belt certification by the renowned “International Lean Six Sigma Institute”.
This is available for only a modest additional certification fee provides the practitioner authority.
Furthermore, the credits from the MSc in OpEx steering a fellowship membership with the “Institute of Continuous Improvement for Public Services” awards the management validation.
The philosophy of this course is “learning by doing”.
Most modules are designed around real-life situations encountered within organisations that demonstrate the concepts and theories of the module in action.
The programme is designed to develop middle and senior managers and professionals who can improve the performance of their organisations by implementing the concepts of Continuous Improvement.
It is a highly innovative and essentially practical programme, which provides the optimal learning environment, that is, allowing students to develop skills and knowledge by “doing”.
Upon completion of the MSc in Operational Excellence, you will have achieved credits for the BlackBelt in Lean Six Sigma (LSS).
This is awarded by the prestigious “International Lean Six Sigma Institute”, incorporating a minor certification cost only.
Equally, credits from the MSc in OpEx will enable fellowship membership with the “Institute of Continuous Improvement for Public Services”.
This part-time two years MSc programme consists of:
The Programme consists of 180 credits at level 7 incorporating a 15,000-word dissertation accounting for 60 credits.
You will build a strong foundation in Operational Excellence through core frameworks, value flow analysis, and quality management.
The year emphasises innovation, leadership, and cultivating a high-performance organisational culture.
Sustainability and strategic alignment are also explored, preparing students to identify improvement opportunities and lead transformative change.
Year two focuses on performance measurement, benefits realisation, and strategic alignment.
You will gain practical research skills to critically assess operational initiatives and support evidence-based decision-making.
A major emphasis is placed on independent learning through a 60-credit dissertation, enabling you to apply your knowledge in solving real-world operational challenges and advancing excellence across sectors.
The MSc in Operational Excellence is designed with a dynamic and engaging teaching approach that bridges theory and real-world application.
All learning outcomes are delivered through interactive workshops that foster active participation and practical learning.
These sessions combine group work, structured discussions, hands-on exercises, and focused mini lectures to ensure deep understanding and critical thinking.
A diverse range of interactive teaching methods enhances the learning experience.
You will take part in simulations, such as games, role plays, and scenario planning, to develop problem-solving and decision-making skills in realistic operational contexts.
Case studies drawn from industry, peer-reviewed student presentations, guest lectures from industry experts, and networking events will further support practical knowledge development and professional growth.
Seminars and collaborative group activities are designed to encourage knowledge sharing and peer learning, cultivating a rich academic and professional community.
In addition to in-person sessions, you will have access to a wealth of academic and practical literature to extend your understanding beyond the classroom.
The University’s Virtual Learning Environment (VLE) plays a central role in supporting student success.
It serves as a hub for learning materials, reading lists, discussion forums, and ongoing communication between staff and students.
This blended learning model ensures flexibility, continuity, and access to a broad range of resources throughout the programme.
Through this combination of interactive teaching methods, industry engagement, and academic support, you will graduate equipped with the knowledge, skills, and confidence to drive operational excellence in a variety of sectors.
*Total of 8 days throughout the year.
The MSc in Operational Excellence employs a diverse range of assessment methods designed to develop both academic knowledge and practical skills essential for professional success.
Assessments are carefully aligned with learning outcomes and are structured to actively engage students, encouraging critical thinking, collaboration, and reflective practice.
A combination of individual and group assessments is used to reflect real-world business environments and decision-making scenarios.
These include coursework reports, article reviews, essays, and case study analyses, which cultivate research, analytical, and communication skills.
Presentations and role plays will enhance your confidence and ability to articulate complex ideas clearly.
Simulations and practical business reports provide hands-on experience in problem-solving and strategic thinking.
Learning journals, portfolios, and reflective reports foster personal development and self-awareness.
Group projects promote teamwork and the ability to work across disciplines.
In the final year, students complete a 15,000-word dissertation or research project, allowing for in-depth exploration of a topic relevant to your interests and career goals.
This holistic assessment approach ensures that graduates are not only academically accomplished but also equipped with the competencies required in operational leadership roles.
Graduates of the MSc in Operational Excellence are well-equipped to take on senior roles focused on driving continuous improvement, operational transformation, and strategic change across various industries.
The practical, experience-based learning approach ensures that you develop leadership, analytical, and innovation skills highly valued in today’s dynamic business environments.
The programme also serves as a solid foundation for those wishing to further their academic journey, with the Professional Doctorate in Operational Excellence offering a natural progression for those interested in advanced research and leadership in practice.
This qualification significantly enhances employability and positions graduates for impactful careers in operational leadership.
Applicants without an undergraduate degree may still be eligible based on their professional experience and qualifications.
Or:
The only additional cost is the certification cost for the Black-belt in Lean Six-Sigma to be transferred to the “International Lean Six Sigma Institute”.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/pgce-arabic:
This online Post Graduate Certificate in Education course is taught entirely in Arabic for teachers located outside the United Kingdom.
This is the first Post-Graduate Certificate in Education course taught fully in Arabic by a British university.
View this page’s content in Arabic (PDF)
للمعلومات باللغة العربية، الرجاء الضغط هنا
The Post Graduate Certificate in Education course in Arabic has been adapted from our successful PGCE for International Trainees with opportunities for more specialist content in Arab speaking countries.
It is a level 7 postgraduate course according to the British qualifications system.
It is a course intended for university graduates who wish to obtain an accredited teaching certificate to engage in work in the teaching profession in public or private schools in their countries.
The course is distinguished by its flexibility that suits all applicants’ needs.
You will receive a letter every week explaining what to do next.
Support is provided by an elite group of university staff with international competencies and experience to enable applicants to make the most of the course in order to obtain the advanced skills necessary for modern education.
The university offers the course in primary and secondary ages and in most subjects including art, music, design technology, food technology, business studies and economics, biology, chemistry, physics, mathematics, computer science, English, drama, classics, modern languages including Arabic, geography, history, religious studies, psychology, and physical education.
You will have access to an online course and every week for 37 weeks you will read about the topic for that week and discuss it with your mentor (the teacher in your school who is supporting you).
You will teach a lesson observed by your mentor, you will reflect on your performance and write material onto the online platform.
The syllabus is based on the English Teachers’ Standards:
You will attend six ‘live’ online training sessions plus two induction days (in late August).
Attendance at all these days is mandatory (all timings are according to the UK time).
The draft course outline below is subject to change:
If you would like a tutor to travel from the UK to observe lessons in person, this is possible for an additional fee.
Please contact the course manager Dr Mayamin Altae: Mayamin.altae@buckingham.ac.uk
The teaching methods are: *an online platform with reading materials *lectures and talks *feedback from your mentor and your university tutor.
Each student will also be assigned a supervisor from the university who will meet with the student regularly (about once a month) to evaluate academic progress and guide the course of study.
There are two assessment strands:
You will be invited to the University of Buckingham in the UK to attend your graduation ceremony if you can make it.
The University of Buckingham is one of a small number of universities granted permission by the UK Government to offer the International Qualified Teacher Status qualification, providing an opportunity for those who wish to pursue this teaching qualification after completing their PGCE.
You will be awarded 60 credits for admission to a Master’s courses at the University of Buckingham if the student wishes to continue; the time period and course requirements for the Master’s degree are shortened.
The employing school must be able to fully support a candidate through the course, enabling them to demonstrate all of the UK Teachers’ Standards and releasing them for the compulsory live online training sessions.
£4500 for the course
How to apply Apply direct Please use the ‘Apply Now’ button at the bottom of this page; or contact The Faculty of Education on +44 (0)1280 820222 or email: pgce-edu@buckingham.ac.uk Before we can accept you, you will need to supply: a copy of passport photo page (and visa/work permit where necessary) copies of your qualification certificates – UK Bachelor’s Degree or equivalent (an ENIC statement of comparability will be required for qualifications awarded outside of the UK) a head and shoulder style photo for your university identity card
Please use the ‘Apply Now’ button at the bottom of this page; or contact The Faculty of Education on +44 (0)1280 820222 or email: pgce-edu@buckingham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/pgce-for-international-trainees-fully-online:
The PGCE for International Trainees offers teachers outside the UK, without formal training, a programme of professional development online.
“Although I had been teaching for 8 years previously, the PGCE had a significant impact on my practice, especially engaging with the weekly programme of readings.
By the end of the course, the training hadn’t just impacted on me, it had improved practice in my department and the wider school!” – Ezzat AliPGCE for International Trainees (Secondary)
The Postgraduate Certificate in Education for International Trainees offers teachers based in schools outside the UK, who have not undergone a period of formal training, the opportunity to participate in a structured programme of professional development online.
The course is adapted from our very popular Independent PGCE.
The PGCE for International Trainees is a 37-week school-based course, during which time you will work under the guidance of your in-school mentor.
Live course lectures, will take place on Thursdays (14 weeks) and will complement the weekly programme of course online resources.
In addition, there will be two induction days in August to attend.
Full details are below.
You will be assigned a university tutor who will meet you and your mentor regularly (approximately once a month) online to assess your progress and guide your development.
“…the time and effort my University tutor offered to my mentor and I was outstanding.
She was a pleasure to work alongside and to have as a great support throughout..” Aishlin O’Rourke, PGCE for International Trainees (Primary).
By taking the Post Graduate Certificate in Education you will undertake a Level 7 (Masters) qualification that, if you complete successfully, will award you 60 masters credits (which you may want to put towards a full masters at a later date).
The PGCE consists of 3 modules.
Your University tutor will be a subject specialist.
Subjects that you can do your PGCE in include: Art, Music, Design Technology, Food Technology, Business Studies and Economics, Biology, Chemistry, Physics, Maths, Computer Science, English (not English as an additional language), Drama, Classics, Modern Languages, Geography, History, Religious Studies, Psychology, and Physical Education.
This course may be available taught in Arabic (see below).
QTS (Qualified Teacher Status), awarded by the Department for Education is not included in this PGCE qualification.
If QTS is something of interest then you could consider taking the iQTS (with PGCE) qualification (link) or you could consider taking the using the Assessment Only route (AO) as long as all compliance aspects required by the DfE are met.
Training will be delivered on Zoom.
The fees for this course will be confirmed in due course.
Please contact: stephen.cook@buckingham.ac.uk
Applicants from China should apply through the Buckingham International School of Education, please click here: https://www.bise.org/find-a-course
Applicants who would like this course taught in Arabic should email mayamin.altae@buckingham.ac.uk
Please use the ‘Apply Now’ button ; or contact The Faculty of Education on +44 (0)1280 820222 or email: pgce-edu@buckingham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/postgraduate-diploma-practitioner-in-complex-trauma:
Equip yourself with the therapeutic skills you need to address complex trauma by integrating evidence-based theories with practice.
Elevate your practice and become equipped to provide psychological services to those who require specialised trauma care.
The Postgraduate Diploma Practitioner in Complex Trauma has been established to support professionals working clinically with adults affected by prolonged or significant exposure to trauma and adversity.
You will develop professional competences to provide psychological services to those who require specialised trauma care.
This course has been developed in partnership with St Andrew’s Healthcare’s Centre for Developmental and Complex Trauma, Foster Postgraduate Centre .
Complex PTSD is a novel diagnosis, although traumatology has long acknowledged the spectrum of complexities in trauma related needs.
Yet, current psychological assessment and treatment approaches often fail to differentiate between varying levels of complexity, in the context of limited evidence relating to the efficacy of treatments for complex trauma, specifically.
As an emerging field, with a limited, and growing, evidence base, this can create challenges for clinicians wanting to ensure their service users have access to the latest evidence-based models and approaches to treatment.
This course has been developed in recognition that individuals with more complex and enduring needs require nuanced approaches to conceptualising service models and treatments.
It adopts a holistic approach to the needs of people who have been exposed to prolonged or significant incidents of adversity or trauma.
The structure and content of the PGDiP follows the level three ‘trauma expert’ competencies outlined by the British Psychological Society (Karatzias & Buxton, 2016).
The PGDip operates within a framework of emphasising the idiosyncratic care needs of service users to provide specialist complex trauma care.
It provides students with the opportunity to develop trauma-sensitive practice within their organisations and team.
There is also a strong emphasis on theory-driven and integrated approaches, and from working from the evidence base, including acknowledging, and working with their limitations.
Emphasis is placed on strengthening core skills of self-awareness, including of awareness of one’s own professional and academic needs, as well as promoting self-care and accessing appropriate supervision.
View the PGDip Practitioner in Complex Trauma brochure (PDF)
Throughout your first term, the module ‘Informing Practice’ lays key foundations; through exploring key concepts and theories that underpin our understanding of complex psychological trauma, whilst stressing the importance of understanding the impact of social factors, including structural inequalities in the service user’s life experience.
The evidence for, and limitations of, key concepts in trauma diagnostic nosology for different populations are presented.
In term 2, the ‘Idiosyncratic Assessment and Formulation of Complex Trauma Needs’ module is studied.
You have the opportunity to develop skills for the assessment, diagnosis and idiosyncratic psychological formulations of complex trauma and related needs.
This includes for the assessment for core trauma and complex symptoms (PTSD and DSO), psychological co-morbidities and physical health needs.
Key legal and ethical issues are also addressed.
Teaching has a strong workshop element, allowing for for the development and reflection of clinical skills.
The third term explores ‘Idiosyncratic intervention approaches for Complex Trauma’.
Through a predominantly workshop-style approach, you can develop practice skills needed for idiosyncratic treatment approaches for a range of complex trauma related needs, including self-care for therapists / practitioners.
Core complex trauma symptoms (PTSD and DSO), and challenges that can arise when working with different aspects of trauma, as well as common co-morbidities, including psychological and physical wellbeing are addressed.
During the final term, you study ‘Working with hard to reach and underserved populations: Practice guidance & Professional practice issues’.
Students focus on developing knowledge and skills to work with a wide range of trauma populations, including those with wider needs such personality disorders, forensic and displaced populations.
Vicarious trauma, moral injury and ethical / legal complexities of working with trauma populations are also addressed, with practice-based guidance offered.
The PGDip is taught one day a week over the period of one year.
It is a taught, part-time course offered as a distance learning programme.
As an online course, the PGDiP utilises a number of teaching approaches, including:
The teaching approaches utilised will vary throughout the programme dependent on which techniques are most appropriate for each module.
Progress is assessed through different methods, reflecting the clinical and academic context of the course.
Across all four modules, learners complete weekly reflective logs.
Core academic assessment methods include two essays, two written case studies and an oral case presentation.
Two brief observed clinical skills assessments and a class presentation on a professional practice issue complete the assessment process.
The overarching educational aims of the PGDip are to equip students with the theoretical frameworks and clinical skills to develop, deliver and evaluate interventions, services and organisational frameworks that mitigate the impact of complex psychological trauma and reduce the likelihood of re-traumatisation.
After completing the PGDiP Practitioner in Complex Trauma, you will have developed skills to allow you to pursue or develop specialist trauma roles in various healthcare settings, including:
Further your expertise in your field of study with our doctorial degrees .
UK applicants must have one of the following (or equivalent for International applicants):
Students will also need to have access to a patient population and to clinical supervision for their therapeutic work.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/msc-practitioner-in-psychological-trauma:
Elevate your knowledge of the specialist care required around trauma, with access to quality teaching and state-of-the-art facilities.
The importance of trauma and its enduring effects, in the context of poor outcomes for service users, has led to significant interest in developing specialist trauma interventions, as well as ‘trauma informed’ frameworks and models of care.
Developing trauma informed services have become a key strategic and clinical aim within the NHS and healthcare sector based on the specialist trauma services increasing awareness of trauma and the needs of people requiring specialised care with traumatic backgrounds.
The Practitioner in Psychological Trauma MSc has been developed in partnership with the Centre of Developmental and Complex Trauma, St Andrew’s Healthcare .
This MSc is an accreditable postgraduate course by the British Psychological Society (BPS), which provides health professionals the theoretical understanding and professional competences to provide psychological services to those who require specialised trauma care.
The MSc operates within a framework of understanding the idiosyncratic care needs of service users in order to provide an integrated and holistic approach to specialist trauma care whilst equipping students with skills to develop trauma informed practice within their organisations and team.
This is a taught, part time MSc, offered over two years.
The structure and content of the MSc follow the level three ‘trauma expert’ competencies outlined by the British Psychological Society for working with people with psychological trauma related needs.
Throughout the course, emphasis is placed on the importance of increasing core skills of self-awareness, including an awareness of one’s own professional and academic needs, as well as promoting self-care and accessing appropriate supervision.
In recognition of the challenges of working with traumatised and complex populations, students are assigned a personal tutor who will offer support during the course, with a minimum of two meetings per semester.
Group reflective practice and support sessions also run throughout the MSc.
To support the developing research competencies and completion of the dissertation components of the MSc, the Centre of Developmental and Complex Trauma, St Andrew’s Healthcare research portfolio and its wider research network is available to students.
Teaching will be delivered at the Centre of Developmental and Complex Trauma, St Andrew’s Healthcare, Northampton in their postgraduate education centre.
The dedicated post-graduate teaching centre provides an exceptional learning space with large lecture and seminar rooms, student resource centre, break out areas, a kitchen, relaxation area and study rooms.
Students enrolled on the MSc will also have full access to the services and activities at the Centre of Developmental and Complex Trauma, St Andrew’s Healthcare.
Specifically, students will be able to access an international conference programme that hosts events attracting global experts in trauma and research.
They will also be welcome to increase their learning through our trauma CPD programme and trauma special interest group events.
Students can also access the ‘research skills for clinicians’ series of 10 workshops offered by the Centre for Developmental and Complex Trauma, that will further increase their understanding and expertise of research methodologies.
In recognition of the challenges in completing postgraduate education, students for the completion of dissertation projects can also access the comprehensive research programme run by the Centre of Developmental and Complex Trauma, St Andrew’s Healthcare, as well as access our library of research developed through the Centre of Developmental and Complex Trauma, St Andrew’s Healthcare.
Where students do not have access to trauma populations, a separate application for clinical placements with the Centre of Developmental and Complex Trauma, St Andrew’s Healthcare can be made.
Take a look at our Transferable skills document
View the MSc Practitioner in Psychological Trauma brochure
If English is not your first language, please check our Postgraduate Language Requirements .
Teaching for the MSc is on site in the Centre of Developmental and Complex Trauma, St Andrew’s Healthcare, Northampton.
Assessments for the MSc are carried out throughout the course.
The course, taught over six modules, addresses:
You can apply directly using our online application form, alternatively you can contact Dr Deborah Morris, Director of Programme, for an informal discussion deborah.morris@buckingham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/prep-qualified-teacher-status-and-pgce:
The Prep PGCE with QTS is a formal teacher training course tailored to teachers in independent preparatory schools.
This course is only for those whose teaching includes pupils aged 11-13.
If you are only teaching pupils aged 5-11 you must apply for the Primary QTS course .
This is a career where you can have an incredible impact on the next generation of pupils.
This course is for those graduates who want to achieve Qualified Teacher Status to be able to teach in a Prep School in England.
We will work with you to strengthen your specialist subject knowledge along with an understanding of the Core and Foundation curriculum subjects associated with Primary years.
On our PGCE programme, all teachers are encouraged to be inclusive practitioners, for example to know about SEND and ways of promoting and maintaining good behaviour with an awareness of the importance of emotional regulation.
In order to apply you must have a post secured in a Prep setting.
This begins with induction in August online, lectures on most Thursdays 1.30-2.30pm, twilight lectures that are recorded and available throughout the course, along with three residentials.
The residentials are a significant strength of this course as you are able to network with other Prep and Secondary colleagues from across the country as well as participate in a rigorous and challenging programme of lectures, seminars and workshops.
You can either take just the level 6 Qualified Teacher Course (QTS) OR you can take the QTS WITH PGCE for an extra £1000.
The PGCE is a level 7 add-on consisting of three academic essays which gain academic credits which will help you gain an MA at a later date.
QTS is about your teaching ability, PGCE is about your ability to read around a topic and write academic essays.
You will always nominate one main subject but you can certainly train to teach two subjects.
For example, your main subject may be PE but you can also learn about teaching mathematics.
Residential 1: Thursday 29 and Friday 30 October 2026 Residential 2: Thursday 18 February 2027 and Friday 19 February Residential 3: Wednesday 26 May 2027 and Thursday 27 May
Your school will provide a suitable Mentor for you who will work with you on the course requirements.
The Mentor will need to be trained by the University as the course provider.
You will need to ensure that your timetable is compliant with Department of Education requirements:
If you choose to take the Post Graduate Certificate in Education, alongside QTS, you will undertake a Level 7 (Masters) qualification that, if you complete successfully, will award you 60 credits.
Module 1: Educational Principles –The Fundamentals of Teaching and Learning (20 credits)
Module 2: Development of Effective Practice (20 credits)
Module 3: Consolidating and Reflection (20 credits)
To build upon work completed in Module 2 there will be the opportunity to choose their areas of focus from a selection of titles.
If your school setting is eligible you may also consider the Postgraduate Teacher Apprenticeship with QTS and PGCE course instead.
As students of the University of Buckingham you are able to access all the student support services that we offer, with specialists who are used to working with Distance Learners.
As well as this support, you are also led by the Head of Prep who will work with you, meet with you at residentials and monitor your progress through the course.
For teachers undertaking their first year of teaching we highly recommend your participation in our Ab Initio course as an addition to the PGCE.
This will provide you with some basic knowledge and skills to start teaching.
You will be expected to have the following qualifications:
The Prep PGCE is a 37-week school-based course during which time you will work under the guidance of a mentor and receive weekly tutorials to review your progress and to set targets.
There are six days of residential training and two days of online learning at the end of August.
During these sessions, Prep trainees will be able to access subject specialisms for Key Stage 3 subject knowledge development.
The Buckingham tutor and the school mentor will jointly assess the student’s competence as a teacher during and at the end of the course.
There are three essays to complete, carrying a total value of 60 Level 7 (Master’s) credits.
If successful, trainees will be qualified to teach in both independent and state maintained schools in England.
For teachers undertaking their first year of teaching we highly recommend your participation in our Introduction to Teaching course.
For further details please get in touch using the contact details above.
If you need financial assistance for a course, please contact Shonali Mathur at: education@buckingham.ac.uk .
You will be asked to fill in a means-test form.
You can contact The Faculty of Education on +44 (0)1280 820222 or email: education@buckingham.ac.uk
It can take at least 6 weeks to process applications.
Please do not leave applying until the last minute.
If you or your school are inaccessible in the summer holidays, your application will not be complete before the course begins.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/primary-qualified-teacher-status-and-pgce:
Are you teaching in a maintained or independent primary school in England?
Get accredited to teach in state-maintained and special schools in England.
Teaching is still regarded as one of the most rewarding careers you can embark on, where you can have an incredible impact on the next generation of pupils.
This course is for those graduates who want to achieve Qualified Teacher Status to be able to teach in a Primary School in England – in independent, state-maintained and special schools.
When asked, 98% of our students felt that the course had made them a better teacher.
You will learn about all aspects of working as a teacher including teaching strategies, child development, and ways to ensure that effective learning takes place.
We will work with you to strengthen your subject knowledge so that you are able to teach all the Core and Foundation Curriculum subjects.
On our programme, all teachers are encouraged to be inclusive practitioners, for example to know about SEND and ways of promoting and maintaining good behaviour with an awareness of the importance of emotional regulation.
We want to help you develop your confidence and resilience in order to be able to assuredly teach across different age ranges.
In order to apply you must have a job a Primary setting.
On our course, you learn whilst working in the classroom, fully supported by a Mentor in your own school along with participating in blended learning programme provided by a team of experienced practitioners working with the University.
You will be assigned a Tutor employed by the University who will visit you in your school and work with you throughout the year.
This begins with induction in August online, along with three residentials in a hotel.
The residentials are a significant strength of this course as you are able to network with other Primary colleagues from across the country as well as participate in a rigorous and challenging programme of lectures, seminars and workshops.
Residential 1: Monday 27 October 2025, Tuesday 28 October
Residential 2: Monday 16 February 2026, Tuesday 17 February
Residential 3: Tuesday 26 May 2026 , Wednesday 27 May
The Primary PGCE with QTS Course is available via two routes – General Primary or Subject Specialism Primary .
Trainees who choose the Primary PGCE Subject specialism route can specialise in any primary curriculum subject.
You complete the course alongside the rest of the cohort and are expected to engage in the same course elements such as the weekly meetings, readings and lesson observations.
You will observe expert colleagues in your particular subject areas.
You need to teach a minimum of 7 hours in the core subjects of English, maths and science, 6 hours in your specialism subject.
You must teach and be observed in all foundation subjects (as for all primary QTS cohorts).
Second School Placement teaching remains the same as the General Primary PGCE cohort.
However, you could teach a higher weighted timetable in your chosen specialist subject.
If you work in a Prep school you should normally apply for the Prep PGCE with QTS .
You will cover five key topics using Intensive Training and Practice.
As a part of this you will be required to attend a live but online talk on twenty Thursdays 1.30-2.30pm.
This is a Level 7 (Master’s) qualification that, if you complete successfully, will award you 60 credits.
The qualification is assessed by three essays that collectively enable students to:
These topics will be delivered across the course and assessed through an essay.
You must be employed as a teacher in an independent or state-maintained primary school in England and be teaching the core subjects (English, maths and science) for a minimum of 50% of a full timetable.
General primary trainees must be teaching the three core subjects across two consecutive Key Stages and for the subject specific course trainees’ teaching time should be split 50:50 between the core subjects and their chosen specific subject.
Every year, some of our applicants arrange to work in a primary school for the specific purpose of gaining this training, others have worked in the school for a year or more already.
The Primary curriculum is informed by the Core Content Framework (CCF); trainees will gain experience in both core and foundation curriculum subjects, in order to give you the confidence, tools and knowledge to be a fully informed and evidence-based practice teacher.
Our Primary PGCE with QTS programme will enable you to start teaching and build your confidence in the classroom.
It will support you as you develop your identity as a teacher and help you to find and refine your own teaching style.
“The course introduced me to teaching techniques and classroom strategies that I was able to implement immediately.”
Patrick Shacklady, PGCE
There are six days of residential training and two days of online learning, supplemented by a weekly programme on the University’s online resources.
You need to be available to attend residential courses.
Each trainee is assigned a University tutor who visits once per term to assess their progress and guide their development.
Trainees are assessed against the Standards by both their mentor and their tutor.
“The vast range of support in place ensures you grow throughout the course.”
Philip Pitcher, PGCE
If you need financial assistance for a course, please contact Shonali Mathur at: pgce-support@buckingham.ac.uk .
For further information contact the Faculty of Education on +44 (0)1280 820222 or email: education@buckingham.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/ma-residential-education-fully-online:
The MA in Residential Education is a one-year, part-time course for those working in or with an interest in boarding schools.
Are you a dedicated teacher or school leader looking to develop your expertise in the field of residential education?
Achieved through critical evaluation and research scholarship, our MA in Residential Education provides the opportunity for you to follow your own interests, whilst receiving clear guidance about the requirements of an esteemed level 7 academic qualification.
Our part-time MA degree welcomes teachers and educators from around the world who are looking to engage with the latest research and ideas in education.
Engaging with a master’s programme enables you to connect to a whole new group of people who you can network; with not only across the country, but across the globe.
The MA has been designed to not only embellish your understanding of the research process, develop your critical thinking, and your ability to present a written argument, but also advance your knowledge within your topic of interest relating to residential education.
Following this course helps you to develop your critical thinking skills, as well as your ability to present a written argument.
As you will be studying in an area that you have a genuine interest in, you will be making a valuable interest yourself as a person, and your discoveries are more likely have a positive and impactful affect in the workplace.
Our MA in Residential Education is an intellectually stimulating course that provides a framework for teachers to learn about recent research in education and evaluate how you can be better at what you do.
The course also allows teachers to:
Throughout this course, you will complete a number of modules enabling you to develop your understanding both of the research process as well as your topic of interest relating to residential education.
Every master’s student is allocated a supervisor to support each module.
The Twilight sessions are recorded and shared on Moodle once the session is complete.
These Twilights are optional in terms of attendance as we know that many students struggle to be available at certain times.
The Masters programme is made up of two or three Modules (depending upon the credits that are brought to the course) and each of these is assessed by an assignment.
The modules develop skills that are needed for the final research project.
These modules assess the ability to critically reflect on your own practice, engage critically with literature and understand the focus of your intended research.
Upon completion of your MA in Residential Education, you can put what you have studied, researched and learnt into practice.
Candidates with a degree but no PGCE will be asked to produce a portfolio of evidence of their work of up to 7000 words (further advice will be provided).
*For candidates on route 1, the course duration is 1 year.
For candidates on route 2, the course duration is 15 months.
Fees are invoiced for in September, at the beginning of the course.
Staff whose school is a member of either the Boarding Schools’ Association or the Australian Boarding Schools Association are eligible for a 25% discount on course fees.
To ensure the discount is applied, please select BSA or ABSA (as applicable) from the partnership box on your application form.
Staff at COBIS member schools get a 5% discount on course fees.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/secondary-qualified-teacher-status-and-pgce:
This course is available to teachers who are currently employed in maintained or independent schools in England.
This course is for those graduates who want to achieve Qualified Teacher Status to be able to teach in a Secondary School in England – independent, state-maintained and special schools in England.
We will work with you to strengthen your subject knowledge so that you are able to deliver across all Secondary age groups as well as have an awareness of what knowledge your pupils will bring when they arrive from Primary and Prep Schools.
On our QTS programme, all teachers are encouraged to be inclusive practitioners, for example to know about SEND and ways of promoting and maintaining good behaviour with an awareness of the importance of emotional regulation.
“The course introduced me to teaching techniques and classroom strategies that I was able to implement immediately.” – Patrick Shacklady, PGCE
In order to apply you must have a job secured in a Secondary setting.
You learn whilst working in the classroom, fully supported by a Mentor along with participating in a blended learning programme provided by a team of experienced practitioners working with the University.
You will be assigned a Tutor employed by the University who will visit you and work with you throughout the year.
‘Training is delivered through a weekly programme based in school alongside a core programme delivered by the University.
This begins with induction in August online, lectures on many Thursdays 1.30pm to 2.30pm, lectures that are recorded and available throughout the course, along with three residentials.
The residentials are a significant strength of this course as you are able to network with other Secondary colleagues from across the country as well as participate in a rigorous and challenging programme of lectures, seminars and workshops.
Different school subjects demand different teaching methods and resources, so part of the course will be taught by a subject specialist.
We can teach all school subjects including Art, Music, Design Technology, Food Technology, Business Studies & Economics, Biology, Chemistry, Physics, Maths, Computing, English, Drama, Classics, Modern Languages, Arabic, Mandarin, Geography, History, Politics, Citizenship and PSHE, Religious Studies, Psychology and PE.
The dovetailing of theory and practice deepens their understanding of why certain strategies in teaching work, rather than just learning a random repertoire of techniques which teachers use.” – Ofsted, 2022
PE residential 1: Monday 27 October 2025, Tuesday 28 October
PE residential 2: Monday 16 February 2026, Tuesday 17 February
PE residential 3: Tuesday 26 May 2026, Wednesday 27 May
Residential 1: Thursday 30 October 2025, Friday 31 October
Residential 2: Thursday 19 February 2026, Friday 20 February
Residential 3: Wednesday 27 May 2026, Thursday 28 May
As a part of this you will be required to attend a live but online talk on twenty Thursdays, 1.30pm to 2.30pm.
As well as this support, you are also led by the Head of Secondary who will work with you, meet with you at residentials and monitor your progress through the course.
“The vast range of support in place ensures you grow throughout the course.” – Philip Pitcher, PGCE
For teachers undertaking their first year of teaching, we highly recommend your participation in the Introduction to Teaching course as an addition to the PGCE.
You must be employed as a teacher in a secondary independent or state school, be teaching your subject for a minimum of thirteen hours and know about four consecutive school years (teaching in at least two of them).
Every year some of our applicants have arranged to work in a school for the specific purpose of gaining this training, others have worked in the school for a year or two, some for longer than that.
The PGCE is a 37-week school-based course during which time you will work under the guidance of a mentor and receive weekly tutorials to review your progress and to set targets.
You must teach for a minimum of 13 hours a week.
There are six days of residential training and two days of online learning which include subject-specific content.
Trainees will participate in lectures, workshops, seminars and discussion groups led by experts in their field.
The course encourages reflective practice, focusing on the subjects being taught, the craft of the classroom and the underpinning educational values of the teacher.
You will be assigned a University tutor who will visit you once per term to assess your progress and guide your development.
You will be assessed against the Teaching Standards and Core Curriculum Framework, which is embedded in the PGCE curriculum, by both your mentor and your tutor.
If successful, trainees will be qualified to teach in both independent and maintained schools in England.
For teachers undertaking their first year of teaching we highly recommend your participation in our Introduction to Teaching course as an addition to the PGCE.
For further information contact the Faculty of Education on +44 (0)1280 820222 or email: education@buckingham.ac.uk.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/ma-security-intelligence-and-diplomacy:
Areas of study of the MA Security Intelligence and diplomacy include international security since 1939; intelligence, tradecraft and machinery.
The MA in Security, Intelligence and Diplomacy degree combines elements from our existing Security and Intelligence MA and our Diplomacy programmes.
Like all of our MA programmes, a diplomacy degree aims to help to prepare graduates for careers in foreign and other ministries, international organisations, international journalism and global civil society organisations or for further research.
Areas of study include intelligence and international security since 1939; intelligence, tradecraft and machinery; case studies in intelligence success and failure; international law and diplomacy; foreign policy analysis; global diplomacy; security challenges and other global issues.
The modules are taught intensively in lectures, seminars and small group tutorials; they assume little prior knowledge but rapidly bring students to an advanced level of understanding.
Buckingham is a small academic community and students have personal and frequent access to their instructors.
The programme is also suitable for those without a specific career aim in mind but who wish to acquire an advanced understanding of these subjects.
Testimonials from BUCSIS students
Call us on +44 (0)1280 820227 or get in touch via our online form .
BUCSIS was established in 2008 as a world-class centre for research into the key Security and Intelligence issues facing the UK and the world in the 21st century.
The Centre is headed by a leading academic in the field with former practitioner experience in the shape of Professor Julian Richards , a renowned academic of global affairs and international relations with a diverse international experience.
The original founder of the centre, Professor Anthony Glees , continues his association with our work as an Emeritus Professor of the University.
Julian Richards , PhD (Cantab).
Joint founder of Buckingham’s Centre for Security and Intelligence Studies, Associate of the Pakistan Security Research Unit (PSRU) at Bradford University, and an active member of the European Ideas Network (EIN).
Previously member of the Ministry of Defence.
More information about Julian Richards.
Emeritus Professor Anthony Glees , More information about Anthony Glees.
Assessment will take the form of written assignments and examinations and an individually supervised 10,000-word dissertation.
Candidates whose total average mark is above 70 are awarded the MA with Distinction; those whose total average mark is between 60 and 69 are awarded the MA with Merit; those whose total average mark is between 50 and 59 are awarded the MA and those whose total average mark is between 40 and 49 are awarded the Diploma.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/msc-strategic-marketing-customer-experience-management:
Get equipped with the knowledge and skills required to undertake strategic marketing decisions and optimise customer experience.
Our CIM-accredited postgraduate degree provides an unrivalled opportunity to explore, in depth, the excitement and challenges of delivering optimal customer experience.
The focus on understanding customer experience and strategic marketing, combined with our interactive teaching style, creates a learning environment that cannot be found elsewhere.
This strategic marketing MSc is invaluable to anyone wishing to pursue a career in marketing.
In today’s global and digital world, effective strategic marketing puts the customer and their needs at the centre of decision-making, and a clear focus on customer experience is a critical part of this.
This leading-edge programme is designed to be totally relevant to today’s organisations, exposing you to managerially relevant theory and practice, which will be of value in real-world business contexts.
The programme will provide you with the knowledge, understanding and skills required to help firms address the marketing challenges that lie at the heart of their business.
You will gain an in-depth understanding of how firms can develop compelling value propositions within the context of the strategic marketing planning process, and then how to deliver these value propositions across the customer journey, creating a positive customer experience.
In addition, the programme will enable you to examine the concept of service from many perspectives; you will explore service systems, service leadership, along with the critically important area of managing employees in a service-focused culture.
In a complex digital world where consumers increasingly expect seamless omnichannel experiences throughout their customer journeys, you will gain essential knowledge of consumer behaviour and digital and social media marketing.
Benefit from our CIM accreditation throughout your studies and beyond.
Our degree is accredited by the Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM), so that completing your degree at The University of Buckingham provides exemptions in the achievement of professional status as a Chartered Marketer (additional charges payable to the CIM apply).
Throughout your studies, you also have the opportunity to gain student membership of the CIM, which provides a range of practitioner-based resources, such as webinars, online content and networking opportunities (additional charges payable to the CIM apply).
It is possible to commence this course in September or January, as you prefer.
In either case, for the first two terms, you will study modules covering a wide-range of different perspectives of marketing and customer experience.
Consequently, when you reach your final two terms, you will be completing your dissertation on any area of your choice, where you can specialise in any topic you have covered throughout the programme.
The programme is designed in such a way that all the modules you study prior to the dissertation means you are introduced to areas you may wish to specialise in.
Each term, students are usually expected to take three modules.
Timetabling for modules varies each term.
Some modules are taught in three-hour sessions per week for the nine-week term, whilst other modules are taught in blocks for five-hour sessions (full days) for 4-5 weeks.
Teaching for the MSc Strategic Marketing and Customer Experience Management is student focused.
We do not deliver lectures, but facilitate engaging interactive sessions, which can take the form of workshops, seminars and discussion groups.
On this programme, learning is centred on industry-best practice and considering ways in which this might be similar, or not, to theory.
We use a range of learning activities, such as case studies, games, simulations, debates and real-life consultancy projects.
Students are also encouraged to participate in flip-classroom teaching as it is often in explaining concepts to others, that students really learn.
We facilitate group work, presentations and regular, participative discussions, encouraging students to become critical thinkers who can evaluate the limitations of theory, as well as appreciate the opportunities it provides.
We know that attendance contributes to higher achievement and grade outcomes.
However, at Master’s level, there is also an expectation that you will be the curator of your own learning by allowing sufficient time outside of the classroom for independent reading and research.
Students on this programme are expected to attend all timetabled classes and activities.
On this programme, face-to-face teaching and interaction is integral to the success of its delivery and the experience of learning.
At The University of Buckingham, we are eager to provide diversity of assessment where possible.
We have removed the exam component of most modules on this programme, and in-line with the Quality Assurance Agency (QAA), we recognise that group work is a necessary part of postgraduate learning.
Our diverse student cohorts also naturally enhance opportunities for cross-cultural networking and personal growth when working with peers.
We regularly encourage students to undertake formal reflection of such learning experiences to optimise their professional development.
Examples of recent innovative assessments include:
Traditional assessments are also included so that you can develop your academic writing skills, such as literature reviews, essays and report writing.
You will complete a dissertation in the final two terms of the programme.
We also encourage peer review so that you are able to cultivate skills in providing feedback, as well as receiving it.
In your first term, there is also a mandatory opportunity to receive formative feedback for each of your modules, which can be particularly reassuring and helpful if you are returning to study after a break from studying.
After completing the MSc in Strategic Marketing and Customer Experience Management, you will be equipped to pursue various exciting career paths in many industries.
Your breadth of knowledge will be well-suited to a plethora of specialist brand and marketing roles, with viable opportunities in digital marketing, market research, and product management.
Graduates can consider roles in consultancy firms, leveraging their expertise to advise businesses on marketing strategies and customer experience enhancement.
Additionally, you may choose to further your studies with a PhD or professional certifications.
Building a professional network, attending industry conferences, and staying updated on marketing trends are crucial next steps for career advancement.
Here are just some of the career opportunities that could stem from studying on this degree:
Several alumni of this programme have ignited a passion for research during their studies, and continued with academic study by undertaking doctoral research.
To see our full list of general university requirements including information for flexible entry, mature students and alternative qualifications, see our postgraduate entry requirements .
The standard entry requirements for this course are: 2:2 (Hons) degree (or equivalent) and/or relevant business experience .
If students want to gain exemptions from the Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM) , following completion of the programme, there are additional charges payable to CIM directly.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/ma-united-nations-and-diplomatic-studies:
The degree provides a firm grounding in diplomatic theory and practice.
It is taught from the Centre for United Nations Studies.
The MA provides a firm grounding in the UN, and more broadly in diplomacy.
Although we do not guarantee employment at the UN the degree nonetheless will provide a good basis for applying for jobs at the UN and in other international organisations.
The degree covers the structure of the UN and other international organisations, peacekeeping and peacemaking, UN communication strategies, diplomacy, and ‘great powers’ (the Security Council).
There is also a simulation exercise and a dissertation.
For the latter you can choose an area of special interest.
The Director of the of the Centre for UN Studies is Mark Seddon – a former Senior Communications Adviser to the President of the UN General Assembly, Maria Fernanda Espinosa and former speechwriter to UN Secretary-General, Ban ki-moon former & Director of Communications, UN Special Envoy, Rt.
Gordon Brown.
He is also a former UN Correspondent for al Jazeera English TV.
The Deputy Director is Dr.
Paul Graham – Previously taught at Glasgow University and has published work on John Rawls ( Rawls , Oneworld Publications, 2016) and an important textbook – (with John Hoffman), Introduction to Political Theory (Routledge, 2022).
He has an interest in questions of global justice and conflict resolution.
‘The Chair of the Board of Advisers is Lord Mark Malloch-Brown.
He is a former UN Deputy Secretary-General and a former UK Government Minister.
The Board of Advisers includes; Maria Fernanda Espinosa, former President of the UN General Assembly and former Foreign & Defence Minister of Ecuador.’
“The UN Studies Masters program provided an opportunity for me to fully understand global initiatives as one who wanted to pursue developmental change particularly for the African Continent.
The knowledge and experience gained have ushered me into the role I am currently in and proved valuable to my organisation and surrounding communities”.
Malebo Modise, South Africa
“One of the most important areas of the United Nations is the global security firstly for women and young girls around the globe.
The research I completed outlaid the importance on my heritage country Somaliland and respectively Somalia.
This also including the historical aspect of the United Nations involvement for peace and security.
The most important research I conduct was with remarkable tutors and professors.
I look back at it today with great memories.
I am also grateful for the inspiration during the length of time I had as student in the University of Buckingham”.
Zamzam Osman, Somaliland
“The MA is a perfect course to enhance your skill set as a UN practitioner – whether you are a UN staff member or a diplomat.
Under the supervision of the well-experienced faculty at the University of Buckingham, you will have an ideal blend of academic and professional development to take you to the next level of your career.”
Minhong Yi, South Korea (Career Diplomat, South Korean Foreign Ministry)

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/research/phd-20th-century-british-history:
Students are registered initially for the degree of PhD (Doctor of Philosophy), although their status is probationary until the first Annual Review has taken place, normally between 12 and 18 months from first registration.
The usual period of doctoral study is three years, though the University’s Regulations also permit candidates who make particularly rapid progress to apply to the University Research Committee for permission to submit at the end of their second year of study.
Part-time applications will be considered and may be accepted where teaching provision is available.
Each student is allocated, two supervisors.
There is a First (or Principal) Supervisor, who is the student’s regular guide during his or her research, and with whom the student meets regularly throughout the year.
There is also a Second Supervisor, whom the student may consult on a more limited basis where a ‘second opinion’ on a particular draft chapter may be helpful.
Supervisors Professor Simon Heffer and Professor Jane Ridley
Full details in the Research Degrees Handbook
Enquiries should be directed in the first instance to our Admissions Officer (London Programmes) on humanitiespg-admissions@buckingham.ac.uk .
Applicants are normally expected to have a first or second class, upper division degree or significant experience.
A Master’s degree is preferred.
The Programme Director or Admissions Assistant will be happy to answer any enquiries, email admissions@buckingham.ac.uk .
PhD students undertake supervised but independent research, at the end of which they submit a thesis embodying the results of that research.
This thesis must demonstrate familiarity with, and an understanding of the subject, its principal sources and authorities.
It should display critical discrimination and a sense of proportion in evaluating evidence and the judgements of others.
A PhD thesis must embody an original contribution to the knowledge of the discipline either by the discovery of new knowledge or by the exercise of a new and independent critical approach.
Candidates spend a considerable part of their studies undertaking supervised research, at the end of which they submit a thesis embodying the results of that research.
The subject should be dealt with in a competent and scholarly manner.
The University’s Course Directors, students’ supervisors, and the Research Officer and Tutor for Graduate Students are available to discuss students’ post-graduation plans and how they may utilise most effectively the skills acquired during their studies.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/research/ma-20th-century-british-history-by-research:
This London-based programme enables students to examine Britain’s history in the 20th century, focusing on the period from 1914 to 1990.
This London-based programme enables students to examine Britain’s history in the twentieth century, focusing on the period from the death of Queen Victoria to Margaret Thatcher’s resignation in 1990.
It is led by Simon Heffer , Professor of Modern British History in the University and a leading authority on the period.
The course includes a series of seminars (see below), given by a range of eminent guest speakers, to supplement students’ private research.
These will provide a broad chronological survey of the period and an introduction to major themes in the political and social history of 20th century Britain, and are intended to stimulate ideas for research by students.
All the seminars (apart from Dr Harris’s, which will be online) are to be held at in the elegant surroundings of the Reform Club, 104 Pall Mall, London SW1, at 6.30 pm on the given dates.
Supervisory meetings will be held at the University’s offices at 51 Gower Street, Bloomsbury (near the British Museum) or by video link.
The programme’s main focus is on politics and society, but also discusses cultural history and historiography.
Guest speakers will include the contemporary historians Sir David Cannadine , Vernon Bogdanor , David Kynaston, Dominic Sandbrook, Jane Ridley, and Michael Bentley.
Assessment is via a dissertation of approximately 25,000 words on a topic of the student’s choosing, which is completed under the guidance of a supervisor and submitted at the end of the academic year.
The academic year begins in September and Professor Heffer, as Course Director, will be available to all students before the seminar programme gets under way to discuss dissertation topics and independent research.
A full bibliography will be issued to all students in September so that the autumn can also be used for essential background reading.
Each guest speaker seminar begins at 6.30pm and is followed by a dinner.
The cost of all post-seminar dinners is included in the tuition fees.
The seminar meets on selected Thursdays between October and June.
Unless otherwise stated, all seminars and dinners take place at Reform Club, 104 Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5EW.
You can view the location on Google Maps .
The nearest Tube Stations are Piccadilly Circus and Charing Cross.
Please note that the two seminars marked with an asterisk will take place online.
2 October 2025 Professor Simon Heffer (The University of Buckingham), ‘Edwardian Britain: Myth versus Reality’
*16 October 2025 (online) Professor Simon Heffer (The University of Buckingham), ‘The Domestic Impact of the Great War, 1914-1919’
30 October 2025 Dr Geraint Thomas (Peterhouse, University of Cambridge), ‘The Triumph of Labour?
Working-class Unrest and the Transformation of Politics in 1920s Britain’
Monday 3 November 2025, 10:00-17:00 Society of Antiquaries, Burlington House, Piccadilly, London W1J 0BE Induction Day for New Research Students in the Humanities Please note that attendance at the Induction Day seminars is compulsory for all first-year research students.
13 November 2025 Professor David Dilks (University of Leeds), ‘Appeasement Britain: the Rise of Fascism and Political Crisis in Britain during the 1930s’
26 November 2025 Professor Daniel Todman (Queen Mary University of London), ‘The Home Front in the Second World War’
11 December 2025 Professor Sir Vernon Bogdanor CBE FBA (King’s College London), ‘The Evolution of the Post-War Consensus’
15 January 2026 Dr David Kynaston (Historian in private practice), ‘ “They’d never had it so good”: British Society from Suez to the Beatles’
29 January 2026 Dr Tim Aker (The University of Buckingham), ‘The Collapse of the Post-War Consensus and the Rise of the Thatcherite “Right”’
*12 February 2026 (online) Dr Robin Harris (Former Director of the Conservative Research Department, 1985-88), ‘Margaret Thatcher and her Court: the Iron Lady Observed’
26 February 2026 Professor Michael Bentley (St Hugh’s College, University of Oxford), ‘Writing the History of the Twentieth Century: Modern British Politics and its Historiography’
18 June 2026, 14:30-18:30 Vinson Building and the Humanities Research Institute, University of Buckingham Research Day in Twentieth-Century British History : ‘The British Empire in the Twentieth Century’ Note: The programme for the Research Day, which will include presentations by current doctoral students and visiting
For those who wish to attend the seminars and to join the post-seminar dinners with the visiting speakers, it is possible to join the programme as an Associate Student.
Associate Students do not enrol for the MA and do not have to submit any written work, but they are otherwise full members of the seminar and free to take part in discussion.
There is also a substantially reduced fee.
For further information, please contact humanitiespg-admissions@buckingham.ac.uk
In cases where candidates are applying on the basis of work experience, they may be asked to complete a short written assignment and/or attend an interview as part of the applications process.
Our current students range in age from 25 to 75.
The Programme Director or Admissions Assistant will be happy to answer any enquiries.
The MA does not offer systematic instruction in the facts; instead, the emphasis is on independent thought and research.
At the heart of the Buckingham MA is the close working relationship between student and supervisor.
While the final thesis must be an independent work, it is the supervisor who offers advice on refining the topic (if necessary), on primary sources, on secondary reading, on research techniques and on writing the final text (which should be not less than 25,000 words).
Supervisors and students will meet frequently throughout the year, and not less than twice a term; and the supervisor shall always be the student’s primary contact for academic advice and support.
** Please be aware that the 6 month option relates to the associate course only

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/phd-accounting:
Undertake original and supervised research in PhD Accounting, with both part-time and full-time study options available.
The PhD in Accounting programme offers a supportive environment to undertake original research and equips students with the theoretical and technical skills needed to produce quality research.
The degree is awarded by the University in recognition of the successful completion of a course of supervised research, the results of which show evidence of originality and independent critical judgement and constitute an addition to knowledge.
This programme is available in either full-time or part-time mode (3 years full-time and 6 years part-time).
Candidates must hold a Bachelors degree with Honours (to UK standard) of First or Upper Second (2:1) Class .
Applicants are also expected to hold a relevant Masters degree in finance, accounting or a cognate subject area.
Normally we require performance at a distinction level, including any dissertation component or equivalent carried out.
Professional qualifications other than a Bachelors Degree and/or relevant and appropriate experience may be taken into account for entry to a PhD programme.
Professional qualifications are examined on their merits and may strengthen the case for entry.
All applicants are interviewed by prospective supervisors or appropriate academic members of staff.
This also provides an opportunity for the applicant to discuss their project proposal.
For applicants in the UK, they are invited to attend the interview in person and for international applicant, it may not be possible for you to visit in person, so the admissions tutor may arrange for the interview be conducted by Microsoft Teams, email or phone.
Applications should be accompanied by a 3000- word research proposal outlining a brief introduction of the specific area of study, referring to the current state of knowledge (i.e.
what research has been done to date) and any recent debates on the subject, research philosophy and desirable methodology to be applied along with the completion plan.
The aim of the Research Programme is to help students develop the following: a) a systematic and in-depth understanding in the subject area of choice of research by the student; b) the critical skills necessary to analyse and evaluate complex legal problems and related issues; c) To give students the opportunity to undertake a substantial independent research project at Level 7 of writing; d) research skills necessary to demonstrate familiarity with and understanding of the subject, its principal sources and authorities; e) To develop research skills necessary to display critical discrimination and a sense of proportion in evaluating evidence and the opinions of other authors in the subject.
Most of our academic staff teach for three terms out of four, with the remaining term used for research .
In addition to this:

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/research/msc-accounting-by-research:
Master advanced financial theory and research methods with the rigorous MSc Accounting by Research at Buckingham.
The MSc in Accounting by Research at The University of Buckingham presents an exceptional opportunity to deepen expertise, engage with innovative financial research, and contribute to the evolution of accounting thought.
Designed for emerging scholars, the programme cultivates analytical excellence, fosters academic growth, and lays a strong foundation for impactful careers in research, teaching, and thought leadership.
The Master of Science in Accounting by Research at The University of Buckingham is a rigorous, research-intensive postgraduate programme designed for intellectually ambitious individuals who wish to explore accounting through a scholarly and investigative lens.
It is awarded at Level 7 on the Framework for Higher Education Qualifications (FHEQ).
This programme offers an opportunity to delve into the theoretical, empirical, and policy dimensions of accounting within contemporary financial and organisational contexts.
Through sustained independent research, you will engage with critical issues such as financial reporting, regulatory reforms, technological innovation, and the socio-political implications of accounting practices.
Rather than focusing on taught coursework, this programme empowers students to develop a specialised area of expertise, guided by dedicated academic supervisors.
The MSc culminates in the submission of a substantial dissertation, representing an original contribution to the field.
This qualification serves as a platform for doctoral study or advanced roles in research, academia, regulatory bodies, consultancy, and other professional environments where analytical rigour and critical thinking are paramount.
The programme aims to:
This advanced research-based degree is delivered by the Buckingham Business School and is available on a full-time basis over one year or part-time over two years.
Students can commence their studies in either September or January, providing flexibility to suit individual schedules and commitments.
As part of the MSc in Accounting (by Research) programme, each student benefits from dedicated, one-to-one supervision by an academic expert in their chosen research area.
Supervisors provide tailored guidance, regular feedback, and support in developing rigorous methodologies to ensure the research meets publishable academic standards.
Weekly meetings foster continuous progress and intellectual development.
Although the programme does not include formal taught modules, you are encouraged to audit selected Level 7 courses—such as Financial Reporting and Analysis and Empirical Techniques in Finance —to deepen their conceptual and analytical expertise.
At the end of each term, all students present their research progress in a formal academic setting, allowing them to mark progression and to refine their work through peer and faculty feedback.
You will complete an original dissertation of approximately 25,000 to 30,000 words , critically engaging with literature and applying appropriate methodologies to address a focused research question.
Dissertations may use quantitative, qualitative, or mixed methods, depending on the nature of the inquiry.
The dissertation is evaluated by two independent markers—one internal and one external.
There is no viva voce examination unless required by the Faculty Research Committee.
There are no assessed taught components.
You are expected to design and undertake a sustained piece of independent research in accounting, supported by one-to-one academic supervision.
Graduates of the MSc in Accounting (by Research) are well-positioned to pursue a wide range of high-level career opportunities across the UK’s dynamic financial and professional services sectors.
With a strong foundation in independent research, analytical thinking, and advanced financial knowledge, alumni are highly sought after for roles in corporate finance, financial analysis, auditing, and strategic consulting.
The research-intensive nature of the degree also opens doors to specialist positions in policy analysis, regulatory bodies, and think tanks, as well as academic and doctoral pathways for those interested in contributing to the future of accounting scholarship.
Employers across both the public and private sectors value the depth of expertise and critical insight that research graduates bring, making this qualification a powerful stepping stone to leadership and specialist roles in the accounting and finance professions.
Graduates of the MSc in Accounting by Research are exceptionally well-prepared for academic, analytical, and advisory roles in both public and private sectors.
The emphasis on independent inquiry, methodological rigour, and critical engagement makes this degree highly valued in professions that demand thoughtful, evidence-based decision-making.
Whether pursuing a career in academia or industry, graduates leave the programme with the intellectual foundation and professional polish to succeed in research-intensive roles
Admission is selective and based on academic merit, research potential, and alignment with the supervisory capacity of the School.
The standard entry requirements for this course are: • A minimum of an upper second-class honours degree (2:1) in accounting, finance, banking, economics, or a closely related discipline from a recognised institution.
Shortlisted applicants are invited to a formal interview with the Programme Director to discuss the viability and scope of their proposed research.
Applicants with substantial, relevant professional experience may be admitted without a formal degree, subject to Faculty approval and the quality of their research proposal.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/research/ma-research-biography:
The cutting-edge MA in Biography remains unique to Buckingham and is consistently rated ‘excellent’ by examiners and inspectors.
Led by acclaimed author Ophelia Field , Buckingham’s Biography Programme was founded thirty years ago by Prof.
Jane Ridley and today remains the only Programme in the UK focused solely on how to research and write this genre.
Students receive 1:1 supervision from a wide range of eminent scholars, whose expertise spans from the sixteenth to twenty-first centuries, in preparation for producing Dissertations on their chosen biographical subjects, whether that be an ancestor, a former Prime Minister or a wrongfully neglected novelist.
Many of our graduates go on to successfully publish academic or commercial biographical work.
For the MA by Research, study can be on either a full-time (one year) or a part-time (two year) basis, with the latter generally recommended so that students can devote the second year entirely to their Dissertation.
The standard entry point is the Autumn Term.
In their first year of study, students are invited to attend classes on selected Tuesdays mornings (11:30-1:30) for three of the four terms (Summer Term being for independent research).
All teaching takes place at the University’s central London premises at Gower Street, though 1:1 supervisions may also take place online and at other mutually convenient times.
A Humanities Research Induction Day takes place every year (this year on 3 November 2025 , at the Society of Antiquaries, Somerset House).
Our classes provide the critical awareness of different approaches to the discipline that are prerequisites for Dissertation work, and they are one of the most distinctive and valuable elements of the MA.
They take place as follows:
The modules on Biography and Autobiography are designed to combine the study of classic biographies and related forms of autobiographical writing with analysis of contemporary writing in these genres.
Uses of primary source life-writing (letters, diaries, memoirs) for the purposes of biographical research are also explored during the Autobiography module.
The Research Methods module meanwhile introduces students to essential skills and resources for biographical research, including the location and use of archives as sources in their Dissertations.
Sitting on the boundary between several disciplines, as biography must, this MA is as interested in the many ways in which biographies can be written, and on the choices forced upon every biography, as in the underpinning research required.
Students are expected to produce two preliminary pieces of coursework (an annotated bibliography, and a short biography produced according to the Oxford Dictionary of National Biography entry format).
During the early part of the course, students are also guided to refine their topic by drafting an unexamined Research Proposal.
Guest biographers, memoirists, critics, publishers, and agents are regularly invited to lead additional seminars, usually on two or three Tuesday afternoons during each of the teaching terms.
Past speakers on the course have included : Kathryn Hughes, Frances Wilson, Frances Spalding, Jeremy Lewis, Rupert Shortt, Caroline Dawnay, Andrew Lownie, Andrew Gordon, Miranda Seymour, John Cornwell, Simon Heffer, Craig Brown, Hallie Rubenhold, Norma Clarke, Catherine Taylor, Horatio Clare, Matthew Sturgis and Lucy Hughes-Hallett.
In Autumn 2025 , our visiting speakers are:
Visiting Speaker dates in the Winter and Spring Terms are currently scheduled as follows:
This course has consistently been rated ‘excellent’ by external examiners and inspectors.
The standards of degrees and awards are safeguarded by distinguished external examiners – senior academic staff from other universities in the UK.
One of the distinctive features of the Programme is the value attached to the supervision provided for students working on Dissertations.
One-on-one supervisions are held at least twice a term while the Dissertation is being prepared.
While the Dissertation must be the candidate’s independent work, it is the supervisor who offers advice, as needed, on refining the topic, on primary sources, on secondary reading, on research techniques, and on writing and structure.
Classes and regular group discussions between research students at all degree levels (MA and PhD) create a mutually supportive community of peers and allow for the exchange of research experiences.
These are degrees by research which require an original contribution to the body of knowledge in a particular academic or professional discipline.
Assessment is by a combination of two short pieces of coursework, followed by a Dissertation of up to 25,000 words.
In some cases, students undertaking the MA by Research and wishing to work more expansively on their subject may be permitted to move directly on to doctoral study (up to 80,000 words) and to count the MA towards the first year of their PhD.
All research degrees are regulated by the Research Committee and students are required to conform to guidelines laid down in the Research Degrees Handbook .
Ophelia Field is the author of a critically acclaimed life of Sarah, Duchess of Marlborough (1660-1744) titled The Favourite , first published in 2002 and in revised edition in 2018.
In 2008, she produced a group biography, again set in the early eighteenth century, titled The Kit-Cat Club: Friends Who Imagined a Nation , which was one of the Financial Times’ History Books of the Year.
She has also written and taught extensively on the essay form, including a chapter on political essays in On Essays: Montaigne to the Present (OUP, 2020).
In parallel, Ophelia has worked for over 30 years as a policy analyst and communications consultant for a range of human rights and refugee organisations.
She has been teaching on The University of Buckingham’s Biography Programme since 2019, and previously taught biography at the University of London’s Centre for Editing Lives and Letters (CELL).
Teaching takes place at the University’s London premises: 51 Gower Street Bloomsbury London WC1E 6HJ
“Taking an MA in Biography at the University of Buckingham literally changed my life.
I had been writing and researching some families who lived in South London in the 1860s, and had written a book about one of them, and had plans to write another, but I simply could not find a publisher, although people made lots of nice noises about the subject and my style.
Apparently, I was told, I did not have the ‘credentials’ to get a book deal.
I took that as a challenge and with my 60th birthday approaching decided it was time to go back to school.
The course that Buckingham offered was perfect for me – a regular day a week in Gower Street, the heart of London academia, a chance to meet like-minded enthusiasts, and expert tuition from Professor Ridley and Ophelia Field, two masters of the biographical craft.
It completely rebuilt my confidence and gave me the tools to tackle my subject more professionally.
By the time my degree came through, I had an agent, and a book deal on the way.” – Sarah Harkness
“I joined the MA Biography course because I already had a book in mind and needed to learn how to do the research, including digital research of foreign archives, and the vital business of completing references.
When it came to the final dissertation, I was fortunate to benefit from the informed advice, support and wise counselling of my supervisor, Ophelia Field […] Ophelia’s literary skills were invaluable to me in the drafting and structuring of my work and to acquiring command of the necessary academic style of writing.” – Gillian Jones
A well-structured course which covers all aspects of biography.
It analyses both the historical evolution of the genre as well as contemporary developments.
Whether your main interest is in biography, autobiography, letters, diaries or memoirs, the teaching highlights well-chosen examples which benefit too from group discussion.
The overall platform provides a sound basis for individual research into an historical, literary or more contemporary figure, whether it’s someone famous, obscure or with whom you have a connection.
The lectures and individual tutorial support help orient your archival and other research and ensure too that your dissertation is academically structured.
Working under university auspices can also help provide reassurance to people you might approach as possible contacts or research leads.
The participation of guest speakers adds real zest to discussions.
Established writers generously offer insights into their own research and writing methods, as well as pitfalls to avoid.
They can also sometimes offer advice on getting work published […] All this is particularly useful if you hope to expand your thesis into a full-length work that might be publishable.
– David Campbell
“I came across an advert for the Biography MA, one afternoon, whilst idly trawling the internet at the magazine publishing house where I was working.
I had graduated in English from Bristol University in the previous year.
Though the magazine work was interesting, it was the research that interested me most and I was desperate to write something longer than 100 words.
I eventually decided to do an MA but I didn’t want a course that just felt like a continuation or a development of my first degree.
So when I saw the advert for the Buckingham course I was immediately intrigued.
As an avid reader of biographies, I was excited by the prospect of studying the history and development of biography writing and, more importantly, by the opportunity to write a biography of my own, under the guidance of a respected and prize-winning biographer.
“I was not disappointed by my decision.
Very early on I decided to do the MA by research so that I could write a larger dissertation, rather than as a taught course with a number of smaller assignments.
In 2007 I was upgraded to MPhil because of the quality and extent of my research.
And in that year my biography was shortlisted for the Daily Mail Biographers’ Club Prize.
“Jane Ridley is incredibly friendly, knowledgeable and supportive.
As a published biographer she knows the business of writing and publishing biography inside-out and as a historian she encourages thorough research, good writing and an academic engagement with the subject.
My fellow students were a fascinating mix of people, both younger and older and from all walks of life.
The course has given me access to agents, publishers and many well-known biographers.
I am so glad that I made the decision to study Biography at Buckingham, I now have a book that I’m hoping to publish.
The course is fascinating and I would strongly recommend it to anyone wanting to do an MA, but one that’s a little bit different to the rest.” – Anna Thomasson
“After twenty years in the Army, I set up a ships’ crewing business to employ the Gurkha soldiers with whom I’d served.
I settled for a while in Buckingham and took the MA in Biography from 2001-2002, attracted by the course’s unique melding of history and literature.
Highly stimulating and great fun, the course offered a perfect balance of theory and the study of an eclectic range of biographies, giving students scope to study subjects of their choice.
I found the dissertation subject I had chosen was of such interest that I carried on with the research after gaining the MA and turned it into a book.
This, The Butcher of Amritsar, a life of Brigadier Reginald Dyer, the perpetrator of the Jallianwala Bagh massacre of 1919, was published in 2005.
“The Biography MA gave me the tools to launch out on a career as a biographer: the theoretical framework; a knowledge of the major biographical figures, texts and techniques; an exposure to British research resources and an introduction to agents and publishers, one of whom published my book.
Above all, it gave me a thirst to write.
“As a result of launching my book in Hong Kong, where I now live, I was invited in 2005 to become a moderator for the Man Hong Kong International Literary Festival and am now a member of the Festival’s Authors Committee.
I review regularly for the online Asian Review of Books and occasionally for other journals.
In 2008, with others, I founded and still chair the Hong Kong Tongzhi Literary Society, a group dedicated to the fostering of local literature in both English and Chinese.
I am still writing, and am now working on a life of Leslie Cheung, a hugely popular Hong Kong film and pop star.” – Nigel Collett
“Bernard Shaw once remarked that youth is wasted on the young, and much the same can be said for education.
I managed a Third Class degree in English from New College, Oxford, and then spent thirty years properly educating myself in preparation for an MA in Biography at Buckingham.
Where there had been stress, here was pleasure, where there had been intellectual pride, here was genuine curiosity, where there had been tortuous essays on Donne, here were enjoyable bibliographies to compile.
“Jane Ridley’s gently sardonic approach, combined as it is with an understated rigour and first rate academic proficiency, makes the course agreeably sociable as well as intellectually stimulating.
Indeed, in many ways it is perhaps as close to a Platonically ideal notion of what being at university is for as it is possible nowadays to get.
“I applied in order to be made to write about my father, Huw Wheldon; this was initially a need, not a want, but the unfailing support and encouragement I received from Jane and from other tutors (and fellow students) made it less an act of piety than an act of literary endeavour (though I hesitate to go so far as to say an act of scholarship).
“I heartily recommend this course to anyone with an interest either in themselves or in someone else: it will demonstrate that biography is not simply a way of seeing an individual, but is also a way of seeing a world.” – Wynn Wheldon
• a first or upper second-class honours degree from a recognised university or, • a recognised professional qualification with relevant work experience

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/research/phd-biography:
The cutting-edge PHD in Biography remains unique to Buckingham and is consistently rated ‘excellent’ by external examiners and inspectors.
Led by acclaimed author Ophelia Field, Buckingham’s Biography Programme was founded thirty years ago by Professor Jane Ridley and today remains the only Programme in the UK focused solely on how to research and write this genre.
Students receive 1:1 supervision from a wide range of eminent scholars, whose expertise spans from the sixteenth to twenty-first centuries, in preparation for producing theses on their chosen biographical subjects, whether that be an ancestor, a former Prime Minister or a wrongfully neglected novelist.
The normal periods of study for achieving this research degree are three years full-time or six years part-time.
The entry point is flexible, but Autumn Term is recommended in order for students to benefit from an annual Humanities Research Induction Day.
For their first year of study most PhD students will attend the same seminars as students taking the MA by Research in Biography (selected Tuesday mornings).
These provide the critical awareness of the subject that is an essential prerequisite.
The modules on Biography and Autobiography are designed to combine the study of classic biographies and related forms of autobiographical writing with analysis of contemporary writing in the auto/biography genres.
The Research Methods module meanwhile introduces students to essential skills and resources for biographical research, including the location and use of archives as sources in their theses.
During the early part of the course, research students refine their research proposal with their supervisor, for eventual discussion with the Research Officer.
Once the research proposal has been accepted, students concentrate on conducting independent research and the preparation of their thesis, with the one-to-one support of their supervisors and the support of their peers in small group classes approximately twice a term.
At the end of the course, the candidate submits a thesis for examination (maximum 80,000 words) embodying the results of their independent research.
This thesis must embody an original contribution to scholarly knowledge by the discovery of new knowledge and/or by the exercise of a new critical approach or biographical interpretation.
Past speakers on the course have included Kathryn Hughes, Frances Wilson, Frances Spalding, Jeremy Lewis, Rupert Shortt, Caroline Dawnay, Andrew Lownie, Andrew Gordon, Miranda Seymour, John Cornwell, Simon Heffer, Craig Brown, Hallie Rubenhold, Norma Clarke, Catherine Taylor, Horatio Clare, Matthew Sturgis and Lucy Hughes-Hallett.
In Autumn 2025, our visiting speakers are:
One-on-one supervisions are held at least twice a term while the research proposal and then thesis is being prepared.
While the thesis must be the candidate’s independent work, it is the supervisor who offers advice, as needed, on refining the topic, on primary sources, on secondary reading, on research techniques, and on writing and structure.
Typically, our students have two supervisors, one of whom has expertise in the period or persons studied in the thesis, and with the other supervisor focusing more on the student’s writing and presentation.
Degrees by research require an original contribution to the body of knowledge in a particular academic or professional discipline, and a substantial engagement with primary sources.
PhD students without relevant MAs may be asked to complete the short pieces of coursework of the Biography MA, and all doctoral students are assessed by a thesis of up to 80,000 words that conforms to the MHRA style guide.
In 2008, she produced a group biography, again set in the early eighteenth century, titled The Kit-Cat Club: Friends Who Imagined a Nation , which was one of the Financial Times ’ History Books of the Year.
51 Gower Street Bloomsbury London WC1E 6HJ
“[W]hen I saw the advert for the Buckingham course I was immediately intrigued.
[…] My fellow students were a fascinating mix of people, both younger and older and from all walks of life.
The course is fascinating, and I would strongly recommend it to anyone wanting to do an MA, but one that’s a little bit different to the rest.” – Anna Thomasson
Above all, it gave me a thirst to write.” – Nigel Collett
“[I]n many ways [Buckingham’s Biography MA] is perhaps as close as it is possible to get nowadays to a Platonically ideal notion of what being at university is for.
I heartily recommend this course to anyone with an interest either in themselves or in someone else: it will demonstrate that biography is not simply a way of seeing an individual, but is also a way of seeing the world.” – Wynn Wheldon
Students enter, technically, with the status of MPhil student in their first year, with the aim of being upgraded to PhD student at their first annual review.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/research/phd-in-biomedical-science:
You will be placed in one of our research labs to undertake a three-year tailored research project.
During this period, you will receive formal training in research-related skills.
At the end of your research project, you are expected to write a thesis on your studies and to defend this in a viva examination.
The programme focuses on experimental science and a research-informed dissertation.
Additionally, you will be enabled to develop skills in:
You will also be extended the opportunity to:
Applications should be accompanied by a 3000-word research project proposal referring to the current research scopes of IBBR in human and animal cell physiology, molecular genetics, biochemistry, pharmacology, nutrition, and the physiology of metabolic diseases, particularly diabetes, obesity, neurodegenerative diseases, and other diabetic-related diseases, as well as in plant-based active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) research and development.
Your proposal will be assessed to see:
Within the proposal, you should take the opportunity to clearly outline your research idea, your research methodology and critical approaches, your experience in this field of research where you can, and how your research proposal will be offering an original contribution to knowledge, theories and/or practice.
International students: We are happy to consider all international applications and if you are an international student, you may find it useful to visit our international pages for details of entry requirements from your home country.
The University is a UKVI Student Sponsor.
If your English levels don’t meet our minimum requirements, you may be interested in applying for our pre-sessional English Language Foundation Programmes.
All applicants are interviewed by prospective supervisors or appropriate academic members of staff.
This also provides an opportunity for the applicant to discuss their project proposal.
For more information about the research topics please get in touch with Professor Mohamed Zaibi, by phone on +44(0)1280 820370, or by email: mohamed.zaibi@buckingham.ac.uk
A Postgraduate Doctoral Loan can help with course fees and living costs while you study a postgraduate doctoral course, such as a PhD.
The loan is worth up to £27,892.
More details can be found on the gov.uk website .

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/business/mphil/business:
Degrees by research require an original contribution to the body of knowledge in a particular academic or professional discipline.
We offer a full-time or part-time PhD (3 years full-time and 6 years part-time).
All research students must also subject their work to an annual progress review.
Credits from the PhD in Business permit a Blackbelt accreditation with the “International Lean Six Sigma Institute”.
Postgraduate research is not to be taken lightly!
Above all, we seek to achieve an acceptable match involving a capable and well-motivated student, an appropriate research topic, and a member of faculty able / willing to supervise the research.
A limited number of scholarships are available.
Previous examples of doctoral work include dissertations on:
Research proposals are invited from areas of marketing, accounting, finance, strategy, organisational behaviour, service management and social and economic transformation.
Upon completion of the PhD in Business, you will have achieved credits for the BlackBelt in Lean Six Sigma (LSS).
If your first language is not English, you will require one of the following:
Applications should be accompanied by a 3000-word research proposal outlining a brief introduction of the specific area of study, referring to the current state of knowledge (i.e.
The PhD in Business is structured to foster rigorous scholarly inquiry while maintaining a strong connection to real-world challenges in contemporary business practice.
The programme combines advanced theoretical foundations with applied research, encouraging critical analysis and original contribution to knowledge in the field.
Doctoral candidates engage in a range of intellectually stimulating seminars, research workshops, and supervisory sessions designed to support independent research and collaborative learning.
Teaching and learning are delivered through research-led discussions, peer review sessions, and advanced methodological training.
Candidates will participate in simulations, scenario analyses, and strategic decision-making exercises that reflect complex business environments.
The use of case studies, doctoral colloquia, and scholarly presentations enables candidates to refine their academic voice while developing deep expertise in their chosen area of study.
The programme fosters a strong scholarly community, promoting peer learning, knowledge exchange, and interdisciplinary dialogue.
Guest lectures by leading academics and industry professionals, alongside targeted networking opportunities, support professional development and academic progression.
Access to comprehensive academic resources, specialist databases, and current literature is supplemented by the University’s Virtual Learning Environment (VLE), which serves as a critical platform for scholarly engagement, collaborative research, and ongoing academic support.
A system of postgraduate loans for Masters’ degrees in the UK is supported by the UK Government.
Apply direct Apply online from this page as: You can apply until shortly before the course starts.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/research/phd-caribbean-and-latin-american-studies:
Research the history, culture, social anthropology, and politics of the Caribbean and Latin American, from late 18th century to present day.
The PhD in Caribbean and Latin American Studies enables graduate students to pursue in-depth research under expert supervision on the history, culture, social anthropology, and politics of this area.
The focus of the University’s scholars who undertake supervision in this field is from the late eighteenth-century to the present day.
Students are registered for the degree of PhD (Doctor of Philosophy) from their admission to the University, although this status is probationary until the first Annual Review has taken place, normally between 12 and 18 months from registration.
Part-time applications will be considered and may be accepted where teaching provision is available.
Each student is allocated two supervisors.
Enquires should be directed in the first instance to our admissions team on admissions@buckingham.ac.uk or by telephone +44 (0)1280 820227.
For more information regarding Caribbean and Latin American Studies please contact the Director of the Institute for the Study of Cuba, Dr Stephen Wilkinson: Stephen.wilkinson@buckingham.ac.uk
Photo by Roberto Fumagalli https://rfphoto.it/

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/research/msc-computing-by-research:
Research programmes can be full-time or part-time with starting dates in January, April, July and September.
The academic staff in the Applied Computing Department (ACD) are all engaged in research and publications.
Considering its modest size, ACD has successfully attracted research funding from various sources in the UK and the EU, including industry, research councils, HEA and EU framework projects such as FP6.
Furthermore, ACD has been working and collaborating with many European research institutions.
For the academic year, 2012-2013, two PhD and six MSc students (one in Mathematics) have graduated, four of whom graduated with Distinction.
The two PhD students have made it for the March graduation and we expect to have three or four more completing their PhD research programmes for the next graduation.
One of our new PhD students in Computing joined the Department last October, and three other PhD students have joined us since.
Over the last few years, the number of research students in ACD has grown steadily to (currently) 29 PhD and two Master’s research students.
We have had over 20 refereed conference and journal papers published during the last 12 months, and two of the papers have been awarded best paper awards.
ACD supports diverse research topics addressing varied applied computing technologies such as:
As well as researching the chosen subject, our students engage in delivering seminars weekly, attending conferences and workshops, attending online webinars and discussion forums, attending training and focused group studies, supervising tutorial and laboratory sessions for undergraduate students, peer reviews and final year project supervision, among a host of technical and networking activities to enhance their skills and techniques.
Applicants are normally expected to have a first or second class honours degree or significant experience in computing.
If you are an international applicant, it may not be possible for you to visit in person, so if the Admissions Tutor has any queries about your application you may be contacted by Teams, email or phone.
The increasing specialisation which is frequently required in the employment market is no longer provided by just an undergraduate degree.
A postgraduate degree provides these advanced skills and, in today’s competitive employment market, is becoming increasingly important in order to stand out from the crowd.
Any successful career choice in the market place will be dependent on a number of factors.
Your academic qualification, while important, may not be the deciding factor.
Your attitude, skills and experience matter too.
Whatever your motivation in taking a postgraduate course, you should think about the transferable skills an employer is seeking, and taking advantage of every opportunity for self-development to improve your chances of success in your future career.
The Careers Service has the resources to help you with this process.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/research/phd-computing:
Research in image/video processing and analysis techniques and applications; wireless mobile network technologies; and biometric-based authentications.
The Applied Computing Department is a young department of modest size but is successful in attracting research funding from various sources in the UK and the EU (including industry, research councils and charitable foundations).
It supports a significant range of research interest and over the last few years the number of research students has grown steadily.
The Department has a history of involvement in EU framework projects.
More recently, we were partners in two EU FP6 funded projects: SecurePhone and BroadWan.
We have been working and collaborating with many European research institutions including The Technical University Graz, CNUCE, Pisa, Thales, Thomson, TELENOR, RAL, Salzburg, Telephonica – Spain, Atos Origin, The University of Saarbrucken – Germany, INFORMA – Italy, and ENST – France.
The main research areas of interest in the Department cover image / video processing and analysis techniques and applications; wireless mobile network technologies; and biometric-based authentications for constrained devices / environments.
In image processing we mainly, but not exclusively, use wavelet transform techniques for facial feature detection and recognition, online image / video compression for constrained devices, visual speech recognition, feature detection in biomedical images, digital watermarking, content-based video indexing for biometric video databases.
In the wireless networking area, our research effort focuses on convergence and integration of different wireless technologies and standards, wireless mesh technologies, intrusion detection and prevention, efficiency and stability of ad hoc networks.
Currently the Department has a number of research groups consisting of 8 research active academics, over 20 PhD and 5 MSc students at various stages of their studies.
Please see the Research Students page for examples of currently on-going as well as already successfully finished research projects.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/research/ma-in-country-house-studies-by-research:
MA in Country House Studies by research: Hampton Court to ‘Downton Abbey’
The University of Buckingham’s Master’s programme in Country House Studies offers the opportunity to pursue research at Master’s level in any one of a wide range of country-house-related topics, from explorations of individual houses and their architects and decorators, to studies of their social and political use, and the role of the country house in literature and film.
Individual research topics are closely focused; but the approach of the course is to encourage students to investigate the interconnections between the country house’s multiple facets and roles, rather than to examine it in exclusively architectural-historical terms.
Recent dissertations have surveyed, for example, the Baroque mural in country house decoration; the use of music in the country houses during the 1650s; and the professionalisation of the sale of country estates in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries.
The choice of subject area is ultimately the student’s own.
The Master’s degree can be taken either full-time and completed in a single academic year, or taken part-time and extended over two years.
Although original research is the prime focus of the programme, there is also a strongly collegial aspect to the course, as all research students meet regularly throughout the year for a series of early-evening seminars by some of the most distinguished scholars working in the history of early-modern England.
The seminars are held in the Reform Club in Pall Mall, London, SW1, and provide an opportunity for students to meet and debate with the visiting speaker.
Seminars are followed by a working dinner at which discussion continues, with the exception of the seminars on 10 February 2026 and 24 February 2026, when there will be no dinners.
The full seminar programme is given below.
The MA is awarded solely on the basis of the dissertation (there are no ‘exams’), and the relationship between the student and supervisor is therefore at the heart of the course.
The maximum length for the MA dissertation in the School of Humanities is 25,000 words (or approximately 75 pages at line-spacing of 1.5), excluding notes and references.
Student and supervisor meet regularly on a one-to-one basis to discuss, plan, and review the dissertation as it develops through the year.
The University of Buckingham MA programmes are intended to impart all the skills necessary for the student to work as an independent researcher and writer – skills that are valued by both academic and non-academic employers.
But the MA can be undertaken just as fulfillingly as an exercise in the pursuit of knowledge for its own sake, and as a means of exploring areas of enquiry that are of particular interest to the student.
The academic year begins in October with classes on how to undertake archival research, how to plan and structure a dissertation successfully, and on the many online resources that are available to assist in historical research on the Tudor and Stuart periods.
Specialist classes are also offered on paleography (the study of historic handwriting) to enable students to read contemporary manuscripts with speed and accuracy.
Some students know from the outset the precise subject on which they intend to work.
For most, however, the definition of a research proposal is usually a gradual process, with the student starting with a general area of interest, and then focusing on a more closely defined topic as a result of further reading and consultation, usually with the Course Director.
Most students do not arrive at the final title of their dissertation until towards the end of the first Term, before Christmas.
The Course Director, Professor Adrian Tinniswood , is available to offer advice to prospective students who would like to discuss possible subjects for their research before they apply.
He can be reached directly by email at adrian.tinniswood@buckingham.ac.uk
Private research and supervision are complemented by a rich programme of seminars which give students direct access to some of the United Kingdom’s most distinguished scholars of the country house.
These seminars, which are chaired by Professor Tinniswood and by Dr Ben Cowell (Director General, Historic Houses), take place in St James’s, at the Reform Club, 104 Pall Mall, in central London (see below for further details).
The seminar meets regularly between October and March in handsome accommodation at the Reform Club in Pall Mall.
All seminars begin at 6:30 pm with the talk by the visiting speaker, and this is followed by a question session and discussion that runs to 7:45 pm.
There is usually then a short break for pre-dinner drinks and, with the exception of the seminars on 10 February 2026 and 24 February 2026, the group reconvenes at 8:15 pm for a three-course dinner with wine, during which the historical discussion continues.
Proceedings usually end at 9:30 pm.
The programme aims not only to offer a stimulating intellectual experience, but one which is an enjoyable sociable experience as well.
The cost of the dinners is included in the tuition fees.
The seminars are of course academic events, with a talk by a visiting expert; but they also have a social dimension, bringing research students and senior scholars together to discuss matters of common interest in an informal and congenial atmosphere.
This coming year’s seminars explore a broad range of topics, ranging from royal palaces and neo-classicism in domestic architecture through to the country houses of Sir Edwin Lutyens, Irish houses and the economics of the country house.
The location, unless otherwise stated, is the Reform Club, 104 Pall Mall, London, SW1Y 5EW
30 September 2025 Adrian Tinniswood , An introduction to the course (online via Zoom)
14 October 2025 Simon Thurley , ‘Palaces of Power’
28 October 2025 Clive Aslet , ‘The Country Houses of Sir Edwin Lutyens’
3 November 2025, 10am – 5pm Faculty Induction Day at the Society of Antiquaries, Burlington House, Piccadilly, London W1J 0BE
11 November 2025 Terence Dooley , ‘The Decline of the Big House in Ireland’
25 November 2025 Mark Purcell , ‘The Country House Library’
13 January 2026 John Goodall , ‘The Evolving Life of Country House Display’
27 January 2026 Christopher Ridgway , ‘The Economics of the Country House’
10 February 2026 Adriano Aymonino , ‘Syon House and Enlightened Eclecticism’
24 February 2026 Adrian Tinniswood , ‘The Fall and Rise of the Post-War Country House’
10 March 2026 Tarnya Cooper , ‘Public Purpose and National Trust Country Houses’
24 March 2026 Speaker to be confirmed
21 May 2026, 2pm-6.30pm Research Day at the Humanities Research Institute Symposium Room, University of Buckingham
The usual period of Master’s degree research is one year for the those who engage in full-time study.
Part-time study is also available, with students completing the dissertation in two years.
Every Master’s student in School of Humanities is supported by two supervisors.
Full-time students see their supervisor for one-to-one supervisions not less than twice a term.
The University has an extensive group of scholars available to undertake supervision in the fields Country House Studies, including:
Professor Adrian Tinniswood OBE FSA , Course Co-Director, is the author of eighteen books on social and architectural history, including The Long Weekend: Life in the English Country House Between the Wars (2016), which became a New York Times and Sunday Times bestseller; Noble Ambitions: The Fall and Rise of the Post-war Country House (2021); and The Power and the Glory: The Country House Before the Great War (2024).
He is also the author of an important biography of the architect and polymath, Sir Christopher Wren, His Invention So Fertile ; and of a social history of a major gentry family, The Verneys: a True Story of Love, War and Madness in Seventeenth-Century England, which was shortlisted for the Samuel Johnson Prize.
He has worked with a number of heritage organisations including the National Lottery Heritage Fund and the National Trust, and is currently Professorial Research Fellow in History at the Humanities Research Institute, The University of Buckingham, and Adjunct Professor of History at Maynooth University.
He was appointed an Officer of the Order of the British Empire in 2013 for his services to the national heritage.
Dr Ben Cowell OBE FSA FRSA , Course Co-Director, is a leading light within the UK heritage sector.
He is the Director General of Historic Houses, the association that represents over 1,400 country houses in the UK, all still in independent ownership.
He has published widely on aspects of history and heritage, including an account of the origins of the heritage protection movement in Britain, The Heritage Obsession (2008).
He has published biographical studies on Uvedale Price, theorist of the Picturesque, and on two of the founders of the National Trust, Robert Hunter and Octavia Hill.
His latest book is The British Country House Revival , published by Boydell in 2024.
It tells the ‘fall and rise’ story of what has happened to country houses in the last fifty years, drawing on examples from member properties of Historic Houses.
Ben sits on the government’s Heritage Council, and on the Historic Environment Forum in England, and was awarded an OBE in 2021 for services to heritage.
Dr Adriano Aymonino Is one of Britain’s leading historians of the Classical tradition, particularly in the eighteenth century.
He has curated several exhibitions, including Drawn from the Antique: Artists and the Classical Ideal , held at the Sir John Soane’s Museum in London in 2015.
His monograph, Enlightened Eclecticism , pictured above right, on the 1st Duke of Northumberland’s patronage of Robert Adam and others, was published by Yale University Press later in 2021.
For those who wish to attend the seminars and to join the post-seminar dinners with the visiting speakers, it is possible to join the programme as an Associate Student (what is known as an Audit Student in the United States).
In cases where candidates are applying on the basis of work experience, they will be asked to attend an interview as part of the application process; in some cases, they may also be asked to produce a short sample of written work.
The MA does not offer systematic instruction in factual knowledge; instead, the emphasis is on independent thought and research.
At the heart of the Buckingham Master’s degree is the close working relationship between student and supervisor.
Supervisors and students meet regularly throughout the year, and not less than twice in each of the academic year’s four terms; and the supervisor is the student’s primary contact for academic advice and support.
Many of the University’s research students have gone on to publish their MA or PhD dissertations, either in book-form or as articles in learned journals.
The skills of authorship are one of the numerous ‘transferable skills’ that students acquire through the programme.
The academic staff are available to offer advice on the process of preparing their work for publication.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/research/phd-in-country-house-studies:
The School has a long record of excellence in teaching, having had outstanding results in the National Student Survey (NSS 2018).

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/research/ma-covert-action-humint-and-the-psychology-of-intelligence-elicitation-by-research:
This programme aims to offer insight into hitherto closed and sensitive areas of security and intelligence practice within both western democracies and authoritarian regimes.
Emphasis is placed on relating academic and historical analyses to contemporary problems and policy questions, especially in the UK, but also to western states in general, using a unique degree of practitioner-led expertise.
This programme in Covert Action, HUMINT and Psychology of Intelligence Elicitation enables students to choose (with guidance) their own topic of research and to pursue this under expert one-to-one supervision.
The MA by Research combines engaging course pre-recorded seminars with a focus on one’s own research project.
This programme is aimed at everyone who is interested in intelligence and security issues, whatever their career plans, but also at those who may be aspiring to work in the field of security and intelligence .
It can also assist the career development of those already employed within that field.
An important element of this programme is the academic advisors and course staff, who are constantly available to provide their guidance and input.
It would appeal to anyone who wants to improve their academic skills, advance their career, or simply explore key topics in this broad field.
If you wish to speak to the Programme Lead, Dr Ian Stanier, please contact via ian.stanier@buckingham.ac.uk or via telephone +441280820179.
Your offer letter and the student contract contain important information which you should read carefully before accepting an offer .
The programme comprises of three terms of seminars of nine weeks each, covering: Covert Action, Human Intelligence (HUMINT), and the psychology of intelligence elicitation.
These run respectively from January to September – September to June.
The MA offers systematic instruction in the facts of covert action, HUMINT and the Psychology of Intelligence elicitation although the emphasis is on independent research.
Term 1: Covert Action
Term 2: Human Intelligence (HUMINT)
Term 3: The Psychology of Intelligence Elicitation
Our Buckingham University Centre for Security and Intelligence Studies graduates have gone on to further study at PhD level and secured / maintained jobs in intelligence and security related positions in the UK and overseas.
This includes intelligence and investigative roles in regional and national public authorities, as well as roles in communication investigations, investigatory interviewing, source management and conflict security.
The University of Buckingham is an accredited ELCAS provider (Provider number 1460).
This course is a recognised programme.
The part-time MA programme is spread over 2 financial years.
The loan will provide up to £11,222 for taught and research Masters’ courses in all subject areas.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/research/phd-cultural-politics:
Conduct original research in a diverse breadth of topics with Buckingham's PhD in Cultural Politics, based at our London offices.
The PhD in Cultural Politics is an advanced research degree, awarded on the basis of a thesis and an oral viva voce examination.
The primary purpose of the PhD is the preparation and presentation of a substantial piece of independent and original academic research, completed in three years if studying full-time and usually six years if studying part-time.
There is also the possibility of early submission in cases where the student makes particularly rapid progress.
There is an enormously broad range of possible thesis subjects in cultural politics.
This could range from questions of nationalism and populism, to problems of liberalisation and value change to the rise of the cultural left to culture wars to issues or those of political demography.
Religion and politics is also within our purview.
While the central interest is the modern West, those seeking to venture further back in time or explore non-Western societies are also welcome to apply.
Given sufficient evidence to illuminate it, almost any thesis that involves a cultural and political dimension may potentially form an appropriate focus of study.
The definition of the PhD subject is an iterative process, and it is usual for the candidate’s first thoughts on the topic to be modified in the course of the first year of study.
A large proportion of our PhD students are engaged in full-time study, but there is also an option for part-time study where this fits better with a student’s other commitments.
Part-time study can be ideal for those who are looking to gain a postgraduate qualification without leaving employment and wish to develop their careers while they continue earning, or for those who are home-based for whatever reason and wish to develop their skills.
All students are expected to engage with the academic life of the University, to attend skills-training meetings where these are relevant, as well as research seminars and workshops.
PhD students are expected to attend the fortnightly Politics of Cultural Conflict research seminar – and are encouraged to attend other seminars that may be relevant to their research.
These provide an opportunity for PhD students to share their work with their peers, and to engage with visiting experts in their field.
The seminar itself features a mix of staff and guest speakers covering subjects such as the origin and motivations of nationalism, rise of national populism, evolution of the cultural left, and increase in polarization and fragmentation in western societies and party systems.
The University of Buckingham PhD is intended to impart all the skills necessary for the student to work as an independent researcher and writer – skills that are valued by both academic and non-academic employers.
But the PhD can be undertaken just as fulfillingly as an exercise in the pursuit of knowledge for its own sake, and as a means of exploring areas of enquiry that are of particular interest to the student.
A number of our most successful student researchers are those who take up doctoral study at the end of a successful career in a different field or profession.
The usual period of doctoral research is three years for the those who engage in full-time study, though the University’s Regulations also permit candidates who make particularly rapid progress to apply to the University Research Committee for permission to submit at the end of their second year of study.
Part-time study is also available, with students completing the dissertation in five or six years.
Every PhD student in School of Humanities is supported by two supervisors.
Supervisors are experts in their field of study and support students throughout the PhD.
Students will also benefit from the advice and support of other academic members of the Faculty who will be involved in progression through the various stages of the PhD, including Annual Review meetings with a senior professor (where progress is monitored and support offered towards the planning of the next period of study).
Members of the academic staff who are available to undertake supervision in the field of Cultural Politics include:
Professor Eric Kaufmann – Professor Kaufmann, formerly a Lecturer at the University of Southampton and Professor at Birkbeck, University of London for 24 years, has supervised dissertations to completion in nationalism, ethnicity and religious politics, and political demography, and served as an examiner for 16 dissertations at other universities.
He is interested in the politics of the culture wars, polarisation and both the cultural left and populist right.
Methodologically he can supervise quantitative, qualitative or historical-archival dissertations.
Rakib Ehsan – Dr.
Ehsan specialises in matters of social cohesion, race relations, and public security, focusing on Britain.
He uses both quantitative and qualitative methods in his research.
Professor Matthew Goodwin – Matt Goodwin is known for his research on: politics, populism, elections, voting, public opinion, Brexit, Europe and academic freedom.
Most recently he was Professor of Politics at Rutherford College, University of Kent.
Lawrence Patihis – Dr Patihis is a heterodox psychological scientist, with a core interest in false memories, iatrogenic psychotherapies, and detecting pseudoscience.
He is a senior lecturer at the University of Portsmouth.
Chloe Oldfield – Dr Oldfield’s research has focused on the application of therapeutic frameworks in performance contexts, and she has a particular interest in understanding the psychological mechanisms that enable the navigation of adversity and development of resilience.
Neema Parvini – Dr.
Parvini is an expert in elite theory, political economy and aspects of the politics of culture.
He is the author of eight books including The Prophets of Doom (2023), The Populist Delusion (2022), The Defenders of Liberty (2020) and Shakespeare’s Moral Compass (2018).
Dan Pitt – Dr.
Pitt is an expert in political history and theory, especially the history and dynamics of the Conservative Party.
He focuses on archival and qualitative methods.
Enquiries should be directed in the first instance to our Admissions Office (London Programmes), at humanitiespg-admissions@buckingham.ac.uk .
It is usually also possible to speak with the Course Directors in your chosen area of research in advance of submitting your application.
Applicants are normally expected to have a first or upper second-class degree or significant relevant experience.
Age is usually an irrelevancy and the University of Buckingham’s current doctoral students range in age from those in their twenties to those in their seventies.
Academic ability is the only criterion regarded as relevant.
Wherever possible, students are encouraged to begin their studies at the start of the academic year (in September), in order to be in step with their peers.
Where this is not possible, however, entry points exist at the start of each academic term.
Age is no barrier to learning and we welcome all applications from all suitably qualified students.
The University is committed to lifelong learning, and students joining the PhD programme will encounter a wide variety of age-ranges among their peers.
Candidates apply online, sending in their supporting documents, and will be assessed on this basis by the Tutor for Graduate Admissions and the Course Directors.
For help in applying, please contact the Admissions Office on humanitiespg-admissions@buckingham.ac.uk She can also arrange for you to discuss your research proposal informally with the Course Directors in advance of your submitting the formal application.
When you accept an offer of a place on the course at the University, a legal contract is formed between you and the University on the basis of the student contract in your offer letter.
Further details are available online: Read the Student Contract .
The length of the dissertation should not be fewer than 80,000 words and no longer than 100,000 words of text (excluding the thesis-abstract, appendices, footnotes, tables, and bibliography).
A PhD thesis must embody an original contribution to the knowledge of the discipline either by the discovery of new knowledge or by the exercise of a new and independent critical approach.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/research/ma-dickens-studies-by-research:
Explore the rich world of Dickens Studies with unique access to the Charles Dickens Museum collections in our specialised research programme.
Based in the city that gave Charles Dickens inspiration throughout his writing life, this groundbreaking London research programme offers students unique access not only to world-class scholars and practitioners drawn from the field of Dickens Studies and the media but furthermore to the unique collections of the Charles Dickens Museum
It is directed by Professor John Drew and Dr Pete Orford , Dickens experts of international reputation, who are also members of the University’s highly regarded Department of English and Digital Media .
The course enables the student to undertake research on a specific topic, agreed with the supervisor, in any area of Dickens Studies: his novels, short fiction, journalism, plays, the public readings, adaptations of his work (cinematic, theatrical) as well as comparative work on translations, writing by precursors, contemporaries, rivals, imitators and inheritors.
The research is presented in the form of three ‘Project Preliminaries’: an extended research proposal, an annotated bibliography, and a short research-based case study for which students will be invited to investigate either the archive holdings of the Charles Dickens Museum or the network of Dickens’s collaborators for his journals, as made available by the University’s celebrated project Dickens Journals Online .
On successful completion of these three preliminary projects, students will then progress to their dissertation, written under the guidance of the supervisor, of not less than 20,000 words.
A central feature of the course will be its series of ten evening seminars with distinguished speakers, held both at the University’s Gower Street premises and in the Board Room of the Charles Dickens Museum, each followed by a dinner and discussion, in private rooms at a nearby restaurant in Bloomsbury.
Previous seminar speakers include:
Professor Michael Slater, MBE .
Britain’s foremost Dickensian scholar and biographer; Professor Emeritus of Victorian Literature, Birkbeck College; former editor of The Dickensian .
Miriam Margolyes, OBE .
Actress & BAFTA Award Winner.
Deviser, co-writer & performer of the international award-winning show, Dickens’ Women.
Judith Flanders ,Senior Research Fellow, Humanities Research Institute, University of Buckingham; author of award-winning works of Victorian social history, including The Invention of Murder , The Victorian House , The Victorian City , Everyday Life in Dickens’ London .
Lucinda Hawksley .
Critic, broadcaster, great-great-great granddaughter of Charles Dickens, and author of recent books on Dickens’s circle, his artist daughter Katie, and the Pre-Raphaelites.
Dr Tony Williams .
Former President of the international Dickens Fellowship , Associate Editor of The Dickensian , Honorary Senior Research Fellow in the School of Humanities and Social Sciences, University of Buckingham.
The incredibly wide-reaching influence and impact of Dickens as a writer, performer, editor and social reformer in the English-speaking world means that Dickens Studies can, therefore, span an equally wide range of research topics right across nineteenth- and twentieth-century literary and print culture.
Themes addressed by the seminars will include:
The course will begin with three practical seminars about how to choose, research and write an academic dissertation, and how to handle archival materials, held at the University’s London offices, 51 Gower Street, Bloomsbury, London WC1E 6HJ and at the Charles Dickens Museum, 48 Doughty Street.
Places on the new course are limited in number, and early application is advised.
For dates of the seminars, please click on “Teaching & Assessment”.
Those wishing to attend the seminars, but not to undertake a dissertation, may join the course as Associate Students at a reduced fee.
Dickens specialists working alongside Professor Drew and Dr Orford in the Department of English and Digital Media or as Honorary Research Fellows include: Dr Jonathan Buckmaster, Dr Nick Cambridge , Dr Hazel Mackenzie , Professor Cathy Waters, Dr Tony Williams and Dr Emma Curry.
For further details, contact Peter Orford .
Due to their flexibility, our MAs by research attract a wide variety of applicants from a range of backgrounds, including people in full-time employment and retirees.
The Admissions Team would be happy to answer any questions you may have, call us on +44 (0)1280 820227 or get in touch via our online form.
The MA does not offer systematic instruction; instead, the emphasis is on independent research and one-to-one supervision.
While the final thesis must be an independent work, it is the supervisor who offers advice on refining the topic (if necessary), on primary sources, on secondary reading, on research techniques and on writing the final text (which should be not less than 20,000 words).
The provisional dates for the seminars and dinners will be available soon.
At the post-seminar dinners there will be an opportunity to continue the discussion in an informal environment.
Attendance at these dinners is entirely at the choice of the student, and their cost is not covered by the tuition fee.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/research/ma-by-researchprofessional-practice-in-digital-news-and-media:
The programme supports a vibrant research community with regular research seminars to enable you to advance your knowledge and skills.
Given  the increasing role of digital media in all walks of life, the volatility of global politics, and full-scale assaults on the values and independence of traditional journalism, there has never been a more important time for universities to work with the industry not just to train but educate and inspire the best writers, designers and investigators.
Buckingham’s new MA Digital News and Media by Research or Professional Practice is designed to achieve this aim by encouraging you to propose, research and complete a substantial project (the equivalent of a research dissertation) in Digital News or Digital Media to the highest of industry and academic standards.
The programme supports a vibrant research community with regular research seminars available to attend in person or online, to enable you to advance your knowledge and develop valuable transferable skills.
You will benefit from networking with internationally-recognised practitioners in a rich diversity of fields.
The Professional Practice route to the MA also offers practising journalists the opportunity to reflect on and critique their professional work in an academic setting.
Students following this route will provide a substantial body of work accumulated during their professional career and/or during their period of MA registration, and then produce a detailed critical and reflective commentary to form the main body of a portfolio, which is submitted in place of the Final Project.
Full details are given in the Regulations for the programme.
Normally, an undergraduate degree in a relevant discipline at 2.1 or above from a recognized university will be required, and for non-native speakers of English, an IELTS (or equivalent) score of 6.5 or above or above.
Exceptionally, where applicants have 5+ years’ work experience at senior level in a relevant career/industry sector and can demonstrate prior experiential learning, this will be accepted as a substitute for formal HE qualifications.
Instruction is through one-to-one supervision and a research seminar programme with guest lectures from industry professionals, delivered face-to-face and/or online.
The course is assessed by means of the Final Project or Dissertation (120 credits at Level 7), which are preceded by three Project Preliminaries (60 credits at Level 7) comprising an Extended Research Proposal, an Annotated Literature Review or equivalent, and an Intermediate Essay or sample of Work-in-Progress sample.
During terms 3 and 4 (terms 5-8 for part-time students) you will wherever possible be seconded to media companies and organisations whose work matches your research and professional interests.
They will provide mentors and make use of your work as appropriate.
A range of media employers in the UK and internationally, including Reach plc, Eastern Eye , ITV Central, the Bauer Group, the BBC, The Tindle Newspaper Group, have agreed to act as informal industry partners.
After your course you will have excellent contacts through whom to pursue employment opportunities.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/research/phd-economics:
Money management is crucial to every business, entreprise and government across the globe.
Hence, this PhD is central to our world.
Buckingham has a growing and thriving community of research students studying for the PhD in Economics.
The Department of Economics has been a key part of the University since its foundation in the 1970s.
We are a small, diverse and international department with specialisms in financial economics and banking, energy economics, economic history and behavioural economics.
Our academics publish regularly, in highly rated journals such as the Journal of Policy Modelling, International Journal of Industrial Organisation, Research Policy, Business Strategy and the Environment, Structural Change and Economic Dynamics and Business History Review.
Our research has also been featured in the Wall St Journal, S&P Global Market intelligence and City AM.
The PhD programme offers a supportive environment to undertake original research and equips students with the theoretical and technical skills needed to produce quality research.
You will join one or more of the wider networks of research economists in the Vinson Centre where you can attend workshops and seminars and network with specialists in international trade and development, monetary economics and central banking and entrepreneurial economics.
You will have opportunities to present your work at a variety of seminars and sessions in the department.
Travel funds are available for presentations in the UK and abroad.
The PhD is available in either full-time or part-time mode (3 years full-time and 6 years part-time).
In addition to Economics, International Studies and Security and Intelligence Studies, the University offers other PhD programmes .
Applications should be accompanied by a research proposal.
Advice on submitting a proposal is available as a PDF document: DPhil prospectus .
PhD students will work closely with their supervisors and will be expected to meet on at least one occasion per term with additional contact through online meetings and email exchanges.
The allocation of graduate supervision for this course is the responsibility of the Department of Economics and it is not always possible to accommodate the preferences of incoming graduate students to work with a particular member of staff.
Under exceptional circumstances, a supervisor may be found outside of the Department of Economics.
See the Research Degrees Handbook and the Regulations Handbook for further information.
Students undertake supervised but independent research, at the end of which they submit a thesis embodying the results of that research.
The interests of the Department of Economics’ doctoral students are diverse, and this is reflected in the positions they take up after graduation including, tenure track or postdoc positions in academia; others find employment in government, international organisations, or the private sector.
The international diversity of Buckingham’s doctoral programme also means that its PhD graduates have an impact in many different parts of the world.
We recognise the importance of helping doctoral students find suitable employment.
The Department of Economics provides advice and help on all aspects of the job application process.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/research/ma-english-literature-by-research:
Our English Literature degrees are taught in small tutorial groups by experienced academics with international research profiles.
The MA in English Literature by research is taught through seminars, group sessions, and personalised one-to-one teaching with a first and second supervisor.
A postgraduate reading group, and seminars led by staff and guest speakers, gradually develop the insights needed to complete your research project.
There are four parts to the qualification:
There are no exams.
This is an opportunity to work closely on a writer or topic that fascinates you, within a supportive environment.
You can undertake research in most literary topics within the period 1550 to the present day.
You start by developing the Project Preliminaries with your supervisors: the research proposal, bibliography, and essay.
Then you progress to the full Dissertation (25,000-30,000 words), written under the guidance of your supervisors.
The MA commences in September or January each year, on a full- or part-time basis.
The MA takes one year full-time, two years part-time.
For the MA, full-time attendance on campus is not required, but overseas students in particular, or home students wishing to use libraries intensively, may apply for a room in University accommodation.
Alternately, you can travel in for the teaching days, usually Wednesdays during term.
The one-to-one sessions with your supervisors can be arranged for any day of the week.
Please fill in the application form above (“Apply Now”), giving as much detail as possible.
In the “Personal Statement” section, give an outline of your ideas so far for your research project (300-500 words).
This could include:
At this stage we do not expect a fully-formed view of the project, rather an indication of the area you are interested in.
If you would like to discuss your research ideas before applying, please e-mail: Dr Peter Sloane: peter.sloane@buckingham.ac.uk
For other queries about the MA, contact the Admissions Office on admissions@buckingham.ac.uk or 01280 820227.
At the heart of the MA is the close working relationship between candidate and supervisor.
While the final thesis must be the candidate’s independent work, it is the supervisor who offers advice on refining the topic (if necessary), on primary sources, on secondary reading, on research techniques and on writing the final thesis.
Supervisors and candidates meet frequently throughout the year, and not less than twice a term; and the supervisor is always the candidate’s primary contact for academic advice and support.
Those with limited time may prefer to spread the writing of their dissertation over two years, in which case an individual timetable of lectures and supervisions will be arranged.
If you require short-term accommodation in Buckingham we would be happy to provide a list of local bed and breakfast or hotel accommodation .
Alternatively, please contact our Accommodation Office for advice.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/research/phd-english-literature:
Studying English Literature will give you the flexibility to pursue a career in a wide range of sectors like in the public sector & media.
The highest academic degrees are the MPhil (Master of Philosophy) and the PhD (Doctor of Philosophy) also known as the DPhil.
The Department of English and Digital Media welcomes applicants at this level.
This is an opportunity to work closely on a writer or topic within a supportive research environment.
Alongside frequent meetings with both a first and second supervisor, PhD students are also invited to attend seminars led by staff and guest speakers, as well as a postgraduate reading group, in order gradually to develop the insights needed to complete their research.
The period of study required for the award of a PhD is three years full-time or six years part-time.
At the end of this period, the candidate submits a thesis (80,000-100,000 words) embodying the results of the research.
It should display critical discrimination and a sense of proportion in evaluating evidence and the opinions of others.
It must also embody an original contribution to the knowledge of the discipline either by the discovery of new knowledge or by the exercise of a new and independent critical approach.
The Department particularly welcomes research proposals related to its specialisms: Charles Dickens, his novels and journalism; the 19th-century novel; 19th-century poetry; Shakespeare; Modernism and early 20th-century literature; 20th-century poetry; the short story; contemporary writing; women’s writing.
Recent projects include:
Applicants are normally expected to have a first or second class, upper division degree, and an MA, and/or significant experience.
If you have a research proposal which you would like to discuss further, please contact Dr Peter Sloane ( peter.sloane@buckingham.ac.uk ).
The aim of the Research Programme is to help students develop the following: a) a systematic and in depth understanding in the subject area of choice of research by the student; b) the critical skills necessary to analyse and evaluate complex legal problems and related issues; c) To give students the opportunity to undertake substantial independent research project at Level 7 of writing; d) research skills necessary to demonstrate familiarity with and understanding of the subject, its principal sources and authorities; e) To develop research skills necessary to display critical discrimination and a sense of proportion in evaluating evidence and the opinions of other authors in the subject.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/research/msc-finance-by-research:
Pursue rigorous financial research - ideal for ambitious minds and critical thinkers that are interested in advanced financial theory.
Driven by a commitment to academic excellence and analytical rigor, the MSc in Finance by Research at The University of Buckingham offers a distinctive pathway for mastering advanced financial theory and empirical methods.
Designed for ambitious minds, this programme empowers critical inquiry, fosters independent research, and cultivates the expertise needed to lead in global financial markets or pursue doctoral studies at top-tier institutions.
The MSc in Finance by Research at The University of Buckingham is a rigorous, research-focused degree for graduates seeking to explore advanced financial theory, empirical analysis, and real-world financial systems through original inquiry.
Positioned at the intersection of academic scholarship and financial innovation, the programme allows you to engage with some of the most pressing questions in finance—including asset pricing, behavioural finance, risk modelling, digital finance, and the integration of AI into financial markets.
It is ideally suited for individuals aiming to pursue a PhD or research-oriented career in finance, consultancy, or policy development.
Guided by expert supervisors, students undertake an independent research project culminating in a substantial dissertation.
While the programme does not include assessed taught modules, candidates may audit selected postgraduate finance courses to enhance their methodological and theoretical foundations.
With the opportunity to complete the programme in just 12 months (full-time), and supported by a competitive tuition structure, the MSc in Finance by Research offers both academic depth and practical advantage.
The MSc in Finance by Research is designed to:
Graduates of this programme are expected to contribute meaningfully to academic debates and professional practice in the ever-evolving field of finance.
You can commence your studies in either September or January, providing flexibility to suit individual schedules and commitments.
You are assigned an academic supervisor with expertise in the chosen research domain.
Supervision includes regular 30-minute meetings (typically weekly) to guide topic refinement, research design, and writing progress.
Although the programme does not include formal taught modules, you are encouraged to audit selected Level 7 courses—such as Financial Analysis and Portfolio Modelling and Empirical Techniques in Finance – to deepen your conceptual and analytical expertise.
Students produce an original, sustained piece of research of approximately 25,000–30,000 words , demonstrating academic depth, methodological competence, and a clear contribution to the field.
The dissertation is evaluated independently by two assessors (one internal, one external).
A viva examination is not typically required, unless specifically recommended by the Faculty Research Committee.
Graduates of the MSc in Finance (by Research) are well-positioned to pursue a wide range of high-level career opportunities across the UK’s dynamic financial and professional services sectors.
With a strong foundation in independent research, analytical thinking, and advanced financial knowledge, alumni are highly sought after for roles in corporate finance, financial analysis, auditing, and strategic portfolio consulting.
The research-intensive nature of the degree also opens doors to specialist positions in policy analysis, regulatory bodies, and think tanks, as well as academic and doctoral pathways for those interested in contributing to the future of finance scholarship.
Employers across both the public and private sectors value the depth of expertise and critical insight that research graduates bring, making this qualification a powerful stepping stone to leadership and specialist roles in the finance professions.
Graduates of the MSc in Finance by Research are equipped with critical research capabilities and specialist knowledge that open diverse and high-impact career pathways.
A minimum of an upper second-class honour’s degree (2:1) in accounting, finance, banking, economics, or a closely related discipline from a recognised institution.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/research/ma-garden-history:
The University of Buckingham’s Master’s programme in Garden History offers the opportunity to pursue research at Master’s level in any one of a wide range of garden- and landscape-related topics: from explorations of individual sites; their designers, gardeners and owners; to studies of the social and political use of gardens, or aspects of their heritage conservation and management.
While individual research topics should be closely focused, the course encourages students to take a broad contextual view of the links between gardens and designed landscape, and of history and culture more generally.
Although original individual research is the prime focus of the programme, there is also a strongly collegial aspect to the course, as all research students meet regularly throughout the year for a series of early-evening seminars delivered by a range of distinguished academics, professional garden historians and owners and managers of designed landscapes.
The academic year begins in October with the Course Introduction Day in London, and a series of seminars and field trips and access to the on-line lectures.
In-person Tutorials and classes will normally take place at The University of Buckingham’s London offices at 51 Gower Street, Bloomsbury, WC1E 6HJ, very close to the British Museum but field trips are across the country.
Seminars are held at The University of Buckingham’s London offices at 51 Gower St, Bloomsbury, London WC1E 6HJ, and provide an opportunity for students to meet and debate with the visiting speaker.
Seminars may be followed by a working dinner at which discussion continues.
There are also a series of ‘field trips’ to historic gardens and designed landscapes organised through the year, and access to a series of on-line (recorded) lectures provided by the Gardens Trust.
Students can choose to access these as an on-line class every other Thursday.
Specialist classes are also offered by the Faculty on palaeography (the study of historic handwriting) to enable students to read contemporary manuscripts with speed and accuracy.
The MA is awarded solely on the basis of the dissertation (there are no ‘exams’), and the relationship between the student and supervisors is therefore at the heart of the course.
Guidance will be provided on suitability of topics but the choice of subject area is ultimately the student’s own.
Students and their ‘First Supervisor’ meet regularly on a one-to-one basis to discuss, plan, and review the dissertation as it develops through the year and students also have access to a Second Supervisor.
The University of Buckingham MA programmes are intended to impart all the skills necessary for the student to work as an independent researcher and writer, but the MA can be undertaken just as fulfillingly as an exercise in the pursuit of knowledge for its own sake, and as a means of exploring areas of enquiry that are of particular interest to the student.
The MA by research is ideal for members of the county Gardens Trusts as well as professionals in the arena of historic gardens, and anyone with an academic interest in history of designed gardens and landscapes.
The Course Director Dr Twigs Way is available to offer advice to prospective students who would like to discuss possible subjects for their research before they apply.
Twigs can be reached directly by email at twigs.way@buckingham.ac.uk
Private research and supervision are complemented by a rich programme of seminars which give students direct access to some of the United Kingdom’s most distinguished scholars in the field of garden history.
These seminars, which are chaired by the Course Director take place at 51 Gower St (as above) or occasionally online.
The seminar meets regularly between October and March.
All seminars begin at 6:30 pm with the talk by the visiting speaker, and this is followed by a question session and discussion.
There is usually a drinks reception for the speaker and students after the seminar.
This coming year’s seminars will include a series of case-studies of important gardens, led either by academic garden-historians, professionals in heritage or, in some cases, by their owners or managers.
These seminars will explore not only the history of the site, but also what is involved in their management and conservation.
In addition to the seminars, there will be a number of site visits timetabled over weekends, and a series of online background lectures on wider garden and landscape history for each period will be available to attend online.
Please note that, unless otherwise stated, all seminars take place at The University of Buckingham’s offices, 51 Gower St, Bloomsbury, London WC1E 6HJ.
All seminars, progress meetings, and online lectures start at 18.30 pm unless otherwise stated.
Saturday 4 October Course Introduction Day 10.30-16.00 (51 Gower St, London,) Dr Twigs Way and Dr David Marsh
Thursday 9 October John Watkins (Former Head of Gardens and Landscape Team, English Heritage, Chairman Gardens Trust), ‘The Roles of English Heritage and Gardens Trust in the Protection and Restoration of Historic Gardens and Landscapes’.
Saturday 11 October and Sunday 12 October 10.00-16.30 both days Visits to Wrest Park (Silsoe, Bedfordshire), Swiss Garden (Old Warden, Bedfordshire) and Wimpole Park, Cambridgeshire led by Dr Twigs Way (Programme Director) NOTE: this is over two days and students may wish to arrange to stay overnight locally.
Contact Programme Director for more details.
Thursday 23 October Tim Richardson (Independent author and former gardens editor, Country Life) ‘What Are Gardens and What is Garden History?’
Saturday 1 November 10.00-15.30 Visit to Stowe, Buckinghamshire led by (TBC)
Monday 3 November, 10.30-17.00 Faculty Induction Day , at the Society of Antiquaries, Burlington House, Piccadilly, London, W1J 0BE
Thursday 6 November 10.00-17.00 Garden History Research Day , The University of Buckingham, Vinson Centre, MK18 1EG
Saturday 15 November Garden Trust Symposium of New Research Online Event
Thursday 20 November Mark Bradshaw (Regional Head of LET Estate, National Trust), ‘Lyveden New Bield: Research and Restoration of an Elizabethan Garden (with reference to other restorations)’
Thursday 4 December Dr Oliver Cox (Head of Academic Partnerships, V&A), ‘A Case Study in Interpreting the Eighteenth-Century Garden: Stourhead’
Thursday 11 December Progress Reports Meeting
Thursday 15 January Fiona Davison (Head of Libraries and Exhibitions at Royal Horticultural Society), ‘Researching Pioneering Women Gardeners’
Thursday 29 January 17.30 -19.15 Evening visit to the RHS Lindley Library , 80 Vincent Square, London SW1P 2PE accompanied by Fiona Davison (Head of Libraries and Exhibitions at Royal Horticultural Society),
Thursday 12 February Nick Lane Fox (Owner Bramham Park), ‘Bramham Park: a Baroque Case Study’
Thursday 26 February Georgie Guernsey (Viscountess Guernsey, owner Packington Hall), ‘Packington Hall : a mid-Eighteenth-Century Designed Landscape for the Future’
Thursday 12 March Dr Caroline Ikin (Cultural Heritage Curator, National Trust), ‘Munstead Wood: Restoring an Iconic Garden’
Thursday 26 March Thursday 27 March Fergus Garrett (Head gardener, Great Dixter), ‘Great Dixter: a Twentieth-Century Case Study’
Thursday 2 April Progress Reports Meeting
Sunday 3 May Visit Munstead Wood , Surrey led by Caroline Ikin (details TBC)
Sunday 24th May Visit Boughton , Northamptonshire (details TBC)
Additional online lecturers will be made available to students on alternate Thursdays delivered by Dr Twigs Way and Dr David Marsh or available as recordings SUPPORTED BY THE GARDENS TRUST.
The University has an extensive group of scholars available to undertake supervision in the field of Garden History.
Dr Twigs Way is a researcher, writer and lecturer with particular interests in the role of women in garden history, working class gardens, and the cultural overlap between gardens, art and literature.
Twigs Way originally graduated from UCL (Institute of Archaeology) and went on to complete her PhD at Cambridge on power dynamics in landscape.
From 2005-2024 Twigs was a consultant in historic designed landscapes, specialising in the creation of Parkland Management Plans (PMPs) and Conservation Management Plans (CMPs) for clients including Historic England, Natural England and private landowners.
She set up the Certificate and Diploma in garden History at the University of Cambridge, Institute for Continuing Education, was Chair of the Cambridgeshire Gardens Trust and has trained conservation volunteers across several county gardens trusts.
Twigs is a guest lecturer for the Cambridge University Botanic Gardens as well as an Accredited Speaker for the Arts Society.
She has published on a range of topics including the histories of specific plants in art and culture, wartime gardening, allotment gardens, and ‘A Nation of Gardeners’ with the Museum of Garden History.
Dr David Marsh who set up The University of Buckingham MA in Garden History acts as a first or second supervisor for many of the students.
David Marsh was awarded his PhD for a study of the ‘Gardens and Gardeners of Later-Stuart London’ and has been lecturing and supervising research in Garden History ever since.
He was co-convener of the History of Gardens and Designed Landscapes seminar at Institute of Historical Research, University of London, from 2011-2022.
He was a trustee of the Gardens Trust and chaired their Education Committee from 2015 to 2023.
He set up the Gardens Trust’s successful on-line lecture programme and is the author of their weekly blog about Garden History .
Other internal and external supervisors may be allocated to students depending on their particular topics of research.
Mark Bradshaw is the Regional Head of Let Estate for the National Trust.
Mark led the initial research and restoration of Lyveden New Bield Elizabethan landscape and gardens, before becoming involved in the garden restoration at Canons Ashby and involved in the garden restoration there and oversaw restoration projects at Cliveden, Buckinghamshire.
Dr Oliver Cox is a historian by training and teaches architectural and cultural history with a focus on the eighteenth century.
Formerly a British Academy Research Fellow at the University of Oxford, he is now Head of Academic Partnerships at the Victoria and Albert Museum, leading on the strategic development of new academic partnerships that build on the V&A’s track record in innovative, interdisciplinary teaching and research.
Fiona Davison is Head of Libraries and Exhibitions at the Royal Horticultural Society, researcher and author of the acclaimed ‘An Almost Impossible Thing: The radical lives of Britain’s pioneering women gardeners’ and ‘The Hidden Horticulturalists’, named as one of the Gardening Books of the Year by the Daily Telegraph in 2019.
Nick Lane Fox is the owner of Bramham Park, a Grade-I listed house near Leeds where he is overseeing a large-scale restoration project of the early eighteenth-century gardens and parkland.
Bramham lies at the centre of a 2,265-hectare agricultural estate where, in addition to farming and forestry, he has helped develop an events programme including the Bramham Horse Trials and the Leeds Music Festival.
Fergus Garrett is an English plantsman and horticultural educationalist.
He studied horticulture at Wye College,and worked for Beth Chatto and in private gardens before joining the Great Dixter team.
He became Christopher Lloyd’s Head Gardener in 1993 and is now and Chief Executive of the Great Dixter Charitable Trust.
Georgie Guernsey (Viscountess Guernsey) lives at Packington Hall with her husband, James, and three young children.
Having studied Garden Design at KLC School of Design, she now oversees various restoration projects across the Estate.
Her current focus is on the reinstatement of the Walled Garden and the maintenance of the ‘Capability’ Brown pleasure grounds.
Packington Estate is situated at the centre of the country, between Birmingham and Coventry.
Dr Caroline Ikin is the Cultural Heritage Curator, for the National Trust at Munstead Wood, Standen and Nymans and has previously worked for the Gardens Trust.
Her PhD was on the design of John Ruskin’s gardens at Brantwood, exploring philosophy and design, and she is the author of The Victorian Garden and The Victorian Gardener (Shire).
Tim Richardson is a garden-writer, historian and critic, and an advisor to the National Trust on gardens.
His many books include The Arcadian Friends, Avant Gardeners, and The New English Garden.
He regularly contributes to the Daily Telegraph and Country Life.
John Watkins has been Head of Gardens and Landscape at English Heritage since 1999, and has worked on the a number of major garden and landscape projects, including Chiswick Park, Down House, Eltham Palace, Wrest Park, Bolsover Castle, Witley Court and Kenilworth Castle.
He is on the management board of Plant Network and is a Trustee of the Great Dixter Charitable Trust.
Christopher Weddell has been Senior Gardens Advisor at English Heritage since 2008, setting and monitoring the standards of garden presentation and curation at English Heritage’s garden sites, advising and supporting garden teams and property staff, and supporting garden projects at (among other places) Eltham Palace, Walmer Castle, Marble Hill, Wrest Park, and Witley Court.
He has also worked for the National Trust, for the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, and for the Royal Horticultural Society.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/research/phd-garden-history:
Course outline
The PhD in Garden History is an advanced research degree, awarded on the basis of a thesis and an oral viva voce examination.
There is an enormously broad range of possible thesis subjects in Garden History, ranging from the history of garden design and the creation of particular gardens through to evolving attitudes towards nature and its relationship to the built environment, the Sublime and the Picturesque, and the critical assessment of garden-designers and their work, from Charles Bridgeman and William Kent to Geoffrey Jellicoe and Russell Page.
Given sufficient evidence to illuminate it, almost any aspect of the history of gardens and their creators may potentially form an appropriate focus of study.
PhD students are expected to attend the Humanities Research Institute’s graduate Research Days in their area of research.
These Research Days provide an opportunity for PhD students to share their work with their peers, and to engage with visiting experts in their field.
Study period
Supervision
More information
Enquiries should be directed in the first instance to our Admissions Team, at humanitiespg-admissions@buckingham.ac.uk .
It is usually also possible to speak with the Course Director Dr Twigs Way , in advance of submitting your application: please contact our Admissions Team to arrange this.
In addition to Garden History, we also offer a variety of other PhD programmes .
However, age is usually an irrelevancy.
Mature students
International students
English levels
Selection process
Candidates apply online, sending in their supporting documents, and will be assessed on this basis by the Course Directors in Garden History.
For help in applying, please contact the Admissions Office at humanitiespg-admissions@buckingham.ac.uk .
Student Contract for prospective students
Further details are available online: Read the Student Contract.
The length of the dissertation should not be fewer than 70,000 words and no longer than 80,000 words of text (excluding the thesis-abstract, appendices, footnotes, tables, and bibliography).

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/research/phd-history:
The PhD in History offers you the opportunity to study history at an advanced level through independent and original research.
The PhD in History is an advanced research degree, awarded on the basis of a thesis and an oral viva voce examination.
There is an enormously broad range of possible thesis subjects in History, and the University possesses a wide variety of experts who are able to supervise in topics ranging from antiquity to the early twenty-first century.
Given sufficient evidence to illuminate it, almost any aspect of history may potentially form an appropriate focus of study.
PhD students are expected to attend the Humanities Research Institute’s graduate Research Days in their area of research – usually one per Term – and are encouraged to attend other seminars that may be relevant to their research.
Members of the academic staff who are available to undertake supervision in the field of the field of historical studies:
Professor John Adamson , Founder-Director of the Humanities Research Institute and Professor of Modern History, for Tudor and Stuart History.
Clive Aslet, Senior Research Fellow, for the History of Architecture.
Dr Adriano Aymonino , Senior Lecturer in the History of Art, for Early Modern European Art and Cultural History.
Dr Susanna Avery-Quash, Senior Research Fellow, for the History of Art.
Dr Andrew Boyd, CMG, Research Fellow in Modern History, for 20th-century Naval History.
Sir Rodric Braithwaite , GCMG, Professorial Fellow in Diplomacy and International Affairs, for Russian History
Ms Maureen Cassidy-Geiger, Senior Research Fellow, for the History of the Decorative Arts, particularly in the German states in the 17th and 18th centuries.
Professor Lloyd Clark , Professorial Fellow in Modern War Studies and Course Director in Modern War Studies; Research Director, Centre for Army Leadership; for 20th-century Military History.
Professor John Cottingham, Professorial Research Fellow in Philosophy and Honorary Fellow of St John’s College, University of Oxford, for the History of Philosophy and the History of Ideas.
Ben Cowell, OBE, Senior Research Fellow in Country House Studies.
Director General of Historic Houses (formerly the Historic Houses Association), for the History of the Country House.
Dr Judith Flanders , Senior Research Fellow, for 19th-century Social History.
Professor Simon Heffer [2018], Professorial Fellow in Modern British History, for 19th- and 20th-century British Political and Social History.
Dr Mike Humphries , Lecturer in History, for British Imperial History.
Professor Jeremy Jennings, Chevalier dans l’Ordre des Palmes Académiques (Fr.), Professorial Research Fellow in Political Theory; Visiting Professor, Fondation Nationale des Sciences Politiques, Paris; for the History of 19th- and 20th-century France; the History of Ideas, particularly Tocqueville.
Dr Thomas Jones , Senior Lecturer in History, for Modern British and European History, and Intellectual History.
Major General Ben Kite, OBE, Research Fellow in Military History, for 20th-century Military History.
Paul Lay, Senior Research Fellow in Early Modern British History, for 17th-century Britain, especially in the Cromwellian period.
Dr Andrew Lownie, Senior Research Fellow in Modern British History, for 20th-century History of the British Monarchy; Biography.
Dr Lindsay Macnaughton , Lecturer in Art History, for French Cultural History.
Dr David Marsh, Senior Research Fellow in Garden History, for research in Garden History and Landscape.
Dr Stuart Mitchell, Senior Research Fellow in Military History (and Faculty Member, Department of War Studies, Royal Military Academy, Sandhurst), on 20th-century History of Warfare.
Professor Tessa Murdoch, FSA, Professorial Research Fellow in Cultural History, for the History of the Decorative Arts, Huguenot History.
Jeremy Musson, FSA, Senior Research Fellow in History of Architecture, for the History of Western Architecture.
Michael Prodger , Senior Research Fellow in the History of Art, for Art History from the 18th to the 20th centuries.
Dr Glyn Redworth, Senior Research Fellow in Early Modern History, for Tudor History, Anglo-Spanish relations in the 16th century.
Dr Dalibor Roháč, Senior Research Fellow in Politics and International Relations, for the History of the European Union.
Dr David Scott, Senior Research Fellow in Early Modern History, for Stuart Political History, the History of Parliament.
Professor Gary Sheffield , Professor of Military History, for 19th- and 20th-century Military History.
Professor Robin Simon, FSA, Professorial Fellow in the History of Art, for the History of Portraiture, especially in 18th-century Britain.
Professor Matthias Strohn , Visiting Professor in Military Studies, for German Military History.
Dr Christopher Thompson [2007], Senior Research Fellow in Early Modern History.
Professor Adrian Tinniswood [2014], OBE, Professorial Research Fellow in British Cultural History, for British Social and Architectural History.
Professor Mark Wilson Jones [2020], Visiting Professor in the History of Architecture, for the History of Ancient Architecture, Greek and Roman.
The University of Buckingham has a flourishing research culture and each year the Faculty offers over one hundred seminars by visiting scholars in the field of History, any one of which is open to graduate students in History, irrespective of their own choice of specialism.
The majority of seminars are offered in the University’s London bases, but a number are also offered in Buckingham.
Many of the seminars are followed by a working dinner with the speaker (the cost of which, where relevant, is included in the fees).
Prospective students should consult their intended supervisor for further information about these.
Enquiries should be directed in the first instance to the Office for Postgraduate Admissions via humanitiespg-admissions@buckingham.ac.uk .
Age is usually an irrelevancy and The University of Buckingham’s current doctoral students range in age from those in their twenties to those in their seventies.
For help in applying, please contact Mrs Lin Robinson in the Admissions Office on humanitiespg-admissions@buckingham.ac.uk She can also arrange for you to discuss your research proposal informally with the Course Directors in advance of your submitting the formal application.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/research/ma-history-by-research:
This London-based MA offers guidance from our expert historians and a vast span of potential research subject areas.
This London-based degree enables students to study a historical subject of their own choosing (under guidance), and culminates in the production of a substantial dissertation based on original research.
The MA History by Research is therefore intended to give students the opportunity to explore their historical interests in depth, even where these are in areas not necessarily covered in the University’s other MA programmes.
The academic year begins in October with classes on how to undertake archival research, how to plan and structure a dissertation successfully, and on the many online resources that are available to assist in historical research.
Specialist classes are also offered on palaeography (the study of historic handwriting) to enable students to read contemporary manuscripts with speed and accuracy.
Throughout, the student develops a close intellectual relationship with their supervisors, with whom one-to-one tutorials are regularly carried out.
Tutorials and classes will normally take place at The University of Buckingham’s London offices at 51 Gower Street, Bloomsbury, WC1E 6HJ, very close to the British Museum, the British Library, and the Institute of Historical Research.
Teaching on Buckingham’s MA in History is remarkably tailored to your needs.
Students develop their research proposals collaboratively with their supervisors, with whom they meet regularly throughout the year.
Tuition is therefore personalized and frequent, ensuring that students are able to develop their ideas to their full potential.
For most, however, the definition of a research proposal is usually a gradual process, with the student starting with a general area of interest, and then focusing on a more closely defined topic as a result of further reading and consultation, usually with their supervisor.
Every master’s student in School of Humanities is supported by two supervisors.
Full-time students see their supervisor for one-to-one supervisions no less than twice a term.
Members of the academic staff who are available to undertake supervision in the field of historical studies:
The MA History by Research is awarded solely on the basis of a 25,000 word dissertation, excluding notes and references.
The relationship between the student and their supervisor is therefore crucial, and students will meet regularly with their supervisor for one-to-one discussions in which they plan, develop, and review the dissertation.
The research and writing of the dissertation will impart the skills necessary for the student to work as an independent researcher and writer.
These skills are crucial for those wishing to undertake PhD-level study and are also valued by non-academic employers.
Students wishing to proceed to the PhD may start afresh with a new topic, or may apply at the end of their first year for ‘upgrading’ to PhD status.
Where this is granted, the student’s year of MA-related research can be counted as the first year of the three years of full-time study required for the PhD.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/research/phd-history-of-art:
Our history of arts programmes will help you develop skills of critical and historical analysis across the visual arts.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/research/ma-history-of-art-renaissance-to-modernism-by-research:
The University of Buckingham’s Master’s programme in the History of Art offers the opportunity to pursue research at Master’s level in any one of a wide range of art historical topics: from explorations of individual artists, to examinations of styles, themes, movements and the role of art in society across the centuries.
Individual research topics are closely focused; but the approach of the course is to encourage students to investigate the interconnections between art’s multiple facets and roles.
Recent dissertations have surveyed, for example, the role of modern church art, the links between three twentieth-century female sculptors, Caravaggio’s biblical understanding, the origins of the Official War Artists scheme during the First World War, and art commissioned by the East India Company.
Although original research it the prime focus of the programme, there is also a strongly collegial aspect to the course, as all research students meet regularly throughout the year for a series of early-evening seminars by some of the most distinguished scholars working in the history of early-modern England.
The seminars are held in the Society of Antiquaries, Burlington House, Piccadilly, W1J 0BE , and provide an opportunity for students to meet and debate with the visiting speaker.
Each seminar is followed by a working dinner at a nearby restaurant at which discussion continues.
(The full seminar programme is given below.)
Tutorials and classes will normally take place at the University of Buckingham’s London offices at 51 Gower Street, Bloomsbury, WC1E 6HJ, very close to the British Museum.
The Course Director, Michael Prodger , is available to offer advice to prospective students who would like to discuss possible subjects for their research before they apply.
These seminars, which are chaired by Michael Prodger, take place in the Society of Antiquaries, Burlington House, Piccadilly, W1J 0BE, in central London (see below for further details).
There is then a short break for pre-dinner drinks and the group reconvenes at 8:15 pm for a three-course dinner with wine, during which the historical discussion continues.
Proceedings usually end at 10 pm.
The seminar programme offers a broadly chronological survey of Western art from the late fifteenth century to the late twentieth, enabling students to place their own individual research within the broader context of developments in art history since the Renaissance.
For those taking the course as Associate Students, this seminar programme may be enjoyed as a self-contained survey.
This coming year’s seminars explore a broad range of topics, ranging from Leonardo and Michelangelo, the spread of Caravaggism, the art of the Dutch Golden Age, the ‘long’ British eighteenth century, to Post-Impressionism and twentieth-century British art.
Location, unless otherwise stated: the Society of Antiquaries, Burlington House, Piccadilly, W1J 0BE.
The seminar programme for 2024-25 will be published close to the start of the academic year.
The University has an extensive group of scholars available to undertake supervision in the field of Art History, including:
Michael Prodger , Course Director, is art critic for the New Statesman and The Critic magazines and a regular writer on art for Apollo, The Times and Sunday Times, and The Guardian.
He is a former literary editor and Booker Prize judge.
Dr Susanna Avery-Quash , for supervision in the history of private and public art collections, especially the National Gallery; the trends in artistic taste; and the evolution of the art market.
Dr Adriano Aymonino FSA for the history of the Classical tradition, particularly in the eighteenth century; the history of collecting; the relationship between historical scholarship and the visual arts.
Sir Nicholas Penny FBA FSA , Renaissance art; European sculpture from the High Renaissance to the present day; the reception of Antiquity and the history of taste.
“The University of Buckingham’s MA in the History of Art is an academically rigorous and highly rewarding post-graduate programme.
I came to it as a practising artist looking for a new set of challenges.
Attending first as an Associate student the lectures were inspirational.
My interest in the modern was informed by a set of brilliant contextualizing lectures spanning the history of great art from the Renaissance onwards
The convenience and splendour of the central London location and the opportunity to debate issues over dinner with distinguished tutors set this course apart from anything I had previously experienced.
So much so that I came back as an MA student the next year – and thoroughly enjoyed the course again, making good friends from a fascinatingly varied and able cohort.
Importantly, I was brilliantly well supported throughout my research and the dissertation writing process by the ablest and motivational of personal tutors.
Studying History of Art at Buckingham was, without a doubt, the best educational experience of my life, and I commend the course to you: it is beyond excellent.” – James Broomfield
“For me this course for me was inspiring, enabling flexible and in-depth study of my chosen research topic together with excellent support and critical analysis from expert supervisors.
There was also regular stimulating engagement, informal debate and the exchange of ideas with fellow research students throughout the course, either meeting in central London or virtually.
The guest lecturers, leading specialists in their field, were superb and overall they brought the breadth and range of art history from renaissance to modernism brilliantly to life, with thought-provoking insights and cogently argued contextualisation.
The course was welcoming and inclusive for all its students and I found that the range of art-history topics addressed was ideal for the intellectually curious and for those who wish to become more visually literate.” – Suzanne Phillips
“The University of Buckingham MA in History of Art, gave me the opportunity to attend a series of lectures by world-class art historians.
The original format of the course which includes a post-lecture dinner, creates an informal, less intimidating atmosphere encouraging truly inspiring interaction with the lecturers.
The support and encouragement from the Course Director and the supervisory team nurtured my research and academic skills during the writing of the dissertation, making my MA a life-enriching and enormously stimulating experience.” – Gabriella Lecis

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/research/phd-history-of-modern-europe:
The PhD in Modern European History is an advanced research degree, awarded on the basis of a thesis and an oral viva voce examination.
There is an enormously broad range of possible thesis subjects in Modern European History, ranging from high politics and international diplomacy to social relations and material culture in any part of the continent from the eve of the French Revolution to the end of the Cold War.
Given sufficient evidence to illuminate it, almost any aspect of the history of Modern Europe may potentially form an appropriate focus of study.
Members of the academic staff who are available to undertake supervision in the field of the History of Modern Europe include:
Sir Rodric Braithwaite – Sir Rodric is a historian of twentieth century Russia and the Soviet Union.
A former diplomat and foreign policy advisor, he has brought his considerable international experience to bear on his academic work, which ranges from the history of Moscow to the doomed 1979 Soviet invasion of Afghanistan.
Dr Michael Humphries – Dr Humphries is a political and economic historian with a focus on European empires and nationalist movements in the modern era.
His work includes publications on patriotism and the study of elite political networks.
Professor Jeremy Jennings – Professor Jennings is a historian of modern France.
He has written widely on the development of the liberal tradition in France and on the long and complex legacies of the French Revolution.
His current work is on the journeys of the nineteenth-century French politician Alexis de Tocqueville in America.
Dr Thomas C.
Jones – Dr Jones is a historian of western Europe in the modern era.
His work, often international in its scope, has engaged with subjects ranging from the course and legacies of the revolutions of 1848 to the international politics of immigration from the eighteenth century to the First World War.
For help in applying, please contact the Admissions Office via humanitiespg-admissions@buckingham.ac.uk .
They can also arrange for you to discuss your research proposal informally with the Course Directors in advance of your submitting the formal application.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/research/phd-history-of-nineteenth-century-britain:
The PhD in Nineteenth-Century British History is an advanced research degree, awarded on the basis of a thesis and an oral viva voce examination.
There is an enormously broad range of possible thesis subjects in Nineteenth-Century British History, including the era’s rapid and disorienting transformation of economic and social life, its literary and scientific brilliance or cultural and religious uncertainty, or its halting and uneven but increasingly unmistakeable development of a form of political democracy.
Given sufficient evidence to illuminate it, almost any aspect of the history of Nineteenth-Century Britain may potentially form an appropriate focus of study.
Members of the academic staff who are available to undertake supervision in the field of the History of Nineteenth-Century Britain include:
Professor John Drew is a literary scholar and founder and director of the Dickens Journals Online project .
Alongside his work on Dickens, he is a notable expert on the nineteenth century press and print culture in Britain.
Dr Judith Flanders is a social historian of nineteenth century Britain.
She has published acclaimed works on Victorian domesticity, on the rise of the commercialised leisure industry, and on cultural fixations on crime and murder.
Professor Simon Heffer is a journalist, historian, and biographer.
Combining his experience in these fields, he has published several imposing syntheses of the political, economic, and cultural history of Britain in the middle and late Victorian eras.
Dr Michael Humphries is a political and economic historian of Britain and its empire in the nineteenth- and twentieth-centuries.
He has published work on patriotism and national identity in the late-Victorian and Edwardian eras.
Jones is a political and intellectual historian of modern Britain, with a particular interest in Britain’s international context and the history of migration.
He is currently writing a history of the longue durée of political and religious asylum in Britain.
Dr Hazel Mackenzie is a literary scholar and expert on nineteenth-century Britain’s press and print culture.
She has published on Dickens, George Eliot, and the journalistic profession and is a Senior Editor of the Dickens Journals Online .
Dr Pete Orford is a literary scholar.
A noted expert on Charles Dickens, his research interests span widely across nineteenth century literature, from the travel writing of the era to the birth of the science fiction genre.
Dr Frances Wilson is a biographer whose work has a particular focus on the great literary figures of the long nineteenth century.
She has published work on figures like D.
H.
Lawrence, Thomas de Quincey, and Dorothy Wordsworth.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/research/ma-in-the-history-of-western-architecture-by-research:
The University of Buckingham’s Master’s programme in the History of Western Architecture enables appropriately qualified students to undertake expertly supervised research in an area of European or American architectural history from the Renaissance to the end of the twentieth century.
Individual research topics are closely focused; but the approach of the course is to encourage students to investigate the broader cultural, intellectual, and social environments of which architecture is part, and, where appropriate, to consider questions of patronage, iconography, and interior as well as exterior design.
Recent dissertations have surveyed, for example, the Baroque mural in English country house decoration; the Gothic Revival as exemplified by the architect Anthony Salvin; and the relationship between garden design and architecture in the course of the eighteenth century.
The seminars are held in the Reform Club, 104 Pall Mall, St James’s, London SW1Y 5EW, and provide an opportunity for students to meet and debate with the visiting speaker.
Each seminar is followed by a working dinner at which discussion continues.
The academic year begins in October with classes on how to undertake archival research, how to plan and structure a dissertation successfully, and on the many online resources that are available to assist in historical research in architectural history.
For most, however, the definition of a research proposal is¬ usually a gradual process, with the student starting with a general area of interest, and then focusing on a more closely defined topic as a result of further reading and consultation, usually with the Course Director.
Enquiries about research topics should be addressed in the first instance to Professor John Adamson, the Director of London Programmes, who is available to offer advice to prospective students who would like to discuss possible subjects for their research before they apply.
He can be reached directly by email at john.adamson@buckingham.ac.uk
Private research and supervision are complemented by a rich programme of seminars which give students direct access to some of the United Kingdom’s most distinguished scholars in the field of architectural history.
For details of the seminars for 2024-25, please contact that Director of London Programmes, Professor John Adamson.
The University has an extensive group of scholars available to undertake supervision in the field of architectural history, including:
Dr Adriano Aymonino FSA , for the Classical tradition; Robert Adam; the reception of the Antique in eighteenth- and nineteenth-century Britain and Europe.
Dr Ben Cowell OBE FSA , for nineteenth- and twentieth-century British Architecture.
Professor John Simpson CVO , for the Classical tradition; the history of urbanism; twentieth-century British architecture
Professor Adrian Tinniswood OBE FSA , for research in the architecture of Sir Christopher Wren; the country house and architecture from the seventeenth century to the twentieth.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/research/phd-history-of-western-architecture:
Having a historical perspective enables people to make sense of today’s rapidly changing world and is one of the five most popular subjects.
The PhD in the History of Western Architecture is an advanced research degree, awarded on the basis of a thesis and an oral viva voce examination.
There is an enormously broad range of possible thesis subjects in History of Western Architecture, and current dissertations in progress range from a studies of Late Antique Athens to European influence on the development of the city centre in Algiers.
Given sufficient evidence to illuminate it, almost any aspect of the History of Western Architecture may potentially form an appropriate focus of study.
Members of the academic staff who are available to undertake supervision in the field of the History of Western Architecture include Mr Clive Aslet, Professor Mark Wilson Jones, Mr Jeremy Musson, Professor John Simpson, Professor Adrian Tinniswood OBE.
Candidates apply online, sending in their supporting documents, and will be assessed on this basis by the Course Directors in PhD History of Western Architecture.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/research/phd-intellectual-history:
The PhD in Intellectual History is an advanced research degree, awarded on the basis of a thesis and an oral viva voce examination.
There is an enormously broad range of possible thesis subjects in Intellectual History, including any field of human intellectual endeavour.
This could range from the history of philosophy or the development of scientific inquiry to the formation, transformation, and practical utilization of any brand of political ideology or economic theory.
Given sufficient evidence to illuminate it, almost any aspect of the history of ideas may potentially form an appropriate focus of study.
Members of the academic staff who are available to undertake supervision in the field of the Intellectual History include:
Dr Alicja Gescinska – Dr Gescinska is a philosopher, novelist and poet.
Her academic interests pertain to political theory and continental philosophy, and she has published several acclaimed works on human agency and on the philosophical and political meanings of human freedom.
Dr Paul Graham – Dr Graham is a political theorist who has published on the work on theorists like John Rawls and Karl Heinz Boher.
His current main interests include Darwinian political theory and the relationship between technology and politics.
Professor Jeremy Jennings – Professor Jennings is a historian of French political thought.
His many publications include analyses of the development of French intellectual life in the century after the French Revolution, the development of French liberalism, and analyses of prominent thinkers like Jean-Jacques, Rousseau, Benjamin Constant, and Alexis de Tocqueville.
Jones – Dr Jones is a historian of modern European political thought, with particular interests in transnational intellectual exchange and the development and transformation of political ideologies over time.
He has published on nineteenth century republicanism, socialism, and anarchism and his current work engages with themes of exile, diaspora, and national and international identity.
Mikolaj Slawkowski-Rode – Dr Slawkowski-Rode is a philosopher and intellectual historian.
He is happy to supervise on subjects including ancient presocratic philosophy, early modern European philosophers from Descartes to Kant, and modern intellectual movements such as existentialism and phenomenology.
Enquiries should be directed in the first instance to our Admissions Officer (London Programmes), at humanitiespg-admissions@buckingham.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/research/phd-international-studies:
We will consider applications in all areas of International Studies (Political Theory; Political Science; International Relations), but particularly welcome applicants interested in areas that reflect the research interests of academic staff:
In addition to PhD programmes in Economics, International Studies and Security and Intelligence Studies , the University offers other Humanities and Social Science PhD programmes .

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/research/llm-law-by-research:
The LLM by Research requires an original contribution to the body of knowledge in a particular academic or professional discipline.
It will take approximately one year to complete with full-time study and two years of part-time study.
Applicants are normally expected to have a first or second class honours law (or law-related) degree or significant experience in law.
We are only prepared to take on research students where we have the necessary expertise to supervise the research amongst our staff.
Therefore, you may wish to look at the research interests of our current staff .
Candidates will be required to submit a short 1500-2000 word (excluding footnotes) Research Proposal.
The Research Proposal will need to set out the proposed topic of research, and the proposed contribution the research will bring to the existing debate within the literature.
Ultimately, the Research Proposal should present the proposed USP (Unique Selling Point) of the Thesis.
Please note, we will be assessing you research potential through different methods.
Find out more about writing your Research Proposal.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/research/phd-law:
Our PhD Law programme requires an original contribution to the body of knowledge in a particular academic or professional discipline.
It will take approximately three academic years to complete with full-time study and six years of part-time study.
In addition to PhD Law, we offer a variety of other PhD programmes .

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/research/msc-mathematics-by-research:
Want a career in Mathematics research?
Our MSc Mathematics (by research) is the first step toward a Math PhD or a research position.
This programme aims to engage enthusiastic and motivated Mathematics students in innovative research, both in pure Mathematics and its applications in Computer Science.
It is designed for students with a strong background in Mathematics or closely related disciplines.
In particular, the programme serves as a valuable stepping stone for students intending to pursue PhD studies or research roles at universities and research institutes.
Some research projects within the programme will explore new directions in neural networks and artificial intelligence (AI), with potential applications in industry.
The importance of interdisciplinary research is highlighted in the UK’s Research and Development Roadmap , which encourages innovative collaborations between mathematical sciences, biomedical research, and computing technologies.
The main research areas of interest include, but are not limited to:
Throughout the programme students will interact and be encouraged to work with other researchers in the University of Buckingham and other leading research universities in the UK.
The students based on their research project would be part of research networks such as BPGMTC, SEEMOD and Data Science groups such as TMLI (Centre for Topological Machine learning and Innovative).
For projects with computing aspects, some existing taught Computing modules would be available for students according to need and in discussion with supervisors.
All research students are required to take the Research Methods module.
Applicants should normally hold a first- or second-class honours degree in Mathematics or a closely related discipline.
Highly motivated graduates from Computing or other relevant fields with strong backgrounds in Mathematics and theoretical Computer Science are also encouraged to apply.
Applicants will be invited for an initial informal discussion with the Admissions Tutor.
Shortlisted applicants later will be asked to discuss their undergraduate project or an advanced mathematics subject of their choice.
Students with degrees that are not in mathematics will be asked to provide evidence of their knowledge in mathematics.
A successful discussion will lead to the completion of an outline research proposal.
Further requirements might be asked in the selection process.
If you are an international applicant, it may not be possible for you to visit in person, so the process would take place online.
Our Admissions Team will be happy to answer any questions you may have, call us on +44 (0)1280 820227.
This programme is designed to prepare students to join research institutes and universities for PhD programmes.
Pivotal role of Mathematics in natural science is long known and research in pure mathematics is an important part of research activity of every university.
We provide an environment for students to engage in innovative and mainstream research with us, which will eventually enable them to pursue research careers in universities and research centres.
In recent years, various industries have embraced Mathematics graduates to work as part of their research teams.
Mathematics graduates with a rigorous background in pure Mathematics have shown to be more flexible and creative.
Familiarity with abstract objects together with problem solving skills equips Mathematics graduates’ special capabilities that the innovative industry appreciates the most.
Mathematics graduates in many research teams in industries such as bioinformatics, various parts of Artificial Intelligence, Cybersecurity, Banking and Finance and Insurance are present and demanded.
We would consider adjusting research projects in certain subjects, for students that are particularly pursuing careers in research teams in industry.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/research/ma-military-history-by-research:
The University of Buckingham’s Master’s programme in Military History offers the opportunity to pursue research in any one of a wide range of topics ranging in time from the campaigns of the Duke of Marlborough in the early eighteenth-century through to the end of the Second World War.
The majority of students have tended to opt for subjects ranging from the Boer War to 1945, but theses addressing the Napoleonic campaigns, naval warfare in the nineteenth century, and the role of the military in the expansion of the British and other European empires have also figured prominently.
Themes have ranged from the social impact of war to the biographies of leading combatants, the operational and tactical development of armies to the international, strategic and political dimensions of military history.
The Financial Times has reviewed the course enthusiastically, noting that ‘Intellectually curious professionals are signing up for a new course that gives them the opportunity to exchange thoughts on security, diplomacy and the armed forces over dinner with stellar historians and military top brass’.
Individual research topics are of course closely focused; but the approach of the course is to encourage students to consider military history as something more than the analysis of particular campaigns and to consider factors like politics, culture and society.
Although original research is the prime focus of the programme, there is also a strongly collegial aspect to the course, as all research students meet regularly throughout the year for a series of early-evening seminars by some of the most distinguished scholars working in the field of Military History.
The seminars are held in the Caledonian Club, Belgravia, London, and provide an opportunity for students to meet and debate with the visiting speaker.
The academic year begins in October with classes on how to undertake archival research, how to plan and structure a dissertation successfully, and on the many online resources that are available to assist in historical research in Military History.
The Course Directors, Professor Gary Sheffield and Dr Stuart Mitchell, are available to offer advice to prospective students who would like to discuss possible subjects for their research before they apply.
They can be reached directly by email at gary.sheffield@buckingham.ac.uk and stuart.mitchell@buckingham.ac.uk
Note: students interested in pursuing research in Military History topics after 1945 should apply for the MA in Modern War Studies and Contemporary Military History.
Private research and supervision are complemented by a rich programme of seminars which give students direct access to some of the United Kingdom’s most distinguished scholars working in the field of Military History.
The seminar meets regularly between October and March in handsome accommodation at the Caledonian Club, 9 Halkin Street, London SW1X 7DR – just off Belgrave Square.
This coming year’s seminars explore a broad variety of topics, ranging from the Peninsular War (1808-1814), through Colonial Warfare of the 19th Century, to the American Civil War and warfare’s later development during the two World Wars.
Speakers include Dr Kate Vigurs, who will talk about the Special Operations Executive; Professor Richard Overy who will discuss the bombing of Japan and its surrender in the Second World War; while Professor Hew Strachan will be talking about how history can inform our understanding of war today.
Location, unless otherwise stated, is the Caledonian Club, 9 Halkin Street, London SW1X 7DR.
Please note that the two seminars marked with an asterisk will take place at the Humanities Research Institute, London Office, 51 Gower St, London WC1E 6HJ.
6 October 2025 Professor Jonathan Boff (The University of Birmingham), ‘Versailles 1919 and the Economic Consequences of the Peace’
*20 October 2025 (HRI London Office, Gower Street) Professor Gary Sheffield (The University of Buckingham), ‘Combat Motivation in the World Wars’
3 November 2025, 10:00-17:00 Society of Antiquaries, Burlington House, Piccadilly, London W1J 0BE Induction Day for New Research Students in the Humanities Please note that attendance at the Induction Day seminars is compulsory for all first-year research students.
3 November 2025 (Caledonian Club,  9 Halkin Street) Dr Rachel Blackman-Rogers (King’s College, London), ‘Navies in the French Revolutionary Wars’
17 November 2025 Professor Jeremy Black (Emeritus, University of Exeter), ‘The War of 1812 in the Napoleonic Context’
2 December 2025 Dr Spencer Jones (University of Wolverhampton), ‘From Boer War to World War, Tactical Reform of the British Army 1902-1914’
19 January 2026 Dr Adam Storring (King’s College London), ‘Warfare in the 18 th Century’
2 February 2026 Dr Victoria Taylor (Independent Scholar), ‘The Bombing of Dresden, 13 – 15 February 1945’
*16 February 2026 (HRI London Office, Gower Street) Dr Stuart Mitchell (University of Buckingham), ‘The Malayan Emergency 1948 – 1960’
2 March 2026 TBC
16 March 2026 Professor Sir Hew Strachan (University of St Andrews), ‘How do Wars End?’ A joint event for Military History, Modern War Studies and Twentieth Century British History Programmes.
2 April 2026, 14:00-18:00 Vinson Building and the Humanities Research Institute, University of Buckingham.
Military History Research Day Note: The programme for the Research Day, which will include presentations by current doctoral students and visiting academics, will be published in the Spring Term.
The University has an extensive group of scholars available to undertake supervision in the fields Military History, including:
Professor Gary Sheffield FRHistS FSAHR , Course Co-Director, is Professor of Military History at the University of Buckingham and Visiting Professor at King’s College London.
He has published widely on military history, especially the British Army in the First World War, and is currently working on a book for Yale University Press entitled Civilian Armies: The Experience of British and Dominion Soldiers in the Two World Wars.
Dr Stuart Mitchell , Course Co-Director, is a Senior Research Fellow at the Humanities Research Institute, University of Buckingham.
He is also Senior Lecturer in the Department of War Studies at the Royal Military Academy Sandhurst.
He has published on conventional and irregular warfare between 1914 and 1918, strategy in the two World Wars, and learning in the British military since the Napoleonic War.
His latest book, Counterinsurgency: Theory and Reality, was co-authored with Dr Daniel Whittingham and published in 2021.
He has appeared on a variety of podcasts, videos and programmes.
Dr Spencer Jones the British Armed Forces in the Nineteenth and Twentieth Century.
Dr Jonathan Carroll military history in the twentieth century.
Dr Matthias Strohn for research in German military history since the Thirty Years War.
“I found Buckingham’s MA in Military History by Research a very rewarding experience.
After a business career in the technology sector I was able to finally devote some time to my passion for Military History.
The task seemed daunting at first as it had been a long time since I was last in education and I had no knowledge of how to conduct historical research.
However, the introductory course of lectures provided a solid study framework and detailed follow up discussions with my tutor enabled me to focus in on a specific historical area of interest and, more importantly, identify a particular question that needed answering.
The research-based nature of the course means at this point you embark on a solo process of discovery.
Reading the existing literature and sifting the archives, both online and in person, you follow leads and gradually piece together the parts of your chosen puzzle.
The course is demanding and academically rigorous with a high standard of work expected.
However, the tutors are excellent and always there to support and guide your progress and check your work is of the required standard.
Writing the dissertation is challenging but once completed it is a very satisfying feeling to know you have contributed to the historiography and understanding of your chosen area.
Whilst most students in my intake took the one-year full-time course I undertook the two-year part-time route and found it allowed me the time and space to investigate my chosen specialist area and really enjoy the whole process without pressure.
If you have the time, it may be an option to consider.
If undertaking a Master’s currently seems too much of a commitment I would highly recommend becoming an Associate, just to attend the MA course’s accompanying series of illuminating evening events hosted by the Course Director.
Each evening involves a standalone lecture given by an eminent historian followed by a dinner and conversation.
It is highly enjoyable to spend time in the company of a diverse group of people with a common passion and to be able to talk to some of the biggest names in Military History.
Even though I have completed my Masters I intend to be an associate for many years to come!”
– Andrew Thompson, Master’s (distinction), 2021
“The MA by Research in Military History at the University of Buckingham offers students the opportunity to channel their passion and intellectual curiosity into an academic endeavour full of reward.
The research seminars delivered by Professor Saul David equip the student early on with a solid foundation to build on, along with a road map to begin drawing out one’s chosen topic.
Accompanying these are lectures from speakers at the apex of their field, which are both informative and inspiring, set within a comfortable environment conducive to open debate.
Moreover, the student support at Buckingham is second to none, with administrators on hand to answer any questions and avoid any pitfalls emerging, along with librarians available to assist in seeking out rare books.
Taken together, the MA by Research in Military History guarantees a unique experience and provides the necessary tools to succeed.
I thoroughly enjoyed the course and found the whole experience both character building and rewarding.
It provided an excellent platform to develop a keen interest into an extensive academic project, under the watchful eyes of expert supervision.
I look forward to my next project within this space.”
– Scott Sherriff, Master’s (distinction), 2020
“I completed the one-year Research MA in Military History in 2012 and subsequently went on to complete a PhD also at The University of Buckingham.
Like most students, I embarked on the MA course with a longstanding interest in military history but little understanding of the skills and disciplines involved in academic research.
The unique and exciting quality of the Buckingham programme is that it enables an interested amateur as I certainly was then to tackle a historical question that is entirely new and to produce a work that can withstand rigorous professional scrutiny within an incredibly short timescale.
If the opportunity provided by the Buckingham course is exciting, its strength lies in the way it combines three elements which support and guide the student.
The first is a well-crafted introduction to research techniques backed by exercises to develop research and writing skills.
This element is relevant and practical and it is adjusted to the needs of the individual.
The second is the series of general interest lectures over the first half of the year all provided by first rank historians.
These expose students to new historical problems and the latest research and the format over dinner allows genuinely stimulating debate.
They provide invaluable context for the student’s individual work.
However, the critical element that stands out at Buckingham is the quality of the individual guidance and supervision in selecting a research topic and then executing successive stages.
I cannot rate too highly the individual supervision that I and my fellow students received.
I think PhD students at the best universities would count themselves fortunate to receive the tailored support of this quality and care and not least time from some of the best historians in the United Kingdom.
I would also like to commend the general administration of the Buckingham MA programme.
It is a complex programme with diverse students with different requirements, a complex lecture programme and no dedicated Buckingham owned site in London.
Yet the execution from logistics around successive lectures through to the examination of the final thesis and the monitoring of academic standards was close to perfect.”
– Dr Andrew Boyd, PhD, 2015

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/research/phd-military-history:
Modern War Studies and Military History courses are ideal programmes to exchange thoughts on security, diplomacy and the armed forces.
The PhD in Military History is an advanced research degree, awarded on the basis of a thesis and an oral viva voce examination.
There is an enormously broad range of possible thesis subjects in Military History, ranging from the study of particular engagements, commanders, or regiments, to the social, cultural, and political implications of war.
Given sufficient evidence to illuminate it, almost any aspect of the history of war and military conflict may potentially form an appropriate focus of study.
It is usually also possible to speak with the Co-Course Director Dr Stuart Mitchell in advance of submitting your application by emailing stuart.mitchell@buckingham.ac.uk
Further information about the range of seminar topics and speakers for the coming year can be found in the downloadable brochure which can be found below.
Candidates apply online, sending in their supporting documents, and will be assessed on this basis by the Course Directors in Military History.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/research/phd-military-history-by-published-works:
Candidates seeking a Doctorate by Published Works in Military History must be University of Buckingham graduates or members of staff.
Graduates of other universities seeking to obtain a Doctorate by Published Work should contact the university from which they graduated.
The candidate must submit published scholarly work which gives clear proof of a significant and original contribution to the knowledge of the discipline.
This contribution should consist of the discovery of new knowledge in the field of Military History, or the exercise of a new and independent critical approach, e.g.
the connection of previously unrelated facts, the development of new theory, or the revision of previously held views.
The candidate must show, by means of a 20,000 word commentary on the submitted work and in a viva (oral examination), that they appreciate the relationship of their special work to a wider field of knowledge.
Registration will be for a period of one year (full-time) or two years (part-time), during which time the candidate will have regular supervisions with the Supervisor and be guided in accordance with the same process and provision as if registered for a PhD by research programme.
During the period of study, the candidate will have regular supervisions with the Supervisor and be guided in accordance with the same process and provision as if registered for a PhD by research programme (at least twice per term if full-time, or once per term if part-time).
Members of the academic staff who are available to undertake supervision in the field of the field of Military History include:
Sir Rodric Braithwaite, GCMG, Professorial Fellow in Diplomacy and International Affairs, for Cold War History
Professor Simon Heffer , Professor of Modern British History, for 19th- and 20th-century Military History.
The degree of PhD by Published Work may be conferred on: (a) graduates of this university of not less than five years standing; (b) graduates of another university of not less than five years standing who have also held an appointment as a member of staff of this university for at least two years; (c) graduates of another university of not less than five years standing who have also held a Fellowship of this university for at least two years.
At the end of the registration period, the submission for the degree will be delivered to the Research Administrator, and will comprise:
(a) A list of the published works upon which the application is based.
The list should indicate whether and with what result any of the works have previously been submitted for any degree of any university or awarding body (b) A supporting 20,000 word commentary indicating the area of knowledge to which the published work relates and the ways in which it makes a significant and original contribution to learning meriting the award of the degree (c) Where any of the works submitted have been produced jointly with others, a written statement signed by the other contributors to the works concerned indicating the share which the candidate took personally in the work (d) The published works upon which the application is based (e) A curriculum vitae
The works submitted as part of the application must be published and freely available.
Unpublished work, or material in the course of being published, will not be accepted.
Work which has been successfully submitted for the award of a degree at this or any other university or awarding body can only be considered as supporting material explaining the context or background to other works submitted.
All works submitted shall be written in English, except where the prior approval of the University Research Committee has been given for the submission of work in another language.
There shall be three Examiners for the degree, at least two of whom shall be External Examiners.
In the first instance, a person wishing to pursue the Doctorate in Military History by Published Work should submit an application through this website, including, in place of the usual research proposal, a summary of their published work and an explanation of how it meets the criteria for the award.
This application will be forwarded for consideration to the Research Officer responsible for Military History.
If the application is approved, the Research Officer will identify a supervisory team (of First and Second Supervisors), who will be appointed for the term of study and be responsible for providing assistance to the student in preparing the submission for the degree.
The fee shall be equivalent to that prevailing for the PhD in Military History.
For help in applying, please contact the Humanities Admissions Office on humanitiespg-admissions@buckingham.ac.uk There are four entry points during the year, at the start of the University’s four academic terms.
Further details can be found in the University’s Research Degrees Handbook , Section 1.3.
For help in applying, please contact the Humanities Admissions Office on humanitiespg-admissions@buckingham.ac.uk
There are four entry points during the year, at the start of the University’s four academic terms.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/research/phd-modern-war-studies:
We offer PhDs by research in Military History, Modern War Studies and Contemporary Military History at our London office.
“We must continually ask questions of the past, even the most recent past, because it holds the key to the future.
History must be handled carefully of course, for it is trained experts that must provide the intellectual underpinning for decisions taken by politicians and the senior leaders of the Armed Forces.
We need more research and Defence must work ever more closely with academics if we are to make sense of our complex world and so provide practical solutions to knotty problems.
We need to know what to change, how to change, when to change and why.
We also need to know what not to change.
These are not questions for the ill-informed.”
Field Marshal The Lord Bramall, former Chief of the Defence Staff, in an interview with PhD programme director, Professor Lloyd Clark.
The University of Buckingham’s PhD in Modern War Studies and Contemporary Military History seeks to provide the trained minds to which Field Marshal the Lord Bramall was referring, and our programme flourishes with doctoral students currently drawn from four continents and with graduates making their mark around the world.
In a world of uncertainty and rapid change, there has never been a more important time to understand why war and how wars are fought, and their influence on politics, economics, society and culture.
The PhD programme is based in London, but its students can be located wherever their research demands and there is a choice full time or part time study.
For those based in the UK, full use can be made of well-established relationships with some of the most important research facilities and institutions in the country including:
While at The University of Buckingham, students can also enjoy access to:
All PhD students benefit from:
Location: Humanities Research Institute, 51 Gower Street, London WC1E
Time: 10:00am – 4:00pm
Date: Saturday 27 September 2025
Location: Society of Antiquaries of London, Burlington House, Piccadilly, W1J 0BE
Time: 10:00am – 5:00pm
Date: Monday 3 November 2025
Seminar Location: Army and Navy Club, 36-39 Pall Mall, St.
James’s.
London SW1Y 5JN
Time: Seminars take place from 6.00pm and are followed by dinner.
22 October 2025: Dr Rob Lyman (Author and historian), Everything we thought we knew about the Korean War, but didn’t’
19 November 2025: Dr Anisa Heritage (Department of International Affairs, RMAS), ‘The US Unleashed: US hegemony under Trump’
21 January 2026: Professor Jim Storr (Consultant and author), ‘Towards a Theory of War’
18 February 2026: Dr Paddy Walker (Author and Associate Fellow, RUSI), ‘Developments in drone technology and challenges to the development of autonomous weapons systems’
18 March 2026: Dr Simon Anglim (Department of War Studies, King’s College London), The British Army in the 2020’s: Hope versus Reality’
Study Day Location: The Royal Military Academy, Sandhurst, Camberley, Surrey GU15 4PQ
Time: 09:30am – 16:00pm
Date: Saturday 16 May 2026
Speakers:
Professor Lloyd Clark (The University of Buckingham and Centre for Army Leadership), ‘Raids and Raiding from land and sea: The Origins of a Demanding Capability’
Professor Matthias Strohn (The University of Buckingham and Centre for Historical Analysis and Conflict Research), ‘Phoenix from the ashes?’ The German military and its role since 1945’
WO2 Paul Barnes (Warfare Branch, Land Warfare Centre), ‘Building an Army: A Doctrinal Approach’
Dr Alanoud Alsharekh (Associate Fellow, Chatham House) ‘Observations of the Arab Spring from the Gulf Cooperation Council’
Current supervisors include:
Dr Andrew Boyd – 20 th Century naval history and new security challenges
Professor Lloyd Clark – History of the British Army; military transition and change; lesson learning; leadership and command
Dr Andrew Lownie – Modern British history and espionage
Professor Sir Geoffrey Nice – Human Rights Law
Dr Ife Oakafor-Yarwood – Multidisciplinary approaches to security, the environment and maritime governance in Africa
Dr Gareth Price – Strategy, armed forces, politics and economics in south Asisa
Lieutenant Colonel (retd) Christopher Pugsley – The military history of the Australian and New Zealand armed forces
Major General (retd) William Robbins – Command, leadership and organisational culture.
Professor Matthias Strohn – History of European Armies; fighting methods; doctrine and command, counter-insurgency.
Dr Andrew Tchie – Security, stabilisation and peace operations in Africa
Dr Paddy Walker – Future warfare/rules; military ethics; military technology
Dr Aaron Edwards – Insurgency and COIN; terrorism
‘My PhD in Modern War Studies experience has been thoroughly rewarding and exceeded my expectations.
The world-class academic supervision and opportunities have been second to none, opening doors to networks, excellent research facilities and most importantly drawing out my intellectual curiosity to hone my chosen topic’.
(Scott Sherriff)
‘After years of asking myself should I undertake a PhD, I decided to investigate possible universities to undertake a potential PhD in Modern War Studies.
I approached various universities only to be given a number of different dates for an open evenings.
It was not until I contacted Buckingham that I received a warm welcome.
Within days, I talked with a potential supervisor who was willing to support my interests.
Over the past 18 months, the support from the academic community at Buckingham has been unwavering.
The opportunities you have to meet and discuss your work with experts in your field are extraordinary.
The team at Buckingham is always willing to support you and answer any questions you may have.’ (Richard Jones)
‘The Modern War Studies and Contemporary Military History PhD programme has been a formative experience that challenges students to develop their ideas and academic skills.
Access to supervisors is excellent and support from the wider academic team and library is readily available online and in-person.
The programme has been a superb experience that I can highly recommend to prospective students.’ (Claudia Harvey)
A 20% discount is available on the tuition fees for this programme to all serving members of the British Armed Forces (regardless of rank).
Approved by MOD for Enhanced Learning Credits.
Provider ID 1460
Enquiries should be directed in the first instance to Professor Lloyd Clark Lloyd.clark@buckingham.ac.uk Details can also be obtained from our Admissions Officer (London Programmes) on humanitiespg-admissions@buckingham.ac.uk .
In addition to PhD Modern War Studies, we also offer a variety of other PhD programmes .

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/research/ma-modern-war-studies-and-contemporary-military-history:
In a world of uncertainty and rapid change it is more important than ever to study why and how wars are fought.
The University of Buckingham’s highly-regarded Master’s degree in Modern War Studies and Contemporary Military History is based in London and provides students with an opportunity to pursue in-depth research into the topic of their choice under expert supervision.
The one-year (two years part time) programme starts in September with an ‘Induction and Research Skills Day’ and culminates, after a period of supervised research, with the submission of a dissertation.
During their time of study, candidates are expected to attend both a series of evening seminars held at the Army and Navy Club, Pall Mall, at which some of the most eminent names in the field present papers, and in-depth course Study Day at the Royal Military Academy Sandhurst.
This series of talks examines a range of historical subjects as well as those issues affecting modern defence in all dimensions.
For serving members of the British Armed Forces (regardless of rank) there is a discount on fees of 20%.
A six-month-long variant of this course is also available to all those who have attended the Advanced Command and Staff Course (or its international equivalent).
The seminars are held in the Army and Navy Club in Pall Mall, London, SW1, and provide an opportunity for students to meet and debate with the visiting speaker.
View the Modern War Studies prospectus
For Master’s degree candidates, the core of the programme is the writing, under supervision, of the dissertation on a subject chosen by the student in the field of Modern War Studies.
Subject to approval by the Course Director, the topic to be examined in the dissertation can address any aspect of warfare since 1945, and the precise topic is usually formulated in a process of discussion with the Course Director and the student’s supervisor.
Research does not have to be confined to British-related subjects.
Some of the themes which students may wish to examine include: political decision making; alliances; warfare and faith; the impact of critical strategic thinkers; intelligence gathering; the impact of technology on the battlefield; the development of doctrine; military-media relations; leadership; command and control; the application of force at the strategic, operational and tactical levels of war on land, sea and air; and the influence of war on non-combatants, politics, society, economies and cultures.
Current dissertation titles in progress include:
The Course Director, Professor Lloyd Clark, is available to offer advice to prospective students who would like to discuss possible subjects for their research before they apply.
He can be reached directly by email at lloyd.clark@buckingham.ac.uk
Private research and supervisions are complemented by a rich programme of seminars which give students direct access to some of the United Kingdom’s most distinguished figures in the worlds of defence, military history, and war studies.
The seminar meets at the Army and Navy Club, 36-39 Pall Mall, St James’s, London SW1Y 5JN (see below for further details).
All seminars begin at 6:00 pm with the talk by the visiting speaker, and this is followed by a question session and discussion.
There is then a short break for pre-dinner drinks and the group reconvenes for a three-course dinner with wine, during which the historical discussion continues.
The University has an extensive group of scholars available to undertake supervision in the fields Modern War Studies, including:
Dr Andrew Boyd – Twentieth-century naval history and new security challenges
Dr Jonathan Carroll – The history of US Armed Forces; the Vietnam War; the War on Terror
Dr Thomas Colley – War and the media; the Russia-Ukraine War
Professor Sir Geoffrey Nice – War and human rights law
Dr Matthew Powell – The history and application of air power; defence procurement
Dr Gareth Price – Strategy, armed forces, politics and economics in south Asia
Professor Matthias Strohn – History of European armies; fighting methods; doctrine and command, counter-insurgency.
Dr Paddy Walker – Future warfare rules; military ethics; military technology
“The Modern War Studies and Contemporary Military History MA (Research) combines engaging course sessions with a focus on one’s own research project.
There are copious opportunities to engage with expert guest speakers drawn from academia, the armed forces and the defence sector.
Equally important are the academic advisors and course staff, who are constantly available to provide their guidance and input.
Due to the excellent study support, I would highly recommend the programme to anyone who wants to improve their academic skills, advance their career, or simply explore key topics in this amazingly broad field.” – Nicolas Leixner , MA student
“I am currently a final year student on the Modern War Studies and Contemporary Military History PhD programme, but I started my journey on the MA (Research) course which provided me with the skills to conduct independent research.
Expert supervision and one-to-one tutorials developed my ability to developing thinking skills, refine my knowledge and to develop my project in a coherent manner.
The course seminars also gave me the opportunity to speak with leading figures in the field, including former British Chief of Defence Staff, General the Lord Richards.
The opportunity to interact with the experts whose books I had read and whose achievements are of historical and academic significance, was a fascinating experience and improved by ability analyse important issues.
These skills not only led to me gaining an MA, but also helped me as a serving officer and allowed me to operate more confidently in multinational and inter agency environments while encouraging me to write three small books.
The programme is highly recommended.” – Mohamed Marwa , MA 2019 and currently on the PhD Modern War Studies and Contemporary Military History programme

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/professional-doctorate-in-operational-excellence:
The course is a unique part-time degree designed to enhance professional education and practice through rigorous research.
The Professional Doctorate in Operational Excellence is a unique part-time degree designed to enhance professional education and practice through rigorous research into complex management issues.
It is envisaged that students holding the Professional Doctorate will ultimately lead communities of practice in their specialist profession.
This programme is aimed at senior business professionals aiming to take their career to the next level.
The Professional Doctorate award is distinct from a PhD award in the following respects:
Employers will benefit from supporting students on the programme developing and retaining key talent and building knowledge for competitive advantage.
Applicants without a master’s degree may still be eligible based on their professional experience and qualifications.
Students will initially be registered for the degree of DProf.
Their status will be probationary until all taught modules have been passed and the proposed research has been assessed as viable.
Each student will be assigned a supervisory team which will provide expert support throughout the taught and research components of the programme.
The first two years of the programme comprise taught modules that prepare students for doctoral level research in Operational Excellence.
The taught modules are delivered through a series of three one-week workshops facilitated by internationally renowned researchers and practitioners during the first two years.
The taught modules are followed by a doctoral research project of 2 plus years.
Each of the taught modules will be summatively assessed by an individual written assignment.
Some modules also include a summatively assessed individual presentation.
Throughout the taught and research components of the programme supervisors will provide extensive formative feedback on draft work thereby ensuring that work submitted for summative assessment meets required standards.
Students who successfully complete the programme will be awarded a Professional Doctorate in Operational Excellence (DProf) .
Students who successfully complete all taught modules will be eligible to graduate with a step-off award of Master of Business Research (MBusRes) if doctoral level research is not pursued.
Graduates will acquire a widely-respected qualification that clearly demonstrates their intellectual capacity and their ability to innovate and problem-solve.
The programme will also provide global and local networking opportunities – ideas and research experiences will be debated with other students and with faculty.
A Postgraduate Doctoral Loan can help with course fees and living costs while you study.
Find out more information and check your eligibility.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/research/ma-philosophy-by-research:
This MA programme was established by the late Professor Sir Roger Scruton, the inaugural Professor of Philosophy at The University of Buckingham, and reflects his values and the subjects which he illuminated in his extensive writings.
The focus is on philosophical questions that have a direct bearing on our understanding of and participation in the contemporary world, not the abstractions – usually expressed in impenetrable language – to which much modern philosophical writing has succumbed.
Although original research it the prime focus of the programme, there is also a strongly collegial aspect to the course, as all research students meet regularly throughout the year for a series of early-evening seminars by some of the most distinguished philosophers working in contemporary Britain and beyond.
True to its Scrutonian origins, this MA in Philosophy will explore questions which have direct bearing on the most pressing issues in politics and contemporary society.
Throughout his career Scruton was deeply invested in the political implications of fundamental disputes in philosophy.
Likewise, central to Scruton’s vision in designing the programme was his conviction that the best way to learn philosophy is by doing philosophy, i.e.
engaging in philosophical discussion of issues that are important for understanding the world and the human being’s place within that world.
The MA seminars will combine these two principles by opening to discussion some of the central issues of world and national politics in the context of some of the most fundamental questions in philosophy.
Students will examine the intellectual origins of a variety of political traditions – libertarian, social democratic, conservative, socialist among others – and acquire a grounding in the deep philosophical issues that underlie political discourse today.
There are no timed examinations involved.
Instead, the student works towards the completion of a dissertation of not less than 20,000 words and not more than 25,000 words.
The submission of this as a completed text constitutes the sole mode of examination.
The student has a free hand in the choice of research topic, subject only to the limitations of surviving evidence and the originality of the subject – both matters on which the Programme Director and the student’s supervisor are available to offer advice, during and after the application process.
Tutorials and classes will normally take place at the University of Buckingham’s London offices at 51 Gower Street, Bloomsbury, WC1E 6HJ, close to the British Museum.
Most students do not arrive at the final title of their dissertation until towards the end of the first Term, just before Christmas.
The research seminars are led both by faculty members associated with the programme and other leading thinkers on philosophical matters, drawn from within and outside the academy.
The range of topics covered in the programme will give the participants a firm grounding in some of the key concepts and ideas in philosophy and politics.
The seminars also reflect the wide range of research areas that were central to the work of Sir Roger Scruton.
The seminar meets regularly between late September and June in two venues.
Seminars followed by dinner take place in handsome accommodation at the Reform Club in Pall Mall.
All these seminars begin at 6:30 pm with the talk by the visiting speaker, and this is followed by a question session and discussion that runs to 7:45 pm.
There are also a number of non-dining seminars, held at the University of Buckingham’s offices at 51 Gower St, Bloomsbury, London WC1E 6HJ.
These also begin at 6:30 pm and are followed by a drinks reception with the speaker.
The seminar meets regularly between October and June in handsome accommodation at the Reform Club in Pall Mall.
Note: Seminars take place at three venues: The Caledonian Club, 9 Halkin St, London, SW1X 7DR, the Reform Club, 104 Pall Mall, London, SW1Y 5EW, and The University of Buckingham’s offices at 51 Gower St, Bloomsbury, London WC1E 6HJ.
21 October 2025 Rt Hon Michael Gove (Former Secretary of State), Dr Adrian Hilton FRSA, FRHistS .
(The University of Buckingham): ‘Democracy and education’ (Caledonian Club 9 Halkin St)
3 November 2025 Induction Day , (Society of Antiquaries, Burlington House, Piccadilly)
4 November 2025 Dr Jonathan Price (St Cross College, University of Oxford): ‘Human Nature’ (51 Gower St)
25 November 2025 Dr Ralph Weir (University of Lincoln): ‘Free will and liberty’ (51 Gower St)
9December 2025 Dr Jonathan Price (St Cross College, University of Oxford): ‘The Origins of Law’(51 Gower St)
10February 2026 Mr Marek Matraszek (Roger Scruton Legacy Foundation): ‘Authoritarianism and Totalitarianism’ (Caledonian Club 9 Halkin st)
24February 2026 TBC (Caledonian Club 9 Halkin st)
5 March 2026 Research Day at The University of Buckingham Note: The programme for the Research Day, which will include presentations by current doctoral students and visiting academics, will be published in the Spring Term.
24 March 2026 TBC (Caledonian Club 9 Halkin st)
21 April 2026 Dr Ralph Weir (University of Lincoln): ‘AI, Human Persons and Human Communities’ (51 Gower St)
12 May 2026 Dr John Gray (political philosopher and author) : ‘ Do we need a cultural canon?’ (Reform Club, 104 Pall Mall)
26 May 2026 TBC (Caledonian Club 9 Halkin St)
9 June 2026 TBC (Caledonian Club 9 Halkin St)
The University has an extensive group of scholars available to undertake supervision in the field of Philosophy.
The programme is directed by Dr Mikołaj Sławkowski-Rode , Senior Research Fellow in Philosophy in the Humanities Research Institute, University of Buckingham, and his publications include The Meaning of Mourning: Perspectives on Death Loss and Grief (Rowman and Littlefield, 2023) as well as numerous articles in learned journals.
He has been involved in the University of Buckingham’s research degrees in Philosophy since their establishment by Scruton.
He is also Research Fellow in Philosophy at Blackfriars Hall, University of Oxford, and Associate Professor at the Faculty of Philosophy, University of Warsaw.
Dr Ralph Weir was supervised by Sir Roger Scruton at Oxford when reading for the BPhil.
He subsequently received his PhD in Philosophy from the University of Cambridge and went on to start a Philosophy BA and MA at the University of Lincoln.
His publications include: The Mind-Body Problem and Metaphysics: An Argument from Consciousness to Mental Substance (Routledge, 2023).
He is also Member of the Faculty of Theology of Religion, University of Oxford.
Dr Jonathan Price has a PhD in the philosophy of law from Leiden University and a DPhil in Law from Oxford University.
He studied with Sir Roger Scruton in Oxford and is currently the Director of the Centre for Theology, Law and Culture, and Matraszek Fellow at Pusey House, Oxford.
He is the founding editor of the peer-reviewed journal Politics & Poetics and the author of The Egalitarian Constitution: Modern Identity in Three Moral Values (Leiden 2018).
A number of MA students also wish to undertake the PhD degree.
This is often in a different area from that which has been studied at MA level.
In such cases, the student starts afresh, and the PhD degree usually requires a further three years of full-time study.
Alternatively, a number of students opt to stay with their MA topic and to expand the scope of the project to PhD level.
Those wishing to do so may apply at the end of their first year for ‘upgrading’ to PhD status.
Those who wish to attend the talks and dinners, but who do not wish to take a degree, may join the course as Associate Students (in US usage ‘Audit Students’).
This status will enable the student to attend the ten guest seminars and dinners, join the field trips, and to meet the guest lecturers, but does not require the submission of written work.
Associate Students are not registered for the MA degree.
For further details contact humanitiespg-admissions@buckingham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/research/phd-philosophy:
Pursue a PhD in Philosophy at The University of Buckingham with dedicated supervision and engaging seminars in central London.
The PhD in Philosophy is an advanced research degree, awarded on the basis of a thesis and an oral viva voce examination.
The variety of possible thesis subjects is broad and ranges from fundamental areas in philosophy (including topics in philosophy of mind, metaphysics, phenomenology and epistemology like the mind-body problem, free will and determinism, the problem of induction, the nature of disagreement, or the nature of individual experience) to more practically-oriented areas including philosophy of culture, political philosophy, or ethics with thesis topics exploring aspects of legal or ethical systems, as well cultural and social phenomena.
Faculty members are available to advise on the student’s choice of subject (and see below, ‘Defining a Subject for Research’).
Graduate students in Philosophy at the University have access to a wide range of research seminars in the course of the academic year.
A number of these advanced seminars are exclusively for doctoral students.
A further series of seminars are available to all research students in Philosophy (whether Master’s or PhD).
The research seminar meets regularly either at the University’s offices at 51 Gower St, Bloomsbury, London, or at the Reform Club in Pall Mall, SW1.
Further details of the forthcoming year’s research can be obtained from the Director of Research in Philosophy.
Supervisors for the PhD at The University of Buckingham include some of the most distinguished scholars working in the field, among them:
Dr Mikołaj Sławkowski-Rode , Senior Research Fellow in Philosophy in the Humanities Research Institute, University of Buckingham, and Director of Graduate Research in Philosophy at the University.
His publications include The Meaning of Mourning: Perspectives on Death Loss and Grief (Rowman and Littlefield, 2023) as well as numerous articles in learned journals.
He has been involved in The University of Buckingham’s research degrees in Philosophy since their establishment by Scruton.
He is also a Research Fellow in Philosophy at Blackfriars Hall, University of Oxford, and Associate Professor at the Faculty of Philosophy, University of Warsaw.
Professor John Cottingham , Professorial Research Fellow in Philosophy.
Professor Cottingham’s research focuses on early-modern philosophy (especially Descartes), the philosophy of religion, and moral philosophy.
He is also a Professor Emeritus of Philosophy at the University of Reading, Professorial Research Fellow at Heythrop College, University of London, and Honorary Fellow of St John’s College, Oxford.
He studied with Sir Roger Scruton in Oxford and is currently the Director of the Centre for Theology, Law and Culture at Pusey House, Oxford.
Enquiries should be directed in the first instance to our Admissions Officer (London Programmes), at humanitiespg@admissions@buckingham.ac.uk .
It is usually also possible to speak with the Course Director, in advance of submitting your application.
Applicants are normally expected to have a first or upper second-class degree at undergraduate level and a Master’s degree.
Students without a Master’s degree and wishing to undertake doctoral research may enrol on the University’s own MA in Philosophy in their first year and upgrade to PhD registration at the start of their second year of full-time study; the first year of MA study counts as the first of the three years required for the PhD.
Candidates apply online, sending in their supporting documents, and will be assessed on this basis by the Director of Research in Philosophy and the Tutor for Graduate Admissions.
For help in applying, please contact the Admissions Officer on humanitiespg-admissions@buckingham.ac.uk .
She can also arrange for you to discuss your research proposal informally with the Course Directors in advance of your submitting the formal application.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/research/ma-political-economy-by-research-distance-learning:
Aimed at graduates with a strong interest in the history of economic ideas and the application of it to questions of public policy.
Although this is a full-time degree programme, it is expected that students undertaking relevant work will be able to complete the programme if they have a first degree in a related subject.
This MA programme is aimed at graduates with a strong interest in the history of economic ideas and the application of economics to questions of public policy.
It offers the opportunity to study in detail a range of ideas in self-guided fashion and to conduct a significant piece of independent research on a particular topic of the student’s choice.
Online seminars will cover topics on Adam Smith; David Ricardo; John Stuart Mill; Alfred Marshall; the marginalists and neoclassical economics; Karl Marx; Friedrich Hayek and the Austrians; J.M.
Keynes; James Buchanan, Gordon Tullock and public choice theory; the Frankfurt School; behavioural economics; the environment and the debate on sustainability.
The programme is not primarily vocational in orientation, although possession of the award is likely to enhance the careers of school and FE teachers and policy advisors at local and national levels.
It could also lead naturally on to further study and research at doctorate level.
It is particularly envisaged that the programme will appeal to candidates of all ages who are attracted to the subject area for its intrinsic interest and wish to pursue a structured learning experience in a sympathetic environment.
Good Honours (2.1 or above) BA or BSc degree in an appropriate discipline and/or equivalent professional qualification or Prior Experiential Learning.
This programme is also open to candidates with initiative and a proven ability to operate as self-guided learners, corroborated where appropriate through an admissions interview.
The programme will start with a series of weekly webinars spread over one and a half terms (October – February).
These webinars will cover all the major thinkers and schools of Political Economy, from Adam Smith to Karl Marx, from Friedrich Hayek to the Frankfurt School, among others.
Each webinar is led by an expert topic under discussion, and the student is expected to do initial reading in advance and to participate actively in these sessions.
You will also receive group and individual preparation as you work on your dissertation
Supervisors will be appointed with an interest in the student’s topic area, and the student will receive regular one-to-one online sessions with the supervisor as the dissertation progresses.
This will include written feedback on drafts of the dissertation.
Assessment will be based on a project proposal, which will link to material covered in the seminar sessions.
This proposal (c5000 words) will be weighted at 60 units, of which 10 units will be based on verbal presentation and response to questions.
The dissertation (15,000 words) will be weighted at 120 units.
The programme is intended to give participants a clear understanding of different schools of thought in political economy and enable them to interrogate these schools’ strengths and weaknesses and to apply them to modern policy issues.
It will also enable them to develop research and presentational skills, and the skills and the confidence required to conduct in-depth independent research.
This should enable those who wish to do so to proceed to a doctoral programme.
You can continue your studies on this field and enrol our Professional Doctorate programme in Public Policy and Political Economy, where you will find a special entry path designed for our MA graduates in Political Economy .

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/research/ma-the-politics-of-cultural-conflict-by-research:
Discuss and debate with distinguished scholars during evening seminars at our London offices, with a focus on independent research.
This programme in the Politics of Cultural Conflict explores ‘culture wars’ between the populist right and cultural left, and how these are changing the axis of electoral competition from economics to culture – especially in western societies.
The seminar programme focuses on the populist right and cultural left, as well as on polarization between the two.
Secular-religious, globalist-nationalist and woke versus anti-woke represent three discrete phases of the culture wars which nevertheless overlap and interpenetrate in various ways in the modern era.
The programme enables students to choose (with guidance) their own topic of research and to pursue this under expert one-to-one supervision.
But in addition to developing their own specialist research, students also meet regularly to hear, and to argue with, leading writers and scholars in the field of cultural politics including such figures as Matthew Goodwin, Yascha Mounk, Pippa Norris and David Goodhart.
Classes are held in both the University of Buckingham’s Gower Street building in Bloomsbury and in private rooms, where dinner will be served.
The programme is directed by Professor Eric Kaufmann, who has published over 5 books and 45 academic papers, as well as writing extensively in major newspapers and magazines in Britain and the United States.
Further details of the programme are available below and in the downloadable e-brochure, accessible via the link below.
Applicants who wish to speak directly with the Course Director can do so by emailing: eric.kaufmann@buckingham.ac.uk
All students are invited to attend the guest seminars and the dinners that follow some seminars.
The cost of the post-seminar dinners is included in the tuition fees.
Location: The course will use a combination of the Humanities Research Institute offices at 51 Gower Street, London, for supervisions and seminars as with other London-based Buckingham MA programmes, alongside four guest-lectures at London clubs or private rooms (tba).
Time: The seminars take place from 6.30pm – 8.00 pm and some of these include dinner with a speaker.
Speakers and subjects: The speakers will include Professor Eric Kaufmann and a number of guest lecturers, some in person (where UK-based), some online on Teams (where overseas-based).
Introductory class, including dissertation plans – Thursday, 10 October, HRI Gower Street
Majority Ethnic Nationalism – 16 October
Nationalism and Populism – 23 October
Immigration and National Identity in the United States – 30 October
Immigration and the Rise of the Populist Right in Europe – 13 November
National Populism in the UK – 27 November
Definitions, Theories and Intellectual Origins – 4 December
Revolutionary Radicalism – 15 January
Evolutionary Left-Liberalism – 22 January
Scaling and Spreading – 5 February
Culture War – 12 February
A Secular Religion?: What Future for Western Civilization – 19 February
Conclusion: Polarisation – 5 March
Planned speakers include Yascha Mounk (Johns Hopkins), Chris Rufo (Hillsdale), Cathy Young (Reason magazine), Remi Adekoya (York) on culture wars; Pippa Norris (Harvard) on culture wars or cultural realignment; Daphne Halikiopoulou of the University of Reading on the populist right; David Goodhart on ‘somewheres and anywheres’; John Gray on liberalism; Matthew Goodwin (University of Kent) on populism.
For those who wish to attend the evening guest seminar programme, but are unable to devote the time to the coursework or to register for the MA degree, there is the option of becoming an Associate Student.
This status will enable the student to attend the ten guest seminars and dinners, and to meet the guest lecturers, but does not require the submission of written work.
Associate Students are not registered for and do not receive, the MA degree.
For further details contact: Email: humanitiespg-admissions@buckingham.ac.uk
In cases where candidates are applying on the basis of work experience, they may be asked to complete a short written assignment and/or attend an interview as part of the applications process.
Candidates apply online, sending in their supporting documents, and will be assessed on this basis by the Programme Director and the Tutor for Graduate Admissions.
The MA does not offer systematic instruction in the facts of politics, sociology or politics; instead, the emphasis is on independent research.
This is a London-based course and will use a combination of the Humanities Research Institute offices at 51 Gower Street, London, for supervisions and seminars as with other London-based Buckingham MA programmes, alongside four guest-lectures at London clubs or private rooms (tba).
The nearest Tube stations to Gower Street are Goodge St (Northern Line).
Please note that the University of Buckingham has four terms per year.
The tuition fees quoted are for the degree.
After your course The University’s Course Directors, students’ supervisors, and the Research Officer and Tutor for Graduate Students are available to discuss students’ post-graduation plans and how they may utilise most effectively the skills acquired during their studies.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/research/professional-doctorate-in-education-edd:
The University of Buckingham EdD is offered to experienced practitioners and postgraduate students who already hold an MA or equivalent.
The EdD programme at Buckingham brings together an exciting international research community.
Our Doctoral Programme in Education promotes and endorses the highest level of knowledge, skills and experiences of leaders in schools and education in the belief that this recognition will impact significantly on practice.
An EdD is at the same level as a PhD.
Like a PhD the EdD requires students to make a unique contribution to knowledge.
A distinguishing element of an EdD is that it is also required to ensure your study results in a tangible impact on practice.
This is because the EdD is a practitioner/professional doctorate which means that it is designed for professionals working in Education and that the focus of study should be on the nature of Educational practice.
Every student attends an Induction Programme and then is allocated two supervisors.
You have a main supervisor who will be a critical friend through the process, and you will have approximately 12 hours of supervision each year.
Students are supported by access to a film library, webinars and by two online study days in November and another two online study days in April.
You are expected to attend these for the first three years.
The online support guides you through some of the key elements of completing a doctorate, for example, research methodology, engaging with literature and philosophical frameworks.
The doctorate:
Doctoral Students will need to have demonstrated:
The University of Buckingham EdD is appropriate for experienced practitioners and postgraduate students who already hold an MA or equivalent.
Doing a doctorate is likely to be one of the most intellectually challenging experiences of your professional career.
Despite its challenges it is hoped that you will also find the experience hugely rewarding.
The programme aims to enable those working in education to develop expertise through critical evaluation of research and scholarship in their chosen field of interest.
Students will develop skills that allow them to critically analyse, engage in and reflect on educational issues.
Whilst the intensity of the doctorate might seem daunting, the programme is designed for students to be able to complete study alongside their work in education.
Students will contribute to wider debate on education and reflect on the implications of their study for educators and learners.
The expectation is that on average you will spend at least 15 hours a week studying.
This takes into account time spent with you supervisor, study days as well as your own independent research, reading and study.
We offer two routes to achieving the EdD at Buckingham:
The choice of route will be decided in discussion with your supervisors.
Many people will be familiar with the structure of the doctoral thesis; it is a pathway that encompasses a review of literature followed by the pursuit of a research project and as the EdD is a professional thesis, this would also include an evaluation of the implications for practice that the work would have within a particular educational context.
A thesis consists of a continuous narrative, divided up into chapters that form a whole.
Each chapter contributes to the main idea and builds a logical sustained argument cumulatively from start to end.
By comparison a doctorate by submission of a professional portfolio reflects on a particular area of focus and interest through the production of a collection of different papers, all at Level 8 standard, that together form a whole.
If you have already published articles and documents of different kinds, then the portfolio may be suitable for you.
It is important to recognise that both require the same level of academic rigour.
A thesis is an extended piece of research that presents an argument supported by evidence and reference to relevant research.
For the portfolio, it is the overriding argument that binds the varied contents of the portfolio together through use of linking documents.
Both pathways also require an ability to be critical both in terms of one’s own position and also in the further development of your own critical voice when encountering a range of alternative views.
Both pathways will also contribute something unique and original to your existing knowledge.
Originality may lie in the discovery or collection of material never before used; or it may lie in a new approach to more familiar material.
Your progress with this work will be assessed at regular stages to determine your suitability to continue on the course.
Assessment for a doctorate is by the presentation of a 60,000 word thesis or portfolio that is examined by viva voce.
To apply for this course, you must have:
Fees are invoiced for in September, at the beginning of the course, and can be paid in termly instalments or annually.
Contact The Faculty of Education on +44 (0)1280 820222 or email: education@buckingham.ac.uk .
Applicants are required to complete an application form (available via the ‘Apply’ button above) and to provide a doctoral research proposal.
On application, you will receive a form to be completed.
This requires you to consider:
Your application will be assessed against a number of different criteria.
These include:
If you do not submit the application as requested and/or it is not within the word count parameters set out your application may be returned.
Applications will close in July 2025 and if your application is considered to be suitable at this stage you will be called for interview by early August.
At interview you will be expected to present your research proposal.
Applications may be returned for revision.
Applicants should have a focus linked to their professional remit and provide evidence that significantly contributes to the application of knowledge that is relevant locally, nationally and internationally.
Before being able to join us, you will need to supply:

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/research/msc-psychology-by-research:
Discover the MSc Psychology by Research, based in our vibrant and inclusive School of Psychology at The University of Buckingham.
The School of Psychology fosters a culture of collaborative, multidisciplinary research and you will join a vibrant community that includes regular work-in-progress seminars to foster an active research environment.
You will join this environment and have the opportunity to engage with the postgraduate research group and attend seminars with external speakers.
We hold an annual postgraduate conference, giving you the chance to showcase your research and further connect with other students and staff.
There are also opportunities to connect with the wider research community by presenting at national conferences.
We are happy to consider research proposals on a wide range of topics relevant to our staff interests.
Click on the link to each research area below to find out more.
Study can be on either a full-time or a part-time basis.
The minimum period of study for achieving your MSc is one year full-time or two years part-time.
Our research spans a wide range of psychological areas, using a variety of quantitative and qualitative research methods.
These can be broadly aligned with the following: Social and Cognitive Experiences; Creativity and Performance; Self and Identity.
Further details about this can be found below.
This research area explores social and cognitive experiences in a variety of populations including those with a religious identity, and those with expertise in problem solving.
Some specific areas of interest include a focus on human-robot interactions, spatial and temporal attention, the way time is perceived and the cognitive appraisals made following serious spinal cord injury.
These areas are researched by focusing on both individual experiences and group processes.
Click on the names below to find out what our lecturers’ specific research interests are.
Our research is at the forefront of the exploration of creativity in the UK.
We have a strong focus on applied aspects of creativity and performance.
This includes research into psychological correlates to dance performance, the development of expertise in areas such as music, quizzing and cryptic crosswords, performance in sport, and the use of everyday creativity.
Additionally, creativity is looked at through the lens of cyberpsychology exploring its relationship with artificial intelligence.
As researchers, we explore the ways our selves and our identities are constructed through individual experiences and through social norms.
This includes how we identify ourselves through religion, through dance, through gender, through our experiences of injury, pain, and health conditions, and how these identities are created with the use of technology.
Additionally, we explore how people experience different versions of themselves and how these different versions may be better integrated into the whole “Self” for both therapeutic and performance purposes.
If you would like to contact us to enquire about this research programme, please complete this contact form .
Applicants are normally expected to have the minimum of a 2:1 degree in Psychology or related discipline.
Prior to applying, if you would like to discuss your research ideas please contact our Admissions team to arrange a chat with our Research Officers.
If your application is considered suitable, you will be invited to the University for an interview with one of the Research Officers and one or both of your potential supervisors.
This will also give you the chance to have a look at our campus.
If you are an international applicant, it may not be possible for you to visit in person, so the Research Officer will arrange an interview by Microsoft Teams.
The aim of the Research Programme is to help students develop the following:
Candidates spend a considerable part of their studies undertaking supervised research, at the end of which they submit a thesis demonstrating the research they have completed.
A system of postgraduate loans for taught and research Masters’ degrees in the UK is supported by the UK Government.
This is available in all subject areas.
After your course Graduate Employment Our graduates have gone on to further study at PhD level and to employment in a variety of Psychology roles.
This includes careers in academic roles and in health professions.
Our graduates have gone on to further study at PhD level and to employment in a variety of Psychology roles.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/research/phd-psychology:
Find out about our PhD Psychology by Research programme based in our vibrant and inclusive School of Psychology.
The minimum period of study for achieving your PhD is three years full-time and six years part-time
For study at PhD level a MSc in psychology or a closely related subject is desirable but not essential.
If you do not have a MSc then you would need a very good undergraduate degree and be able to demonstrate a solid understanding of psychology research methods and statistics.
If you would like to contact us to enquire about this research programme, please complete this contac t form .
A system of Postgraduate Doctoral Loans for postgraduate doctoral courses in the UK is supported by the UK Government.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/research/professional-doctorate-in-public-policy-and-political-economy:
Want to or already work in public policy practice?
This course will advance a career in public policy or an academic career.
This unique Professional Doctorate programme is aimed at individuals who are working in, or who have previously worked in, an area of public policy practice (for example, a think tank, charity, in journalism, in the civil service or a central bank, or as a political researcher).
Teachers of economics and politics can also take the programme.
The format of teaching and research provides a structured, but flexible, framework making this the ideal way to combine doctoral studies with professional life.
The programme leads to the qualification “Doctor of Public Policy and Political Economy” and will be an important qualification for those wishing to advance a career in any area of public policy or advance an academic career.
We also welcome students later in life who, as well as studying for the qualification, will be able to share their experience with other students at the study weekends.
Good Honours (2.1 or above) BA or BSc degree in an appropriate discipline or a relevant Masters degree.
If you only have a Masters degree, you must have achieved an average of 60 per cent or above.
In addition, you must have had two years’ work experience in a relevant area if you are currently working.
Alternatively, you can enter the programme if you have had ten years’ previous relevant work experience if you are no longer working in a public policy area or if you are not working at all.
The programme is mainly delivered online, with a series of webinars in the first two terms, followed by the supervision of the research project and the research thesis online.
However, the students will be attending three study weekends in Buckingham in Year 1 and Year 2.
You will find more details below.
There are four modules in the professional doctorate programme.
You will attend the weekly evening seminars held on the MA in Political Economy by Research .
These cover topics such as Adam Smith; Alfred Marshall; the marginalists and neo-classical economics; Karl Marx; Friedrich Hayek and the Austrians; J.M.
Keynes; James Buchanan, Gordon Tullock and public choice theory; the Frankfurt School; and behavioural economics.
You can attend these seminars by distance learning.
You will attend a study weekend in May of your first academic year at the Vinson Centre, University of Buckingham.
The study weekend will include: further lectures on schools of economic thought and their relevance to public policy and a preliminary research proposal presentation as well as research methods training.
You must attend this in person.
This module will be a reflective analysis relating experience in your professional role to models in political economy (for example, public choice, institutional economics, market failure models etc) or to key figures in the development of thinking on political economy or public policy.
You will then attend a second study weekend in October of the second academic year and your research proposal will be finalised.
This will also be at the Vinson Centre.
In Module Four, you will undertake a research thesis of a recommended length of 55,000 to 65,000 words.
The research thesis will be on an approved topic related to your professional work (or former professional work) and is supervised by academic staff.
Every year you will be invited to the October study weekend.
You can attend as many of these events before completing your thesis as you wish, but you will be required to attend at least one further study weekend, after your initial October study weekend, before you submit your thesis.
You do not have to attend each year.
You have between four and six years following registration to complete your thesis.
You will be able to make use of the Vinson Centre’s superb economic policy and history of economic thought library throughout your period of study.
This programme can be taken by overseas students as long as you are able to attend the three study weekends (the May and two October weekends) during the course of your registration period (up to six years).
All other studies and supervision can be undertaken online.
Teaching is a mixture of online provision and seminars at the study weekends held at the Vinson Centre.
Each module will be assessed by shorter assignments before you move on to the thesis.
These shorter assignments are designed to ensure that you are well prepared when you start your thesis.
Appropriate supervisors will be appointed for module four.
You will meet those supervisors regularly.
This programme is flexible so that you can join from other University of Buckingham programmes and gain exemptions from modules of the professional doctorate.
Also, if you decide that the professional doctorate is not for you, your work will not be wasted: there are other exit routes.
MA in Political Economy – you can register for this degree and transfer to the Professional Doctorate in January of the first academic year.
The fees that you have paid for the MA will be credited towards your professional doctorate so that the total fee will be approximately the same as if you had registered for the professional doctorate from the outset.
MA in Political Economy – students who enrolled on the MA in Political Economy in September will be able to transfer to the professional doctorate programme in October (following year) and move straight to module four.
A special programme of study and assessment will be designed so that those transferring in this way obtain at least 120 level-7 credits when taking into account the assessments that they have already taken at that point.
If you entered the professional doctorate in this way, you can extend your MA thesis to doctoral level.
MSc or PGCert in Central Banking – if you have completed the PGCert or MSc in Central Banking, you will be able to enter the professional doctorate at Module two (PGCert) or Module four (MSc),
University rules and regulations regarding the return of awards where credit is used for two qualifications would have to be followed.
There are also flexible exit routes so that, if you complete Modules One to Three successfully, but choose not to complete Module Four, you will receive a Postgraduate Diploma in Political Economy.
However, you will be able to return within five years and complete the professional doctorate subject to the usual rules and regulations of the University regarding the return of qualifications when a qualification is taken further for another award.
You can apply directly using our online application form – all you need to do is click the ‘apply’ button at the bottom of this page.
To discuss further, please contact our Admissions team admissions@buckingham.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/research/phd-refugee-history:
An advanced research degree in Refugee History; a rapidly growing field of study, with a vast range of possible thesis topics.
The PhD in Refugee History is an advanced research degree, awarded on the basis of a thesis and an oral viva voce examination.
Refugee History is a rapidly growing field of study in which there is an enormously wide range of possible thesis topics in the period between sixteenth century and the present day.
These can range from the very broad and theoretical, on issues like the dynamics of global population movements, the role of war in bringing about the displacement of populations, or international responses to refugee ‘crises’, to the very local and personal, including cultural histories of diaspora communities or biographies of individuals who have experienced exile.
Given sufficient evidence to illuminate it, almost any aspect of the history of refugees may potentially form an appropriate focus of study.
Members of the academic staff who are available to undertake supervision in the field of the History of Migration and Refugees include
Jones – Dr Jones is a leading historian of refugees and asylum in the United Kingdom.
He is a founding member of AsilEuropeXIX , an international network dedicated to the historical study of refugees and also directs Buckingham’s MA in Migration History .
Ophelia Field – Ophelia Field is an author and Director of Buckingham’s Biography Programme.
Since the 1990s, she has worked with governments and advised on policymaking (especially EU harmonisation) and media narratives about asylum and integration.
she has published on the history of immigration detention and alternatives to detention.
She can supervise on recent refugee policy history or the history of related public perceptions, rhetoric and self-expression.
Professor Tessa Murdoch – Professor Murdoch is a Professorial Research Fellow at Buckingham’s Humanities Research Institute and Acting Chair of the Huguenot Museum.
She has published widely on the sixteenth- and seventeenth-century Huguenot diaspora and has curated exhibitions detailing that community’s material culture.
She can supervise theses regarding religious and early modern refugees.
Professor Sir Geoffrey Nice – Sir Geoffrey is one of Britain’s most distinguished human rights lawyers.
He serves as an advisor for numerous international legal boards and has argued before the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia.
His supervisory expertise includes the legal status of refugees and the international infrastructure that governs their rights.
The University of Buckingham has a flourishing research culture and each year the Faculty and the Humanities Research Institute offer over one hundred seminars by visiting scholars in the field of History, any one of which is open to graduate students in History, irrespective of their own choice of specialism.
Enquiries should be directed in the first instance to our Admissions Officer for Humanities degrees on humanitiespg-admissions@buckingham.ac.uk .
It is also possible to speak with the Course Directors in your chosen area of research in advance of submitting your application.
For help in applying, please contact the Admissions Office on humanitiespg-admissions@buckingham.ac.uk
The Admissions Office can also arrange for you to discuss your research proposal informally with the Course Directors in advance of your submitting the formal application.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/research/mphilphd-security-and-intelligence-studies:
BUCSIS has a vibrant programme of active research currently being undertaken in a range of security and intelligence issues.
BUCSIS has a vibrant programme of active research currently being undertaken in a range of security and intelligence issues, involving both the UK and overseas.
We are always looking for interesting new research proposals, and prospective candidates are welcome to approach Professor Richards with ideas in the first instance, by emailing julian.richards@buckingham.ac.uk .
Some of our current research projects include:
BUCSIS was established in 2008 as a world-class centre for research into the key Security and Intelligence issues facing the UK and the world in the 21st century.
The Centre is headed by a leading academic in the field, Professor Anthony Glees , and is supported by a research and teaching team led by Dr Julian Richards , a Security Studies specialist with a long experience of working in the UK government on defence and security policy issues.
More information about BUCSIS .
2012
2014
2016
2019
View all PhD programmes.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/research/phd-stuart-history:
The PhD in Stuart History is an advanced research degree that incorporates the history of the Civil War and the English Republic.
The PhD in Stuart History – which incorporates the history of the Civil War and the English Republic (1649-1660) – is an advanced research degree, awarded on the basis of a thesis and an oral viva voce examination.
There is an enormously broad range of possible thesis subjects in British History during the ‘long’ seventeenth century: the age of Stuart rule from the accession of James VI of Scotland as James I of England and Ireland in 1603 through to the death of Queen Anne, the last of the Protestant Stuart monarchs, in 1714.
Theses in the recent past have ranged from Anglo-French relations in the early seventeenth century, to the political career of the second Earl of Warwick, one of the towering figures of the parliamentarian leadership in the English Civil War, through to the financial underpinnings of British government after the ‘Glorious Revolution’ of 1688.
The University encourages applications from those who are interested in all aspects of the social, religious, political and cultural history of Stuart Britain.
Given sufficient evidence to illuminate it, almost any aspect of the history of Britain in the ‘long’ seventeenth century may potentially form an appropriate focus of study.
Your supervisors (or prospective supervisors) are on hand to offer advice.
Professor John Adamson , Professor of Modern History and Director of the Humanities Research Institute: supervision in political and religious history c.
1560-1700, the history of the royal court, Britain and Europe, the social and political role of the nobility, the relation between art and politics, the English Civil War.
Professor Adamson is one of the country’s leading experts in the field of Stuart History and is the winner of the Royal Historical Society’s Alexander Prize for History, the University of Cambridge’s Seeley Medal and Thirlwall Prize for History, and was awarded the Latham Medal and Samuel Pepys Prize for his book, The Noble Revolt: the Overthrow of Charles I .
He is a regular reviewer for the London Sunday Telegraph, The Sunday Times, The Financial Times, The Literary Review, The Catholic Herald, and The Times Literary Supplement .
He is also a Fellow of Peterhouse, University of Cambridge.
Mr Paul Lay , Senior Research Fellow at the Humanities Research Institute, The University of Buckingham, and a former editor of History Today .
Mr Lay’s research interests include Britain and Venice in the seventeenth century, and the history of the Interregnum and the Cromwellian Protectorate, and the political culture of seventeenth-century England more generally.
His study of the political world of the 1650s, Providence Lost: the Rise and Fall of Cromwell’s Protectorate , was shortlisted for the 2020 Cundill History Prize.
Dr Sean Kelsey , Senior Research Fellow of the Humanities Research Institute, Buckingham.
Dr Kelsey’s research focuses on politics and the army during the English Civil War and the political culture of the English Commonwealth.
His recent research has looked in detail at the trial of Charles I.
His doctoral dissertation was published as Inventing a Republic: the Political Culture of the English Commonwealth, 1643-1653 .
Dr David Scott , Senior Research Fellow of the Humanities Research Institute, Buckingham, is also editor of the official History of Parliament’s multi-volume biographical dictionary on The House of Lords, 1640-1660 .
He is one of the country’s leading authorities on Parliament in the seventeenth century, and his interests include factional politics and the rise of political parties, the nobility during the Interregnum, Royalism during the Civil War, the early development of the British empire, and English America in the seventeenth century.
His books include, Leviathan: The Rise of Britain as a World Power , and a study of the Civil Wars: Politics and War in the Three Stuart Kingdoms, 1637-49 .
Professor Simon Thurley, CBE , Professorial Fellow, is Britain’s leading authority on the royal residences of the Tudor and Stuart monarchs.
A former curator of the Historic Royal Palaces, he has published over fifteen books dealing with buildings ranging from the Tower of London and its royal apartments, to Whitehall and St James’s Palace.
His most recent work focuses on the major royal residences during the reigns of Charles I and during the Civil War.
Professor Adrian Tinniswood , OBE, Senior Research Fellow of the Humanities Research Institute, Buckingham, supervises in the history of the Tudor and Stuart country house, the social history of the gentry, early-modern piracy.
His numerous books include studies of two important Stuart political families – the royalist Verneys and The Rainborowes: Pirates, Puritans, and a Family’s Quest for the Promised Land – as well as a highly regarded biography of Sir Christopher Wren and The Royal Society and the Invention of Modern Science .
Adrian Tinniswood is available to supervise research, particularly in English seventeenth-century social and cultural history.
He has been appointed an Officer of the Order of the British Empire for his services to the national heritage.
Students without a Master’s degree and wishing to undertake doctoral research may enrol on the University’s own MA Tudor and Stuart History in their first year and upgrade to PhD registration at the start of their second year of full-time study; the first year of MA study counts as the first of the three years required for the PhD.
For help in applying, please contact the Admissions Officer on humanitiespg-admissions@buckingham.ac.uk She can also arrange for you to discuss your research proposal informally with the Course Directors in advance of your submitting the formal application.
STUDENT CONTRACT FOR PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS When you are offered a place at the University you will be notified of the student contract between the University and students on our courses of study.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/research/ma-tudor-and-stuart-history-by-research:
This London-based course is an interdisciplinary programme enabling students to examine aspects of the history of the Tudor dynasty.
This London-based programme enables students to pursue research on a topic they choose (under guidance) in any aspect of the political, religious, or social history of England during this period of turbulent and sometimes revolutionary change.
Successful thesis subjects that have been undertaken by recent students include the early Tudor Reformation; a biographical study of Henry VIII’s little-studied daughter-in-law, Mary (née Howard), Duchess of Richmond; a study of the political role of jewels given as gifts in the Elizabethan court; the political career of the parliamentarian grandee the 2nd Earl of Warwick (1587-1658); and the impact of the ‘Smyrna convoy disaster’ of 1693 on politics and government under William III.
The Course Director, Professor John Adamson, is available to offer advice to prospective students who would like to discuss possible subjects for their research before they apply.
He can be reached directly by email at: john.adamson@buckingham.ac.uk
The seminar meets monthly between October and June in handsome accommodation at the Reform Club in Pall Mall.
The dates of seminars for 2025-26 are listed below.
The names of the speakers will be published on this webpage shortly.
Recent seminar speakers have included David Starkey, John Guy, Anna Keay, Alexandra Gajda, Julia Fox, Jonathan Healey – among others.
Location, unless otherwise stated: the Reform Club, 104 Pall Mall, London, SW1Y 5EW
All seminars, except that in June, are on Wednesdays at 6:30 pm in the Garden Room, Reform Club, 104 Pall Mall, London, SW1Y 5EW
15 October 2025 12 November 2025 10 December 2025
21 January 2026 11 February 2026 18 March 2026
6 May 2026 Thursday 4 June 2026 at The University of Buckingham, 2:30-6:30 pm: the annual Research Day in Tudor and Stuart History
The University has an extensive group of scholars available to undertake supervision in the fields of Tudor and Stuart History.
The programme is directed by Professor John Adamson , one of the country’s leading historians of early-modern England.
He is the winner of the Royal Historical Society’s Alexander Prize for History, the University of Cambridge’s Thirlwall Prize and Seeley Medal for History, and the Samuel Pepys Prize and Latham Medal for his book, The Noble Revolt: the Overthrow of Charles I .
His interests focus on political and religious history in the sixteenth and seventeenth century, and in particular the Tudor and Stuart royal court.
Paul Lay , a former editor of History Today and author of the critically-acclaimed Providence Lost: the Rise and Fall of Oliver Cromwell’s Protectorate , is a Senior Research Fellow in British History and has written extensively on English history in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries.
Dr Glyn Redworth , a Fellow of The University of Buckingham’s Humanities Research Institute and member of the History Faculty of the University of Oxford, is available for supervision in Tudor and early-Stuart history.
He read history at Cambridge, taking his doctorate at Oxford under the supervision of Dr Christopher Haigh.
The breadth of his research interests is unusually broad, as he writes on both British and European early modern history.
His publications range from his first book on the mid-Tudor bishop, Stephen Gardiner of Winchester, to studies of the ill-fated Spanish Match of 1623, and the Spanish missionary to London, Luisa de Carvajal, whose correspondence he edited in a two-volume translation of her letters into English.
Dr David Scott specializes in English history in the seventeenth century, with a particular focus on the reign of Charles and the Cromwellian period.
He is a Senior Research Fellow of the University’s Humanities Research Institute and the editor of the History of Parliament’s major biographical survey of members of the House of Lords between 1640 and 1660.
His publications include one of the best introductions to the period currently in print, Leviathan: the Rise of Britian as a World Power , and a highly praised single-volume history of the English Civil War.
Professor Adrian Tinniswood OBE , Professor of British Cultural History in the University, is one of the country’s most eminent historians of social history, with a series of books ranging from studies of early-modern piracy to studies of the social role of architecture and, in particular, the significance of the country house.
Professor Tinniswood is available to supervise in Tudor and Stuart social history.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/research/phd-tudor-history:
Supervisors: Dr Glyn Redworth
In addition to PhD Tudor History, we also offer a variety of other PhD programmes .

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/research/ma-in-war-studies-and-contemporary-military-history-for-staff-colleges-graduates:
Available to all officers who have graduated from the ACSC or an equivalent course in their international home institutions.
To recognise the achievement of graduation from the Advanced Command and Staff Course (ACSC) or its international equivalent, The University of Buckingham offers a special six-months discounted MA by Research in the field of Modern War Studies and Contemporary Military History.
This offer is available to all officers (regular and reserve) who have graduated from the ACSC or an equivalent course in their international home institutions.
The course commences in October with a ‘Research Skills Study Day’ and, after 6 months of supervised independent research, culminates with the student’s submission of a dissertation of approximately 12,500 – 25,000 words.
During their time of study, candidates are encouraged to attend both a series of guest seminars at the Army and Navy Club, Pall Mall, and a course research day at the Royal Military Academy Sandhurst.
The course is based in London, but there are no residential requirements for the course.
Past students have come from Europe, Asia, Africa and the Americas.
Face-to-face tutorials remain the preferred way of teaching, but other (online) methods can also be used.
In order to make full use of the course and its guest seminars, it is advised to start with the course at the beginning of the academic year (October).
We recognise that this might not be possible for everybody and, therefore, offer a second start-date in January.
Every officer graduated from the ICSC (regular and reserve), or an equivalent course in their international home institutions, can apply for the course.
We are happy to consider all international applications.
If you are an international student, you may find it useful to visit our international pages for details of entry requirements from your home country.
A NATO SLP 3333 is acceptable as proof of the required English proficiency for those whose first language is not English.
If you are unsure whether you qualify for the course based on your home staff college achievements, please contact the course director .
We recognise that your military education might have differed from the British model.
We have vast experience with international staff colleges and some of our academics have been educated at both British and international staff colleges, so are well equipped to advise you.
There are no residential requirements and your continuous presence in London is not required.
However, we do encourage attendance at guest seminars and face-to-face tutorials in addition to other (online) ways of keeping contact with your supervisor.
Subject to approval by the Course Director, the topic to be examined in the dissertation can address any aspect of warfare since 1945, and the precise topic is usually formulated in a process of discussion with the Course Director and/or the student’s supervisor.
The length of the dissertation is normally 12,500 words.
Examination is by a research dissertation on an approved topic of not less than 12,500 words.
British military candidates can use their Enhanced Learning Credits (regular officers) or Standard Learning Credits (reserve officers) towards the course fee.
if you start a degree at Buckingham in January, you will pay the same termly fee for the duration of your degree – you will not be affected by a price increase the following September).

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/apprenticeship/msc-applied-data-science-degree-apprenticeship:
Discover all you need to know about Buckingham's Level 7 MSc Applied Data Science (Degree Apprenticeship) programme.
11 September 2025
Digital and technology solutions lie at the heart of modern societies and industries of the future.
Multinational corporations, small to large businesses, charities and public sector organisations are using data and digital technologies to transform the products and services they offer and to optimise internal business processes to achieve strategic objectives.
Data Science handles big data from capturing, storing, processing, visualising and analysing data to discover insights for strategic decision-making.
Data Science has applications in banking, education, finance, food and beverage, healthcare, hospitality, insurance, logistics, oil and gas, public services, retail, transport, telecom, and sales and marketing to name a few.
The MSc Applied Data Science (Degree Apprenticeship) is a specialist master’s level (Level 7) integrated degree apprenticeship aligned to the Data Analytics Specialist specialism of the Level 7 Digital and Technology Solutions Specialist (Integrated Degree) apprenticeship standard (L7 DTSS).
This MSc programme is designed to train apprentices to become confident and competent data scientists who can lead, implement and deliver technological strategic solutions to achieve organisational goals in a range of different scenarios and sectors.
A distinctive feature of the programme is the focus on inclusive leadership and innovation to train apprentices to be well-rounded and inspiring leaders in their respective organisations.
On successful completion of the MSc Applied Data Science (Degree Apprenticeship) programme, apprentices are expected to be confident and competent in playing a leading role in data science projects, delivering business value to their organisation.
The MSc Applied Data Science (Degree Apprenticeship) has two entry points to suit the needs of apprentices and employers: October and January.
The total duration of the programme is 21 months, which includes 18 months of training and up to 3 months to complete the final assessments, including the End-Point Assessment (EPA).
During 18 months of training, the apprentice spends a minimum of one day per week Off-the-Job-Hours on training.
On successful completion of the training period, the apprentice will enter Gateway to complete the End-Point Assessment (EPA) of the degree apprenticeship and final assessment of the MSc programme.
All applicants must meet the following requirements to be eligible to use funds from the Apprenticeship Levy scheme to enrol in the MSc Applied Data Science (Degree Apprenticeship) programme:
Commercially funded options are available for employees who do not meet eligibility requirements to use funds from the Apprenticeship Levy scheme.
Please contact apprenticeships.digital@buckingham.ac.uk for more information.
We welcome applicants from diverse backgrounds who have a passion for data and critical analysis, and wish to upskill or reskill themselves to become a data scientist.
Each eligible applicant is interviewed, and an initial skills assessment is conducted to determine their suitability for a place in the MSc Applied Data Science (Degree Apprenticeship) programme.
The standard entry requirements for the MSc Applied Data Science (Degree Apprenticeship) are:
Applicants who hold a degree from a non-STEM discipline (e.g.
finance, business) could be considered for the programme if they have relevant background and skills in mathematics and programming, and are working in a role relevant to data analytics or similar.
We welcome applicants from diverse backgrounds who:
The overall programme is structured to provide a solid foundation in relevant knowledge and skills in mathematics, statistics, scripting, and academic study at the onset.
The programme then follows the CRISP-DM methodology to train apprentices to conduct data science projects to achieve strategic business objectives.
Then apprentices are introduced to a range of software applications and tools that are widely used in industry to conduct complex data science projects.
Finally, the apprentices are exposed to leadership styles and strategies, inclusive innovation, business transformation, ethics and regulations through a series of interactive workshops and seminars delivered by industry experts.
All apprentices undertake a substantial ‘Degree Apprenticeship Project’ where they get the opportunity to apply their knowledge and skills to a real-life complex business problem in their workplace.
The programme is delivered through a combination of live online sessions and several in-person sessions at the University of Buckingham.
Each apprentice is provided with a detailed training schedule showing session times, delivery mode, holidays/breaks and assessment deadlines.
All modules of the MSc programme are delivered on Fridays.
One-to-one online academic supervision, one-to-one online learning development coaching sessions, and online quarterly progress reviews are organised at mutually agreed times on weekdays.
Apprentices are welcome to attend one-to-one supervision and mentoring sessions in person at The University of Buckingham.
Live online training sessions: The majority of the 18-month training programme is delivered through interactive live online sessions using the Microsoft Teams virtual learning platform.
All live online sessions are conducted on Fridays.
Recordings of live online sessions are made available for revision purposes.
On-campus training sessions: Between 2-3 in-person training sessions at Buckingham campus are held to offer opportunities for apprentices to network with others from different organisations, and be part of a community of data scientists.
All in-person sessions at Buckingham are held on Fridays.
One-to-one supervision: Each apprentice will have an academic supervisor assigned to them towards the latter half of the training period to advice apprentices on their Work-based Dissertation and Apprenticeship Project.
These are typically 30-minute online sessions held at mutually convenient times during weekdays.
Apprentice’s workplace supervisor attends supervision meetings if and when their presence is needed.
Apprentices are welcome to meet with their academic supervisors in person at Buckingham.
One-to-one learning development coaching: Each apprentice will have a learning development coach assigned to them from the onset of the programme to support, monitor and review the achievement of the competencies defined in the L7 DTSS apprenticeship standard.
Coaching sessions are typically 30-minute online sessions held at mutually convenient times during weekdays.
Apprentices are welcome to meet with their learning development coach in person at Buckingham.
The programme strikes a balance between theory and practical skills, emphasising technical know-how, innovation and application, to ensure full competency within the workplace.
The programme covers four key areas of training:
The four areas of training are covered through a well-structured programme consisting of taught modules, a dissertation, workshops and masterclasses, and a substantial individual project to solve a defined business problem.
The programme then follows the CRISP-DM methodology to train learners to conduct data science projects to achieve strategic business objectives.
The curriculum of the MSc Applied Data Science (Degree Apprenticeship) is designed to meet the requirements of the Data Analytics Specialist specialism of the L7 DTSS integrated degree apprenticeship standard.
The programme consists of six taught modules, a work-based dissertation, a workshop/masterclass based leadership and innovation module, and a substantial individual project to solve a defined business problem.
Research Methods (RMET): This module provides training for postgraduate students on scientific research methodology for collecting data/information and problem-solving skills, irrespective of the methods used and applied in their study.
We recognise that apprentices have academic qualifications from a diverse range of education systems.
Some apprentices might have decades of relevant professional experience but without any higher education qualification.
The RMET module aims to ensure all apprentices have the relevant research and academic skills successfully complete the Level 7 programme.
Mathematics and Statistics for Data Analysis (MSDA): This module teaches the principles and knowledge underlying the basic concepts of numerical computations to solve basic tasks in matrix computation and statistical analyses.
We value the understanding of underlying mathematical concepts behind statistical analyses and machine learning algorithms, although we do not expect apprentices on this programme to become mathematicians.
Scripting for Data Analysis (SCDA): This module trains students on the tools and skills of scripting needed to solve problems of preparing and processing data in a variety of formats and situations such as acquiring, cleaning and transforming data, visualizing data patterns and discovering hidden patterns of interest.
Data Exploration and Visualisation (DEAV): This module introduces the principles and approaches of Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA) and effective techniques and methods of visualising data that may in turn reveal information patterns hidden behind the data.
Applied Techniques of Data Mining and Machine Learning (DMML): this module first introduces the fundamental concepts and principles of data mining and machine learning.
The module then presents some basic techniques in machine learning and data mining with examples.
Based on the basic techniques, the module conducts an in-depth study of advanced state-of-art techniques, and evaluates their strengths and limitations.
Systems and Tools for Data Science (STDS): This module explores existing software tools and platforms for supporting data science.
Through a series of case studies and practical workshops, the module shows how different tools (commercial or non-commercial) work and how various data science-related tasks can be performed with the aid of such tools and systems.
Leadership and Innovation in Data Science (LIDS): This module complements the apprentice’s technical capabilities with a set of soft skills and broad awareness enabling them to become inspiring team leaders and senior data scientists within an organisation.
The module will focus on cultural awareness, ethics, data governance, enterprise and innovation, inclusive leadership, communication and stakeholder management within the context of applied data science.
Work-based Dissertation (WBDS): This module is designed to demonstrate the apprentice investigating, identifying, and recommending for implementing technological strategic solutions to achieve organisational objectives.
Degree Apprenticeship Project (DAPR): The degree apprenticeship project provides the apprentice an opportunity to obtain an in-depth understanding of a specific area relating to data science, apply knowledge and skills acquired from taught modules and exercise judgement in solving a practical problem of a substantial size and complexity.
The project is intended to bridge the gap between the apprentice’s academic knowledge and understanding of data science and real-life problem-solving in order to fulfil the competencies of the apprenticeship.
The curriculum is reviewed annually and kept up-to-date using feedback from apprentices, input from our Industry Advisory Board and external examiners, and staff CPD activities and research.
Further details of the overall programme and individual modules are provided in the Programme Specification and Module Specifications.
We offer high-quality, small-group teaching, which leads to our degrees being recognised around the world.
The quality of teaching, learning and assessments are continuously enhanced through peer-observation, feedback, and continuous professional development activities.
Our academic staff are friendly, approachable, diverse and highly qualified and respected professionals.
All academics are research active, many of whom have worked with business and industry partners on real IT projects, and have successfully supervised a range of Level 7 data science apprenticeship projects.
Several academics hold a teaching qualification (Fellow or Senior Fellow or Advanced HE).
Nearly all have a PhD in Computing or Mathematics.
In addition to the academic team of the School of Computing at Buckingham, high-profile guest lecturers and speakers from academia and industry are invited to deliver seminars and workshops on a range of topics covered in the programme.
The programme is supported by a highly professional and dedicated team of faculty managers, administrators, careers specialists and a team of wellbeing specialists.
Teaching is carried out through a combination of lectures supported by seminars, practical workshops and/or tutorial-style discussions.
It is enhanced by virtual learning environments, learning tools and software packages.
It is also the philosophy of the University’s faculty to be available to apprentices outside the scheduled session times and to encourage good working relationships between staff and apprentices.
Each apprentice is provided with at least one e-textbook for each module of the programme.
Apprentices can borrow physical copies from the library.
Where possible, the library will post physical copies to apprentices.
Among access to online journals and databases is full access to IEEE Xplore.
A host of software packages, including MATLAB is available to download onto a personal computer.
The School has two IBM Power 8 servers if apprentices require GPUs to run large-scale experiments.
A state-of-the-art room is available for lecturers to conduct live online teaching and to record lecture material.
The School of Computing hosts a Computing Seminar series throughout the year for all its staff, students and apprentices.
Approximately 24 seminars are held per year (January – December).
These seminars are given by industry experts, academics from other HEIs and postgraduate research students in computing.
Seminars cover a wide range of topics related to the latest developments in computing.
All apprentices are invited to participate in computing seminars.
A range of assessment techniques are utilised throughout the degree programme to allow apprentices to demonstrate achievement of the competencies.
Individual and group work, presentations, portfolios, quizzes, projects, reflective statements, posters, professional discussions, and viva are examples of the assessment methods of the programme.
As an integrated degree apprenticeship, apprentices who successfully complete the overall programme receive two awards:
The MSc programme is assessed and graded according to the details in the programme and module specifications following the University’s Regulations .
The Apprenticeship is assessed and graded as per the L7 DTSS End-Point Assessment Plan .
Apprentices must pass both the MSc programme and the apprenticeship (EPA) to receive the two awards.
One award cannot be achieved without passing the other.
Quarterly Progress Reviews are conducted to monitor and review apprentices’ learning journey, evidence portfolio and development programme.
Many of our apprentices have received promotions within their current employer whilst others have secured new employment in data science and related roles.
“My apprenticeship helped me to build up the confidence in my skills that allow me to be a part of the success of growing company.”
– Renata Franczak, MSc Applied Data Science (Degree Apprenticeship), (current apprentice from Vitalograph)
“The apprenticeship degree was important to me because I had very little experience working with databases or data visualisation and analytics tools.
It would be incredibly hard, if not impossible, for me to transition, but once I started the university course, everything has made so much more sense ever since!
I have learned Python which is a broadly applicable programming language, various data visualisation tools, datamining and machine learning techniques, and also understanding digital transformation, leadership and management.
All those skills enabled me a smooth transition before I even graduated!”
– Joanna Koda, MSc Applied Data Science (Degree Apprenticeship), 2023
“Apprenticeships play a pivotal role in the employee development strategy of Vitalograph.
By integrating apprenticeships into our talent development framework, we foster a culture of continuous learning, skill enhancement, and innovation.
Investment in apprenticeships not only enhances Vitalograph’s operational excellence and service delivery but also contributes to employee engagement, retention, and career progression.
As a global leader in respiratory diagnostics, apprenticeships create important development opportunities to future-proof our capabilities and reinforce our pioneering culture of innovation.”
– Ambrose Downey (Chief People Officer, Vitalograph)
“The course has given Renata [Franczak] additional skills and greater insights into how we can better use our data to add value to the business and given her greater skills on how to efficiently manage data related projects to completion.”
– Owen M.
McGinty (Vice President Data Services, Vitalograph)
We are incredibly proud of our apprentices’ achievements.
Read more Computing Success Stories .
Apprenticeships are fully funded by the employer through the Apprenticeship Levy.
The maximum cost for the L7 DTSS Integrated Degree Apprenticeship is £21,000; this may be less, dependent on your Recognised Previous Learning (RPL) which will be assessed at interview through a robust initial skills assessment.
There is no cost to the employee undertaking an Apprenticeship.
Your business will be paying the Apprenticeship Levy each month if it:
The Apprenticeship Levy is an amount paid at a rate of 0.5% of an employer’s annual wage bill and will be paid through Pay as you Earn (PAYE).
We encourage prospective applicants or employers to engage with us three months before the programme’s start date to ensure a smooth onboarding process for all stakeholders.
Please send expressions of interest to: apprenticeships.digital@buckingham.ac.uk
Prospective applicants can apply online:

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/apprenticeship/intelligence-analyst-apprenticeship-level-4:
Get equipped with the relevant professional skills you need to thrive in intelligence-driven environments.
The Level 4 Intelligence Analyst Apprenticeship equips professionals with critical analytical, legal, and communication skills to thrive in intelligence-driven environments.
Combining practical training with theoretical foundations, this programme prepares apprentices in transforming raw data into actionable insights, and supporting decision-making in sectors such as law enforcement, military, public and private industries.
The Level 4 Intelligence Analyst Apprenticeship is a career-focused programme designed to develop the skills, knowledge, and behaviours necessary for intelligence professionals.
Through a combination of structured learning and hands-on experience, apprentices learn to analyse diverse data sources, identify patterns and trends, and produce high-quality intelligence reports that inform decision-making.
The programme covers key areas such as the intelligence cycle, legal protocols, and advanced analytical techniques, including geospatial and network analysis.
Apprentices will also gain expertise in handling sensitive materials, adhering to legal frameworks, and employing emerging technologies to process intelligence data.
Throughout the 12-month taught component, participants will engage in modules focusing on intelligence methodologies, scenario-based training, and cutting-edge tools for analysis.
The final 6 months include an End Point Assessment (EPA), where apprentices demonstrate their capabilities through a work-based project, presentations, and a professional interview.
Graduates of this programme are well-prepared for roles in public, private, and military sectors, including intelligence, crime, financial/economic risk, and counterterrorism analysis.
With a strong emphasis on practical application and strategic decision-making, this apprenticeship equips participants with the expertise to succeed in high-stakes, intelligence-led environments.
View the Intelligence Analyst Apprenticeship Employer and Applicant Guide (PDF)
View the Frequently Asked Questions (PDF) for this apprenticeship.
This programme is accredited by the Institute for Apprenticeships and Technical Education (IfATE), ensuring the highest standards in apprenticeship delivery and alignment with industry needs.
The accreditation validates the programme’s quality and relevance, preparing apprentices for professional roles in intelligence, law enforcement, and related sectors.
The Level 4 Intelligence Analyst Apprenticeship is structured over 12 months of taught modules and up to 6 months for the End Point Assessment (EPA).
Throughout the course, apprentices are guided by experienced instructors and provided with hands-on training to develop skills essential for intelligence-led roles.
In the first year, apprentices focus on building foundational knowledge and practical skills in intelligence analysis, including structured analytic techniques, scenario-based training, and legal protocols for handling sensitive data.
They also explore emerging technologies and their applications in intelligence environments.
By the end of the year, apprentices are equipped to apply their skills to real-world intelligence challenges and prepare for the End Point Assessment (EPA).
Introduction to intelligence-based scenarios and foundational analytical techniques.
Focus on structured analytic methodologies and practical application using diverse data sources.
Emphasis on technology and innovation in intelligence analysis.
Completion of a work-based project, knowledge and skills test, and professional interview as part of the End Point Assessment (EPA).
This course employs a hybrid teaching approach, blending on-campus seminars, interactive online sessions, and hands-on workshops.
Apprentices benefit from structured training in intelligence methodologies, which are further enhanced by scenario-based exercises that mimic real-world intelligence challenges.
Specialist facilities and resources include access to advanced analytical tools and software, ensuring that apprentices gain practical experience in handling and interpreting diverse data sources such as open-source intelligence, digital data, and human intelligence.
Group projects and case studies provide opportunities to collaborate with peers and apply learning in dynamic, team-based environments.
Teaching is delivered through a combination of lectures to provide theoretical foundations, and tutorials to encourage interactive discussions and critical analysis.
During the final months, apprentices receive tailored support to prepare for their End Point Assessment (EPA), which includes a work-based project, a professional interview, and a skills assessment.
The course also emphasizes continuous formative assessment, allowing apprentices to track their progress through reflective accounts, witness testimonies, and knowledge tests.
These assessments ensure that apprentices are consistently engaged and fully prepared for their final evaluations.
Apprentices on the Level 4 Intelligence Analyst Apprenticeship are assessed through a diverse range of methods that combine practical application with theoretical understanding.
The assessments are designed to ensure apprentices can demonstrate their knowledge, skills, and behaviours in real-world intelligence environments.
Key assessment components include:
Throughout the programme, apprentices engage in formative assessments, including reflective accounts, witness testimonies, and workplace-specific skill evaluations, which help them track progress and prepare for the End Point Assessment (EPA).
There are no formal exams in this programme; instead, assessments focus on practical deliverables and real-world applications, ensuring apprentices are fully equipped to meet the demands of intelligence-led roles.
Graduates of the Level 4 Intelligence Analyst Apprenticeship are equipped with essential analytical, legal, and technical skills to thrive in intelligence-driven roles.
The programme prepares apprentices for careers in public, private, and military sectors, with expertise in intelligence analysis, data interpretation, and operational decision-making.
With the practical training and comprehensive knowledge gained, apprentices are well-positioned to pursue roles in law enforcement, security, and risk analysis.
Apprentices also benefit from access to the University of Buckingham’s Careers and Employability Service, which provides tailored support to help them succeed in their chosen career paths.
“Buckingham helped make the impossible, possible.
The strong support offering and small class tutorials make the degree less daunting.” Reni , Undergraduate student
To be eligible for Apprenticeship funding, learners must evidence that they:
While prior experience in areas such as data analysis, law enforcement, security, or finance is advantageous, it is not mandatory.
Candidates should ideally be employed in a role where they can apply the skills and knowledge gained during the apprenticeship to meet programme objectives.
A foundational understanding of intelligence and analytical concepts, as well as familiarity with relevant technology and software, will be beneficial.
Candidates should demonstrate strong analytical thinking, attention to detail, and an ability to collaborate effectively within a team.
Trustworthiness and discretion are essential due to the sensitive nature of the information handled during the programme.
Applicants will be interviewed prior to acceptance onto the programme to assess their suitability.
This will include an evaluation of their motivation, relevant skills, and understanding of both the role and the programme requirements.
A proactive attitude towards learning and a commitment to professional growth are crucial for success.
Candidates must be adaptable and willing to engage fully with the training.
These entry requirements ensure that apprentices are well-prepared to excel in their training and build a successful career as Intelligence Analysts.
If you are uncertain on whether you will be eligible to apply for this course, please contact our Admissions team .
The maximum cost for the Apprenticeship is £11,000; this may be less, dependent on your recognised previous learning which will be assessed at interview through a robust initial assessment.
Find out more about student life
Visit our Buckingham campus
Explore our student accommodation
Find advice for applicants and new students

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/apprenticeship/postgraduate-teacher-apprenticeship-with-qts-and-pgce:
This apprenticeship-levy funded course provides a route to Qualified Teacher Status and optional PGCE.
​The University of Buckingham is one of the largest providers of the apprenticeship route to Qualified Teacher Status and optional PGCE.
Our next cohorts will start September 2025 and then January 2026.
The course is free-of-charge because it is paid for by the apprenticeship levy.
It is aimed at three groups:
The apprenticeship-levy funded course allows schools to take on a teacher for 11-12 months at limited cost to the school.
When asked, 98% of students (who graduated from their Postgraduate Teacher Apprenticeship with PGCE in June 2022) said they either would or already have recommended The University of Buckingham’s Teacher Apprenticeship to a colleague.
The achievement and retention rates published for 2023/24 were 95.7% and the pass rate at EPA is 100% well above national trends.
The Teacher Apprenticeship provides an employer levy funded, salaried route for graduates to enter the teaching profession whilst also gaining Qualified Teacher Status (QTS) in 10 months, allowing apprentices to earn while they learn.
There will be 9 months of direct training.
The details of the End Point Assessment will not be known until August 2025 but it will be EITHER an assessor visiting the trainee in May-July OR the university’s results of the QTS will be accepted as sufficient.
We have been delivering teacher training to the next generation of teachers at The University of Buckingham for 20 years and have excellent levels of success.
We offer two routes:
This is funded by the employer levy account for the Apprenticeship and QTS element, with an additional assessment charge for the PGCE qualification of £1,000.
Please note the additional charge for the PGCE qualification must be funded by the employing school or trainee but cannot be paid through the apprenticeship levy fund.
If you complete Route 1 successfully you will achieve:
This is fully funded by the employer levy account for the Apprenticeship and QTS, there is no PGCE qualification gained through this route*.
If you complete Route 2 successfully you will achieve:
*Please note you cannot transfer from route 2 to route 1 once you have started the course.
The tuition fees for the apprentice undertaking the apprenticeship with QTS are zero as they are funded through the employer and the apprenticeship levy.
“The support I have received from my University Tutor has been excellent – she is so understanding and has been very helpful in replying to all of the (many) questions that I’ve asked; nothing has been too much trouble.” Ruth Settle, apprentice teacher
“The course is structured fantastically well with lots of support from the University lecturers and tutors.
My Tutor is available anytime for support and guidance.
I was amazed at how dedicated the tutors are in their respective role, my tutor travelled up to Birmingham from Devon to carry out my termly review.
I have been looking to qualify for 5 years but having a young family I could not take time away from work to do this, The University of Buckingham’s PGTA was the perfect solution, the on-the-job training has allowed me to qualify whilst maintaining an income.” Suhail Tariq, apprentice teacher
“Leaders have developed an ambitious, coherent and challenging ITE curriculum.
Based around five curriculum themes, the well-structured course is informed by the core content framework and underpinned by a wealth of pertinent academic research.
Together, heads of cohort, subject leads and mentors ensure that trainees foster a deep subject knowledge and rich range of pedagogical skills.
Trainees typically become very well-informed and highly reflective practitioners.” Ofsted, 2021
A PGCE qualification adds an academic layer to your qualification.
It is evidence of your further engagement with research and the ability to synthesise and reflect on matters in education in extended academic writing.
For many employers it is therefore an attractive qualification.
If you do choose to complete the PGCE alongside your Apprenticeship with QTS, you will need to submit three essays based on the advice you have been given, the lectures you have attended and your reading.
Successfully passing these assignments alongside your Apprenticeship with QTS will result in you being awarded the Postgraduate Certificate in Education from The University of Buckingham.
Employers that pay into the apprenticeship levy (employers in the UK with an annual pay bill over £3 million) will be able to use up to £9,000 of funding from their apprenticeship service account to cover the cost of training and assessing the apprentice.
Employers that do not pay the levy, or who have insufficient funds in their digital account, can access funding to support the training and assessment of an apprentice.
The government will pay 95% of the costs of training and assessment for the apprenticeship and the employer will pay the remaining 5% which equates to a maximum charge of £450 (this excludes the PGCE additional cost which must be funded by the employer or apprentice).
You must know whether your school is a levy or non-levy payer.
More detail:
The Apprenticeship Levy is an amount paid at a rate of 0.5% of an employer’s annual wage bill and will be paid through Pay as you Earn (PAYE)
The school will be paying the Apprenticeship Levy each month if it:
If the school does not fall into the above categories, it would be classed as a non-levy company.
This does not mean it cannot apply for the funding.
All non-levy payers can get 95% funded by the Apprenticeship Levy.
As the employer your school will just pay 5% of the total cost of the Apprenticeship (currently £450 in total, not including the cost of the PGCE), for a qualification that costs significantly more.
Employers that have insufficient funds in their digital account can also access the levy funding in the same way.
The government will still pay 95% of the costs of training and assessment for the apprenticeship and the employer will pay the remaining 5% which equates to a maximum charge of £450 (this excludes the PGCE additional cost).
In every case the school will need to apply/create a digital account which can be done via the UK Gov website .
This will no doubt be done by a business manager within your school so please ensure this is done before applying.
Before setting up your apprenticeship service account the school will need:
It requires information and sign-off from various departments within the school, such as finance and HR, so ensure these departments are open.
This is one reason for NOT applying at the start of the summer holidays.
A trainee reference from the school will be required at the outset so an interview can be arranged.
Read the Postgraduate Teachers Apprenticeship – Employers’ guide
The majority of this course is delivered remotely, via online training afternoons.
These occur at 13:30-16:30 each Thursday.
There is one in-person day held on campus at the start of the course.
This onboarding day should be diarised as it is a compulsory element of the course.
Primary and PE: Thursday 28 August 2025 Secondary and Prep (Middle): Friday 29 August 2025
These feed into 9 months of direct training, QTS is awarded and the End Point Assessment is triggered.
Upon successful completion of the End Point Assessment, the Teacher Apprenticeship is achieved.
We can teach all school subjects including Art, Music, Design Technology, Food Technology, Business Studies & Economics, Biology, Chemistry, Physics, Maths, Computing, English, Drama, Classics, Modern Languages, Arabic, Geography, History, Politics, Citizenship and PSHE, Religious Studies, Psychology, PE and Mandarin.
During this 10-month school-based course apprentices will work under the guidance of a mentor in their school and a University of Buckingham tutor.
Apprentices will have weekly meetings in school to review their progress and to set targets, termly visits from their University of Buckingham tutor to assess progress and guide their development, as well as regular meetings and reviews via an online platform.
The Apprenticeship includes 20% ‘off-the-job’ training which is delivered in a blended form of online and face-to-face meetings and seminars which are supplemented by a weekly programme on the University’s Virtual Learning Environment.
Apprentices will be assessed against the Teachers’ Standards by their mentor and tutor.
Successful completion of the Apprenticeship training leads to the recommendation of QTS (Qualified Teacher Status).
*For equivalent qualifications, contact education@buckingham.ac.uk to confirm that your qualifications meets the University entry requirements.
We train teachers from Special Schools as well as SEND teachers in all schools.
If you teach children a curriculum which is normally taught to younger children than your classes (e.g.
you teach pupils aged 12-14 a Key Stage 2 curriculum) you will need to do a second school placement in a mainstream school where you can teach an age-appropriate curriculum.
Before the Apprenticeship starts, The University of Buckingham will:
On the programme:
On successful completion of the course:
State secondary schools (only) with teachers of many subjects are eligible for Department for Education grants when those teachers are taking the Postgraduate Teacher Apprenticeship.
These grants are available to help schools pay the salary of secondary teachers of some subjects.
All state schools with teachers we accept for training in these subjects should get the grants.
The University will need to apply for these grants and the money is paid to the school.
Per trainee the grants are:
Find out more about grant funding on the gov.uk website
To find out more about applying, please contact The Faculty of Education on +44 (0)1280 820222 or email: education@buckingham.ac.uk .
Find further information on the Gov.uk website: Apprenticeships for the school workforce – GOV.UK
For course enquires please contact our apprenticeship team: pgta-edu@buckingham.ac.uk
When contacting the apprenticeship team, please state in your email if you are enquiring as an employer or a prospective apprentice.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/apprenticeship/senior-leader-apprenticeship:
Senior Leadership Apprenticeship is for managers and leaders, designed to equip you with essential managerial skills, study whilst you work.
Our Senior Leader Apprenticeship is a rigorous programme designed for leaders and managers with busy schedules who would like to develop and enhance their leadership and management skills.
The course is tailored to professionals working full-time and enables you to get an employer-funded master’s level qualification whilst in employment.
The course is delivered and assessed over 24 months and covers a wide range of leadership topics, delivered via online interactive weekly sessions.
In addition, there will be 4 full-day on-campus workshops throughout the apprenticeship.
The course will allow you to engage with the latest thinking on Leadership and Management, and to connect to like-minded peers in the UK and globally.
We are collaborating with the Chartered Management Institute (CMI) and as such you will have full access to their suite of resources in addition to our library and e-learning resources to support you throughout the course.
Upon successful completion, there are progression routes to achieve a University of Buckingham MBA degree if you so choose.
Successful apprentices will be eligible for a reduced fee.
View the Senior Leadership Level 7 Apprenticeship brochure
This course is designed for current and future leaders wanting to enhance their leadership skills, knowledge, and behaviours.
Specifically, to name a few this course is aimed at current or future:
Executive directors, Associate directors, Business Unit Heads and Managers, Executive Headteachers, Divisional Heads, HE registrars, Head of Department/Faculty, Warrant Officers, Deputy Headteachers, Head of Years, Bursars etc.
For employers, investing in a Senior Leader apprenticeship can be a valuable means of motivating, retaining, and developing professionals in a competitive recruitment landscape.
View this informative webinar to find out more about the apprenticeship from our key members of staff.
Apprentices should normally be working in a management position (minimum 3 years professional experience) with responsibility over people, budgets, or projects – of which studying the programme can input back into an organisation.
As well as:
English & Maths Level 2 are discretionary for entry if not already held; however, both must be completed by gateway of the End Point Assessment.
Professional experience and personal qualities are equally important to us and each application is considered on its individual merit.
Our Senior Leader Apprenticeship is a comprehensive programme designed and taught by academics with real life professional experience across a range of industries.
This guarantees that the knowledge and skills you acquire at Buckingham is always up-to-date and state-of-the-art.
The Programme Director is Dr Soudabeh Bolourian.
On completion of the programme, you will be able to demonstrate relevant knowledge and understanding around the topics below, fully preparing you for the apprenticeship assessment and further progression onto The University of Buckingham MBA routes, if you choose to do so.
This programme is delivered on-line via interactive teaching sessions scheduled weekly on set days.
Depending on the learning outcome of modules being taught teaching sessions will incorporate several teaching methods such as mini-lectures, group discussions, practical exercises to name a few.
A one-day induction and three full days on campus sessions throughout your Apprenticeship have also been incorporated into your schedule.
These sessions will include workshops, seminars, networking events, group discussions, guest speakers etc.
The face-to-face sessions are designed to further enhance your learning and promote networking opportunities.
You will be allocated a mentor at the start of your apprenticeship journey.
Progress is monitored through regular review sessions between you, your employer and mentor.
Additionally, between progress review sessions, you will have the opportunity to catch-up with your mentor for regular check–ins.
The apprenticeship standard is assessed at the end of the course typically during the final months via an End Point Assessment.
This is completed by an independent organisation, CMI to remove bias and maintain standards; and comprises of:
For those who wish to complete either a Postgraduate Diploma or an MBA, successful completion of the Senior Leader Apprenticeship can be followed by the completion of the options below with the School of Business.
The maximum cost for the Apprenticeship is £14,000; this may be less, dependent on your recognised previous learning which will be assessed at interview through a robust initial assessment.
From 1 January 2026, the Government is changing how Level 7 apprenticeships are funded, with a focus on supporting young people at the start of their careers.
What’s changing:
As a result of the changes, we encourage employers and learners to apply early to secure funding under the current rules.
For additional information, please contact our apprenticeships team: apprenticeships@buckingham.ac.uk
Find out more on the GOV.UK website .
We welcome employers or individuals to contact us with any questions or by completing the application form below.
Where employers may wish to enrol more than one apprentice, please contact apprenticeships.fbhs@buckingham.ac.uk
More information about the Senior Leader apprenticeship .
Senior Leader assessment plan .

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/occasional/introduction-to-academic-writing:
The Introduction to Academic Writing course is designed for those embarking on an academic course who wish to prepare for their assessments by working on the quality of their academic writing.
All aspects of academic writing and assessment are covered, to ensure you start your studies with increased confidence.
Fantastic preparation for study in Higher Education, the 14-week course consists of different targeted topics to help you prepare for writing and assessment as part of a wide range of Higher Education courses.
You will gain a solid grounding in the writing skills needed for university study, which includes looking at the fundamentals of good writing and a revision of basic overview of grammar and structure.
The course also covers a number of academic writing techniques and how to incorporate these into your own work.
You will go beyond studying the main aspects of how to write, and go on to look at what to write, particularly in terms of how to present your argument.
You will explore a range of different writing approaches including reflective writing, how to improve analysis, and what makes a good essay.
There are also sessions on related topics including ways to improve the quality of your reading and note taking.
Time is also devoted on the importance of reading your feedback, and how to understand what your feedback means for the development of future writing.
The 14-week course consists of several hours of writing, reading and interactive quizzes and tasks that can be completed at your own pace.
You will receive access to an online app where all of the materials and assessments will be shared with you.
Teaching is conducted through interactive weekly sessions containing recall and reinforcement of previous weeks’ topics and the introduction of new topics with frequent testing through quizzes and AI questions.
Interactive questioning allows you to test your recall and understanding of how you can apply the techniques to your own writing and context.
The online nature of the course means that you can access the materials on an app, which means you can use different pieces of hardware at the times and locations that suit you.
You will receive guidance on how to access the course.
Two assessments are completed.
The first is halfway through the course and is an informal assessment to practice some of the techniques already covered.
The second is at the end of the course and is a formal assessment that will determine whether you have passed the course.
Both assessments are written tasks fully supported with resources and are assessed at Level 4, which is the entry level for Higher Education.
You receive all the course materials you need to complete the course and will be given access to additional materials if you wish to look at some areas in greater detail.
Students who complete this course have found that they have a higher level of confidence about starting their new academic course and about embarking on a new set of assessments.
As you will develop your formal writing, this enhanced skill can be added to your CV and will help you not only with your future study, but also with your work.
The programme aims to reinforce good academic writing practice and gives students a chance to review and develop the skills needed for engagement with an academic course in HE.
The course aims to provide a strong writing foundation for degree courses that may help to stay on the course and improve your academic attainment.
The course can help you to develop the following skills:
No prior qualifications are required.
Completing this course is also a pathway to applying for the BA (Hons) in Primary Education (GCSE English, Maths and Science are required for QTS, however these can be completed during or after the degree course) and the BA (Hons) in Secondary Education (Maths and SEND) (GCSE English and Maths are required for QTS, however these can be completed during or after the degree course).
Looking to apply for BA Primary Education or BA Secondary Education?
Note that the application deadline is May 2026.
Cost: £480 (including VAT)

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/occasional/introduction-to-teaching:
The Introduction to Teaching course is best described as ‘pre-season training’, and is recommended for PGCE and QTS trainees who have not taught before, as well as new teachers in independent and maintained schools.
The course inducts teachers into the profession and provides a toolkit for their first six weeks in post.
A trainee’s first half-term with sole responsibility for classes and their pupils’ progress is demanding, so this course enables teachers to effectively prepare with confidence for the challenges and workload ahead.
The course has been planned with The University of Buckingham Faculty of Education, but is delivered through Anspear, a company that works with Buckingham to deliver courses online.
The course includes five short, engaging and highly practical online self-study modules that give the freedom to study where and when you want .
The modules cover:
Whilst the course is primarily aimed at candidates who have never taught before, it is also beneficial to those who would like to revisit the fundamentals of teaching.
For more information, contact uob@anspear.com .

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/event/teaching-physical-education-and-games-online:
This action-packed, two-hour online training course is aimed at providing teachers with an essential toolkit to deliver effective and safe PE and games lessons.
It is aimed at teachers who are supervising or teaching games when their specialism is not sport.
The course is suitable for both secondary and primary staff, as well as sports graduates who have no teacher training.
This training will provide:
This session will include:
Videos will be used for practical examples during delivery and you will receive a handbook of additional drills and activities.
Trainees applying for a place on a University of Buckingham PGCE will be able to apply for the Teaching of Games & Physical Education course (online version) on the PGCE application form.
Apply by: 10 July 2026

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/occasional/money-inflation-and-monetarism:
The Money, Inflation and Monetarism course is designed for undergraduate students and professionals who wish to explore theories of inflation and macroeconomic stability from a monetarist perspective.
You will be introduced to monetary theory, while exploring the roles of banking in a modern economy.
Using video material featuring leading monetary economist Professor Tim Congdon, this course offers a unique focus.
The course teaches the origin and evolution of modern monetary institutions and the work of the central bank in an economy.
This will provide the theoretical basis that will allow you to understand the importance of central banks’ decisions in the explanation of inflation and nominal income.
Using the Global Financial Crisis and Covid-19 as case studies, you will analyse the impact of changes in money growth on aggregate demand and asset prices.
This perspective allowed Professor Congdon to anticipate the inflationary period during Covid-19, and will give you the tools to anticipate changes in inflation and interest rates.
A 9-week non-credit bearing option is available for students who are only interested in accessing Tim Congdon’s lecture series and do not wish to complete the final assessment.
This 12-week course consists of nine video lectures and recommended reading that can be completed at your own pace.
The online tutorials provided at the start and midpoint of the programme allow you to ask questions and gain deeper insights into the subject.
Teaching is conducted via a series of online video lectures that chart the development of money and banking, explore monetarist theory and define the features of a modern economy.
From the start of the course, you will receive access to our virtual learning platform where all the videos and course material will be shared with you.
The online nature of the course provides you with easy access to the materials on the virtual platform, allowing you to choose timings and hardware that suit you.
You will also receive guidance on how to access the course when you begin your studies.
The 12-week course has only one formal assessment, consisting of a 2,500-word essay at the conclusion of your studies.
For the 9-week course option, no assessment is required.
You will be provided with all the course materials you need to complete the course and will be given access to additional materials if you wish to study some areas in greater detail.
Students who complete the 12-week course will gain 15 credits that may be used towards an undergraduate or taught master’s degree at The University of Buckingham or a selection of other universities.
The programme aims to develop a solid knowledge and understanding of money and banking, as well as central banks in modern monetary economies.
By the end you should be able to measure and analyse different monetary aggregates and study the impact of monetary changes on prices and nominal income along the cycle.
Here are just some of the associated career opportunities and skills that can stem from studying on this course:
The standard entry requirements are: Enrolment on an undergraduate degree course at any university or demonstrable professional experience in wealth management, economics, finance or real estate.
Applicants must also have: 3 A-Levels at grade C or above, or their equivalent.
We have a number of standard entry requirements for our international applicants:
(i) Non-credit option is available at a lower course fee for those who wish to have access to the course materials, but do not wish to complete the final assessment.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/courses/occasional/woke:
This 15-week course presents a theoretical, historical and social scientific analysis of cultural socialism.
Uniquely among university courses worldwide, it focuses attention on the western cultural left and its accompanying symbolic system of wokeness – defined as the sacralization of minority identity.
The aim is to assess woke in an empirical and analytical manner rather than from a particular political or normative position.
The course begins by defining terms and setting out competing theories regarding the origin and reproduction of wokeness in the West.
Students will obtain a grounding in the history, ideology, organizational dynamics, public opinion, electoral implications, policy aspects and philosophy of this idea.
This will involve consideration of how woke interacts with classical liberalism, populism and conservatism to produce a recursive radicalizing pattern, abetting polarization.
Woke will also be examined in light of global population shifts and techno-economic developments.
The course is non-credit bearing, with students able to select from one of three options:
This is for prospective students who are interested in completing:
OR
Seminars and in-person classes begin in October 2024.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/event/buckingham-open-day-4:
Get inspired and discover your future prospects!
Discover if Buckingham is the place to study for you, and ask us those all-important questions.
You’re invited to visit us in-person this October to explore our riverside campus, check out our accommodation, hear from our Students’ Union, and let our students and staff tell you everything you need to know about living and studying at Buckingham.
You’ll discover all the reasons why we were shortlisted for University of the Year (The Sunday Times Good University Guide, 2024), and the unique advantages of our personalised teaching model with small class sizes.
You will also find out about our dedicated student support team, the town of Buckingham itself, and our beautiful, safe campus.
Visitors will be welcomed by our Student Ambassadors and staff members, and throughout the day will have the opportunity to:
Please note that our open days consist of scheduled events throughout the day, so be sure to check the day’s schedule for your arrival time prior to attending .
This will be emailed to you approaching the event date.
If you need to cancel your place or have any questions about our open days, please e-mail info@buckingham.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/about/ratio:
We believe that when you are stretching your learning boundaries, you’ll find it helpful to have regular and meaningful interaction with the academics who are leading your studies.
Our academics will take the time to get to know you so that they are able to give you very personal feedback and guidance throughout the duration of your course.
Our weekly Oxbridge-style tutorials (of around six students) ensures that a high and continuous level of support is maintained, from an academic to a pastoral point of view.
The University prides itself on being a small and friendly environment to study, live and work, and with around 3,200 students (approx 1,800 on campus) – you won’t get lost in a lecture class of 300 students, nor will you be 50 th in line for borrowing a particular book from the library.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/want-to-start-university-in-january-here-are-our-frequently-asked-questions:
When can I apply to start university in January, are there any deadlines?
We accept applications for our January starts all year round via the direct application form on our website.
Just head to the course you are interested in, and hit ‘Apply’.
If you are a UK student applying for your first degree (an undergraduate course ), you can also apply via UCAS.
You need to apply by the first week in December to have your application processed in time to start your course in the following January.
Application deadlines can vary by course, and we may be able to accept late applications.
There is more information on How to Apply .
Will starting in January put me at a disadvantage?
No, not at all.
The course content will be the same as for our programmes starting in September, and if you apply for a two-year degree to start studying in January , you can graduate in December into a less crowded job market.
What courses offer to start studying in January?
Most of our programmes are offered in January (as well as September).
We are one of the few universities in the UK that offer a genuine second intake for our courses every year.
You can search to discover which courses accept January applications .
How do I apply?
Your application process will depend on the course you’re interested in.
If you know which course you want to apply for you can search for it , and then click the ‘Apply’ button once you’re on the page.
The apply page for each course contains information about entry requirements and what you need to start the application process.
To find out general information about applying for undergraduate (first degree) or postgraduate courses, visit our How to Apply page.
How do I apply to study Medicine?
Our 4.5 year GMC-accredited MB ChB Medicine programme only offers a January start .
You need to apply first and if you meet our entry criteria you may then be invited to attend a Multiple Mini Interview (MMI) session to potentially secure a place on our Medicine course.
How will I be selected?
Every Buckingham course has its own specific set of entry requirements.
To be selected you need to meet the entry requirements outlined on the course page as part of the application assessment.
I am an international student.
Do January application dates apply to me?
Yes, you still need to apply by the first week in December to be considered for a January course the following year.
International students can apply directly or apply via an agent .
What will my timetable look like?
The timetable for our programmes is not finalised until applications have closed.
However, once you are a student you will be able to access and manage your timetable online.
What if my preferred programme is not available to start studying in January?
Almost all of our courses offer a January start.
However, if your preferred programme is not available then you can either choose to wait for a September start or consider an alternative programme which is as similar as possible to your first choice and does offer a January start.
Our Admissions team can help to point you in the right direction.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/study/apprenticeships/what-are-apprenticeships:
The perfect blend of learning while earning:
Apprenticeships are a collaborative approach to training that blends practical work experience with formal learning to equip individuals with the skills, knowledge, and qualifications needed to thrive in their chosen careers.
They are designed to meet the needs of employers and employees, combining structured training delivered by a certified training provider with hands-on experience gained in the workplace.
Apprentices spend part of their time learning on the job, under the guidance of experienced colleagues, and part of their time completing academic or technical studies that underpin their practical work.​
Apprentices can be existing employees or staff newly recruited to undertake an apprenticeship programme which aligns with industry standards.
Employers play an active role by identifying the skills their business needs and providing mentoring and support to apprentices throughout their training.
Apprenticeships are highly flexible, with over 700 programmes tailored to different levels, industries, and roles, and they can be adapted for new hires or existing employees looking to upskill.
Programmes range from intermediate to degree-level apprenticeships, ensuring accessibility for people at various career stages.
Employers benefit from government funding and support, making apprenticeships a cost-effective solution to building their workforce.
Apprentices, in turn, gain valuable qualifications and career-ready skills while earning a wage and do not have to pay for any of the training, as it is paid by the employer.
​
Together, this partnership creates a pathway for long-term success, bridging the gap between education and employment in a way that benefits businesses, individuals, and the wider economy.​

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/study/apprenticeships/how-do-apprenticeships-work:
Funded via the Apprenticeship Levy: Maximising training investment​
The Apprenticeship Levy is a UK Government initiative introduced in April 2017 to encourage employers to invest in apprenticeship training.
It applies to all employers with an annual wage bill of over £3 million, who are required to contribute 0.5% of their payroll into a dedicated apprenticeship fund.
This fund can then be used to pay the cost of apprenticeship training and assessment for new recruits or existing employees.
This fund is managed through an online Apprenticeship Service account, giving employers control over how and where their funds are spent.​
For employers who do not meet the £3 million payroll threshold, the government offers generous co-investment funding.
In this arrangement, employers only pay 5% of the training costs, while the government covers the remaining 95%.
This ensures that businesses of all sizes can access high-quality apprenticeship programmes without facing significant financial barriers.
Additionally, the levy encourages larger employers to collaborate with smaller organisations by transferring their unused levy funds to support apprenticeships in other businesses.​
The levy system is designed to create a sustainable framework for workforce development, addressing skill shortages and improving productivity across industries.
For employers, it represents an opportunity to maximise their investment in employee training.
By using the apprenticeship levy effectively, businesses can upskill their workforce while also contributing to the long-term growth of the UK economy.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/study/apprenticeships/employee-benefits:
Pathways to success: Skills, growth and opportunity​
An apprenticeship offers employees the unique opportunity to earn while they learn, combining paid work with structured training.
This dual approach provides valuable, hands-on experience in their chosen industry while working towards a nationally recognised qualification.
Unlike traditional academic routes, apprenticeships allow individuals to develop practical, job-specific skills under the guidance of experienced mentors, making them career-ready from day one.​
Apprentices also benefit from tailored support and a clear career progression pathway, helping them build confidence and competence in their roles.
The combination of workplace learning and formal training fosters a deeper understanding of the industry and its demands, giving apprentices a competitive edge in the job market.
Additionally, apprenticeships are available at various levels, from intermediate to masters-level, making them accessible to people at different stages of their careers or education.​
This model not only eliminates student debt typically associated with higher education but creates a strong foundation for future growth and opens doors to long-term employment opportunities.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/study/apprenticeships/employer-benefits:
Strengthen your workforce:
Apprenticeships offer employers a strategic way to build a skilled and loyal workforce tailored to their specific business needs.
By training apprentices on the job, businesses can address skill gaps, foster innovation, and ensure employees are equipped with practical knowledge aligned with company objectives.
Apprenticeships also allow organisations to nurture talent from the ground up, creating a pipeline of skilled workers who are already familiar with their processes and culture, reducing recruitment and onboarding costs.​
Financially, apprenticeships are highly cost-effective.
Levy-paying employers can utilise their apprenticeship levy funds to cover training costs, while smaller businesses benefit from generous government co-investment, paying just 5% of training fees.
Apprenticeships enhance employee retention and engagement.
Investing in staff development demonstrates a commitment to their growth, boosting morale and loyalty.
Apprentices often bring fresh ideas and perspectives, driving innovation within the organisation.
By partnering with us, businesses also benefit from expert guidance and support, ensuring the process is efficient and impactful.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/study/apprenticeships/why-choose-us:
Partnering with The University of Buckingham for apprenticeships offers employers a unique blend of academic excellence, flexibility, and practical workforce development.
Recognised as a respected higher education institution with an Ofsted “Good” rating, we are committed to high standards in teaching, learner support, and programme delivery.
This is further demonstrated by our excellent retention and completion rates, highlighting the success of our apprenticeships.​
We design apprenticeship programmes that are carefully tailored to industry-specific requirements, equipping apprentices with the knowledge and skills to make an immediate impact in the workplace.
With access to academic expertise, apprentices benefit from the latest research, innovative practices, and a curriculum aligned with professional and business goals.​
Apprentices gain access to extensive university resources, including libraries , and career and well-being services.
They also join a vibrant community of students , academics, and professionals, fostering networking opportunities and collaboration.
The University’s tailored, live interactive online programmes further enhance the learning experience, providing flexibility for apprentices and employers alike.​
Employers are supported by a dedicated Apprenticeship Team that offers guidance every step of the way.
From initial consultations and navigating apprenticeship funding, including maximising levy contributions, to recruitment and delivery, the team ensures a seamless, efficient partnership.​
By choosing us, employers can address skill gaps, enhance productivity, and ensure apprentices meet rigorous academic and professional standards.
With proven outcomes, expert guidance, and a commitment to innovation, we are an ideal partner for developing a future-ready workforce and achieving long-term organisational success.​

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/admissions/applyonline/how-to-apply-postgraduate-study:
If you are interested in postgraduate study, you can apply directly through our website.
There’s no fee, and you can apply at any time during the year.
We offer postgraduate starts throughout the year, with our two main intakes occurring in January and September.
Please see individual course pages for the start dates offered on your preferred course and any associated application deadlines.
We recommend you submit your application as early as possible – even if you haven’t yet been awarded your first degree or other entry qualification.
Once you’ve chosen your course, check the entry requirements on the course page to ensure you’re eligible.
Search courses and apply
Click ‘Apply Now’ on your preferred course page to start your application.
Check what supporting documents you need to have ready before starting an application.
Log in to continue your application
If you need any help making your application or if you have any questions, our frequently asked questions (FAQs) may provide some answers to questions you have.
Postgraduate Application FAQs
*Application fees apply to postgraduate Education courses

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/life/accommodation/livingon/faq/applying:
The earlier the better.
Applications are allocated on a strictly first come first served basis.
Late applicants may not get their preferred accommodation choice if these rooms have already been allocated.
Go to the Apply for Accommodation page on the website and follow the application process.
It is preferable that you apply for your own accommodation in case you have questions that require answering.
Many students ask their parents to apply, however because of data protection laws we can only speak with you regarding your application.
Please check that you are logging online with the correct spelling of the name you provided us with when you REGISTERED and note that your password is case sensitive .
In the event that you are still unable to log on, please email accommodation@buckingham.ac.uk for assistance.
The application number is your Student ID – this will be your dedicated number for your time at The University of Buckingham.
When making your application scroll down to the NOTES section and let us know the information.
We will try to accommodate your request but it cannot be guaranteed.
The campus halls are mixed, however, we do try to accommodate students as best we can.
Generally, one floor is for female students, one for male students and the remaining floor is mixed.
Flats and houses on the Moreton Road campus are single-sex too.
Please ensure that you let us know you only want to share with single-sex in the NOTES section.
Yes, all disclosures are confidential and can be made to the University’s Wellbeing, Skills and Diversity Department , at wellbeingskillsanddiversity@buckingham.ac.uk .
Disabled rooms are limited so please apply as early as possible in order that we can try to accommodate your needs.
Allow time to read through the various campus descriptions and prices .
Alternatively, take a virtual tour , of accommodation at The University of Buckingham, to help you decide.
Living arrangements should take into consideration your budget; where your course lectures are held and various other options i.e.
sharing facilities, ensuite accommodation, or would you prefer designated quiet residence?
A viewing room is available on our Hunter Street campus.
In-person Campus tours can be booked online, subject to availability.
Please contact the Accommodation Office if there is a particular room that you would like to see.
If this is available, we can make an appointment for you.
Yes, there is a NOTES section on the application.
Please note that although we try to meet your needs, within reason, sometimes these cannot be carried out.
Accommodation at The University of Buckingham is spread over three campus areas.
However, all are within walking distance to the University lecture halls.
These range from a five to 25-minute walk.
Norton’s Place is a terrace of 8 cottages suitable for married couples.
Availability is limited so please check before applying.
Please note that children are not allowed to stay on campus.
All utilities and University Wi-Fi is included in the cost.
All you need to budget for outside of this is your food and recreational requirements.
Your room offer, for accommodation at The University of Buckingham, is valid for 10 days.
If you would like us to hold the room for you, then you will be required to pay either the £700 Security Bond or the first term’s rent.
There are several ways you can pay.
If you have made an application it is preferable to pay through the online portal for a seamless process.
However, if you wish to pay via bank transfer, detailed information can be found on the Payments Method page of our website.
If you do not pay through the portal, however, we do ask that you email us the payment information; we will have to accept the room offer on your behalf and without the information, you could lose your room.
The University of Buckingham is a Private University and, as such, your first term’s accommodation fees and Security Bond must be paid before you collect your keys.
Your Student Loan will not be released to you until after you have registered as a student.
Therefore, you cannot depend upon your Student Loan to pay for your first accommodation installment.
You do not need to do anything.
The system allocates you four terms and we will amend the system accordingly once you have arrived.
If you are unhappy with the allocation you may either reject the offer sent to you and re-apply (we strongly advise against this because offers are allocated on a first come first served basis; therefore your re-application will be treated as a new one), or, accept the room offer and once you have arrived you may apply for a room move.
(However, room moves are not guaranteed and are only available if we have availability in weeks 4, 5 & 6 of the term).
Applications are withdrawn if payment is not made within 10 days of the room offer being issued.
You will need to reapply again for your accommodation.
Our student accommodation must comply with the regulations set out in the Universities UK (UUK) Code of Practice for the Management of Student Housing.
The Code requires us to provide clear policies and procedures relating to:
We abide by this code and are audited every three years to make sure we meet the necessary standards.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/life/accommodation/livingon/faq/arriving:
Yes, there is the option for this on the application portal once you go through the process of accepting your room offer.
Please let us know if you are going to be arriving late by emailing accommodation@buckingham.ac.uk so we can give you further instructions about your arrival.
When you arrive on Registration day, you will meet the Accommodation team and will receive your keys then.
There will be staff available to show you to your room and assist with luggage.
Please note it is not possible to receive your keys before registration .
If you plan to travel to Buckingham before registration day, you will need to make your own accommodation arrangements for any days leading up to registration.
As a general guide, rooms are furnished with a desk, chair and desk light.
A bed, wardrobe set of drawers and / or shelves make up the remainder of the furnishings.
You will need to bring:
Please do not bring large appliances to University.
Essential kitchen items are provided within your student accommodation at Buckingham and these have been electrically tested for safety.
Items brought to University that are not safe, or do not comply with UK / University regulations will be confiscated.
Please also note that student chairs not provided by the University are not allowed.
For a comprehensive list of items not allowed please refer to the Prohibited and Confiscation List .
In order to ensure your time in student accommodation at Buckingham is not only comfortable and enjoyable, safety is very important.
Some items are permitted but must be kept in the kitchen others are not permitted at all.
Please refer to the Prohibited and Confiscation List for further information.
Yes, items are insured, as long as you keep within the terms of ensuring you keep your windows and doors locked when you leave your room.
Try not to bring high-value items to University.
If you do bring them, you may need to top your insurance up to a higher value.
Yes, you can access the campus car parks by using your student ID Card (Ucard) once you have registered for your course.
A permit is not required.
Please note that parking is limited and most places are within walking distance.
If you are bringing a bicycle to University it must be kept outside of residences and not stored in rooms or hallways.
Yes, the launderette for Hunter Street is located in Hailsham House and the launderette for Verney Park is located in the Franciscan Building.
You will be given a laundry card when you collect your keys.
There are washing machines in the Moreton Road properties.
Kitchens, bathrooms, showers, toilets and all communal areas, within the student accommodation at Buckingham, are cleaned by the Housekeeping staff, Monday to Friday with the exception of Bank Holidays.
You can contact them on housekeeping@buckingham.ac.uk for spare vacuum bags / shower curtains / any other queries.
You are responsible for cleaning your own room and tidying up after yourself in all communal areas.
Yes, as long as you purchase a TV license; these are available to buy online.
Please bear in mind when bringing a TV, the size of the television versus the size of your room!
This depends on availability at the time.
Prior to your course ending, you will receive a letter giving you information whether we can, and how to, extend your license for a further period.
Please note that extending licenses are dealt with on a first come first served basis.
All letters are hand-delivered on the same day at a given time to ensure this is fair to all students.
No.
Pets are not allowed on campus.
Unfortunately no we do not offer a discount for early payment.
Smoking in public areas has been illegal since 1 July 2007 in the UK.
Smoking is strictly forbidden in student residences.
Smoking, or vaping, of legal substances only, is permitted outside.
Some smoking shelters are provided and we ask that you do not smoke close to buildings where smoke may travel into an open doorway or window.
We do not have an opt-out clause, except for serious extenuating circumstances.
Once you have signed your accommodation license, you are liable for the accommodation fees as stated on your license.
There will always be someone at hand to help you.
Staff and students can point you in the right direction while you get your bearings.
Maps are provided and the Security team situated in the Porters Lodge are available day and night.
We can provide you with another set.
You will be given 7 days grace period to find the original set.
If you cannot find them, we will charge the new set to your account.
If you lose your keys outside office hours please contact Security.
The University of Buckingham has an Environmental policy; heating in the residences is on between the hours of 07:30 and 00:00.
The University also operates a summer switch-off between 1 May and 1 September.
Wearing appropriate clothing for the time of year will help to keep you warm.
If you feel cold during the night, an extra duvet or blanket on your bed will help.
Please note that fan heaters and electric blankets are not allowed under any circumstances.
On arrival, you will be given an inventory to complete in order to record the condition of items in your room.
You will also be given a link to report any faults or issues to the maintenance team.
We appreciate that accidents happen so it is better to report these swiftly to prevent further damage to items/residences.
Wilful damage to items will be charged to your personal account.
This is for your protection against damage charges when you leave.
If the inventory is not completed and returned, or the information is incorrect, you may be charged for damage that was not your fault.
Completed inventories help us to make a fair and considered decision when releasing your bond at the end of your stay.
Because of data protection we are unable to provide this information.
Once you arrive, a house meeting will be arranged by the Residential Assistant and this will give you the opportunity to meet fellow house-mates.
Apply now for accommodation
Yes you can bring your bicycle.
Buckingham and the surrounding area is ideally suited to travelling by bike.
Your bicycle can be stored in cycle racks on Hunter St opposite the Porters Lodge or in the quadrangle of the Verney Park Accommodation.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/new-students-2/before-you-arrive/online-registration:
Online registration is an essential process to becoming a student of The University of Buckingham.
You must complete this process as soon as possible when asked to.
You will not be able to attend your programme of study until this process has been successfully completed.
You will be asked to:
Registration must be completed before the start of the term.
If you meet the above requirements, you will be sent an email with your IT login details.
Please login into e:Vision .
You will receive an email within 5 days of completing your online registration either:
Some students will need to attend a document checking session before registration can be completed.
If you are an EU or international student for fees purposes, you must show us documents that prove you can study in the UK.
This will include your passport, visa or Biometric Residence Permit.
You will also need to show us original documents proving your qualifications.
Please note that this stage may not be required if you will be studying online from your home country for the Winter Term.
For Registration queries please email registry@buckingham.ac.uk
For Admissions queries please email Admissions@buckingham.ac.uk
For IT queries, please see the IT Services page or contact helpdesk@buckingham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/admissions/payment-methods:
Tuition fees payment methods are debit or credit card or Bank Transfer, before or on the day of registration.
Please note we cannot accept American Express.
You are required to pay the “non-returnable Tuition Deposit and your first months fee, before or at registration.
The University reserves the right to refuse to register students without the required payment, in cleared funds.
Please note we do not accept cash or cheques at any time.
You can pay with credit or debit card on Registration day.
For Students with confirmation of a Student Finance England Tuition Loan, we are happy to deduct one quarter of the tuition fee loan if you bring original documents to registration confirming the award or the University has received confirmation direct from the Student Loan Company.
The remainder must be paid in full, on or before the date of registration.
You should not rely on maintenance loans to meet the shortfall in your tuition fees: you will not receive these funds until after you have registered.
Visit the University’s Grants and Loans information for more information about eligibility for financial assistance.
Tuition fees and Accommodation fees payments may be made via our Online Payment Portal .
For speed of clearance and simplicity, we prefer all payments to be made by direct transfer to the University’s bank account.
Please contact studentfees@buckingham.ac.uk for bank account details.
To assist us in crediting the correct account, the application number and student’s family name (in that order) should be the reference entered in “payment details (information for the beneficiary)”
For reasons of security of students and staff, and of insurance, the Student Fees Office does not accept payment in cash.
If you are considering bringing cash into the UK, please be aware that amounts over £10,000 in cash are required by law to be accompanied by documentation demonstrating their legitimate origin.
For more information please visit: https://www.gov.uk/bringing-cash-into-uk .

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/international/general-advice/health:
The UK’s National Health Service (NHS) provides doctors and hospital treatment.
If you are an EU or International student and your course is over 6 months long, you are entitled to access healthcare through the NHS as detailed below.
You must register with a local doctor, who you will see when you are ill, prescribe medicines and refer you to see a hospital consultant if necessary.
You may need to pay for dental and optical treatment as well as medicine prescribed by the doctor and collected from a pharmacy.
The University medical advisors are the Swan Practice , in Buckingham.
They hold daily appointments in Student Welfare from 10.30am – 12.00pm Monday to Friday during term time.
Appointments are available off-campus in Buckingham outside these hours.
Appointments must always be made to see the doctor.
To see the on-campus doctor or to book an appointment at the Swan Practice you can:
Prescriptions for medicines are taken into a pharmacy (or chemist) who will then provide you with the medicine or treatment.
Under the NHS you will, in many cases, have to pay a small sum for medication.
Students can apply for a reduction in fees using NHS form HC1, available from your doctor.
How to register with the doctor
All registered students who live in Buckingham are required to also register with The Swan Practice in order to receive medical support, even if you do not think you will ever be unwell or need to see a doctor.
Students can register with Swan Practice online by visiting the NHS website .
All registered students living outside the area served by Swan Practice should register as a patient with their nearest local G.P.
(doctor).
If you live at home, you will probably already be registered with a G.P.
service.
If you are moving to a new area and are unsure where to go to find a doctor, take a look at the NHS location search tool.
At least once a year you should have your teeth checked by a dentist.
Some dentists, including two in Buckingham, accept NHS patients, but others only treat private patients.
You will need to pay for dental treatment.
Opticians test your eyes and prescribe glasses or contact lenses.
There are a number of opticians in Buckingham where you can get your eyes tested.
There is a charge for eye tests and the cost of glasses and lenses varies.
Most visitors from EU countries have some entitlements to use the NHS.
The precise entitlement varies according to your status (e.g.
a worker, a pensioner, spouse, child or casual visitor).
The Family Health Service Association (FHSA) will regard you as being entitled to NHS treatment, unless you are thought to have come to this country specifically to try to obtain free treatment.
This treatment will only be free when it is deemed urgent.
Patients from EU countries who have come to this country specifically for treatment should have written approval from their insurance institution to obtain their treatment here and should be able to produce their European health Insurance Card (EHIC).
Normally you should have made prior arrangements for the treatment.
GPs should make EU patients aware of their entitlements.
The arrangements for EU members are subject to constant change by the Department of Health so please check the latest information available.
This is also likely to change post-Brexit.
You are eligible to medical care from the NHS if you are a student intending to study continuously for a minimum of six months, proving continuity and being “settled” here.
You will be required to pay an immigration health surcharge as part of your Student student visa application.
You must be registered with a General Practitioner to be eligible for NHS treatment.
These regulations also apply to any members of your family accompanying you who must also show that they have a purpose for residing in this country for a minimum of six months, such as continuous study or employment.
If a member of family who comes to England does not register with a General Practitioner and has not been resident for six months, he or she is not entitled to free health care.
For registered patients there is always a fee for prescriptions.
That fee is laid down by the Department of Health and is subject to change, usually annually.
Contraception is free.
The exception to all of the above is ante-natal care.
This is at the discretion of the hospital attended.
If you are pregnant on arrival in this country, ante-natal care usually entails a fee.
If you, or a member of his or her family, come to England specifically to obtain treatment, you will be charged as private patients.
You are advised to enquire at the hospital about your detailed entitlements and liabilities.
Please make sure that you fully understand them.
With countries where the UK has a reciprocal agreement, NHS treatment will be provided where the need for treatment arises during the visit and it would be unreasonable to delay treatment until your intended return home.
NHS treatment will not be delivered unless the treatment is deemed urgent.
For further information about keeping healthy, see UKCISA healthcare guidance .

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/life/it-services/student-access:
Here are the next steps to be completed to enable you to access and enjoy the University’s IT facilities available to you.
On this page:
As a member of the University, you have been allocated an account to access the University’s IT facilities.
This includes access to email , the Virtual Learning Environment (VLE) , Library resources and Wireless Internet Access (WIA) .
Your account is individual to you and can only be accessed with your login details.
Details on how to access and retrieve your login details will have been emailed to you a few days before your day of registration.
If you have not received these details, please either contact your school of study or visit IT Services on your day of registration.
If you are a new member of staff, your account login details will have been prepared by Human Resources and provided to you on your first day of employment.
If you have not received these details, please contact your line manager.
If you are a current student or member of staff and unable to locate your login details, please contact the IT Services Helpdesk so we can look into this with you.
The University encourages the proper use of its IT facilities.
Please ensure that you read the Use of University Computers and Data Networks (including Email Policy) , part of the Regulations Handbook .
By logging into your account you are confirming that you have read and agreed to be bound by the University’s policies.
We require that you change your password from the password that you have been provided with.
You can change your password using one of the following methods:
Log on to any student PC on campus (located in the libraries and computer rooms) and use CTRL+ALT+DEL, followed by the “Change a password” option.
Please remember that your password must contain a minimum of 12 characters.
It is advisable that your new password is complex; it can contain UPPERCASE and lowercase letters, numbers and symbols.
Don’t use your username, any part of your name or an old password.
Once you can access your University account, please check and update your Office 365 security information via the My Profile System.
You will need to use this information to reset your password and unlock your account without having to contact IT Services or be on the University’s network.
If you have not accessed your Office 365 portal yet (e.g.
to access to your University mailbox), you will be prompted to provide more information the next time your login to Office 365.
Please follow the onscreen instructions.
Please see the How to register for Multi-Factor Authentication video by Microsoft as it demonstrate this process.
You can also register and update your security details by carrying out the following simple steps on any computer connected to the Internet:
Please remember to register on the system now before you need to rely on it.
Below are our recommended next steps now that you’re a member of our community:
We would also like to recommend the following best practices to optimise your use of the IT facilities:
Please do not hesitate to contact the IT Services Helpdesk should you require assistance.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/admissions/entry-requirements:
Each course page details the specific entry requirements needed to apply for that course.
Information on The University’s general entry requirements can be found on the below pages:

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/admissions/teachers:
The University of Buckingham is an excellent choice for your students.
As the UK’s only Independent University with a Royal Charter, Buckingham has all the features and quality assurance of an established UK University ( founded in 1976, Royal Charter in 1983 ) with key advantages focused on teaching excellence and academic independence.
The Student Recruitment Team at Buckingham supports UK and overseas Schools / Colleges with their HE Guidance including attendance at HE / Careers Fairs, HE Talks, Student Conferences and resources for Teachers, Counsellors and Advisers.
Find details of our upcoming events:
We’re delighted to also offer in-person tours of our Buckingham campus.
Book a Campus Tour .
I am delighted to be able to offer the following to schools:
Please do contact me to arrange a visit to your school: marketing@buckingham.ac.uk
Email: info@buckingham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/admissions/transparency-return:
The Office for Students (OfS) normally requires providers to publish data as part of the ongoing condition of registration with the OfS.
However, OfS does not require providers to publish data relating to 2022-23 student data; instead, already published data is used.
The information published on these pages shows:
It also shows these numbers by reference to:
Table 1a: Percentage of classified first degrees at grade 2:1 or above by characteristic for 2021-22 qualifiers.
Table 1b: Detailed information on attainment for 2021-22 qualifiers.
Key
N/A – where there is no provision in a given mode or level
N – 20 or fewer students in this population
DP – Data suppressed for data protection reasons
If you have any questions about the transparency return, please get in touch with Academic Services via data@buckingham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/admissions/applyonline/how-to-apply-undergraduate-study:
We welcome applications to our undergraduate courses in two different ways – through UCAS or directly via our online application form.
If you’re interested in transferring to Buckingham from another university, then please get in touch using the form below and someone from our Admissions team will be in contact to talk through your options.
To register with the University you must have attained eighteen years of age at the point of registration, except where the Dean has granted to a named student an exemption from this condition.
You can make Buckingham one of your choices on UCAS.
The UCAS platform enables you to apply to up to five universities or courses in the one place.
You can find out more about how to apply via UCAS here , along with the key UCAS application deadlines
If you apply through UCAS, they will send you a notification via an email alert once an offer has been made.
To accept your offer via UCAS, you need to go to UCAS Hub to make your replies.
Deadlines will be visible in UCAS Hub.
Apply via UCAS
Alternatively, you can apply directly through our website by clicking the ‘apply now’ button on the course page.
Ideally you should apply by the following dates:
Check what supporting documents you will need to have ready before starting an application.
If you need any help making your application or if you have any questions, please don’t hesitate to get in touch by phone +44 (0)1280 820227 between 9am and 5pm, Monday to Friday.
Alternatively you can get in touch using our enquiry form .

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/admissions/applyonline/info:
Before you complete the application make sure you have the following:
You will also be required to upload copies of:
If you don’t have these at the time you can always send them to us by email once you have them.
Click the ‘New User’ button to begin your application.
You will be able to create your own password which you can use to return to your application at any stage (up to one month from starting it).
Make a note of your password and your User ID.
This is your application number and you will need this to login again or enquire about your application .
To leave the online application form just finish the page you’re working on, click the “Save and return later’ button at the bottom of the page and logout.
To retrieve your details at a later date, browse back to the form and login.
All information entered after the last “Save..” will unfortunately be lost.
See above for how to retrieve your partially completed form.
We will send an acknowledgement email to the address used on the form, this will refer to your User ID which becomes your unique application number it is 7 digits long and should be quoted in all correspondence with the university.
You will receive a copy of your application form to check.
If you need to change any information please contact us with your 7 digit ID number.
Please get in touch with the Admissions Office .
They are open from Monday to Friday 09:00-17:00 (UK time).
We will email your referee(s) to request your academic reference(s).
Your referees will only be contacted once we have received your completed application.
Details of a referee must be included in your application and you should have permission from them before we contact them.
If you do not have a reference at the time of application you will be asked to provide the details by email after the application is submitted.
QQ and Sina account users cannot receive emails sent from The University of Buckingham.
To ensure effective communication between you and our enquiry team, please send all queries from email accounts such as Yahoo, Hotmail, Gmail, MSN, 126 or 163.
Please also make sure that you avoid using any QQ or Sina emails as correspondence in your application form.
由于QQ 和Sina邮箱（腾迅平台）用户无法成功接收白金汉大学发送的邮件，为确保您与白金汉大学的沟通畅通，建议您在与我们联系或填写申请表时使用Yahoo，Hotmail，Gmail，MSN，126，163等邮件地址。

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/admissions/applyonline/supporting-documents:
In order to process your application we need your most recent academic transcripts or results, and one reference from your current or last school/college (two if you are applying for postgraduate study).
Your reference should be written by somebody who has taught you, demonstrating your ability as a student and your suitability for university study.
If it is more than 5 years since you left full-time education it may be written by your employer.
It should then be posted, or scanned and emailed to the Admissions Office where we will process it as part of your application.
Reference Form (PDF) (66 KB)

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/admissions/entry-requirements/undergraduate-entry-requirements:
View the ‘Entry requirements’ section on individual undergraduate course pages to see course-specific entry requirements.
Applications to The University of Buckingham are considered on an individual basis by the University Admissions Office.
Various factors are taken into account, so if you have a different educational and work experience, please contact us and talk to our Admissions Team .
Applicants with BTEC , T Levels and other qualifications are welcome to apply, including if you have a mix of BTEC and A Levels .
We also accept a wide range of international qualifications including International Baccalaureate (IB).
Where an applicant is taking the EPQ alongside A Levels, the EPQ will be taken into consideration and result in slightly lower A Level grades being required.
Alternative eligibility may be in the form of relevant work experience, keen aptitude and a passion for the subject, or unlocked potential that you feel can be discovered through your studies at Buckingham.
Mature students (over 21) may be given an offer to study at the University based on their work and life experience, together with any formal qualifications they hold.
All of our undergraduate programmes operate a flexible entry process and we will consider entrants from all backgrounds with slightly lower qualifications if they are able to demonstrate an alternative eligibility for the course.
We have a number of entry requirements for our international applicants.
If you are uncertain on whether you will be eligible to apply for a course, please contact our Admissions team .

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/admissions/entry-requirements/postgraduate-entry-requirements:
View the ‘Entry requirements’ section on individual postgraduate course pages to see course-specific entry requirements.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/admissions/fees/discounts:
Only one discount can be applied per student.
We will apply whichever qualifying discount is greatest.
If two or more members of the same immediate family are studying concurrently at Buckingham, a family discount of 5% will be applied to the tuition fees of the second and subsequent student(s).
Please note: this discount excludes Medicine.
Buckingham alumni, as well as the children and spouses of Buckingham alumni, are entitled to a 5% discount on tuition fees while studying undergraduate or postgraduate courses at Buckingham (only valid for the first 2 years of the MBChB).
To be eligible for the discount the graduate in question must have been awarded a qualification by The University of Buckingham.
A 20% discount on tuition fees is available to serving Officers in the British Armed Forces on the MA in Modern War Studies and Contemporary Military History course.
Students wishing to pay their fees in advance will benefit from a discount of up to 2.5%.
This discount will be applied to the gross amount of fees before any other discount is applied

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/scholarships/diversity-in-computing-bursary:
Designed to inspire more young women to pursue a career in computer science and IT.
Buckingham’s School of Computing is committed to inspiring more young women to pursue careers in computing and IT.
We are delighted to offer a £2,000 scholarship or a bursary to female, undergraduate Computing students.
According to UCAS, women are now 35% more likely to go to university than men.
However, fewer than 20% of these women are likely to apply to study subjects categorised as “Mathematical and Computing Sciences” by Times Higher Education.
“For prospective students, I’d say Buckingham has a lot to offer, both in terms of academic support and community.
The university and students here are very supportive, and there’s a place for everyone.” Linaya , Computing student
We want to change that and encourage females to consider studying Computing undergraduate degree programmes with us.
One way we are endeavouring to achieve this is by offering female applicants a Diversity in Computing Scholarship or Bursary, often alongside other sources of funding which are available to everyone.
We are able to do this thanks to the generosity of alumnus Mr Weiyou Cui whose generous donation to the University is specifically for supporting female students who are studying Computing at The University of Buckingham.
The School of Computing is recognised for creating exceptional opportunities to advance women in STEM.
Madara Premawardhana, PhD Computing student won the ‘Tomorrow’s Leader’ award , the School of Computing has been awarded for ‘ Advancing Women in STEM ’.
Scholarship candidates need to:
To qualify for the scholarship, an application to one of the programmes listed below is required.
Courses start in both January and September.
Reminder: You need an application ID to submit an application for this bursary, which you receive after submitting your application to one of our courses.
Ensure your course application is submitted before applying for our bursaries.
The scholarship application form for courses commencing September 2025 is now closed.
Funded scholarships for courses commencing January 2026 are now available to apply for.
Applicable to
International, UK
Study level
Undergraduate
Subject area
Computing

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/scholarships/desborough-bursary:
£5,000 support for UK undergraduate and postgraduate business students with an entrepreneurial mindset.
The Desborough Fund provides financial support for UK students with entrepreneurial spirit pursuing business-related studies at the University of Buckingham.
This fund offers three key awards:
These awards are designed to support students academically and professionally, fostering business knowledge, leadership skills, and entrepreneurial ambition.
More details on eligibility and application processes will be announced by the University.
To qualify for a bursary, an application to one of the programmes listed below is required.
UK
Postgraduate, Undergraduate
Business

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/scholarships/university-of-buckingham-bursary:
UK students with a financial need applying for a two-year undergraduate degree can get up to £9,500.
This unique bursary worth up to £9,500 are limited in number but offer a valuable opportunity for students seeking higher education by reducing financial barriers.
Enabling students to fully immerse themselves in the rich cultural opportunities that university life provides beyond academic achievements by helping close the tuition funding gap at the University of Buckingham.
These early-bird bursaries are available exclusively to students who apply at least two months before registration day and can illustrate significant financial need.
The bursary is worth up to £9,500 over the degree and students receive this as a termly reduction in tuition fees.
To be eligible for this bursary, candidates need to be:
To qualify for the scholarship, an application to one of the following programmes listed below is required.
Accounting & Finance , Business , Computing , Criminology , Digital Media & Journalism , Economics , English Literature , Entrepreneurship , History & History of Art , International Studies , Law , Military History , Philosophy , Politics , Psychology , Security & Intelligence

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/scholarships/beloff-scholarship:
£2,500 scholarship for students passionate about political economy.
Two scholarships of £2,500 are available to students who show an interest in and passion for political economy applied to public policy and who join the programme in September.
To be eligible for this scholarship, candidates need to:
To qualify for the scholarship, an application to the following programme listed below is required.
Reminder: You need an application ID to submit an application for this scholarship, which you receive after submitting your application to one of our courses.
Ensure your course application is submitted before applying for our scholarships.
Research
Politics

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/scholarships/coase-scholarship:
A scholarship of £11,000 that supports UK students from diverse backgrounds wishing to undertake an Economics degree.
A generous endowment from the Nobel Prize-winning economist Professor Ronald Coase has enabled us to offer 14 new scholarships to study a range of Economics courses at The University of Buckingham.
Coase was inspired by his undergraduate economics education and went on to make a major change to the way we look at the world.
His radical analysis of markets and firms established whole new areas of economic enquiry which you can learn more about on the Nobel Prize website.
A long-term friend of the University, his legacy now paves the way for future generations of Economics students from all backgrounds to change the future, starting that journey with us.
“I applied for the Coase Scholarship, which is a scholarship open to anyone studying economics within their degree.
I found out about the scholarship when I attended the open day.
I am very grateful to have received this scholarship because it has enabled me to focus on my degree, without having to worry about the financial side of being at university.” Olivia , Economics student
Women, ethnic minorities and people from lower income backgrounds are especially encouraged to apply.
To qualify for the scholarship, an application to one of the following programmes listed below which start in January and September each year, is required.
Ensure your course application is submitted before applying for our funded scholarships.
Economics

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/scholarships/gregory-scholarship:
Available to UK undergraduate students studying Business, Computing, Humanities and Social Sciences or Psychology.
Scholarships for UK nationals of up to £4,000 are available for undergraduate programmes in Business, Computing, Humanities and Social Sciences or Psychology.
Accounting & Finance , Business , Computing , Digital Media & Journalism , Economics , English Literature , Entrepreneurship , History & History of Art , International Studies , Military History , Philosophy , Politics , Psychology , Security & Intelligence

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/scholarships/headley-trust-scholarship:
An award designed to cover full tuition fees for a UK undergraduate law student.
This scholarship aims to encourage high-achieving students to pursue their legal studies by alleviating financial barriers by covering the full home tuition fees for two years , providing financial support to one successful candidate.
Available for students enrolling in a two-year undergraduate LLB (Hons) full-time programme starting in September 2025.
To qualify for the scholarship, an application to the programme listed below is required.
Law

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/scholarships/high-achiever-scholarship:
An entry scholarship, worth £2,000, is available to UK undergraduate students with high grades.
The scholarship is awarded as a termly reduction in tuition fees and is applicable for the first year (a reduction of £500 per term over our 4 term academic year).
This scholarship is not available for Medicine students.
“I received the High Achiever Scholarship and the application process was very simple – I sent a couple of emails, confirmed that I was eligible for it and did not have to think about it again – it was added onto my degree for the next two years.” Karina , Law student

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/scholarships/international-undergraduate-high-achiever-scholarship:
Fee reduction of £2,500 for international undergraduates with high grades.
This scholarship is for a £2,500 fee reduction, paid in four termly instalments throughout your first year of study.
International

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/scholarships/lillingstone-trust-scholarship:
£5,000 scholarship for local students in MB ChB Medicine, Computing, or Psychology.
In partnership with the Lillingstone Trust , The University of Buckingham is delighted to offer a £5,000 scholarship towards tuition fees for a two-year undergraduate degrees in computing or psychology starting in September 2025, or MB ChB Medicine degree starting in January 2026.
Available awards:
This scholarship is specifically for local students who otherwise could not afford a university education and for whom a place at The University of Buckingham will unlock life-changing opportunities.
To be eligible for this scholarship, applicants must fulfil all the following criteria:
Plus at least one of the following:
Computing , Medicine & Health , Psychology

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/scholarships/ondaatje-scholarship:
Scholarship worth up to £4,000 towards the tuition fees for one year’s postgraduate masters study.
Sir Christopher Ondaatje kindly provides a very generous donation for scholarships.
We offer scholarships for postgraduate study (masters level study only) at Buckingham to students commencing their studies in September or January.
Each scholarship is awarded on merit and is open to competition.
Anyone interested in applying for the Ondaatje Scholarship should complete the application form (see below) and email the following additional documents to admissions@buckingham.ac.uk
The final decision regarding the awards will be made by the University’s Scholarship Committee Members.
Postgraduate
Accounting & Finance , Business , Computing , Criminology , Digital Media & Journalism , Economics , Education , English Literature , Entrepreneurship , History & History of Art , International Studies , Law , Medicine & Health , Military History , Philosophy , Politics , Psychology , Security & Intelligence

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/scholarships/paul-eh-davis-scholarship:
A scholarship that supports full-time study of postgraduate English Literature programmes.
The Paul E.
Davis Scholarships support full-time study of postgraduate English Literature programmes.
The following scholarship is available for students starting their studies in January:
The scholarship is available for both Home and International students who hold an offer to study one of the eligible programmes, but are capped at Home fee level.
Any shortfall must be made up by non-home students.
Davis Scholarships are made possible by the very generous support of Dr Paul Davis, a University of Buckingham graduate and close friend of the university.
Dr Davis is committed to encouraging and supporting excellence in English research.
These scholarships cannot be combined with any other scholarships awarded by The University of Buckingham.
English Literature

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/scholarships/postgraduate-first-class-scholarship:
The scholarship will reduce tuition fees by 33% for new UK and international postgraduate students.
Not available for School of Education courses, Postgraduate Certificates or Diplomas.
Postgraduate, Research
Accounting & Finance , Business , Computing , Criminology , Digital Media & Journalism , Economics , English Literature , Entrepreneurship , History & History of Art , International Studies , Law , Medicine & Health , Military History , Philosophy , Politics , Psychology , Security & Intelligence

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/scholarships/research-degree-scholarship:
Research scholarship that offers outstanding applicants some or all the fees paid for by the University.
In celebration of The University of Buckingham receiving its Royal Charter on 11th February 1983, the University has created a Scholarship Scheme for outstanding applicants for research degrees.
In 2025, there are 4 scholarships available.
From 2026, the RC40A scheme will be renamed ‘The University of Buckingham 50th Anniversary’ Research Scholarship scheme (U50A), in recognition of the 50th anniversary of the University’s incorporation in 1976 as the University College at Buckingham .
Awards will be made to candidates with excellent academic profiles and professional potential: normally, a Distinction at Master’s level and/or in the Master’s dissertation project/dissertation element, and a strong CV and outline proposal.
Under the RC40A scheme, successful home applicants will have the entirety of their fees paid by the University for the duration of their studies.
Successful candidates will also gain professional work experience by contributing a small number of hours per week to Departmental projects as a condition of tenure of their award.
Under the RC40A scheme, successful international applicants will only be charged the difference between the UK and international fee rate*, with the remainder of their fees paid by the University for the duration of their studies.
* In almost all cases this will be less than 50% of the international fee.
Please consult the ‘Fees & Scholarships’ sections of the relevant course info page.
“Receiving the RC40 Scholarship from The University of Buckingham has been a tremendous support in my academic journey.
This prestigious award, established to commemorate the University’s Royal Charter granted on 11th February 1983, is aimed at outstanding applicants pursuing research degrees.
Being one of the recipients in 2024, I feel honoured and grateful.
The scholarship has eased the financial burden by helping to cover my tuition fees, allowing me to focus more on my research.
It has made a meaningful difference in making postgraduate study more accessible and has enhanced my overall experience at the University.” Rashmi , PhD Computing student
Awards will be made to candidates with excellent academic profiles and professional potential.
For PhD applications, a Distinction at Master’s level and/or in the Master’s project/dissertation element will normally be required, and a strong CV and outline proposal.
For Master’s by Research applications, normally a first class Undergraduate degree, with a strong performance in any dissertation element, along with a strong CV and proposal will be expected.
Candidates wishing to be considered should:
Depending on the discipline, a panel interview – in person or online – may also be requested.
Accounting & Finance , Business , Computing , Criminology , Digital Media & Journalism , Economics , Education , English Literature , Entrepreneurship , Foundation , History & History of Art , International Studies , Law , Medicine & Health , Military History , Philosophy , Politics , Psychology , Security & Intelligence

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/scholarships/sheikh-mubarak-abdullah-al-mubarak-al-sabah-pg-scholarship:
A £20,000 scholarship for outstanding Arabic students pursuing a full-time Master’s degree in the UK.
In partnership with our distinguished alumnus Sheikh Mubarak Abdullah Al-Mubarak Al-Sabah, this scholarship enables outstanding students from Arabic countries to complete their higher education in the United Kingdom.
This initiative will offer one £20,000 award towards tuition fees for a full-time postgraduate degree (Master’s degree) in any subject starting in September 2025 and one award in September 2026.
The purpose of this scholarship is to help Arabic students excel in their scientific and professional careers, and to develop the skills necessary for the future market.
Nationals from the following countries who hold an offer to study one of the programmes listed below.
“Sheikh Mubarak Scholarship has truly transformed my journey as a medical student.
Knowing that someone has invested in my future pushes me to work even harder so that I can one day make a positive impact as a doctor.
Medicine can sometimes feel overwhelming, especially when faced with the sheer volume of information.
But with time and patience, I’ve found that the learning process becomes enjoyable and even exhilarating.
Reflecting on the past few months, I am proud to see how much I’ve learned and grown, and I am excited to continue this journey.” Haneen , Medicine student

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/scholarships/sheikh-mubarak-abdullah-al-mubarak-al-sabah-ug-scholarship:
A £40,000 scholarship for outstanding Arabic students pursuing a full-time undergraduate degree (2-year degree).
This initiative will offer one £40,000 award towards tuition fees for a full-time undergraduate degree (2-year degree) in any subject starting in September 2025.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/scholarships/swains-scholarship:
Up to £5,000/year for undergraduates in Buckinghamshire with financial need.
2020 Ronald Swains of High Wycombe left a legacy bequest to The University of Buckingham.
He wished to establish a permanent endowment in his name to fund a scholarship in perpetuity.
In memory of Ronald Swains, we are pleased to offer the Swains Scholarship of up to £5,000 per year for any undergraduate degree.
To apply you must be a resident of Buckinghamshire or Milton Keynes and be able to demonstrate financial need.
“The Swains scholarship has been invaluable in aiding my studies.
It helped alleviate the stress of financial concerns.
I found that the biggest challenge I had to overcome was my desire to compare myself to other people and their successes.
I realised that it’s important to recognise that everyone is on a separate academic and personal journey and the only competition you have is yourself.
I would advise future students to make the most out of their university experience without pressuring themselves to overwork themselves for the sake of doing well in exams.
To make the most out of your time here, join societies, and try to interact with people outside of your course as there is a wealth of friendships to be made.” Shruti , Medicine student
Accounting & Finance , Business , Computing , Criminology , Digital Media & Journalism , Economics , English Literature , Entrepreneurship , Foundation , History & History of Art , International Studies , Law , Medicine & Health , Military History , Philosophy , Politics , Psychology , Security & Intelligence

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/life/accommodation/livingon/howtoapply:
Room offers are made (in the order they are received), to applicants who have ‘Unconditional Firm’ offers.
Please make sure that you have read and understood our accommodation terms and conditions before you apply and accept a place in University accommodation.
You will be entering into a legally binding contract for which there is no opt-out clause.
Unless there are serious extenuating circumstances, you will be financially liable for the whole duration of your contract.
All new accommodation contracts are for one academic year.
All students who stay in University owned accommodation must pay a £700 security bond.
This is refundable when you move out of the accommodation, minus any accommodation debt and/or accommodation charges.
Your room offer is valid for 10 days.
If you want us to hold the room for you then you must make a payment of either the security bond, the first terms rent, or both, before your room offer expires.
Before you can collect your keys you must have paid the £700 security bond and the first terms rent.
We would prefer you to make these payments by card via the online accommodation portal .
Although the following information is currently correct, it may be subject to change.
Once you have paid your £700 security bond AND your first term’s accommodation fee, you will be asked to confirm your arrival date.
Please note that the earliest that you can collect your keys and move into your room is the first day of your accommodation licence.
If you plan on arriving in Buckingham prior to this date, you will have to book a hotel room, as we are unable to allow early access to the accommodation.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/future-earning-agreements:
The University of Buckingham believes in you and in the education it provides.
We have launched Future Earning Agreements (FEA), which are a form of deferred payment scheme whereby a portion of course fees are waived in exchange for an agreement to repay a fixed percentage of post-graduation earnings for a limited period.
Up to £12,340 of tuition fees (for entry in September 2024) and £12,950 (for entry in January 2025) can be deferred until after graduation, and the repayment obligation is tied to your future earnings rather than by reference to a rate of interest.
If your earnings are low, or you are unemployed, there is no obligation to repay anything at that time.
Please note: initial Bond and Deposit payments are still required.
It means the interests of the student and the university are aligned.
If you do well, we recover our costs.
We have always had a commitment to teach our students skills that will help them with their careers, as evidenced by our 6 th place ranking for Employability in the 2022 Good University Guide, ahead of most Russell Group Universities.
With the launch of Future Earning Agreements, we are sharing the risk our students take as a sign of our confidence in what we can do for you.
Please note that at present we are only able to make this offer for undergraduate home students studying these eligible FEA courses .
As a Future Earning Agreement is a financial product they are actually offered and administered by our partner StepEx who are regulated by the UK’s financial regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority.
Future Earnings Agreements (FEAs) are financial arrangements offered by Stepex, a limited company authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority, with no recommendation or endorsement from the University of Buckingham.
The University of Buckingham is not a regulated Credit Broker and is merely advertising StepEx’s services and is not ‘effecting an introduction’ to them as per article 36A(1)(a) and (c) of the Regulated Activities Order 2001.
Please visit the StepEx website to see all the details of how a Future Earning Agreement works and to make an application.
If you have any issues with this link please e-mail contact@Stepex.co
Note: It is still necessary to apply for your course of study through UCAS or on this website via the relevant course page .

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/admissions/fees-and-finance/lendwise-loan:
The University of Buckingham has partnered with private “peer-to-peer” student loan company Lendwise as an alternative source of funding for your studies if you need more than you can secure from a government loan and your own resources
Lendwise loans are primarily for tuition fees although, in certain circumstances, a small portion of the overall loan can be for personal expenses.
Tuition fee loans will be paid directly to The University of Buckingham and any personal expenses amount will be paid directly to you.
Full details of eligibility requirements, interest rates and other key terms of the loan are available by visiting The University of Buckingham page on the Lendwise website.
The key eligibility criteria for students or prospective students of The University of Buckingham are that you be studying at postgraduate level or be in the third or later year of a medical degree.
You must also be a permanent resident in the UK.
You can apply up to six months before your studies start – even before you have accepted a place – or when you are at the University.
You can apply directly on the Lendwise website – the application process is entirely online.
Be sure to read the terms to make sure you understand the commitment you would be making.
Please note that other sources of funding may be available.
The University of Buckingham is not a regulated Credit Broker and is merely advertising Lendwise’s services and is not ‘effecting an introduction’ to them.1

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/international/english-language-requirements/undergraduate-language-requirements:
The IELTS and TOEFL standard of English Language levels listed below are applicable to undergraduate courses.
MB ChB students whose native language is not English must hold IELTS of 7.0 with a minimum of 6.5 in every component.
Foundation and integrated Foundation programmes have specific English language requirements.
For further information, please see the programme information pages.
Exceptions to the English language requirement can be found on the UKVI website.
* Please use code 8775 when indicating The University of Buckingham as a score recipient.
We will then receive your results directly.
**Please note that we only accept tests taken in person at a test centre.
We do not accept the online test.
*** Must be valid within the last 5 years.
**** Not applicable for applications from Punjab or Haryana.
The UKVI has clear guidelines and requirements.
The minimum entry requirement for a degree level course is a Common European Framework grade of B2.
IELTS, TOEFL and Pearson equivalents are shown below.
For the full list please visit the UKVI comparison table .
We offer English foundation courses which are designed to prepare you for university study.
Successful completion of these allows progression to various degrees at The University of Buckingham if the relevant academic requirements have been met.
Please contact our Admissions Office if you need any more information.
Find out more about our Pre-Sessional English Programme .

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/international/english-language-requirements/postgraduate-language-requirements:
The IELTS and TOEFL standard of English Language levels listed below are applicable to all postgraduate courses except our MA English Literature by Research where the minimum grade for IELTS is 7.0 (with 6.5 or above in each component).
The table also lists the equivalents from other test providers.
The UKVI English Language requirement for the student visa route is set out in the Appendix English Language of the Immigration Rules .
** Please note that we only accept tests taken in person at a test centre.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/student-visa-faqs:
Yes, The University of Buckingham is a Student (General Student) licence holder.
Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) is a ‘virtual’ document which provides a CAS number and a CAS statement.
You will only need a CAS if you are planning to apply for a student visa or visa extension under Student category of the Points Based Immigration System.
A CAS can only be generated by the University using the Sponsor Management System (SMS) of the UK Visa and Immigration (UKVI).
A CAS number is a combination of letters and numbers and has 14 digits, for example, “E08GLO90RT7P2”.
Each CAS number is unique for an international student studying at a specific Student sponsor for their chosen course(s) in the UK.
A CAS statement consists of all the information required by UKVI for generating your CAS.
The University of Buckingham will send your CAS number and CAS statement by email only.
You will need the information provided on the email to complete your Student (General Student) visa application correctly.
Please note it is your responsibility to check your CAS statement to ensure all the information about yourself, your course(s) information, etc.
is accurate.
You must keep the CAS email securely as it contains your personal data.
Not all international students need a CAS.
This will depend on each student’s personal circumstances, e.g., your study profile, current immigration status, etc.
You will only need a CAS if you are applying for your visa or visa extension as a Student General Student.
If you are not sure whether you will need a CAS, please contact our International Office .
If you want to start or continue your study at The University of Buckingham under Student, you MUST obtain a CAS from us in order to apply for your Student General Student visa.
A CAS will be issued once you have accepted an unconditional offer, paid the required fees, bond and supplied a copy of your passport, and once you have provided us with a copy of your Student compliant bank statements.
You can apply for your visa within three months prior to Registration.
It refers to the requirements that the bank statements must meet under Student regulations.
The bank statements must show enough funds to cover your maintenance funds, which are tuition fees for the first year of your course and the living expense imposed by the Student regulations.
The total amount required has to be in your bank account for a minimum period of 28 days prior to applying for a visa.
The amount must be in a personal current or savings account.
Please note that accounts in the name of a company or business are not allowed, neither are accounts of investments, such as shares or bonds).
Yes, but you will also have to provide a birth certificate to prove the relationship between you and the account holder, and a consent letter from the account holder confirming the financial support and that the funds held in the bank account will be available to you while you study in the UK.
It is the amount of money you need to demonstrate that you possess to cover the tuition fees for the first year of your course and living costs.
If you study outside London you need to show you have £1,023.00 per month up to a maximum of 9 months.
So you need at least £9,207.00 in total.
If you study in London you need to show you have £1,334.00 per month for up to a maximum of 9 months.
So you need at least £12,006 in total.
Buckingham is outside London.
The above figures were correct as of 4 June 2021.
For the latest figures please go to, Student visa: Money you need – GOV.UK
On 12 November 2015, the “Established Presence” provision was removed, thus students no longer are eligible to demonstrate the lower amount for living expenses and they have to demonstrate the full 9 months’ worth of funds if the course is 9 or more in duration.
The living costs have increased to £1,023 per month, up to 9 months.
So students have to demonstrate they possess a total of £9,207 if they study outside London.
(The living costs have increased to £1,334 per month up to 9 months, so students will have to demonstrate they possess a total of  £12,006, if they study in London.)
The above figures were correct on 4 June 2021.
The living expenses/costs that each of your dependents are required to demonstrate they have before applying for a visa.
For dependents, the amount is £680 per month up to 9 months, a total of £6,120.00, if the student’s studies are outside London.
If your studies are based in London, the living costs each of your dependents are required to demonstrate they are in possession of, is £845 per month up to 9 months, a total of £7,605.00.
Established presence for dependents was also removed on 12 November 2015.
For the latest figures please go to, Student visa: Your partner and children – GOV.UK
Yes, this is a new mandatory requirement.
From 6 April 2015, all students and their dependents applying for a new Student Visa or a Student Visa extension will have to pay an extra £300 per year of studies for healthcare charges.
For more information please visit, Pay for UK healthcare – GOV.UK
We have been assured by UKVI that it is not necessary for you to receive a hard copy of the CAS notification from the University.
The University will issue an email to you as an official notification that a CAS has been assigned to you.
You will have to input the CAS number in the appropriate section of your visa application form.
Yes, when the CAS is issued it will be included.
If you make further payments after your CAS has been issued your CAS will be updated and you will receive notification (normally by email) to confirm this.
If you have any queries you should contact the Admissions Administrator who issued your CAS quoting your application number.
New students can apply for their visa no more than three months before the start of their course.
Visa applications can take at least three to four weeks for processing, so allow as long as possible.
Continuing students are advised to apply early, usually any time within three months before their current visa expiry date.
For more information please read our guide: Applying For A Student Visa Outside The UK .
You must provide original documents for the qualifications listed on your CAS statement.
This includes documents to show that you have the required level of funds in place for a consecutive 28 day period prior to your application, as required by UKVI .
Our Visa checklist page contains all of the information you need.
The University has a responsibility to check that anyone who is not a national of an English speaking country (from a list provided by UKVI) or who has not recently graduated from an honours degree in one of those countries, meets the minimum English language standard for their course.
For degree courses, the standard is defined by UKVI as at least CEFR Level B2 (normally at least IELTS 5.5 in each element (reading, writing, listening and speaking) or other accepted tests).
The University sets its own English language requirements for each course, which are normally higher than the UKVI standard.
The University cannot admit any student who needs a Student visa who is below the UKVI standard.
The University will record on the CAS the evidence used and if there is a formal English language test stated on your CAS you must include the original certificate and full statement of results with your visa application.
UKVI will not ask you to take another English test.
However, if you are interviewed by an Entry Clearance Officer during your visa application or on arrival in the UK they need to know that you can hold a normal conversation with them.
If they have concerns about your English skills they have the power to refuse entry to the UK.
You will receive a pre-CAS email that will ask you to check all of the information which will be contained in your CAS.
The Admissions Administrator will not issue your CAS until confirmation is received from you that the information is correct.
You should send a clear copy of your new passport to the Admissions Administrator who will update the CAS information held by UKVI.
If you are a registered student you should ensure you inform the Visa Office.
Any changes made will be notified to the UKVI and you will receive an email informing you of those changes reported to UKVI.
Yes, if your offer is for ‘PhD’.
Students may be registered from the start for the PhD with a progression review after approximately one year.
If, however, your offer is for MPhil only or MPhil / PhD, a CAS will be issued for the MPhil (two years) only.
A new CAS will be issued if your progression is satisfactory after two years.
The CAS shows the latest date by when you must formally register for your course.
If you do not register by the latest date UKVI is notified, the University may refuse registration if you try to register and/or start later.
It is very important that you inform the Admissions Administrator before the latest start date if you are no longer able to attend the course.
It is sometimes possible to defer a CAS, provided we receive sufficient advance notice.
This can only happen as a result of a ‘significant change in circumstances’.
If you have successfully completed a programme at our University for which you currently have a valid visa, you may enrol in a new course at our University on the same visa as long as the new course is at a higher level than the previous course and you agree to submit a new visa application within 6 weeks from the start date of the new course.
If you need a Student visa and would like to study at The University of Buckingham, you must use a CAS issued by The University of Buckingham to apply for your visa.
It will depend on when you applied for your last Student visa.
If you applied for your current Student visa on or after 5 October 2009, you must apply for a new Student visa using a CAS issued by The University of Buckingham before you can register with us.
If you applied for your current Student before 5 October 2009 and this visa is still valid, you must apply to UKVI for permission to change your University before you can register with us.
You must tell the University as soon as your new visa application has been decided (approved or refused) or as soon as you receive permission to change your University and provide evidence to Visa Office.
UKVI policy may change at short notice.
The University will be required to review its policies accordingly and may need to revise offer conditions in order to sponsor some students for a Student visa.
The University will give as much notice as possible of changes.
If you leave the UK, make doubly sure you qualify for re-entry when you return.
Information about travelling abroad is available from the UKVI website .
You will also need a letter, issued by Registry , confirming your status as a registered student (please give at least one week’s notice).

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/international/visas/checklist:
To ensure that your visa application is processed as smoothly as possible, please ensure that you have included:
For more information, please read the guidance notes on the UKVI website for the Student Category at https://www.gov.uk/tier-4-general-visa .

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/international/general-advice/homesickness:
Being away from home and from family can be stressful so it is normal to experience apprehension and anxiety for the first few weeks, or months.
Unfamiliar sights and sounds, food and climate, not to mention a difference in social roles and behaviour, can all contribute towards ‘culture shock’ and make you homesick.
Homesickness is normally temporary and to help deal with it we suggest that you:
The following websites offer advice on dealing with homesickness and depression:

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/international/general-advice/police:
Students from outside the Commonwealth and the European Community who are admitted for longer than six months are normally required to register with the police within seven days of arrival.
Failure to register with the police, if required to do so, is a criminal offence.
Students who are required to register with the police have to  email Thames Valley police at OVRO@thamesvalley.pnn.police.uk to arrange to complete an online registration and attend the local police station for an appointment, where you will receive your certificate.
In your email to Thames Valley police, you have to provide the following details:
If you need a certificate urgently, please let Thames Valley Police know so can they prioritise your registration.
The registration is valid for the duration of your leave to remain and should be renewed every time an extension is granted.
The fee, at present £34.00, will be charged for the initial registration certificate, but there is no charge for renewal.
Once registered with the police you must inform the police within seven days of any change of address, or within eight days of a change of your conditions of stay being made.
If you are required to register with the police, you should submit your police registration certificate along with the other documentation when applying for an extension of your leave to remain.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/international/general-advice/work:
The majority of overseas students are entitled to work up to 20 hours per week during term time and full-time during vacations, although the University places its own restriction of 16 hours per week during term time, subject to the approval of the Head of Department.
There are some students, however, who will have a restriction placed on them.
These fall into two categories:
Students must check the conditions that were imposed on their stay when they were last admitted to the UK.
The most common way for a prohibition on working to be worded is as follows:
“Leave to enter the United Kingdom on condition that the holder maintains and accommodates himself and any dependants without recourse to public funds, does not enter employment paid or unpaid and does not engage in any business or profession, is hereby given for / until …”
If your passport is stamped with a prohibition on working, you cannot work under any circumstances.
It is currently the policy of the immigration service to issue work prohibition stamps to anyone who is granted leave to enter the country for six months or less.
This includes students coming to do courses of six months or less.
Students coming for longer courses should only be issued with a prohibition on working if their initial leave to enter was granted for six months or less.
The stamp should be changed if their leave is extended.
The most common way for a restriction to be worded is:
“Leave to enter the United Kingdom on condition that the holder maintains and accommodates himself and any dependants without recourse to public funds and does not enter or change employment paid or unpaid without the consent of the Secretary of State for Employment is hereby given for / until …”
It is only students whose passports are stamped with a restriction on working who are free to work without obtaining permission.
If you wish to enter employment whilst you are a student, you must first obtain a National Insurance Number (external link).
More information about working in the UK can be found on the UKVI website .

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/international/general-advice/etiquette-and-culture:
While you are at Buckingham you will be expected to uphold the reputation of the University.
We encourage our students to be considerate of the townspeople by keeping noise levels to a minimum after dark so we can enjoy happy co-existence with the town and the townspeople who have always been accommodating to our students.
We encourage our students to arrive in good time for all lectures and be respectful to staff and students alike.
Consideration and care of University facilities is expected so that these are available to all our students and in good working order.
By being aware of these simple rules of etiquette you and your fellow students will be able to make the most of your time at The University of Buckingham.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/international/general-advice/climate-in-the-uk:
The UK climate is at times unpredictable.
That why people say that in Great Britain everyone talks about the weather!
It is cold, wind, snowy and wet during the winter months and the first couple of weeks of spring between the months of November and March.
Spring and summer temperatures are usually temperate and warm so you will be able to enjoy the beautiful country side.
You can find weather reports for the UK at the British Met Office website (external link).
If you are arriving in the winter bring some warm clothes for your arrival.
Remember you can always buy more clothing in the UK.
We recommend that during the cold season, you put on layers of clothes, for example, wear a t-shirt, under a sweater, with a coat and scarf on top to keep warm and healthy.
You may need a waterproof coat for wet days and good comfortable shoes or boots.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/international/general-advice/food-in-the-uk:
When you first come to the UK you may find ‘English’ food rather odd.
But, as Britain is such a multi-cultural society, you will be able to find a lot of the same foods in shops and supermarkets that you have at home.
There are also a variety of restaurants serving a range of international cuisine, where you can eat out.
Our catering on campus is very flexible and if you have a favourite food, why not give them a recipe and they may be able to put it on the menu!
You can check the general rules on bringing food items into the UK on the government website .

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/international/general-advice/money-matters:
The UK Visa and Immigration Office ( UKVI ) provisions for Student General Student Visa require students to prove financial solvency to cover the costs of tuition and living expenses.
On top of our tuition fees, the average living costs at The University of Buckingham range between £8,000 to £10,000 GBP a year.
This includes accommodation costs and sustenance.
Note: The UKVI will require you to show a minimum amount of fund for maintenance when applying for your Student Student Visa, so be aware of this.
To open a bank account in the UK banks require proof of registration and residential address ( visit UKCISA for some useful guidance).
This can be obtained from our Registry Office .
All the major banks have a branch in or near Buckingham or Milton Keynes, so take time to choose which bank is best for you.
It is advisable to check out the major UK banks online before you arrive in the UK.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/international/coming-from/gambia:
Going on to Higher Education is a big step.
At The University of Buckingham our International Office can advice in choosing the right course for you.
The University of Buckingham offers a range of undergraduate and postgraduate degree programmes to suit the need of prospective students.
Our undergraduate degrees provide the unique options and combinations that will enable you to select a degree programme to suit your needs and future aspirations.
Visit our Course Finder to see a complete list of the programmes available to you.
If you still have questions or doubts about what you would like to study or are undecided about what degree programme is best for you please contact us, we can help.
In order to study at undergraduate level (Bachelor’s degree), you will need to have attained a minimum of grade B3 in five WASSCE subjects, as well as successful completion of a 1-year Foundation Programme.
If you have achieved your required WASSCE grades, but have not completed your Foundation Programme, you may be eligible to join our International Foundation Programme.
For Postgraduate study (Master’s degree) you will need to have the equivalent to a British Bachelor’s (Honours) degree, the level of which will differ for each school of study.
All applications will be considered individually and work experience, and other interdisciplinary achievements are taken into consideration when deciding upon all applications.
We work closely with counsellors and overseas representatives who can advise you on how to apply for your degree as well as in completing your visa application.
You are not obliged to make an application through an agent but we strongly recommend that you consult with them if you require a visa counselling service.
The International Office may be able to assist you with your application and let you know what documentation you need to prepare but are unable to offer advice on visas.
The International Office is always here to help applicants from overseas.
So do not hesitate to call or email your country’s international officer.
Also, check the visits diary to see to see if there are any trips coming up.
It is possible that we are visiting your country in the next few months.
If you have any questions or would like to speak to a member of staff at The University of Buckingham please find contact details of the International Officer for your region below:
Tel: +44 (0)1280 820155 Email: international-office@buckingham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/international/coming-from/ghana:
The first Ghanaian students to graduate from The University of Buckingham did so in 1982, and since then we have seen over 87 Ghanaian students come to study at Buckingham across all of our academic schools.
The University of Buckingham is best liked by Ghanaian students for its international campus and sense of community spirit, and above all, the standard of education that they receive here.
Our Alumni have gone on to have very successful careers in various industries, including: banking and financial services; legal services; accountancy; postal and telecommunications services; oil, chemicals and petroleum; healthcare and medicine; leisure and tourism; education, and; consultancy.
“I learned great life lessons from Buckingham.
Notable among them is the ability to multi-task and working late hours.
This is something that has proven useful in my professional life, especially since my work involves doing so many things concurrently.
In addition, the Lecturers I encountered during my stay at Buckingham, the friends I made, and the courses I studied have all gone on to improve my professional life after graduation.
The “family” atmosphere at the University accorded me the opportunity to have academic discourse with Lecturers.
These discussions, which were mostly held outside working hours have contributed significantly in shaping my worldview, being Politics ,Economics or Business.
Since graduation, I have been working as an Economist at the Office of the Vice-President of the Republic of Ghana .”
We currently have a dozen Ghanaian students studying with us in several of the academic schools, and this is what one of our students, Jessie Tagoe, has to say about her time so far at Buckingham:
“My name is Jessie Tagoe, I am a first year LLB law student and I am enjoying my time so far at The University of Buckingham which is the whole idea anyway why I chose it.
The January intake first of all pulled me towards Buckingham, not to speak of the excellent student teacher ratio, the serene atmosphere of the town and the fact that there are a lot of students from all over the world.
I have come across some Ghanaians and to be honest it feels good to see someone from home.”
In order to study at foundation level you will need to have undertaken 12 years of education and attained:
As proof of English language proficiency you would need:
In order to study at undergraduate level (Bachelor’s degree), you will normally need to have attained one of the following:
The grades quoted above give an indication of a typical offer; at the Admissions Tutor’s discretion alternative qualifications or gradings may be considered.
All applications will be considered individually and work experience and other interdisciplinary achievements are taken into consideration when deciding upon all applications.
Applicants may also be invited to interview.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/international/coming-from/kenya:
Karibu kwenye Chuo Kikuu cha Buckingham!
The University of Buckingham enjoys a long-standing relationship with Kenya, with our first Kenyan student having graduated in 1979.
Since then we have seen over 130 Kenyan students come to study at our University.
Our Kenyan students tell us that the appeal of Buckingham for them is the two year undergraduate programme, which instills a work ethic that takes them far in their careers.
They are also quick to mention the beautiful, tranquil campus and the close-knit community, not only on campus but also within the town of Buckingham.
We currently have a dozen Kenyan students studying in all four of our academic schools, and this is what one of our students, Natasha Khan, has to say about her time so far at Buckingham:
Natasha Khan, studying BA Journalism and English Literature
I was born in Kenya and I’ve lived there my whole life (until I came to Buckingham).
The capital Nairobi, where I live, has a fairly small community.
I basically know everyone – from the same social status – and that sort of makes Buckingham an easier place to live in.
We’re used to a rural setting.
Yes, there are parts in Nairobi that remind you of a city but you can never compare to a place like Kenya.
I found it easy to fit in because I was lucky enough to coincidentally share an apartment with another Kenyan student.
We used to have dinners where we would get together and make the traditional dishes.
I did just receive an email from another Kenyan student who wants us to get together again.
Alternatively, as proof of English language proficiency you would need:
See also: Undergraduate language requirements
In order to study at postgraduate level (Master’s degree), you will normally need to have attained:
See also: Postgraduate language requirements
Our alumni have gone on to have very successful careers in various industries, including: banking and financial services; legal services; conservation; voluntary sector, charities and non-governmental organisations; pharmaceuticals; media; local government; transport and logistics; commodity trading; medicine; agriculture; civil engineering; religious leadership; information technology.
This is what some of our alumni have gone on to do with their lives, and also what they have to say about their time at Buckingham.
Frank Njoro (BSc Marketing with Psychology, 2009)
After completing his BSc in Marketing with Psychology in 2009, Frank took a position at John Lewis Partnership in Milton Keynes as a Selling Partner.
Frank is shortly due to return to Buckingham to undertake an MPhil/DPhil in Business.
This is what Frank has to say about his experience of Buckingham:
Buckingham fast tracked my career goals!
Seriously, two years at university is all I needed to study while experiencing student life in a foreign country.
Eunice Riungu (Psychology with Legal Studies, 2002)
After joining the Psychology with Legal Studies programme at Buckingham, Eunice went on to pursue Peace Studies at the University of Bradford, and subsequently an MA in International Conflict Resolution at the University of Kent.
Eunice is now coming to the end of her PhD which is about the impact of small arms and light weapons on women and children amongst the pastoralist communities in North East Africa.
Eunice spends most of her time working with this community in Kajiado County and hopes in the future to establish schools and medical facilities within these areas with a view to enabling the communities’ access to affordable and good quality services.
At the moment Eunice is in Kenya lecturing undergraduate International Relations modules at the United States International University-Africa.
This is what Eunice has to say about her experience of Buckingham:
Buckingham was a most wonderful experience for a child of Africa!
It’s the most hustle-less university to study.
The local people are amazing, kind to foreign students and very friendly.
Bucks was home away from home!
Sheila Somaia Loveridge (nee Somaia) (BSc Biological Sciences, 1981)
I began studying Law in Buckingham in 1978, and then switched to the new course Biology and Society in 1979, graduating in 1981.
Since then I have been a constant student.
I retrained as a Nurse and graduated in 1994 with the RGN qualification and a Diploma in Higher Education.
I went on to specialise in Infection Control (Dip Infection Control), undertake an MSc in Public Health and am currently writing up my dissertation for my MSc in Health and Management.
I went from being a student nurse to a Consultant Nurse in just over 10 years.
I now work at Western Sussex Hospitals NHS Trust and my job entails managing and developing the Infection Control service over three hospital sites.
I have also developed an IV therapy service, Infection Surveillance service and a Continence service, all which I manage along with the Infection control team.
I also work with the PCT and the Strategic Health Authority where I am a clinical expert resource.
Alongside my clinical work, I have singlehandedly developed an accredited level 3 Infection Control University module which now runs at the University of Brighton.
I also teach widely on several university modules up to MSc level and have published and spoken at conferences.
To summarise my Buckingham experience would be to say that I enjoyed my time there very much.
It was a very steep developmental and learning curve which has stood me in good stead for the past three decades and given me a thirst for knowledge which I have tried to pass on to my family and also my work colleagues.
Paddy Cheloti (LLB, 2010, LLM, 2011)
I was at Buckingham from 2008 to 2011; I did the International Foundation Programme, LLB law degree and LLM master’s.
I finished in 2011 and now I am looking at my options.
I want to work for Non-Governmental Organisations with a view of starting my own in the future.
Otherwise I shall go to law school, either here in Kenya or in New York and go on to practise.
I also write and am working on a few projects.
The University of Buckingham (or Bux as we call it) will always be close to my heart, I went there as a raw 19-year-old and left as a mature 23-year-old with a master’s degree.
My discipline, maturity and vision all developed there.
I made long lasting friends and contacts all over the world, and had an irreplaceable experience.
Maureen Shiroya-Coker (LLB, 2000)
I pursued an LLB (Laws) Honours programme during my time at Bucks as we fondly referred to it during my time there, and graduated in March 2000.
I had by then been accepted to pursue a Postgraduate Diploma in Legal Practice Course at DeMontfort University.
I then returned to Kenya to pursue the Diploma in Advocacy at the Kenya School of Law.
This involved undertaking articles of pupilage within a Legal Practice of an Advocate of the High Court of Kenya and a penultimate 3 month period of lectures at the Kenya School of Law at the end of which I took exams.
I was admitted to the Roll of Advocates of the High Court of Kenya in 2002.
I came back to the UK on invitation, in mid-2002, for a voluntary work experience opportunity within the Claims Department of a Lloyd’s of London Syndicate/Broker.
I have since then worked in insurance companies primarily focusing on how new/current legislation in the UK impacts underwriting of various classes of insurance business and the effect that this has on premium rates.
The University of Buckingham was a pivotal and crucial stepping stone to all the possibilities that have opened up for me.
I have very fond, enjoyable memories of the diverse multi-cultural student life and the warmth of the lecturers and staff in general.
If I were to move back in time and go back to university again I’d definitely return to Buckingham!
Representatives from The University of Buckingham travel to Kenya about twice a year during spring and autumn.
If you wish to come and visit Buckingham campus and meet with an academic this can be arranged by emailing the International Officer.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/international/coming-from/libya:
In order to study at undergraduate level (Bachelor’s degree), you will need to have attained your Secondary Education Certificate as well as completion of a 1-year Foundation.
If you do not have your Foundation, but have completed you Secondary Education Certificate you may be eligible to join our International Foundation Programme.
You may also find it useful to check our English language requirements .
If you have any questions, or would like to speak to a member of staff at The University of Buckingham please find contact details of the International Officer for your region below:

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/international/coming-from/mauritius:
Mauritian students have always been an important part of our student community, benefiting from an easy transition from the Mauritian educational system to the British one with which it has many common elements.
Our first Mauritian student graduated in 1979 and our alumni network on the island has since grown to include highly-valued professionals who have earned their degrees in all the different schools at the University.
We very much value this relationship, and continuously make every effort to build upon it!
These pages were created to provide you with essential information about joining The University of Buckingham and about the student experience here.
If you still have questions or doubts about what you would like to study or are undecided about what degree programme is best for you, please contact us, we can help.
English Language requirements It is very important that your English level is of a good standard for you to be successful in your studies.
As proof of English Language proficiency you would need Mauritian GCE O Level: C or better in English, or other English language requirements .
Foundation Foundation programmes provide a bridge between school study in your home country and undergraduate study at a UK university.
Choose this course if you have successfully completed 12 years of schooling with a good school leaving qualification.
This programme leads to undergraduate programmes in the Schools of Business, Sciences or Humanities.
All the courses are taught by subject specialist staff at Buckingham, so you will be part of university life from your first day.
Undergraduate If you are considering enrolling as a full time Undergraduate student at The University of Buckingham you need to have either of the following:
NB: The grades quoted above give an indication of a typical offer; at the Admissions Tutor’s discretion, alternative qualifications or gradings may be considered.
Postgraduate In order to study at postgraduate level (Master’s degree), you will generally need to have attained:
As proof of English Language proficiency you would need one of the following:
Manin Utchanah (LLB)
“The education system in Mauritius is very similar to that of the UK.
Therefore the transfer from being educated there to Buckingham was very easy.
Mauritius also doesn’t have many universities so going abroad was always my plan.
The Law School at Buckingham is highly regarded and I can also complete my degree in 2 years, rather than 3.”
Rajiv Gujadhur (LLB 2001)
“The University of Buckingham was a life changing experience in more ways than one.
Over and above the excellent academic grounding, the university and its people more importantly made me believe in my potential, as a person and as a professional to be.
I treasure those moments to this day and want to thank them for it.”
Our alumni work in a range of diverse sectors in well-known companies such as:
and many more.
Check the visits diary to see to see if there are any trips coming up.
If you have any queries, please, do not hesitate to contact your International Officer.
To see information on fees and scholarships , follow the links.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/international/coming-from/nigeria:
The University of Buckingham has a historical and highly valued relationship with Nigeria; our first Nigerian student graduated in 1978 and since then nearly 1,300 Nigerian students have come to study at Buckingham.
Indeed, many of our Nigerian students come to us by recommendation from those who have studied with us previously.
Our Nigerian students tell us that what appeals to them most about Buckingham is the two-year undergraduate programme that allows them to fast-track their careers, and also our open door policy which ensures students have greater access to our academics and therefore greater opportunities to learn from them.
With just over 150 current Nigerian students studying at Buckingham it is no surprise that the Nigerian student population is heavily involved in student life, not least in organising and hosting celebrations during Nigerian national holidays.
Buckingham town is idyllic, the local community is warm and welcoming, and The University of Buckingham Law School is a place I would always regard as my home away from home.
It was here my academic curiosity was stimulated and my legal thinking was shaped, to set me on the right trajectory in my professional and personal life.
Learning under the tutelage of eminently qualified and erudite lecturers, who were not just doing a job, but were truly passionate about what they taught, made our lectures and tutorials less of a chore, and more of an enthralling journey to knowledge and discovery.
This Buckingham ethos is what led me to create a tutoring service for candidates of the Nigerian Bar, to improve their learning experience and to transmit a passion for the profession.
After qualifying for practice in Nigeria, I have also set up a law firm that offers legal services to clients in diverse industries and I’m absolutely loving it.
Much like the academic experience, student life in Buckingham was quite a buzz.
We created our fun as we went along, and our small population allowed for forming intimate friendships and an invaluable network that continues to be a support system for us many years after the “Buckingham years”.
Our alumni have gone on to have very successful careers in various industries, including: real estate and property services; accountancy; architecture, building, construction; agriculture, fishing and farming; charities, non-Governmental organisations and voluntary sector; politics; manufacturing and allied industries and services; paper, printing, publishing; pharmaceuticals; broadcasting, radio & TV; oil, chemicals, petroleum; geological and geophysical services; banking and finance; legal services.
This is what one of our Alumni, Falade Ayodele Lawson, has gone on to do in his life, and also what he has to say about his time at Buckingham:
Falade Ayodele Lawson (LLB, 2009)
I studied Law and graduated in December 2009.
I took study leave from my job to come to Buckingham.
After graduation I returned back to Nigeria, attended bar school and was called to the bar as a Barrister and Solicitor.
For more than 20 years I have been working as a senior legislative officer with the Nigerian legislature called National Assembly in Abuja.
My job entails drafting Bills, attending plenary sitting and participating in the production of votes and proceedings.
I also work as committee secretary coordinating oversight functions of the Executive branch of Government.
The University of Buckingham is very important to me because it has made an indelible impression on my life.
Representatives from The University of Buckingham travel to Nigeria about twice a year during spring and autumn.
Please keep checking the website for updated information.
If you wish to come and visit Buckingham campus and meet with an academic this can be arranged by emailing your International Officer.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/international/coming-from/south-africa:
In order to study at undergraduate level (Bachelor’s degree), you will need to have attained five passes at one sitting at Senior Certificate (with matriculation endorsement) achieving at least 66665 or higher grade (excluding Life Orientation) .
If you have achieved less than this, you may be eligible to join our Foundation programme.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/international/coming-from/tanzania:
Entry requirements can differ between subjects for undergraduate study.
We have extensive experience in evaluating qualifications from all over the world.
If you have a query about the evaluation of your qualifications, please contact the Admissions Office.
For Postgraduate study (Master’s degree) you will need to have a Bachelor’s degree equivalent to a British Bachelor’s (Honours) degree, the level of which will differ for each school of study.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/international/coming-from/afghanistan:
As of 13/3/2025,  we are no longer able to accept applications from students domiciled in Afghanistan.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/international/coming-from/bangladesh:
Please note: As of 13/3/2025, all applicants domiciled in Bangladesh are required to apply via one of our agents .
We are no longer able to accept direct applications from Bangladesh.
As proof of English language proficiency you would need one of the following:
*Applicants for undergraduate Law programmes are normally expected to have achieved additional qualifications, such as a first degree.
The grades quoted above give an indication of a typical offer; at the Admissions Tutor’s discretion, alternative qualifications or gradings may be considered.
The following English Language Qualifications will be considered in lieu of our published IELTS (or equivalent) requirements, except for applications from Punjab and Haryana.
We would accept the above scores without interview provided:
You have taken the examination no more than three years before the start of your course with us.
Or
Your undergraduate degree has been taught and assessed in English and you completed your degree studies no more than three years before the start of your course with us.
Postgraduate applicants would need to take IELTS if there are any gaps in study, such as working/care leave etc.
since graduation from a course taught through the medium of English for more than three years.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/international/coming-from/china:
The University of Buckingham has always been attractive to Chinese students.
Buckingham offers the chance for students to study a three-year degree in two years.
Our two-year degree provides the same level of academic content as traditional 3-year degree programmes and receives the same recognition as a three-year degree.
Completing a degree in 2 years means lower tuition fees and living costs, plus the opportunity to begin your career a year sooner.
Foundation programmes provide a bridge between school study in your home country and undergraduate study at a UK university.
Foundation courses lead to undergraduate programmes in the Schools of Business, Sciences or Humanities.
Three-term foundation + two-year undergraduate
The grades quoted above give an indication of a typical offer; at the Admissions Tutor’s discretion alternative qualifications may be considered.
We work closely with counselors and overseas representatives who can advise you on how to apply for your degree as well as in completing your visa application.
Zi Yu (Sarah), BA in English Studies for Teaching (EFL) 在国内完成本、硕两个学位需要七年时间，而白金汉大学本科两年、硕士一年的设置不仅节省花费而且节约时间。 我所在的英语系在英国《卫报》2012大学指南里排在整个英国106所大学英语系的第七名。我最终决定选择白金汉大学主要是因为它高质量的教学水平、小班授课以及牛津剑桥风格的个别辅导制度（Tutorial).
霍林教授是我的私人导师（Personal Tutor)，每周我都有三到四次机会和他谈论学习和生活。他教授英国文学，总是认真地检查我的论文，很细致地勾出我的语法错误。在他的鼓励和帮助下，我的论文和文学水平得到很大程度的提高。让我印象深刻的课程亮点是英语教学实践。每学期我都有至少一次的教学练习，在第二学年我还会在白金汉的一所小学里实习。 白金汉大学的多元文化环境让我了解到不同语言背景的学生在语言学习方面的优势和劣势。这种多角度的观察能够帮助我更适应国际市场。 在白金汉这个美丽、安静的小镇学习我感到特别幸运，也是一种享受。我从未觉得学习可以如此的愉悦和充实。
张玉康 (音译) 英语语言预科
白金汉大学是一所优质的私立大学,其拥有公立大学所不具备的优势。 公立大学的课程设置受到诸多限制, 而白金汉大学的课程则相对自由。白金 汉大学拥有众多知识渊博的教师, 但学生数量不多, 因此每位教师只需管理几位学生, 进而促进师生关系。白金汉大学坐落在一安静的小镇, 风景宜人且远离喧嚣的城市, 因此在这里能静下心学习和思考。另外, 白金汉大学的 教学方式均以就业为导向, 这是其他大学所不具备的优势
Chen Ke, LLB 2002, LLM 2003 (University of Buckingham) Associate, Hogan Lovells International LLP 霍金路伟国际律师事务所律师 在白金汉大学求学期间，有幸接触到来自世界各地的同学，加深了我对不同文化的了解，进一步建立了我对多元文化的积极价值观及对多元文化和不同事物的包容态度。此外，白金汉大学的小班教学体制使得学生在大课之后可以得到讲师的直接辅导，并和讲师和其他同学之间就专业课程开展小范围讨论，加强师生互动和了解。白金汉大学赋予我的价值观和专业知识及分析问题的方法使我至今受益匪浅。
Representatives from The University of Buckingham travel to Mainland China about twice a year during spring and autumn.
If you wish to come and visit Buckingham campus and meet with an academic this can be arranged by emailing your International Officer:
International Office international-office@buckingham.ac.uk
WeChat: unibuckingham Youku: http://i.youku.com/uniofbuckingham

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/international/coming-from/hong-kong:
The University of Buckingham has always been attractive to Hong Kong students.
Don’t worry, even though the degree is completed a year earlier it still receives the same recognition as a three-year degree.
A Bachelor’s degree from a recognised higher education institution with a minimum GPA of 3.2, or equivalent to a British Bachelor’s (Honours) degree with at least a 2.2 grade.
The grades listed above give an indication of a typical offer, at the Admissions Tutor’s discretion.
The University of Buckingham prides itself on a flexible entry process, considering each individual on personal merit and on more than just grades.
Jolanda Chan, studying BSc in Business Management
People have different experiences when they come to a new environment.
For me, coming to The University of Buckingham was a great choice.
I like the setting in a small town; the friendly ambience makes me feel at home.
During my Business Management course, I have been able to link the topics I study to the business I run back home.
The course gradually becomes tougher; therefore it gives me breathing time when it comes to passing the exams through the terms.
The lecturers are extremely friendly and more than willing to assist us with any issues we have whether it is in academic issues or generally stressed about courses.
I have made a lot of valuable friends here I know I can keep for life.
So far it has been an amazing experience.
I feel like Buckingham is the best place for me to complete my undergraduate studies.
For detailed information about the upcoming visits in your area, you are welcome to contact the International Officer or see Overseas visits & interviews.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/international/coming-from/india:
Indian students have long been coming to study at The University of Buckingham with our first Indian student having graduated in 1981.
Since then we have seen over 265 Indian students come to study at the University.
At present there are 47 Indian students studying with us across each of our academic schools.
Buckingham is best liked by Indian students for its two year undergraduate programmes and our truly international campus, with students joining us from over 90 countries.
Mudit Surana is a dynamic entrepreneur with a diverse background in real estate, artist management, and business innovation.
As Director of Golden Dreams Buildcon Pvt Ltd, a leading real estate firm in Aurangabad, and co-founder of OWLL (Obsessed With Lime Light), a premier artist management company, he is redefining industries with his strategic vision.
Raised across Aurangabad, Coimbatore, Bangalore, London, and Mumbai, Mudit developed a global perspective and a deep passion for music and hockey.
He earned his BSc in Business & Management from the University of Buckingham in 2012, where he was awarded the prestigious Hans Peter Stein Memorial Prize.
He later pursued a Postgraduate Programme in Family Managed Business at SP Jain Institute of Management and Research, further strengthening his expertise in business development and innovation.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, he launched Fresh Tokri, a farm-to-home delivery service ensuring high-quality produce for customers.
In 2025, he completed a Certificate in Design Thinking & Innovation for Business Excellence from IIM Indore.
Beyond business, Mudit has been actively involved with Let’s Make a Difference since 2009, driven by his belief in “Live and Learn to Love and Serve.” With an entrepreneurial spirit and a passion for innovation, he continues to explore new avenues for growth, excellence, and impact.
Representatives from The University of Buckingham travel to India at least twice a year.
See Overseas visits & interviews for more information.
If you wish to come and visit Buckingham campus and meet with an academic this can be arranged by the International Officer.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/international/coming-from/iran:
Please note : As of 13/3/2025, all applicants domiciled in Iran are required to apply via one of our agents .
We are no longer able to accept direct applications from Iran.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/international/coming-from/japan:
バッキンガム大学、日本ページへようこそ
The University of Buckingham has always been attractive to Japanese students.
The University also provides a wide range of programmes in Business, Law, English, History and Psychology just to name a few!
We do not currently have any plans to visit Japan, but you are very welcome to contact your International Officer.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/international/coming-from/macau:
歡迎瀏覽白金漢大學澳門網頁
The University of Buckingham’s first recruitment event in Macau was in April 2012.
The International Office would like to develop more in this market.
We do not currently have any plans to visit Macau.
However the International Office travels regularly to Mainland China and Hong Kong.
Please feel free to check the China and Hong Kong pages for the upcoming visits.
For further information, you are welcome to contact the International Office .

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/international/coming-from/malaysia:
The University of Buckingham currently does not travel to Malaysia for recruitment.
The International Office would like to develop more in this market and the University would be delighted to see more Malaysian students.
A Bachelor’s Degree from a recognised higher education institution with a minimum GPA of 3.2, or equivalent to a British Bachelor’s (Honours) degree with at least a 2.2 grade.
Sanjeet Sidhu, studying LLB Law
The University offers a great advantage by having small groups for tutorials.
This advantage creates an opportunity for students to interact with tutors who are experienced and renowned in their fields.
My tutors have made me think outside of the box as well as understand the principle behind the rule of law.
It is great fun when students are challenged by tutors and comrades to prove their opinion with the backing of legal principle.
In addition, the University has a vast range of students with different nationality and I have had the privilege of knowing, interacting and learning with different people from different cultures.
As a Malaysian, it was not hard for me to adapt to this new environment as Malaysia is a multicultural country.
My experience as a Law student at Buckingham has been unique.
Every moment here I hold dear to my heart.
Shanaz A Muztaza (LLB Law, 2006)
Shanaz Muztaza read Law and graduated with Merit Prize in 2005 before being called to the English Bar (Inner Temple).
Having wistfully seen many of her fellow counterparts working for private practice, she has recently been admitted as solicitor to the Supreme Court of England and Wales.
She is a candidate sitting for the New York State Bar examination and will be admitted into the Malaysian Bar by 2013.
Before working for Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP in their litigation and international arbitration practice, she worked at leading in-house and magic circle firms.
Her current work is predominantly on multi-jurisdictional commercial, regulatory, banking and public law disputes – cases ranges from high octane Madoff-related claims to customary breach of contract for defective goods.
Undoubtedly, it is a genuine privilege to work with exceptional lawyers and an incredible learning experience to be part of a new team which intends to grow its dispute capability in London.
Like every other alumni, there’s much blood, sweat and tears before she gets where she is right now.
She emphasised that there is still much to be done and learnt but The University of Buckingham has provided a solid foundation for her to feel confident about herself and pursuing her ideas.
Proven time and time again, she was able seek help and advice from the Law faculty because thanks to Buckingham’s small classes, they were able to connect with their former students and be generous with their time.
We do not currently have any plans to visit Malaysia, but you are very welcome to contact our International Officer.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/international/coming-from/myanmar:
We require students taking the Basic Education Standard X Examination / Matriculation Examination to take and successfully complete an international foundation year or equivalent.
We work closely with counsellors and overseas representatives who can advise you on how to apply for your degree as well as in completing your visa applications.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/international/coming-from/pakistan:
Please note: As of 13/3/2025, all applicants domiciled in Pakistan are required to apply via one of our agents .
We are no longer able to accept direct applications.
Students from Pakistan have always been an important part of our student community at The University of Buckingham.
Our vibrant international student community is seen as a handy springboard to broaden horizons while our quintessential British educational structure has always been highly valued.
We currently have over 50 Pakistani students, studying a very wide range of academic disciplines that includes Accounting and Finance, Economics, Politics and Law.
It is very important that your English level is of a good standard for you to be successful in your studies.
Check our English language requirements .
If you are considering enrolling as a full-time undergraduate student at The University of Buckingham you need to have achieved one of the following:
In order to study at postgraduate level (Master’s degree), you will generally need to have attained:
NB: These grades quoted above give an indication of a typical offer; at the Admissions Tutor’s discretion, alternative qualifications or gradings may be considered.
We are using our trusted agents to help applicants through the application process.
We are keen to ensure applicant journey is quick, productive and stress-free.
Please contact one of our agents from the link above if you wish to apply to study at Buckingham.
Shahzar Chughtai (Business Management)
The University of Buckingham is very appealing to students from Pakistan because of the way that the courses are structured, which is very different from what we have back home.
The structure is very ordered and students can very easily adapt to the progression through the degree.
The online materials and constant support also make it a brilliant environment to excel in.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/international/coming-from/south-korea:
버킹엄 대학교에 오신 것을 환영합니다
Undergraduate : General High School (Inmungye) overall average C/ High School Diploma from Specialised High School
Postgraduate : Bachelor (Haksa) degree overall average B / GPA 3.5 out of 4.5 or the equivalent to a British Bachelor’s (Honours) degree, the level of which will differ for each school of study.
Tel: +44 (0) 1280 820155 Email: international-office@buckingham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/international/coming-from/sri-lanka:
The University of Buckingham is a popular choice for Sri Lankan students wishing to come and study in a UK institution that offers a safe and friendly campus with an international community feel.
Our first Sri Lankan student graduated from Buckingham in 1978 and since then we have had the pleasure of enrolling over 80 Sri Lankan students into our different academic schools.
Our Sri Lankan students tell us that what they mostly enjoy about Buckingham is the fact that they can complete their undergraduate degree in two years, giving them a competitive edge over their peers, but also the close-knit community that they encounter in Buckingham.
We currently have a dozen Sri Lankan students studying with us in several of the academic schools, and this is what one of our current students, Mohottalalage, has to say about his time so far at Buckingham:
Mohottalalage Bandara studying LLB (Law)
I’ve very much enjoyed my first three months in Buckingham.
The University has a very large international community and it has been fun and a great experience for me to learn the different cultures and traditions of a variety of countries.
Buckingham is literally green with its acres and acres of green meadows and fields.
This reminds me of the paddy fields in Sri Lanka which are also green and cover a very large area.
I think people from my country would like Buckingham because of the peace and quietness, the lovely scenery and the very friendly locals.
And of course the cricket!
The very moment I heard about the Buckingham Cricket Club I contacted them about practice sessions and now I’m a regular member of the club.
In order to study at foundation level you must be at least 17 years of age and have attained:
Our alumni have gone on to have very successful careers in various industries, including: legal services; accountancy; financial services; marketing; education; leisure, tourism and travel; charities, voluntary sector and NGOs; information technology; manufacturing and allied services; consultancy.
This is what one of our alumni, Manesh Fernando, has gone on to do with his life, and also what he has to say about his time at Buckingham:
Manesh Fernando (BSc Business Studies, 1994)
I did a degree in Business Studies and graduated with an upper second class degree in 1994.
I returned to Sri Lanka and joined Hilton International and have worked for them for the past 16 years in various roles throughout Asia Pacific.
For the past 4 years I have been the general manager of the Hilton Colombo Residence, which entails full responsibility for operating a multimillion dollar business.
The University of Buckingham gave me the base and international exposure in a highly multicultural environment to succeed in the multinational corporate world.
Representatives from The University of Buckingham travel to Sri Lanka three times a year, usually during March, August and October.
If you wish to come and visit Buckingham campus and meet an academic this can be arranged by contacting the International Officer.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/international/coming-from/taiwan:
歡迎瀏覽白金漢大學台灣網頁
The University of Buckingham has always been attractive to Taiwanese students.
We do not currently have any plans to visit Taiwan, but you are very welcome to contact the International Officer if you have any further enquiries.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/international/coming-from/thailand:
We require completion of Maw 6 (M6) plus an acceptable international foundation year or equivalent.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/international/coming-from/vietnam:
The University of Buckingham has always been attractive to Vietnamese students.
Most of the Vietnamese students in Buckingham are taking business-related programmes.
In the Guardian’s 2013 League Table, Buckingham’s English and Digital Media Department is ranked 14 th out of over 102 institutions; the Department of Economics has been placed in 17 th position; Psychology came a respectable 20 th out of 109 institutions; the Business School has taken up 28 th position; the School of Law comes 30 th out of 97 institutions.
Miss Giang Tran, BSc in Business Enterprise
Mình đã có 2 năm học tại London trước khi đến Buckingham và đây thực sự là một lựa chọn rất xứng đáng.
Năm ngoái mình học năm nhất tại một trường nổi tiếng nhưng sau đó, mình cảm nhận thấy nó hoàn toàn không đúng với kỳ vọng nghề nghiệp của mình, và mình đã quyết định chuyển trường.
Buckingham University là trường đại học nhỏ nhất ở Anh, giữa một thị trấn yên tính và thân thiện, trường đầu tư cơ sở vật chất hiện đại, mọi sinh viên đều được có phòng riêng đầy đủ tiện nghi gần với trường.
Vì Buckingham giới hạn số sinh viên của trường qua phỏng vấn trực tiếp toàn bộ thí sinh nên một khi được nhận vào, mình có được sự quan tâm rất chu đáo từ thầy cô giáo, đến cả từng vấn đề nhỏ nhặt nhất như nhớ nhà hay khó khăn trong việc học.
Thời gian học chỉ 2 năm liên tục thay vì 3 năm như những trường khác (4-5 tháng nghỉ hè) có lợi cho tập trung vào việc học, không bị ngắt quãng quá lâu.
Điều thú vị nhất là gần như tất cả mọi người ở đây đều biết nhau vì gặp nhau nhau hằng ngày, mặc dù học khác ngành nhưng nhờ vậy mà mình cảm giác như là một đại gia đình gần gũi, thư viện mở cửa đến 12h đêm, mọi người có khi còn học cùng nhau tới 2-3h sáng trong trường.
Cuộc sống tại Buckingham chỉ thích hợp với những bạn nào thật sự muốn học, còn nếu bạn muốn mua sắm hoặc đi chơi tối với bạn bè thì ngay bên cạnh Buckingham, cách 20 phút xe bus là thành phố hiện đại Milton Keynes với đầy đủ khu mua sắm vui chơi sầm uất, hoặc có thể đi đến Bicester, Oxford.
Chuyên ngành của mình là Business Enterprise, một ngành mới khác hẳn so với quản trị kinh doanh, mình được tạo cơ hội vừa học các môn về kinh doanh, vừa thành lập công ty dựa trên ý tưởng kinh doanh và nếu bạn thành công trong việc trình bày ý tưởng, còn được trường cấp cho 1 khoản vốn ko hoàn lại để có thể áp dụng lý thuyết vào thực tế công việc một cách tốt nhất.
Mình rất hài lòng và cảm thấy may mắn về quyết định chuyển trường đến học tại University of Buckingham.
Hy vọng sẽ được gặp thêm nhiều bạn học sinh Việt Nam tại Buckingham.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/international/coming-from/austria:
Austrian students have long been coming to study at The University of Buckingham with our first Austrian student having graduated in 1986.
Since then we have seen over 30 Austrian students come to study at the University.
We currently have a dozen Austrian students studying with us in several of the academic schools, and this is what some of them have to say about their time so far at Buckingham:
Theresa Spiessberger, studying BA Communication, Media and Journalism
I came to Buckingham in January, the 12th to be precise.
It was quite an exhausting journey all the way from my little home village in Austria but the people working the registration process where really kind and trying hard to get us through the procedure as fast as they could.
During the next few days I met a lot of new people, students, tutors, “friends of Buckingham” and other staff and all of them made me feel very welcome.
The lectures are really interesting and I love that we actually get practice in our specific field of study instead of just reading our way through theory.
For me that meant to get out, take portraits and make fashion shoots as well as being part of our weekly online news bulletin.
What I like most about Buckingham (besides the friendly people) is that it is rather quiet, hence a perfect place to study but not too far away from busier places like Oxford or Milton Keynes.
I also like that the weather as well as the scenery is quite similar to Austria which sometimes makes it easy to forget that you are actually hundreds of kilometres away.
Benedikt Mensdorff-Pouilly, studying BSc Economics
When I enrolled for the Economics programme at The University of Buckingham in January 2012 I was excited because I didn’t know what the next few years would be like.
The only thing I knew was that I needed a challenge and a university that really cares for their students.
Before I started here, I went to an Austrian patterned university but I never really got the feeling of college life.
I missed discussions during classes, being challenged by highly motivated professors and overall, being faced with the individual challenge to transform myself from a student to a grown-up when finished with studying, which I hope to manage.
The emphasis of the university is to make sure every single student feels respected and is supported wherever he needs help.
You learn a lot during classes but you gain a lot from the tutorial, as well.
These are held in groups of 4 to 6 students and there you can work on your problem-solving skills as well as to profit from the knowledge of others.
Finally, I think that that The University of Buckingham is an ideal place for those who want to study intensively over a relatively shorter time and for those who feel that a university shouldn’t just be an institution but a place where you get in touch with people from different ethnic backgrounds and different life stories.
I can only advise you to apply to the university.
As proof of English Language proficiency you would need to have achieved Reifeprüfung / Matura from Allgemeinbildende Höhere Schulen with mark 2/Gut or better in the English Language component, or the equivalent (see our English Language requirements ).
As proof of English Language proficiency you would need to have achieved Reifeprüfung / Matura from Allgemeinbildende Höhere Schulen with mark 1/ Sehr Gut in the English Language component, or the equivalent (see our English Language requirements ).
Our Alumni have gone on to have very successful careers in various industries, including: banking; legal services; advertising, promotion and marketing; oil, chemicals and petroleum; the commodity trade, and; the automotive industry.
This is what one of our alumnus, Wolfgang Viragh, went on to do in his life after Buckingham, and what he has to say about his time at Buckingham:
Wolfgang Viragh (BSc Business Studies, 1986)
After completing his BSc in Business Studies at The University of Buckingham in 1986, Wolfgang entered the banking industry, working first for Creditanstalt and later for Citibank in Vienna, New York and London.
He left banking in 2005 and joined a start up in Bangkok focused on online classifieds in South East Asia, and subsequently launched a referral based online jobs site in India in 2007.
Though a casualty of the 2008 global financial meltdown, Wolfgang went on to co-found Ensogo.com in 2010; a Groupon for South East Asia which was sold to LivingSocial in 2011.
Wolfgang is currently advising a conglomerate in Indonesia and working on various Asian based projects in: renewable energy; financial services, and; event-promotions, to name a few.
We do not currently have any plans to visit Austria but if you wish to come and visit our campus and meet with an academic this can be arranged by emailing the International Officer.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/international/coming-from/channel-islands:
The University of Buckingham requires you to have successfully completed your A-levels with around 3 B’s  for those wishing to read for an undergraduate degree.
Buckingham is one of the more selective UK universities, and we therefore take each candidate on individual merits, so a passion for the subject is essential!
Postgraduate study requires the equivalent to a British Bachelor’s (Honours) degree, the level of which will differ for each school of study.
If you have any questions, or would like to speak to a member of staff at The University of Buckingham please find contact details of the University representative for your region below:

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/international/coming-from/cyprus:
The University of Buckingham has been enrolling Cypriot students for the last three decades, many of whom have gone on to have successful careers in a range of industries.
Historically, Buckingham has been a particularly popular choice for Cypriot students wishing to read Law.
Our first Cypriot students graduated in 1986 and since then 45 Cypriots have taken up studies here at Buckingham.
We currently have over 30 Cypriot students studying here at Buckingham across all four of our academic schools.
In order to study at postgraduate level (Master’s degree), you will normally need to have attained the following:
Our alumni have gone on to have very successful careers in various industries, including: banking; legal services; central government; leisure and tourism; education.
This is what one of our alumni, Vivian Constanta, went on to do in her life after Buckingham, and what she has to say about her time at Buckingham:
Vivian Constanta (BA English as a Foreign Language, 2002)
It is a significant achievement to attend university without having spoken a word of English before and ending up as an English teacher.
After graduating from Buckingham, I completed my MA in Modern English Language at UCL (University College London) and then worked in a College in London as an EFL (English as a Foreign Language) Teacher for adults for two years.
When I returned to Cyprus I began teaching English in a private school while at the same time getting my Certificate in CELTYL (Certificate in English Language Teaching to Young Learners) from Cambridge University Syndicate and also LCCI Higher in Public Relations.
For the following two summers I taught English as a Foreign Language to foreigners at a summer school based at UCL for a couple of months each time.
During 2006 – 07 I taught English to adults at the University of Nicosia and European University of Cyprus.
In 2007–08 I was selected and appointed as a Fulbright Scholar, FLTA (Foreign Language Teaching Assistant) in the United States, where I taught Greek and designed Greek teaching materials at Greenville Technical College, in Greenville, South Carolina.
Upon my arrival in Cyprus in 2008 I was offered a job at Frederick University of Cyprus where I have been working as an English Instructor for the past 3 years.
In the summer of 2009 I got a Certificate in Screenwriting from New York Film Academy, where I attended a Screenwriting workshop for 2 months in Los Angeles, USA.
In the summer of 2010 I got a partial scholarship and spent 2 months in Cordoba, Argentina, where I learnt Spanish and the South American culture.
Finally, I got an unpaid leave for a year and I am currently in Cordoba, Argentina teaching English at the National University of Cordoba while learning more about the Argentinean culture and language.
My years at Buckingham made me a stronger person by discovering my inner thoughts, as well as my strengths and weaknesses.
Buckingham allowed me to achieve my maximum potential since its environment allows talent to develop and flourish.
Buckingham is a safe and ideal place to study and enjoy the experiences of a lifetime while at the same time gaining a valuable education.
By the end of my studies I had come to realise that Buckingham was truly the starting point of my life experiences.
Representatives from The University of Buckingham travel to Cyprus several times a year during winter, summer and autumn.
If you wish to come and visit our campus and meet with an academic this can be arranged by contacting your International Officer.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/international/coming-from/eire:
The University of Buckingham requires you to have successfully completed your Leaving Certificate with a minimum of five passes at Higher level at one sitting.
Offers range from AABBB – BBBCC for those wishing to read for an undergraduate degree.
If you have any questions, or would like to speak to a member of staff at The University of Buckingham please find contact details of the Universtiy representative for your region below:

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/international/coming-from/france-2:
Our French students have always been an important part of our student community at The University of Buckingham.
Our vibrant international student community is seen as a handy springboard to broaden horizons while our traditional British educational structure has always been highly valued.
Our French students study a very wide range of academic disciplines across our many schools at Buckingham, including Business Management, Media and Communication, Law and Politics.
Foundation Foundation programmes provides a bridge between school study in your home country and undergraduate study at a UK university.
We accept a number of qualifications from France that are equivalent to a minimum of UK Level 3 qualifications including:.
Grade Equivalencies ( Please see the programme information webpage for specific grade requirements for your chosen degree programme)
If you have achieved slightly less than this, you may be eligible to join our International Foundation Programme.
NB: The grades quoted above give an indication of a typical offer; at the Admissions Tutor’s discretion, alternative qualifications or grading may be considered.
Mikael Laporte (Communication, Media and Journalism)
Buckingham is a very nice place to live in and study at.
I chose to study in England specifically because I wanted to improve my language skills.
I haven’t yet decided where I want to work after my studies, but The University of Buckingham has provided me with plenty of options and skills to take wherever I choose to pursue my professional career.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/international/coming-from/germany:
The University of Buckingham has long been a popular choice for German students coming to study in the UK, with our first German student having graduated in 1978.
Since then we have seen over 400 German students come to study here at Buckingham, many of whom have gone on to have very successful careers, working for prestigious organizations.
At present there are over 45 students studying with us across several of our academic schools.
Our German students enjoy a very active role in University life and contribute greatly to our societies and clubs.
Our German students are also amongst those most likely to explore the rest of the UK whilst studying with us and many have acknowledged that Buckingham is the perfect base from which to explore some of Britain’s best sites.
This is what one of our current students Philipp Hunger has to say about his time so far at Buckingham:
Philipp Hunger, studying BA Communication, Media and Journalism
What I particularly enjoy about my course is the emphasis on practical investigative journalism; we are regularly sent out to make contact with and talk to politicians and public figures, which I have greatly enjoyed.
The open door policy at Buckingham has been a massive bonus in allowing me to go and visit my tutors in their office any time of the working day to talk about whatever is going on in the world at that time.
The Journalism students have even formed a pub quiz team with our tutors.
The campus itself is fantastic; there are lots of green areas, a river, and ducks and swans roaming around.
The town of Buckingham is a small town but it has everything you need including a ‘chippy’ and a midnight take away.
Buckingham has also presented several opportunities for me to pursue my main passion, photography.
My photographs of the University and student life have been used in the prospectus and on the website, and I am currently putting together an exhibition of photographs of the places that will be affected by the building of the HS2 Railway Network, to be displayed in the University’s Radcliffe Centre.
The University offers lots in the way of trips to surrounding areas such as Oxford and Stratford-Upon-Avon.
During my time in the UK I have taken advantage of the opportunity to travel around independently, visiting such places as Cornwall, Aberdeen, Inverness, and Hadrian’s Wall in Yorkshire.
I feel I have really taken advantage of the opportunity to hone my English language skills.
In order to study at undergraduate level (Bachelor’s degree), you will normally need to have attained:
As proof of English Language proficiency you would need to have achieved Zeugnis der Allgemeinen Hochschulreife (Abitur) taken as a Leistungskurs with a mark of 10/15 (Gut) or higher or the equivalent (see our English Language requirements ).
In order to study at postgraduate level (Master’s degree), you will normally need to have attained one of the following:
As proof of English Language proficiency you will need to have achieved Zeugnis der Allgemeinen Hochschulreife (Abitur) taken as a Leistungskurs with a minimum mark of 13/15 (Sehr Gut) or higher or the equivalent (see our English Language requirements ).
Our alumni have gone on to have very successful careers in various industries, including: financial services; legal services; healthcare; management consultancy; information technology; education; pharmaceuticals; accountancy; broadcasting, radio and television; publishing; real estate and property; insurance, and; veterinary care.
This is what some of our alumni have gone on to do in their lives and what they have to say about their time at Buckingham:
Nikolaus H Schües (Economics, 1990)
After finishing his high-school diploma in 1985, Nikolaus started an apprenticeship as ship-broker with Frachtcontor Junge & Co.
in Hamburg, which he completed in 1987.
In 1988 he started his Studies of Economics at The University of Buckingham, England, which he completed 1990.
Thereafter, Mr Schües took an MBA course at the Instituto de Empresa, Spain, which he finished in 1992.
Subsequently, he worked with shipping companies in Madrid and New York.
In 1993 he joined F.
Laeisz Schiffahrtsgesellschaft m.b.H.
& Co.
where he was appointed Managing Partner in 1995.
Today Nikolaus H.
Schües is CEO of the F.
Laeisz Group, member of the Board of Directors of the Schutzverein Deutscher Rheder V.a.G., member of the Advisory Board of the German Shipowners Association and Director of the UK P & I Club.
Nikolaus is married and has 3 children.
This is what Nikolaus has to say about his time at Buckingham:
“Buckingham has been a profound experience, not only the syllabus of my studies but also meeting people from all over the world, being with them together has helped to broaden my views on many different aspects of life.”
Michael O Hübener (MBA, 2001)
After studying for his Bachelor’s degree in Economics at the University of Heidelberg, Mr Hübener completed his MBA degree at The University of Buckingham.
Mr Hübener has 10 years of experience in mergers and acquisitions, portfolio management and business development across various sectors.
Prior to founding UNISON and co- founding Emirates Capital, Mr Hübener was a Partner at Portfolio Consulting in Hamburg, Germany where he was responsible for business development and M&A transactions.
Prior to that, he was with Brown Brothers Harriman & Company in New York.
During his studies, he worked as a prop trader for Jobs & Lemcke Wertpapierhandels AG, an equity brokerage firm in Frankfurt am Main.
Arne Klarmann, exchange student 2003
As part of his degree in Industrial Engineering and Management at the University of Applied Sciences in Wedel, Germany, Arne completed a term in the School of Business at The University of Buckingham in 2003, covering International Marketing, Organisational Behaviour and Strategic Management.
Arne is now the Department Lead in Engineering (Cabin Design Office) at Airbus in Hamburg, Germany.
The aspects of Buckingham that Arne picked out as being most important to him were: the internationality of Buckingham with its many students from all over the world; the amount of direct contact students have with their professors with tutorial groups of 8-10 students; the opportunity it presented to organise himself in a foreign country (with great support from University staff), and; the exposure to perfect Oxford English!
Representatives from The University of Buckingham travel to Germany about twice a year during winter and autumn.
Please keep checking the International Trips section of the website for updated information.
If you wish to come and visit our campus and meet with an academic this can be arranged by emailing the International Officer.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/international/coming-from/spain:
Our Spanish students have always been an important part of our student community at The University of Buckingham.
Our Spanish students study a very wide range of academic disciplines across our many schools at Buckingham, including Economics, Politics, English and Business Management.
See our English language requirements .
Undergraduate If you are considering enrolling as a full-time undergraduate student at The University of Buckingham, you need to have achieved the following as minimum:
Inigo Peternina (Business Studies 1990)
Buckingham was for me, above all, an opportunity.
I read Business Studies and graduated in 1990.
Since then I have been lucky to work in the financial services in Spain, in a paper factory and, lately, in a couscous / pasta factory – both in North Africa.
For 3 years I have been working in the construction sector together with the rewarding and wonderfully joyful arena of looking after both my two little boys and my father.
Buckingham is a multicultural hotchpotch where students from different countries, of different ethnicities and of different ages and outlook on life mix and interact.
Those of us who have been to Buckingham are lucky for the experience and the knowledge – together with the friendships – that we have gained while we were there.
If you have any queries, please do not hesitate to contact your International Office.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/international/coming-from/switzerland:
Our Swiss students have always been an important part of our student community at The University of Buckingham.
Our Swiss students study a very wide range of academic disciplines across our many schools at Buckingham, including Law, Business Management, Marketing and Psychology.
Undergraduate If you are considering enrolling as a full-time undergraduate student at The University of Buckingham you need to have achieved the following:
Alexander Lehmann (Business Enterprise)
What I like most about Buckingham is the international culture of the student community, exactly what I needed as a Business student that wants to run his own business one day.
Indeed, there is rarely a day where I do not interact and learn from my fellow international students.
Also this chance to study Entrepreneurship and Business will help me apply theoretical knowledge to my own future business.
If you have any queries, please, do not hesitate to contact our International Officer.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/international/coming-from/bahamas:
Our Bahamian students have always been an important part of our student community at The University of Buckingham.
Our vibrant international student community is seen as a handy springboard to broaden horizons while our archetypal British educational structure has always been highly valued.
Our Bahamian students study a very wide range of academic disciplines across our many schools at Buckingham, including Global Affairs, Law and Business Management.
English language requirements It is very important that your English level is of a good standard for you to be successful in your studies.
Undergraduate language requirements
and:
Anjozel Rahming (LLB)
The University of Buckingham was a great option for me as I wanted to study at an internationally recognised university that has great prospects for academic learning.
A few of my friends from the Bahamas who had attended The University of Buckingham returned home with excellent grades and better job prospects.
This in turn really persuaded me to apply to study there.
It is possible that we are visiting the Bahamas in the next few months.
If you have any questions, or would like to speak to a member of staff at The University of Buckingham, please find contact details of your International Officer below:

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/international/coming-from/bermuda:
The University of Buckingham asks for a minimum qualification of an associate degree or two years at a US university for those wishing to read for an undergraduate degree.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/international/coming-from/canada-2:
We have always had a close relationship with our Canadian students, and we especially value the historical links between Britain and Canada.
These make the transition from the Canadian educational system to the British one easier for our students.
Our Canadian students come from provinces across Canada and their programmes of study are spread among our many schools.
If you are considering enrolling as a full-time student on the LLB course at The University of Buckingham as a graduate of a Canadian University, in order to be able to cope with the intense nature of the course of study, we would expect you to have obtained at least an overall CGPA of B- (or your University’s grade equivalent).
No other requirements have to be met.
The Law Admissions tutor retains a discretion to admit graduates who have not fully met that requirement.
If you are applying direct from High School, the minimum entry requirements are as follows:
“The University of Buckingham was like a movie.
From the beginning till the end, it was that incredible that even IMDb would give it five stars.
As a Canadian student, choosing to study LLB (Hons) at The University of Buckingham was one of the best decisions I have ever made.
Coming from Toronto, a large city, I already had a degree from a university where lecture halls often held more than 500 students.
I was the student who sat quietly at the back of the class, but at Buckingham, I found myself in the front.
I was seen.
The supportive environment, close-knit community, and attentive professors encouraged me to look forward, never back.”
Read Akshaya’s story.
“I am thrilled to share my journey as a Canadian student who chose to pursue a 2-year LLB Degree at the University of Buckingham.
Today, as I stand on the cusp of becoming a lawyer in Canada, I reflect fondly upon the incredible experiences and opportunities that this institution provided me… I would highly recommend the University of Buckingham to any Canadian student aspiring to pursue a legal career.
The institution’s commitment to academic excellence, personalized attention, and practical learning experiences are second to none.”
Read Evelyn’s story.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/international/coming-from/usa:
Our American students have always been an important part of our student community at The University of Buckingham.
Our educational structure has always been highly valued because of the high standards and advantages that it provides to them.
Our 2-year undergraduate degree, for example, fast tracks our American students into the professional world in half the time that it would normally take their peers to step into it in their home country.
Our first American student joined us in 1977 and we have since had over 500 students from across America studying a very wide range of academic disciplines including Law, Business, Psychology and Journalism.
Foundation pathways provide a bridge between school study in your home country and undergraduate study at a UK university.
These pathways lead to undergraduate programmes in the Schools of Business, Sciences or Humanities.
Applicants from the US must have obtained a High School Graduation Diploma (HSGD) and at least two Advanced Placement tests (AP) with scores of 3 or above.
If you are considering enrolling as a full time undergraduate student at The University of Buckingham you need to have a HSGD with a GPA 3.0 plus one of:
Combinations of any of the above are also acceptable.
Applicants may also be offered telephone, Microsoft Team or similar interviews.
Please use the below to send us your SAT and/or AP score reports:
University of Buckingham Designated Institution (DI) code: 9090
Kevin Campoy (Communication, Media and Journalism)
After being educated from an early age in the USA I wanted to experience something new and studying in England seemed the perfect option.
Buckingham’s 2 year degree program means that I can complete an honours degree but not spend too much time away from home.
The International Office is always here to assist you with your application and let you know what documentation you need to prepare, so do not hesitate to call or email .
See also: information on fees and scholarships .
Marshall Scholarships are open for application for American students that study in the UK.
Find out more on the Marshall Scholarships website .

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/international/coming-from/bahrain:
Postgraduate the equivalent to a British Bachelor’s (Honours) degree, the level of which will differ for each school of study.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/international/coming-from/iraq:
For 27 years now there has been a good relationship between Iraqi students and The University of Buckingham.
We very much value this, and therefore continuously put every effort to make it even better!
These pages were created to provide you with essential information about The University of Buckingham, degree programmes offered here, and more.
The University of Buckingham has 20 alumni from Iraq to date.
To give you an example of how The University of Buckingham provides you with the best platform for your career development, here are some real life examples for you.In the past we have welcomed students from Iraq and after their graduation they have developed into successful professionals and work in companies such as:
Dr Ali Al-Sherbaz (PhD 2010)
The research environment which is created by Prof.
Sabah Jassim is friendly and unique, and during my study in The University of Buckingham I’ve got not only the PhD degree but also practice how to establish my own research areas and present them confidently in highly ranked conferences and workshops worldwide, not to mention the patent which we published.
I would like to thank all the research team in the Applied Computing department for their supportive and guidance that enabled me to get my degree.
Those experiences helped me to find jobs in the University of Hertfordshire and then in the University of Northampton.
Thanks, Buckingham!
Muntassar Al-Majidi (MA English 2010)
During my studies at The University of Buckingham, I benefited from a high academic level of teaching, as well as kind people and an ideal location.
Buckingham’s tutors and library staff are very friendly and make every effort to help you.
Its situation between Oxford and Cambridge helps to facilitate high level academic research.
The University of Buckingham helped me to achieve my dream in completing my Master’s degree in English Literature.
For the Foundation course you would need the following:
If you are considering enrolling as a full time Undergraduate student at The University of Buckingham you need to have completed the following:
See also: Undergraduate language requirements .
If you are applying for a Postgraduate Degree, you need to have completed the equivalent of a UK Bachelor’s Honours Degree with Second Class as a minimum or:
See also: Postgraduate language requirements .
We do not currently have any plans to visit Iraq but if you wish to come and visit the campus and meet with an academic this can be arranged by emailing our International Officer on international-office@buckingham.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/international/coming-from/israel:
The University of Buckingham asks for a minimum qualification of a Bagrut with 7 for those wishing to read for an undergraduate degree.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/international/coming-from/kuwait:
In order to study at undergraduate level (Bachelor’s degree), you will need to have attained your Shahadat Al-Thanawiya-Al-A’ama as well as completion of Foundation or a PAAET Diploma.
If you do not have your Foundation or PAAET Diploma, but have completed you Shahadat Al-Thanawiya-Al-A’ama, you may be eligible to join our International Foundation Programme.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/international/coming-from/qatar:
For postgraduate study, you are required to hold the equivalent to a British Bachelor’s (Honours) degree, the level of which will differ for each school of study.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/international/coming-from/saudi-arabia:
In order to study at undergraduate level (Bachelor’s degree), you will need to have attained your Tawjihiyah as well as completion of Foundation.
If you do not have your Foundation, but have completed you Tawjihiyah, you may be eligible to join our International Foundation Programme.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/life:
University is about more than just attending lectures – with students from around 90 different countries attending Buckingham at any one time, 3 “freshers’ weeks” each year, and the most satisfied students in the UK, life in Buckingham is not as sleepy as our idyllic setting might suggest.
This section will help to give you an understanding of how our students live their day-to-day lives on campus, from accommodation, catering and library facilities to the SU social calendar, sports activities and everything going on in the local area.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/life/languageresources:
Whatever language you are trying to learn, good language learning facilities will make a difference to your progression.
The Language Centre is housed in the spacious Chandos Road Building.
It provides a purpose-built environment offering the best in language learning and teaching facilities including:-

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/life/library/services/ill:
The Library aims to provide all the printed materials required for undergraduate teaching.
For special projects and postgraduate research, books which are not in the Library may be borrowed via the inter-library loan service.
It is also possible to obtain copies of documents such as journal articles.
Where possible, requested journal articles are supplied as encrypted pdfs in emails sent direct to the requester’s University email address.
The articles should be downloaded and printed as soon as possible on receipt because there are time limits on access.
(For staff and research students only)
Users can check the progress of their requests by entering their ID and PIN then selecting My Account > Review My Account.
The number of ILLs that may be borrowed at any one time are:
Fines will be charged for students at the rate of £2.00 per item per day overdue.
Fines from the lending library will be passed on to the borrower.
For further information, contact the Hunter Street Library desk, or telephone +44 (0)1280 820203, Monday to Friday, 9am to 5pm.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/life/thingstodo:
Want to find out what’s happening in and around Campus during your time Buckingham?
Why not take a look at our forthcoming event page and see the vast range of events we host regularly on campus from Fireside talks to formal evening events.
Come and see Buckingham for yourself at our Open Day.
Meet our Vice-Chancellor, try a Taster and meet our friendly students and staff.
Our Vice-Chancellor enjoys hosting a variety of high profile speakers and talks on campus that are open to all students and staff.
Places of worship – Buckingham campus
Places of worship – Crewe campus
Buckingham is a short journey away from Milton Keynes (around 30 minutes), Oxford (45 minutes) and London (45 mins train via Milton Keynes or Bicester).
Fancy a bit of shopping?
Bicester Village (designer outlet) is a 25 minute journey away by car and around 40 minutes via the local X5 bus.
The Refectory in the Students’ Union (Old Tanlaw Mill) serves hot food from breakfast to dinner (evening meal) from Monday to Friday.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/life/buck/worship-buckingham:
The map below details the known places of worship near to our Buckingham campus.
Zoom out to see more.
Note: The University of Buckingham is not responsible for the information provided on this map.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/life/buck/getting:
Use the links below to find information about how to get to Buckingham and how to travel around when you’re here.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/student-life/doctor-and-medical-services:
To see the doctor or to book an appointment at the Swan Practice you can:
Students can register with Swan Practice online and obtain further information on the NHS website .

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/student-life/student-accommodation/shop-here-for-your-university-essentials:
Please ensure that you leave sufficient time for delivery to be made prior to your arrival on campus.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/life/community/neighbour:
Anti-social behaviour is defined as an act that causes harassment, alarm or distress to one or more individuals that want to live peacefully in their homes and neighbourhoods.
The University is committed to dealing with those who behave in a way that threatens the peace and security of local residents and works closely with partner agencies to ensure any incidents of antisocial behaviour are dealt with quickly and efficiently.
The University is located in a quiet residential area.
Residents are a mixture of working adults, families with young children and the elderly, all of whom need to be able to enjoy the comfort of their own home.
Unlike London and other large towns, there is very little noise in Buckingham at night, therefore any noise you might make will disturb other people.
The University expects all of its students to treat others living in their neighbourhood with respect.
By being a good neighbour you will be helping to protect the reputation of the University and its students, which will make your time in Buckingham more enjoyable.
It is a fact of life that we all make noise, whether we are talking to others, playing music, entertaining, driving our cars or just going about our daily business.
What is a noise disturbance to one person may be pleasurable to another.
However excessive noise can cause major interruption to people’s lives and can seriously affect health and wellbeing.
Noise nuisance can be described generally as “an unlawful interference with a person’s use or enjoyment of land or property”.
It is difficult to describe exactly what constitutes a noise nuisance because the level of disturbance caused can vary greatly depending on a number of factors such as:
Under the Environmental Protection Act 1990, Buckinghamshire Council Environmental Health can investigate complaints of noise disturbance.
If they find evidence of nuisance, then they will serve a Statutory Abatement Notice.
This will formally tell the offender to “abate the nuisance” and sometimes state the measures to be taken to achieve this.
If this notice is not complied with, then they may prosecute the offender and conviction can lead to a substantial fine (up to £5000 per offence) and the destruction of any noise making equipment.
In extreme cases where an incident is causing significant disturbance, such as a malfunctioning alarm or a noisy party, the Council can apply for a warrant from a magistrate to enter the property and/or seize the equipment if this is deemed necessary to abate the nuisance.
Tips to help avoid causing a nuisance
To be able to drive a motor vehicle in the UK you will need to produce all of the following documentation.
Treat other road users as you would wish to be treated yourself, showing courtesy and patience.
You should not sound your horn unnecessarily or play loud music with your windows open.
More information about driving in the UK is available on the UKCISA website and the DirectGov website .
When parking your car, do not, under any circumstances, park your car in any area marked “Private” or “Residents only”, unless your own Tenancy Agreement gives you written permission to use a parking space.
Failure to follow this advice might result in your car being clamped or even towed away.
Do not block access to or from a private car park or car parking space, even for just a few minutes.
Blocking access can cause tremendous inconvenience to others and should be avoided.
Do not park unlawfully (on double or single yellow lines, or in a way that obstructs other traffic) or in parking bays marked ‘disabled’ or ‘parent and child’ if you are not entitled to do so.
More information about parking can be found on the DirectGov website .
Dropping litter is not only considered very thoughtless, it is also against the law and fines can be imposed on offenders.
Bins are often available but if not, take your litter home with you and dispose of it with your other household waste.
The University is committed to improving its carbon footprint wherever possible.
Some of the most significant changes can be made by the contribution of staff and students in some of the simple suggestions recommended within our Environmental Policy.
It is very important to dispose of your household rubbish in the proper bins / receptacles and put any bins or bags out for collection at the proper time (for those living off-campus) and bring your bins back in after the refuse has been collected.
Further Information about bin collections and recycling can be found on the Buckinghamshire Council website .

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/life/merchandise:
On Campus
Varsity jackets, hoodies, T-shirts and bone china mugs are available from the University Bookshop .
Order Online
If you are not based in Buckingham but would like to purchase official University merchandise you can do so online via our partner, Campus Clothing .
Annotated Studios provides the official University of Buckingham commemorative jewellery as a lasting gift to honour your time at University.
All rings are custom-made for you in your choice of metal (prices from £65 in sterling silver or £225 in gold) and each one can be personalised to feature your year, degree initials and an engraving of your choice.
Complementary pieces such as charms, cufflinks and bracelets are also available from £35.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/student-life/buckingham-sports-union:
Buckingham may be small, but we still have a whole range of sports teams you can join and facilities you can enjoy.
The University of Buckingham Sports Union (BSU) offers students the opportunity to participate in a wide variety of activities at both a recreational and competitive level.
Our clubs are started by students, for students.
If there is a sport you feel passionate about, and there are fellow students who want to get involved, the BSU will support you as you start up your very own new club.
"Being involved in a sports team is great fun, and has also helped me meet students that I otherwise would not have met."
Explore the variety of clubs, both recreational and competitive, that we have on offer.
Take a look at the sports activities taking place at facilities in and around Buckingham.
If you have any questions, please don’t hesitate to get in touch with our BSU team.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/life/campusmaps/rooms:
Our teaching facilities range from intimate rooms for small seminar groups to a 186-seat lecture theatre.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/student-life/the-wellbeing-skills-diversity-team:
Jump to: Contact Us | How we deliver our services | The Wellbeing, Skills and Diversity Team |
Drop-in
Wellbeing, Skills & Diversity department runs drop-in sessions that cover a variety of topics.
Look for posters on campus and watch out for updates on the university’s social media channels.
Support doesn’t always have to be done on a one-to-one basis.
Many students find it beneficial to join our workshops and group sessions instead.
It’s a chance for students to get help from our specialists while supporting their fellow students.
Appointments are usually in person but we also offer appointments using Microsoft Teams.
Many students find they like functionality offered by Microsoft Teams such as being able to turn off the camera or record the session.
It also allows students to discuss sensitive matters from the comfort of their own home rather than having to visit the department in person.
Keep an eye on your email and social media for special announcements and campaigns from the Wellbeing, Skills & Diversity department.
In my role as Head of Student Services and the Designated Safeguarding Lead at the University, I am dedicated to creating a nurturing and supportive environment for all students.
With over 10 years of experience in supporting adults in education, I bring a deep understanding of the challenges learners face and work to provide tailored assistance.
My approach is to ensure that every student feels valued and empowered, with access to the tools and support they need to reach their full potential.
As the Designated Safeguarding Lead, well-being remains a top priority, fostering both personal confidence and academic growth.
I am passionate about helping every learner thrive, building pathways to success that are as unique as the students themselves.
“Whether you think you can or you think you can’t ….
You’re right” – Henry Ford
I have a nursing background, where I have worked in learning disability, mental health and occupational health settings.
I have personal experience of studying at universities and I have worked with students in both secondary education and higher education.
I joined the University in 2021.
I work with the faculty mentors to provide students with a professional and accessible mentoring service.
By training, I am an integrative therapist with a person-centred core.
In practice this means that each client is given the time and space to explore their own issues and at their own pace, but I am able to bring in different theoretical approaches, including amongst others, CBT, Transactional Analysis,  where it might help.
Counselling is confidential and completely non-judgemental.
‘I can’t promise that we will fix your issues, but I can promise that you won’t have to face them alone’.
(Anon)
I am the Wellbeing Adviser at the Crewe Campus.
I have 18 years’ experience supporting university students with all aspects of student support.
Please contact me if you need support, advice and guidance with any emotional, mental health or physical health concerns and I will be happy to help.
I work closely with the Inclusivity Adviser and provide administrative support to the Wellbeing, Skills & Diversity team.
I am available to assist students to access appropriate University services.
I have over 20 years experience working alongside those with mental health issues including drug and alcohol misuse.
In addition, I have a good insight into self-harm & suicidal thoughts.
I can assess and support issues like wellbeing, mental health, drug misuse, alcohol misuse, life events, alcohol and drug Awareness Packages, drop-in sessions and progress appointments.
I can also signpost to internal/external support, including academic assistance and counselling.
I am the mentor for the Faculty of medicine and Health Sciences at Crewe Campus.
With over 20 years’ experience working in both higher and further education, I understand the challenges faced by students and will support you to navigate issues you may face during your time at the university.
I am the Faculty Mentor for the Medicine Faculty in Buckingham.
My mentor hub is located in the Chandos Road building, next to the Anatomy room.
I have been a faculty mentor for a year and my role is to provide Med students with help and guidance to support them throughout their time at university, both on campus and in placement during Phase 2.
The University of Buckingham has a successful record of supporting students with dyslexia to good degrees and helping them to achieve their potential.
I work to raise dyslexia awareness across the University among students and staff.
I offer free dyslexia screenings, 1:1 support sessions and group workshops on academic study skills designed to support students with dyslexia/SpLD.
Contact: sarah.myhill@buckingham.ac.uk
I have professional experience as both a counsellor and social worker, supporting people with a wide range of issues.
As a counsellor my aim is to support you to navigate your way through the many challenges presented in everyday life and build an honest, open, and trusting relationship where you feel comfortable and safe enough to explore your feelings.
Underpinning all my therapeutic work is the knowledge that it is ultimately the quality of the therapeutic relationship between us that heals.
It is my belief that you are the expert on you, nobody else sees the world the way you do, I am simply here to help guide you to finding your own solutions.
I am a registered member of the BACP (MBACP) which means I am committed to working ethically with you and put your wellbeing at the centre of our work together.
I am a registered BACP Therapist and work in an integrative way offering a warm friendly empathic space for you to explore the things that matter to you.
As a therapist I work in a person centred way which gives you control, offering a supportive space and acknowledging that each person and individual is different.
I offer a flexible dynamic approach to working together using tools and approaches to support you with any difficulties you face.
I enjoy working creatively.
I understand the complexity of being human and have respect for my clients’ individuality and life circumstances and supporting their emotional wellbeing.
Hello, my name is Cara Stubbings and I am the Faculty Mentor for students studying Computing, Law and Psychology.
As a recent graduate, I understand the challenges that university students can face.
I also have first-hand experience of overcoming the additional barriers students with disabilities can come across.
I am here to provide support and guidance to help you achieve your personal and academic goals and gain confidence in your capabilities.
Whether you need some advice or just want a chat, I’m here to help.
My name is Ellie Wilkins and I am the Faculty Mentor for the Business, Humanities and Social Sciences faculty.
I am approachable, enthusiastic, and passionate about providing you with the necessary tools to build on your resilience, as well as helping to make your university experience as successful as possible.
I support students through a goal-orientated approach that focuses on your continuous progression as an effective independent learner; equipped with the transferable skills needed to manage obstacles faced in your academic journey.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/student-life/physical-wellbeing:
Jump to: Access healthcare in the UK | Personal safety | Disability | Drugs and alcohol | Personal safety | Domestic abuse and intimate partner violence | Rape and sexual assault | First-aid
Looking after your physical wellbeing is important for your physical health and because good physical wellbeing will benefit your academic performance.
Your physical wellbeing will also have an impact on your mental wellbeing .
Students staying in the Buckingham area must register with the NHS Doctor (GP) in Buckingham ( Swan Practice ).
The local GP usually comes to the Wellbeing, Skills and Diversity building to provide his consultations by appointment.
However, you must book your appointment directly with Swan Practice (phone: 01280 818600) in advance.
The Wellbeing, Skills & Diversity department cannot book G.P.
appointments on your behalf.
Students staying in the Crewe area will register with the local NHS Doctor (GP) .
Students staying anywhere else in the UK should ensure they register with the NHS Doctor (GP) in their local area.
There is no charge for registering with the NHS and many NHS services are free to most students.
The university will provide all Reasonable Adjustments for students who have a physical disability.
In order to keep yourself safe and healthy, it’s important for you to get the information you need about drugs and alcohol .
Our Drugs & Alcohol Adviser is here to answer your questions and offer guidance to any student who has questions about drugs or alcohol.
She can also support you to engage with treatment services if you need help
Please visit SuzyLamplugh.org for useful tips and guidance on personal safety.
Please contact the university’s Security Team if you feel unsafe at any time on campus.
You can also ask the Wellbeing, Skills & Diversity department for guidance if you have any concerns about personal safety while you’re at the university.
In an emergency, you should always contact the police .
Please visit Refuge.org.uk for information and advice on Domestic Abuse and Intimate Partner Violence.
You can also ask the Wellbeing, Skills & Diversity department for guidance if you have any concerns about domestic abuse and intimate partner violence while you’re at the university.
Please visit NHS.uk for information and help after rape or sexual assault.
You can also ask the Wellbeing, Skills & Diversity department for guidance if you need our support after a rape or sexual assault.
In an emergency, you should always contact the appropriate emergency service .
There are trained first aiders on site in Buckingham and Crewe.
Please contact the appropriate service for first aid or other medical assistance.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/student-life/social-cultural-wellbeing:
Jump to: Your social and cultural wellbeing | Tips on how to make friends | Student’s Union facilities | Family difficulties
Your social and cultural wellbeing comes from a sense of belonging, social inclusion and social stability – it encompasses our lifestyles, values and beliefs.
Accessing the arts and heritage – and more generally working with our own creativity using our imaginations – can improve our health if we have diagnosed mental or physical health problems, but is also good for our health and wellbeing more generally, and for the health of our communities and society.
Every student worries about making friends at university.
Visit Save the Student for tips on how to make friends.
Visit the Students’ Union to find out what’s happening in Buckingham and Crewe.
Almost everyone experiences family difficulties at some point.
For practical guidance on a variety of family-related issues, including separation and divorce, please visit Citizen’s Advice .
If you are estranged from your family and need support, please visit Stand Alone offers support to people who are estranged from their families.
If you are a victim of honour-based abuse or forced marriage, please visit Karma Nirvana .

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/student-life/intellectual-and-academic-wellbeing:
Jump to: Mentor support | Academic skills | Dyslexia support
Intellectual wellbeing means using your intellectual abilities in meaningful and satisfying ways in pursuit of stimulating and challenging activities.
It includes things like learning, creativity, communicating, critical thinking, problem-solving and the pursuit of understanding and wisdom.
Adjusting to university can be difficult if you’re struggling to keep up with your studies but you can learn ways to manage your academic work.
Mentoring services provide individual bespoke signposting, support and intervention to enable students to develop strategies and tools to build resilience and problem-solving skills.
This promotes independent learning and increased life skills.
Students who work towards maintaining this positive balance are then able to manage their studies and achieve their full potential.
Students will set goals with their mentor, review them regularly and have support to remain focused on their outcomes.
The University offers free dyslexia screenings to students who feel they may have a learning difference with our on-site dyslexia specialist.
If screened positively, reasonable adjustments will be put in place while studying here.
We also offer one-to-one support sessions, peer support and workshops.
The University will provide all Reasonable Adjustments for students who have dyslexia.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/student-life/contact-wellbeing-skills-diversity:
Jump to: Opening hours | How to contact us | Where to find us
Our core hours are 9am to 5pm, Monday to Friday, including during vacation periods.
However, we can also provide some of our services outside of these hours when appropriate.
Please note the Wellbeing, Skills & Diversity department is not a First Aid station, medical centre or hospital.
If you need medical attention, you should contact the appropriate source of help directly.
You can contact the Wellbeing, Skills & Diversity department by phone, +441280 820200.
If we’re not able to resolve your query during the call, we can book you in for a longer appointment with one of our specialists or signpost you to an alternative source of support.
You can email, wellbeingskillsanddiversity@buckingham.ac.uk, at any time.
We will answer your email as soon as we can but please note response times will be longer if you email us outside of our normal opening hours.
You’re welcome to drop by the Wellbeing, Skills & Diversity department without an appointment.
If we’re not able to resolve your query right away, we can book you in for a longer appointment with one of our specialists or signpost you to an alternative source of support.
The Wellbeing, Skills & Diversity department does not provide emergency support.
If you have an emergency, please contact the appropriate service .
If you are a parent, guardian or sponsor please visit the Information for Parents, Carers and Sponsors section for more information on contacting the Wellbeing, Skills & Diversity team.
The Wellbeing, Skills & Diversity department building is situated on Hunter Street in Buckingham.
You can find us in the cottages next to the Vinson Building.
Wellbeing, Skills & Diversity department on Google Maps
What3Words location: ///boomed.practical.replied
We are shown as the ‘Student Welfare & Wellness Centre’ on our Buckingham campus map.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/student-life/student-life-wellbeing-skills-diversity/rape-and-sexual-assault-information:
We are committed to providing a safe and supportive environment for all our students and to responding appropriately to any incidents of sexual violence.
Sexual violence and misconduct will not be tolerated, and will be thoroughly investigated to ensure the preservation of a safe work and study environment.
Sexual assault can take many different forms and covers a range of unwelcome sexual conduct from inappropriate language to violent sexual assault.
There doesn’t need to have been physical contact for a sexual assault to have taken place.
Sexual Violence and Misconduct can be experienced by any individual, regardless of sex, gender, sexual orientation, relationship status, age, disability, faith, ethnicity, nationality and economic status.
We understand that any incident of rape or sexual assault may leave you feeling a wide range of emotions including shock, distress, anger, guilt, helplessness, humiliation or fear.
With this in mind it is important that you know who you can talk to and how you can access support.
The university offers an on-line confidential reporting system further down this page.
Reporting a case of rape or sexual assault does not necessarily instigate the University’s disciplinary process.
It is up to you which services you contact, only you can determine how to proceed.
Should you wish to talk to somebody at the University you can choose to speak to a member of the Wellbeing team in confidence who will be able to advise you on your options and the support available from the university and external agencies that can assist you in your recovery?
It can be difficult to know which actions to take, so our aim is to provide you with all of the relevant information which can help you make a fully informed decision about what to do next.
You are not obliged to report the assault to the University, but if you do decide to tell us we will offer appropriate support.
Looking after yourself is essential.
Whether it happened recently or years ago, self-care can help you cope with the short and long-term effects of a trauma like sexual assault.
There is no right or wrong emotional response, each individual will have their own reaction.
It is common to experience a mix of emotion and feelings; it is therefore important to seek support and practice active self-care.
The following advice may be helpful:
If the assault has just occurred you might want to consider whether you feel safe where you are.
If you feel that you or others are at risk or consider the situation to be an emergency, you can call the police or an ambulance on 999.
If you are in University accommodation or on campus it is advisable to call security on 07860 834802, to let them know that the emergency services have been called so that they can give them access.
If it is not an emergency but you still want to report the incident to the police you can call Thames Valley Police on 101.
You can request to talk to the Rape Investigation Team directly.
The police can take you to Solace Sexual Assault Referral Centre (SARC) located in Bicester where you can have a forensic medical examination and get medical and emotional help.
To help get the best quality forensic evidence, the SARC recommends that you try not to eat, drink, smoke, wash, change your clothes, go to the toilet or clear up the area where the assault took place.
If you need to go to the toilet collect a sample and the paper in separate bags.
If you have done any of these things, don’t worry as it is often possible to get some forensic evidence, so this should not stop you reporting.
Time limits to be aware of:
It is up to you to choose what kind of support you want to access, but you might want to consider getting medical attention even if you do not want to report the assault to the Police.
You can contact the Terence Higgins Trust at the Swan Practice North End Surgery for further advice.
You can make an appointment by calling 03003032880.
Police procedures
Reporting later
If you have witnessed or been a victim of sexual assault, you can report it confidentially via Report + Support.
You can remain anonymous, or provide contact details if you would like to receive support.
For more information and advice on the options available to you, including how to report an incident to the police, and where you can get independent advice and counselling, please see Rape and Sexual Assault Information .
What if I don’t want to report to the Police?
Thames Valley Police Tea and Consent Video
Samaritans www.samaritans.org 116 123
Victim Support www.victimsupport.org.uk 0808 16 89 111
NAPAC (National Association for People Abused in Childhood ) www.napac.org.uk 0808 801 0331
National Rape Crisis www.rapecrisis.org.uk 0808 802 9999
The Survivors Trust www.thesurvivorstrust.org 0808 801 0818
Mankind www.mkcharity.org 01273 911 680
Domestic Violence www.womensaid.org.uk 0800 2000 247
www.mensadviceline.org.uk 0808 801 0327
Refuge (Independent Sexual Violence Advocacy ) www.refuge.org.uk 0800 221 8186
Safe (Support for Young People ) www.safeproject.org.uk 0800 133 7938
NHS 111 www.nhs.uk/111 111
RASASC Guildford www.rasasc-guildford.org 01483 456 400
Counselling Directory www.counselling-directory.org.uk 0844 8030 240

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/student-life/environmental-wellbeing:
Jump to: Your environmental wellbeing | Student accommodation | Where to direct queries about buildings/estates | Access issues (disability) | Health and safety | University Security
What surrounds you each day in your home, on campus, or in your neighbourhood and the resources available to you can affect your health.
You can’t always choose what’s in the environments you live, study, or play in.
However, taking small steps to make your environments safer and more accessible can help keep you healthier.
If you have any questions or concerns about your university accommodation in Buckingham, please contact the Accommodation Office .
Email: accommodation@buckingham.ac.uk
Phone: 01280 820351
The Accommodation Office holds information about reputable local landlords/letting agents for students looking to live off-campus in the Buckingham area.
Students in Crewe should contact ABHSC if they have any queries about student accommodation.
If you have any questions or concerns about buildings or other features of the Buckingham campus, please contact Estates.
Email: estates@buckingham.ac.uk
Phone: 01280 820352
If there is a disability-related reason why you are having difficulty accessing any of the university’s buildings, you are welcome to raise this directly with the staff who are responsible for that service or building.
Alternatively, please contact the Disability Office: disability.officer@buckingham.ac.uk if you would like to discuss the matter confidentially.
Further information about disability-related adjustments can be found on our Disability and Access page .
Students, as well as University staff, have a responsibility to keep themselves and others safe.
Please pay attention to safety signage on campus and advice provided by university staff during your time with us.
You should also familiarise yourself with the University’s safety policies and procedures .
Students staying in university accommodation should ensure they have read their accommodation contract in full.
Security are based at the Hunter Street Campus and provide 24-hour cover and regular patrols of all the campuses at Hunter Street and Verney Park.
All Security staff are First Aid trained
Buckingham Campus : Call 07860 834 802 (24-hours)
Crewe Campus: Call 01270 323545

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/student-life/parents-and-carers:
No matter if a student goes to study a few miles away from home or the other side of the world – sending them to university can be a difficult time for those closest.
Here at The University of Buckingham, we endeavour to:
Contact between the student and sponsor may dwindle over time.
This is quite common as the student might be enjoying their new independence.
If you have any worries, no matter how big/small, during their time with us, we ask that you share your concerns …… it’s as easy as ‘click’ and ‘send’.
You can contact the Wellbeing Skills and Diversity team at WellbeingSkillsandDiversity@buckingham.ac.uk .
Ask open questions about their studies and recent experience at university.
Do you sense any change in them, i.e.
sounding upset or distant, not responding to messages, asking for more money regularly, losing/gaining weight?
Send positive and encouraging letters or messages to them to let them know you are still there.
Avoid pestering them if they don’t call you as regular as they used you.
Let them settle into their new surroundings and independence.
When they come to you for support, give them a listening ear and encouraging words.
Offer advice, but don’t expect them to take it!
Suggest that they reach out at University.
Are they doing the course they want to do?
Showing constant disappointment can cause low self-esteem and will affect performance and their state of mind.
If they are not succeeding, maybe this is not the course for them, support them to change courses.
Remember that you were this age once and made ‘questionable’ decisions or judgement calls.
If you went to university, your experience will be different to theirs.
Arguing does not improve the situation and may damage your relationship.
Agree on a time within the next few days to speak again when you have had some time to ‘cool down’ and think the situation over.
Talk positively about the solution and moving forward to concentrate on their degree.
Our dedicated Wellbeing, Skills and Diversity team provide a number of support services.
For all you need to know about the support services available to Buckingham students, visit the Wellbeing, Skills and Diversity pages
All services are available Monday-Friday, 9am-5pm.
If the student does have queries about student life and adapting we suggest they reach out to the Stude nts’ Union (SU) where they can receive peer support.
Students can find out more about existing student groups and activities on the SU website .
If you would like to contact the Students’ Union we are available via studentsunion@buckingham.ac.uk .
Once a student has their offer to study at The University of Buckingham there are few things that they need to do before arriving on campus.
From accepting their offer, to booking accomodation and applying for a visa if necessary.
Our New Students pages guide them and you through every step.
Other useful links:
Buckingham’s fast-tracked schedule means our students finish their undergraduate degrees sooner and can be out in the workforce up to a year earlier than if they go to another university.
When living costs are included, our students pay about 20% less than they would on a three-year course at a university charging £9,250pa for tuition.
Check our Fees and Finances page for more information about The University of Buckingham’s tuition fees and financing options available.
Use our course finder to search for specific programme pages where you can find detailed information about the fees for that programme.
The University of Buckingham also has a range of Scholarships and Bursaries available.
We can guarantee on-campus accommodation for our first-year undergraduate students.
At both our Buckingham and Crewe campuses.
More information about Buckingham accommodation.
More information about Crewe accommodation.
The University of Buckingham, like all Universities in the UK, is obliged to comply with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR ).
It is advisable for parents/guardians to ensure that all students provide the University with:
Our staff will not normally be able to disclose whether a student has asked for help or has received any help from the University Wellbeing team, for example.)
If we have no means to verify the identity of a caller, even if that caller is an actual parent or guardian, or another relative, our staff will take a message, a name and a contact telephone number but in order to comply with GDPR, we cannot confirm that any named individual is a student at The University of Buckingham.
If we find that we do have a student by that name, we will ask that student to contact the caller, if they wish to do so, and give them an opportunity to do so (e.g.
to use a University telephone if their mobile phone is broken).
We will not normally be able to call back ourselves.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/student-life/student-welfare/mental-and-physical-health-advice/out-of-hours-support-for-students:
If you need assistance outside of the normal working hours, please contact:
Call: 116 123
Samaritans are available 24/7 to listen to you, no matter what you may be going through.
Call 999 to speak to Police, Ambulance, Fire & Rescue, Coastguard, Mountain Rescue.
For more information, view our Emergency Contacts .

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/student-life/financial-wellbeing:
Financial wellbeing is about a sense of security and feeling as though you have enough money to meet your needs.
It’s about being in control of your day-to-day finances and having the financial freedom to make choices that allow you to enjoy life
If you have questions or concerns about your course fees, please contact the Student Fees Office.
Email: studentfees@buckingham.ac.uk
Phone: 01280 820250 or +44(0)1280 827576)
For enquiries about scholarships contact admissions@buckingham.ac.uk when applying to the University or speak to your Faculty Registrar if you are an existing student.
The Hardship Fund is available for students to apply to who are in genuine hardship from a recent event.
It is not there to cover study fees or accommodation fees but can help with living expenses if you qualify.
To apply you must complete the online Hardship fund application form and supply the information required to make an informed decision.
You may be asked to attend a meeting to discuss your application further.
We are also able to lend some laptops to students who may have had an issue with theirs so they can do their coursework but the loan period is subjected to restrictions which will be explained should you need to ask for one.
This will also need to be at the request of your personal tutor or course leader.
We have scholarships and bursaries available for both undergraduate and postgraduate students, these are awarded based on location, merit or financial need.
There are various grants and loans available to Buckingham students.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/student-life/occupational-wellbeing:
Jump to: Students’ Union | Personal tutors | Careers and job hunting | Dog walking |
Occupational wellbeing involves preparing and making use of our skills and talents in order to gain purpose, happiness, and enrichment in our lives.
Intellectual stimulation and career fulfilment allow us to maintain a positive attitude and experience satisfaction and pleasure in our employment.
All students are allocated a Personal Tutor who will contact them – please respond and arrange to meet your Personal Tutor.
Personal tutors are there to offer you support, particularly in connection with academic matters.
Careers Office holds information about vacancies that are sent to The University of Buckingham.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/student-life/psychological-emotional-mental-wellbeing:
Jump to: Mental health services | Tips for staying mentally well | Disability | Crisis information
Mental health is not just the absence of a mental disorder.
It is defined as a state of well-being in which every individual realizes their own potential, can cope with the normal stresses of life, can work productively and fruitfully, and is able to make a contribution to their community.
At The University of Buckingham, we offer a range of mental health support to our students.
Find out more at the Mental health support pages .
Evidence suggests there are 5 steps you can take to improve your mental health and wellbeing .
Trying these things could help you feel more positive and able to get the most out of life.
The University will provide all Reasonable Adjustments for students who have a mental health condition that constitutes a disability.
Find drug and alcohol rehabs in Buckingham on rehab4addiction .
If you are in crisis and it is between office hours 9am-5pm then please contact wellbeingskillsanddiversity@buckingham.ac.uk or call in at the offices on Hunter Street.
If it is out of hours then please contact Security on 07860834802 who will be able to call a member of the team on call to assist you.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/student-life/university-facilities/registry/exams:
This information is relevant to students in the Faculty of Computing, Law and Psychology and the Faculty of Business, Humanities and Social Sciences .
Many programmes at the University of Buckingham involve exams as part of the assessment process.
Centrally managed exams typically take place twice a year, during the final two weeks of the Spring and Autumn terms.
Other assessments may be scheduled throughout the year.
Exams may also take place on Saturdays, so travel arrangements should be made after the end of term.
It is each student’s responsibility to ensure they are familiar with the:
On-campus exams may take place in one of the following formats:
You are responsible for ensuring:
Finalist students previously assessed online have been approved to continue with online exams for June 2025, maintaining consistency with their prior arrangements.
All online exams will be delivered via Moodle and are open book.
You must have access to Moodle and required software (via your University Office 365 account).
You are responsible for:
Exam format:
Important reminders:
You will usually receive your personal exam timetable by the end of Week 6 of the exam term via email which will also contain useful exam information.
Any delays will be communicated via email and to your school of study.
Check your exam timetable email for your location, date.
Seating plans are posted outside the venue.
Emails to students will also include covering text with useful information.
Please read this email carefully and notify registryexams@buckingham.ac.uk of any errors.
Students are responsible for reviewing their timetables carefully and reporting any discrepancies.
Please ensure you check your timetable thoroughly and notify registryexams@buckingham.ac.uk immediately if you identify any errors.
The University will not accept timetable errors as a valid reason for non-submission or non-attendance and it cannot be held liable for any missed assessments or scheduling conflicts resulting from inaccuracies that are not reported.
All students are required to use their own personal laptops for ExamSoft assessments.
Your device must meet the minimum system requirements to run Examplify , and it is your responsibility to ensure it is compatible and ready in advance of the examination period.
If you need help checking your device’s compatibility, please visit or contact the IT Helpdesk at helpdesk@buckingham.ac.uk
If you anticipate any issues accessing Examplify or meeting the minimum system requirements, you must inform your School of Study at least three weeks before the start of the examination period.
Please note: Loan devices from the University are in very limited supply, not guaranteed, and will only be provided for students with a verified need.
You can view past papers via the University’s Past Paper Library .
If you believe there is an error on your exam paper, raise your hand during the exam to attract the attention of the invigilator.
Explain the situation to the invigilator.
Whilst the invigilator seeks clarification, you should continue with a different question.
As soon as clarification has been sought, you and any other students impacted will be notified of the response either by means of an announcement or by speaking to individual students.
The University applies the principle that a student who attends, submits or participates in any form of assessment shall be considered by the University to be in a position to do so.
Mitigating circumstances are defined as “recognisably disruptive or unexpected events, beyond the student’s control, that might have a significant and adverse impact on their academic performance.” Refer to Section 3.5a Mitigating Circumstances Policy and Procedure of the University’s Regulations Handbook for information on mitigating circumstances and how to apply.
If you are unsatisfied with a decision made by Boards of Examiners, Heads of Department, Research Officers or Research Examining Teams in relation to progression, assessment or awards.
Refer to Section 3.6a ( Academic Appeals Policy and Procedure ) of the University’s Regulations Handbook for information on academic appeals and how to apply.
Revision and Exam Advice ask@buckingham.ac.uk
Book a 1:1 ASK session booking calendar
Past papers Past Exam Papers via Sharepoint
IT and Moodle Access helpdesk@buckingham.ac.uk
Issues during the exam Contact registryexams@buckingham.ac.uk or notify an invigilator for invigilated exam hall examinations.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/student-life/university-facilities/registry/hedd-verifications:
We are pleased to announce the implementation of the Higher Education Degree Datacheck (Hedd) online verification service for employers and agencies to verify University of Buckingham awards.
Please note that this service is only for third parties.
The system has been developed by Graduate Prospects, in consultation with universities, employers and screening agencies.
Funded by the Higher Education Funding Council for England (HEFCE) and launched by Graduate Prospects, Hedd is now being used by many institutions throughout the UK.
The online candidate verification service allows registered enquirers to input data provided by applicants (name, date of birth, institution, year of graduation, qualification classification etc).
To make an enquiry you need to register with Hedd by visiting www.hedd.ac.uk .
Select ‘University of Buckingham’ from the list of UK higher education institutions and choose the option to ‘verify a degree award’.
There is a charge of £12 per enquiry.
If you require further assistance, please email heddhelp@prospects.ac.uk .
You will also be required to upload a consent form.
You’ll need the individual’s name, date of birth, course and qualification.
For graduates you’ll also need their year of graduation and degree result.
We recommend that you ask to see the degree certificate if there is one, and use that as the basis of your verification enquiry, or ask individuals to give you their data as they believe it’s recorded in the student records system.
If the information submitted is an exact match to the information held within the student record, your request will automatically be verified.
If the information does not match all fields, then the enquiry will go to the team here for manual verification, with a five working-day turnaround time
If you have any problems or queries, please email heddhelp@prospects.ac.uk , including your phone number if you would like a call back.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/life/buck/getting/shipping:
If you have too much to fit into your student accommodation, or want to take things back home but don’t have the baggage allowance, you may wish to consider shipping and storage options.
There are many companies in the UK who offer these services, some of which are:

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/life/buck/getting/train:
Our local railway station is Milton Keynes Central , and there is a bus service to the railway station from Buckingham.
From Central Milton Keynes Station, train services can take you to major cities, such as Birmingham and London Euston.
An Intercity service to London runs at 15 minutes intervals and the journey time is approximately 45 minutes.
There are also railway stations at nearby Bicester and Bletchley, which both have bus services connecting them with Buckingham.
For train times online see National Rail online timetables (external link).
Or call National Rail Enquiries, telephone number +44 (0)8457 484950.
All students irrespective of age can apply for a Young Person’s Railcard, which enables you to save 1/3 on train fares.
See www.railcard.co.uk (external link).
Directions to the University by road, rail, coach & air .

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/life/accommodation/livingon/faq/leaving:
Before you are due to leave you will receive a letter with details about leaving.
This will include the last day of your accommodation and instructions on returning your keys.
A forwarding address is useful in case we need to contact you.
The address given at the start of your University life may not be current.
Leaver letters are sent out giving students plenty of time to plan and organise their departure.
It is your responsibility to ensure that you allow plenty of time to remove all your belongings by the date given.
It is an excellent time to tidy up and have a clear out of items you do not want to return home with.
Charity stores and clothes recycling containers are available in town for those unwanted belongings.
Returning your keys in the envelope provided, with the correct information in order to identify keys, is your responsibility.
In the event that you are leaving out of hours it is acceptable to leave your keys either with Security in the envelope as described above or if available, placed into the letterbox allocated at the time of your departure.
If the keys have not been returned the lock must be changed to provide security for the next student.
Before you close and lock your door take a few minutes to double check the drawers, wardrobe and the back of your door.
Unfortunately, any items left in the room are disposed of.
We do not have a lost property storage for items left behind.
Generally, this takes between 4-6 weeks.
Each department provides information to the finance department that must be allocated before the bond is released.
Please remember that the bond is refunded to the original account the money was paid from.
Once you have left your room it is checked for damages against the Inventory you completed and returned at the start of your first term.
Wear and tear is taken into consideration, however, excessive damage to property will incur a charge.
Details of the deductions are sent to you.
The University of Buckingham operates an appeals process that can be requested and acted upon if you receive charges that you feel are unfair.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/life/accommodation/livingon/eat:
All our accommodation has self-catering facilities so you can always cook your own meals if you wish.
Many students, though, choose to eat out and The Refectory, at the Tanlaw Mill on the Hunter Street campus, can provide you with freshly prepared food from early in the morning through the day.
The Franciscan Building at Verney Park has a coffee bar serving hot and cold meals and snacks.
Buckingham town has a large number of take-aways, cafes and restaurants, all within walking distance of your accommodation, so you’ll never go hungry.
See also: Student Dining

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/life/accommodation/livingon/residas:
Residential Assistants (RA’s) are students with particular responsibilities who live in student accommodation.
They are there to make you feel welcome and help you settle in.
They will hold house meetings each term to go over house rules, health and safety matters and to help with any questions/concerns you may have.
They will also
If there is anything they cannot deal with, they can point you towards the accommodation team, security and the Wellbeing, Skills and Diversity department if needed.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/life/accommodation/livingon/security:
Buckingham is a country town and is therefore safe compared with cities and large towns.
For peace of mind, though, we provide security cover 24 hours a day, making sure you enjoy your stay at Buckingham with as little worry and bother as possible.
All of our Security staff are First Aid trained and at your disposal.
Security will deal with any noise complaint they receive during anti-social hours.
When the Accommodation Office is closed, Security will come to your assistance if you lock yourself out, or if you lose your keys.
Also, if you have a ‘maintenance’ issue when the offices are closed, Security will be happy to help.
If they can’t fix the problem, they will know a man who can!

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/life/accommodation/livingon/special:
All special accommodation requests should be stated on your accommodation application form.
In addition to this you can email us, or telephone us, and we will be happy to help you in whatever way we can.
CONTACT US We will try our very best to accommodate your special needs, but it would be appreciated if you could give us as much notice as possible.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/life/accommodation/livingon/tvs:
Students may bring their own televisions for use in their rooms, or you can rent or buy a TV when you get here.
If you live in halls of residence and use a device to watch/record TV in your own room, you need your own separate TV Licence.
The law states that you need to be covered by a TV licence to:
This applies to any device you use, including a TV, desktop computer, laptop, mobile phone, tablet, games console, digital box etc.
From 1st April 2022 a standard TV licence costs £159
Contact us on arrival for more details on licenses or find out more by visiting the following link: TV Licensing for Students .
There are TVs located in the Old Tanlaw Mill, Franciscan Building and some of the accommodation kitchens which are available for students to watch.
The Halls Internet Access ( HIA ) service is available in all halls of residence.
All your internal & external incoming mail will be delivered to the Post Room at the Chandos Road Building, where our friendly staff will sort your mail ready for you to collect.
The delivery address that you should use for personal mail or when ordering any deliveries, courier parcels etc.
is:
‘Your name and student ID’ University of Buckingham Hunter Street Buckingham MK18 1EG
All deliveries and mail go to the Student Post Room on Hunter Street, where the friendly staff will keep everything safe until you collect them.
You should never give your accommodation address for any mail or parcel deliveries.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/life/accommodation/livingon/car-parking:
The University has several car parks.
All car parking spaces can be used by all members of staff and all students of the University.
Currently there is no charge for car parking.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/student-life/drugs-and-alcohol:
Like every other university, we are reflective of society – and, with that in mind, difficult ‘life challenges’ may arise from time to time.
The role of Wellbeing, Drugs and Alcohol Adviser is new to The University of Buckingham.
The purpose of the role is to:
Triage appointments ascertain ‘where the student is at’, how they are currently dealing with the situation, guidance and direction.
The student may be referred to other services within the Wellbeing, Skills & Diversity Team:
To keep the student focused on strategies to work through their dilemmas (relationships/money/family issues).
This will continue until the concern is dealt with and the student feels confident enough to continue on their own.
These are online and voluntary to attend.
The sessions would suit those who have no knowledge of the subject to those who use and possibly have questions they need answering or looking for support.
A very basic and informal look at what they are, risks and consequences, how to stay safe, short/long term affects.
Open discussions at these workshops are welcome.
For those who are encountering difficulties with their studies/personal life resulting from drugs and alcohol and would like to talk things over or take steps to manage their use.
Referrals to an outside agency are also an option, if necessary.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/student-life/mentoring-service:
To provide a student-centred, professional, accessible and present service
The Mentor Team will be involved in the whole student experience, from Induction to Engagement in learning and University life, right through to successful completion and prevention of non-continuation.
The Lead Mentor will oversee the mentor service whilst supporting the Faculty Mentors, in their faculties.
The Faculty Mentors will be based within the faculty to ensure that they are visible and accessible to both students and faculty staff.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/life/welfare/admission:
It is recommended that if you have a disability and/or specific learning difficulty SpLD , you indicate this on your application form.
You may be sent a questionnaire in which you can give us more specific information.
Candidates are advised, wherever possible, to visit The University for an informal interview.
This enables you to see the campus and discuss your needs with your faculty and/or the Wellbeing, Skills and Diversity Team .
Where this is not possible we strongly advise you to contact us by telephone or email for a detailed discussion.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/student-life/disability-and-access:
At The University of Buckingham, we value every student as a unique individual.
We want you to feel supported and able to fully access your studies and university life.
If you have a disability or a long-term health condition, we are here to help through our reasonable adjustments process, ensuring that any barriers to your learning are removed wherever possible.
The Equality Act (2010) classification of disability is used.
Under the Act, disability is defined as “a physical or mental impairment which has a substantial and long-term adverse effect on normal day-to-day activities”.
The condition must last or be likely to last 12 months or more.
This can include (but is not limited to):
Whilst normal day-to-day activities are not defined in the Act, examples relevant to students could include, writing, typing, walking or other forms of travelling, communicating with others and carrying out routine practical tasks relevant to the subject of study
Reasonable adjustments are changes we make to remove or reduce barriers caused by a disability.
These might include:
We look at each request on a case-by-case basis to ensure the adjustments are effective, practical, and maintain academic standards.
An unfair barrier could be:
It’s best to let us know as early as possible—ideally when you apply—so support can be in place before you start your studies.
However, you can request adjustments at any point during your time at the University.
We will ask you to provide medical or professional evidence (normally less than two years old) to help us understand your needs and create an individualised support plan.
Yes.
Anything you tell us about your disability is treated with the strictest confidentiality.
Your information will only be shared with staff on a need-to-know basis to put your agreed adjustments in place.
We’ll ask for your consent before sharing information unless there’s a legal requirement or serious concern for your safety.
Our Wellbeing, Skills, and Diversity (WSD) Team will:
If you think this applies to you—or you’d like to know more about the support we offer—please contact the Wellbeing, Skills, and Diversity Team at WSD@buckingham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/student-life/hardship-fund:
The University operates a Hardship Fund to support current Buckingham students experiencing financial difficulties due to unforeseen circumstances which is impacting on their studies, providing support through the following schemes:
The Hardship Fund is available to support current students experiencing financial difficulties, due to an unforeseen circumstance which is impacting on their studies.
The maximum award will be £500 (unless in special circumstances).
The fund cannot be used to support payment of courses fees or arrears of rent but can help students who qualify, with short-term living , travel and food expenses .
Access to hardship support is subject to full payment of course fees as well as continued attendance and engagement with studies.
Students seeking support with course fees are advised to contact the Student Fees Office via studentfees@buckingham.ac.uk .
To support students struggling to afford food or day-to-day essentials , we are able to award e-food vouchers.
The maximum award via the scheme (unless in special circumstances) will be four Tesco e-food vouchers .
Each e-voucher provides students with a contribution of £40 towards one week of food shopping, meal suggestions, and shopping lists are also provided as a guide.
To support students experiencing issues with their laptops, we have a small stock of laptops to loan on a short-term basis to help with coursework, assignments and exams at both our Buckingham and Crewe campus.
Contact hardship@buckingham.ac.uk for more details.
Please read and ensure you meet the below requirements before applying.
The criteria for Hardship support and or access to e-food vouchers include:
Criteria will also be linked to current attendance and engagement with your studies – evidence that a small payment will help support you to continue with your studies.
To be eligible to apply for a Hardship Fund award, a student should meet all of the following conditions:
Hardship Fund application form
Wellbeing, Skills and Diversity staff are available to go through your application form with you if required.
We appreciate this is a time-sensitive issue and aim to acknowledge applications usually within 5 working days of receipt.
After you have submitted the form, we will contact you to continue the application process.
Further evidence will be requested as part of the assessment process.
To support the hardship application, all students must provide accurate, up to date and relevant evidence.
All evidence must be clear enough to read, in an accepted format (pdf, jpg, doc, xlsx, png, txt) and in English .
Any evidence displayed in a language other than English, must be translated before being submitted as part of an application.
The evidence required for Hardship support and access to e-food vouchers include:
To avoid delays in assessing your application, please check you have provided all the necessary evidence to support your application as incomplete applications will not be processed.
We appreciate this is a time-sensitive issue and aim to process applications usually within 2 working days of receipt.
The Panel will verify this information as part of the assessment process.
Additional evidence may be requested to help us understand your full financial situation.
Your application will be considered by the Hardship Panel, comprising the Director of Student Support Services, the Head of Wellbeing, Skills and Diversity, the Policy and Process Manager and up to two other members.
An appeal against the decision of the Hardship Panel will be considered by the Registrar.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/student-life/mental-health:
Ensuring that a student’s emotional and mental health remains stable is paramount at the University.
Within the Wellbeing, Skills and Diversity team we have trained counsellors who offer confidential support to students on any matters that are causing them concern.
We are trained to listen and can offer you the space and time to reflect on what is happening in your life, whether it is causing you distress or whether you would like a chance to work on your own personal development.
Students are encouraged to talk through issues such as bereavement, relationships, anxiety, stress or problems related to their work.
We have Mental Health Advisers who offer support to those students that have a diagnosed mental health condition that requires support to help manage their emotional and mental health whilst studying.
We work very closely with the University medical doctor and the local mental health services in Aylesbury ensuring that any student who requires urgent medical intervention is seen in a timely manner.
We offer face to face confidential appointments, telephone assessments and Teams calls.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/alumni-giving/graduate-outcomes-survey:
Graduate Outcomes is an annual survey sent to all graduates who completed a higher education course in the UK after August 2017.
The survey looks to understand whether you’re in employment, have continued with further study or are doing something else and to what extent your qualification played a part.
Around 15 months after you finish your course, you will receive an email inviting you to take part in Graduate Outcomes.
It will take less than 10 minutes to complete and will provide valuable insight into higher education for the next generation of students.
For example, the survey produces vital data that is used by league tables and university guides to help future students choose what and where to study.
The Graduate Outcomes survey also helps the University of Buckingham to improve our courses, attract new students and prepare our future graduates for the ever-changing employment market.
HESA (Higher Education Statistics Agency) conducts the survey on behalf of UK universities and colleges.
Around 15 months after graduation you will receive an invitation to complete the survey online through either:
Keep your contact details up to date with the University of Buckingham so that the Graduate Outcomes team at HESA can contact you about the survey.
If your contact details changed since leaving university, please complete our ‘ Update your details ’ form.
Learn more about the Graduate Outcomes survey .

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/login:
Moodle (VLE)
Library services
Campus maps
Timetables
Term dates
Handbook

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/accommodation/sunleys:
Quick links to: Included in the room | Kitchens | Prices | Apply
Sunley House comprises 39 ensuite rooms.
These rooms are fitted with modern white furniture and feature contemporary shower rooms.
Some of the ground floor rooms have patio doors which lead down to the river.
It is really lovely in the Summer to see all of our local wildlife.
This accommodation is self-catering.
Sunley House is located on the Hunter Street campus where the heart of the University can be found within easy walking distance.
The fully fitted kitchens are located on the ground floor and are shared by 13 students.
They feature cookers, microwaves, kettles and toasters.
Each resident is allocated a lockable kitchen cupboard and a drawer in a freezer.
All of our accommodation prices are inclusive of bills and WiFi.
Details can be found on our apply for accommodation page.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/accommodation/norton-place:
Quick links to: Configurations | Room descriptions | Laundry facilities | Prices | Apply
Nortons Place is located on Hunter Street, where the main campus is situated.
There are eight one-bedroom cottages, ideally suited to couples.
The front door leads into a cosy living room, which then leads into the kitchen.
Upstairs there is a bedroom which leads through to a bathroom.
The nearest laundrette is in Hailsham House.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/accommodation/mitre:
Quick links to: Configurations | Kitchens | Bedrooms | Cleaning and housekeeping | Parking | Prices | Apply
Mitre Court is located on the Hunter Street campus and consists of 13 flats.
It is self-catered accommodation.
The bedrooms vary in size; most tend to be on the generous side.
All rooms have their own vacuum cleaner.
2 bedrooms.
Single beds.
One bedroom is on the ground floor, the other is upstairs.
Shared kitchen and bathroom.
Room 2a also has an additional separate study room.
Ground floor bedrooms.
Ground floor rooms.
Rooms 8a and 8b.
Room 8a also has an additional separate study room.
1 st floor rooms.
Room 8c is located up the stairs in this flat and is a self-contained apartment, with its own bedroom, bathroom and kitchen.
It features a double bed.
Located on the first floor.
9a, 10a and 11a are compact self-contained rooms which feature an open plan bedroom/kitchen and a bathroom.
Due to the restricted space in these rooms the beds are ‘fold away’.
When not in use the bed converts to a desk.
9b, 10b and 11b are larger self-contained apartments which feature a bedroom, a kitchen and a bathroom.
These rooms have double beds.
3 bedrooms.
Second floor rooms.
Shared bathroom and kitchen.
The kitchens are fully equipped with cookers, microwaves, toasters and kettles.
Please note – some of the kitchens are not big enough for a dining table and chairs.
You will need kitchen items such as pots & pans, crockery and knives & forks.
Please remember to bring your own bedding and towels.
Check the room information to see if the room you have been offered has a double or single bed.
The communal areas are cleaned daily Monday to Friday, (excluding Bank Holidays).
To assist the cleaning staff you are asked to wash up after yourselves.
You are responsible for your own cleaning if you reside in a self-contained room.
Mitre Court has a small car park.
This can be used by any University staff member or student.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/accommodation/hutber:
Quick links to: Room descriptions | Prices | Location | Apply
Hutber House is made up of 20 basic standard rooms.
Room numbers 1 – 8 are reserved for females, rooms 9 – 16 for males and rooms 17 – 20 are designated visitor accommodation.
There is one shower room per 4 students.
Rooms 1 – 8 share a kitchen, as do rooms 9 – 16.
These 1st-floor compact galley kitchens are fully fitted and feature a cooker, freezer, microwave, kettle & toaster.
Unfortunately, these kitchens are too small to include dining furniture.
The kitchen for rooms 17 – 20 is located on the ground floor and does include dining furniture.
All students have a lockable kitchen locker and are allocated a drawer in a freezer.
Hutber House is located on Hunter Street, where the main campus is located.
It is on the side of the road that runs through Hunter Street; this is not a busy road but there may occasionally be some traffic noise.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/accommodation/hailsham:
Quick links to: Configuration | Room descriptions | Prices | Apply
Hailsham House is located on the Hunter Street campus, right next door to the Business School.
It is self-catering.
There are 43 ensuite rooms and 40 standard rooms.
The ensuite rooms are furnished with modern white furniture and feature contemporary shower rooms.
Our ‘typical’ standard rooms are very popular and provide good value for money.
If you have a standard room you will be sharing the bathroom facilities.
There is usually 1 shower room per 3 -4 students.
The main kitchens are located on the ground floor and are shared by approximately 20 students.
The fully fitted kitchens include cookers, freezers, microwaves, kettles and toasters as well as kitchen lockers.
All students are allocated a ‘lockable’ kitchen locker and a drawer in a freezer.
The kitchens for the ensuite rooms are a bit larger as they have been refurbished, and they also have TVs.
The kitchens for the standard rooms are more basic but there is an additional spacious dining/TV room.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/accommodation/bishops:
Quick links to: Configurations | Room descriptions | Location | Prices | Apply
Bishops Court consists of 13 single gender flats, spread over 3 buildings.
The rooms and facilities vary in size and shape.
All flats have a vacuum cleaner and an intercom.
All bedrooms have: Curtains, bed (3ft single), mattress, desk, desk chair, desk light, shelves, wardrobe, chest of drawers, pinboard
All kitchens are fully fitted and feature a cooker, fridge freezer, microwave, kettle and toaster.
Unfortunately some of the kitchens are too small to include dining furniture.
Bishops Court is located on the Hunter Street campus where the heart of the University can be found within easy walking distance.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/accommodation/beloff:
Quick links to: Bedrooms | Kitchens | Cleaning and housekeeping | Laundry facilities | Prices | Apply
Beloff House is located on the Hunter Street campus and is next to the Tanlaw Mill where the bar, restaurant and Students Union is based.
It is self-catering accommodation.
There are 66 ensuite bedrooms.
All of the rooms feature a small mini-fridge and vacuum cleaner.
The main kitchens are located on the ground floor and are fully equipped with cookers, microwaves, toasters and kettles.
There are mini-kitchens located on the 1 st and 2 nd floors which are ideal for making a quick snack.
Each resident has their own kitchen locker and their own designated freezer drawer.
Students need to bring their own towels, pots and pans, crockery and knives and forks.
Please remember to bring your own bedding, to fit a single bed.
The communal areas are cleaned daily Monday to Friday (excluding Bank Holidays).
There is a large car park very close by.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/accommodation/moreton-road-flats:
Quick links to: Configurations | Room descriptions | Location map | Prices | Apply
Gregory House, located on our Moreton Road Campus, consists of a block of six modern, self-catering flats.
All these modern flats are fully equipped with a washing machine, cooker, fridge-freezer, microwave, toaster and kettle.
You should not bring any of these items with you.
You will need to bring your own towels and tea-towels, saucepans, crockery and cutlery.
Please remember to bring your own bedding.
The ensuite and large rooms have 4ft small double beds and therefore will require double bedding.
All other rooms will require bedding to fit a single bed.
A vacuum cleaner is provided for everyone to share.
Communal areas are cleaned daily (Monday to Friday) excluding Bank Holidays.
Off street parking is available and all students should park in a safe and considerate manner at all times.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/accommodation/moreton-road-houses:
The University owns 3 houses on our designated Moreton Road campus.
The kitchens are fully equipped with washing machines, cookers, microwaves, toasters and kettles.
Students need to bring their own bedding, towels, pots and pans, crockery, knives and forks.
The communal areas are cleaned daily (Monday to Friday, excluding Bank Holidays).
There are communal vacuum cleaners.
The ensuite and larges rooms have 4ft small double beds and will therefore require double bedding.
Roadside car parking is available.
27 Shetland
This house has 1 X large room (downstairs), 1 X ensuite room (upstairs), 1 X medium room (upstairs) and 1 X small room (upstairs).
There is also 1 X kitchen, 1 X living room and 1 X downstairs W.C..
The large, medium and small rooms share the upstairs family bathroom.
36 Whitehead Way
This house has 1 X large room (downstairs), 1 X ensuite room (upstairs), 2 X medium rooms (upstairs) and 1 X small room (upstairs).
There is also 1 X kitchen, 1 X downstairs W.C.
and 1 X living room.
The large, medium and small rooms share the upstairs bathroom.
38 Whitehead Way

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/accommodation/mount-pleasant-campus:
This accommodation provides a new and exciting place for our students to live, with facilities that promise a convenient and enjoyable lifestyle.
The new accommodation will feature:
The twin rooms each have two single beds, while the couples’ rooms have a super-king size bed.
Each student will also have their own bedside units, chest of drawers and wardrobe space.
The rooms will also feature:
Our Mount Pleasant Campus is a short walk away from a range of different shops.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/accommodation/paulley:
Quick links to: Room descriptions | Cleaning and housekeeping | Laundry facilities | Parking | Prices | Apply
Paulley House is located on the Verney Park campus, next to the Law School.
The top floor is reserved for female students.
The 42 standard rooms were refurbished in January 2019.
They feature a small double bed as well as everything else you would expect to find – a desk, shelves, a chair, a wardrobe, a chest of drawers and a vanity unit.
We even supply you with your own small mini-cool and vacuum cleaner.
You will need to bring your own bedding and towels.
There is a spacious kitchen on each floor, fully equipped with cookers, microwaves, kettles and toasters.
The kitchens are shared by 14 students.
Students have their own kitchen lockers and an allocated drawer in a freezer.
You will need to bring your own pots and pans, crockery, knives and forks.
There are 2 showers and 2 wc’s on either side of the kitchens which are shared by up to 7 students.
The laundrette facilities for Verney Park are in the Franciscan Building adjacent to the accommodation.
Car parking is available at Verney Park.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/accommodation/harris:
Quick links to: Room descriptions | Laundry facilities | Parking | Prices | Apply
There are 42 single ensuite bedrooms.
These rooms are very small; there is not much floor space.
All rooms have a mini-cool and small vacuum cleaner.
Please remember to bring your own bedding (to fit a single bed) and towels.
14 students share fully equipped kitchens.
Each student has a kitchen locker and an allocated drawer in a freezer.
Please bring your own pots & pans, crockery, knives & forks.
The nearest laundrette can be found in the Franciscan building.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/accommodation/caine:
There are 36 rooms.
You will also need your own towels.
These spacious rooms offer ensuite facilities and an open plan bedroom/kitchen.
They feature double beds.
These single rooms are very small; there is not much floor space.
These are single standard bedrooms with washbasin facilities.
There are 2 showers and 2 toilets per 7 students.
Mini cools feature in the ensuite and standard rooms.
There are kitchens on each floor which are shared by 12 students.
Students staying in the ensuite and standard rooms have a kitchen locker and an allocated drawer in a freezer.
Please bring your own pots & pans, crockery and knives & forks.
Communal areas are cleaned Monday to Friday, excluding public holidays.
The nearest laundrette is in the Franciscan building.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/accommodation/bateman:
Quick link to: Room descriptions | Cleaning and housekeeping | Laundry facilities | Parking | Prices | Apply
Each room has a mini-fridge.
Shared bathroom facilities – 2 showers & wc’s per 7 students
Bateman house has 42 single standard bedrooms.
Please bring your own bedding (to fit a single bed) and towels.
Nearest laundrette can be found in the Franciscan building.
All of our accommodation prices are inclusive of services and WiFi.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/research/apply-for-a-research-degree/phd-by-published-works:
Candidates seeking a Doctorate by Published Work must be University of Buckingham graduates or members of staff.
This contribution should consist of the discovery of new knowledge, or the exercise of a new and independent critical approach, e.g.
Registration must be for a period of one year, during which time the candidate will have regular supervisions with the Supervisor and be guided in accordance with the same process and provision as if registered for a PhD by research programme.
The degree of PhD by Published Work may be conferred on:
(a) graduates of this university of not less than five years standing;
(b) graduates of another university of not less than five years standing who have also held an appointment as a member of staff of this university for at least two years;
(c) graduates of another university of not less than five years standing who have also held a Fellowship of this university for at least two year.
The degree of Doctor of Medicine degree (MD) by Published Work may be conferred on:
(a) holders of the degrees of Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (MB BS), or equivalent approved medical qualifications, of not less than five years standing who have held an appointment as a member of staff of this university for at least two years;
(b) holders of the degrees of MB BS, or equivalent approved medical qualifications, of not less than five years standing who have held a Fellowship of this university for at least two years.
In the first instance, a person wishing to pursue a Doctorate by Published Work should submit an application through the University website for the PhD in the discipline in which they wish to be considered, including, in place of the usual research proposal, a summary of their published work and an explanation of how it meets the criteria for the award.
This application will be forwarded for consideration to the appropriate Research Officer.
If the application is approved, the Research Officer will identify a supervisory team, who will be appointed for a term of 12 months and be responsible for providing assistance to the student in preparing the submission for the degree.
The fee shall be equivalent to one year at the typical PhD fee rate.

New sentences found on https://buckingham.ac.uk/research/create:
Achieving high levels of performance expertise is a complex process involving a range of factors: practice is one piece of the puzzle, naturally, but individual differences such as aptitudes, interests, motivation and creativity are also involved.
In the CREATE Research hub, our particular focus is upon factors for excellence in cognitively challenging pursuits, creative problem-solving and artistic performance.
CREATE is a thriving centre of research activity within the School of Psychology at The University of Buckingham.
We welcome expressions of interest from postgraduate students interested in our PhD Psychology programme , as well as from potential collaborators, across a wide range of relevant topic areas.
Our staff members are engaged in active research within all of these areas, with a focus on innovative and interdisciplinary research.
In support of these aims, we collaborate with a number of external contacts in the performance fields (such as music conservatoires, dance schools and creativity / performance researchers), together with internal colleagues in the School of Computing and University of Buckingham Medical School.
We were the co-founders of the UK Creativity Researchers group , which holds an annual conference; and have recently co-edited a Frontiers in Psychology special issue on Novel Approaches for Studying Creativity in Problem-Solving and Artistic Performance .
Although we are happy to consider relevant applications in any of the areas listed above, we are particularly looking to supervise students in a number of key topics.
You can keep up to date with our activities by following us on Twitter ‎@createpsy and on our WordPress blog CREATE Ψ .
To get in touch with us directly, contact
via email: create-research@buckingham.ac.uk
Image source: http://waterpolo218.deviantart.com/art/no-creativity-346991145