# Site: https://www.cam.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 485
# --------

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk:
Whether you pick up a racket, step into band rehearsal or walk out on stage, your time at Cambridge isn’t just about studying – it’s about finding your place.
We can’t wait to welcome you to all that Cambridge has to offer.
Find out why studying at Cambridge is for you
Step-by-step guidance on the applications process
Updates from across the University
Concerts, lectures, sports events, and more
Second year student Ismail explains a humanities course that is unique to Cambridge: Human, Social and Political Sciences (HSPS).
Three Cambridge students, supported by a Stormzy Scholarship, share what a difference it made to them.
See more of Cambridge's places and people by following us on Instagram.
© 2025 University of Cambridge

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/business-and-enterprise:
Gravity.
The jet engine.
DNA.
New treatments for cancer.
Cambridge thinking has been making a difference for 800 years, and it can do the same for your business.
Find out more about how we partner with industry for world-class results.
Cambridge works with international companies to solve their most complex challenges.
Our cutting-edge thinking can help grow your business through research collaborations, consultancy, education and networking – or by hiring our talented graduates.
For researchers bringing new ideas to market, entrepreneurs wanting to be part of the Cambridge Phenomenon, and startups who want to talk to big companies and vice versa.
We can help with office space, accelerator programmes, networking and more.
There are lots of different ways you can work with Cambridge.
Our Business Partnerships team is here to help you decide the best path for your organisation and connect you with the right people across the University.
From the Arctic to Zambia, explore our new interactive global map to learn about the work of Cambridge and its partners to make a positive impact around the world.
Meet some of Cambridge's most exciting innovators and entrepreneurs – and find out what makes them tick.
Startups to receive support in new programme
King’s Entrepeneurship Lab (King’s E-Lab) and Founders at the University of Ca
Cambridge and AstraZeneca: a decade of partnership and impact
Highlighting the last 10 years of partnership through scientific collaboration, nurturing talent and strengthening our ecosystem
Cambridge wins two Prosperity Partnership awards to support innovation in clean technologies
The University of Cambridge has been awarded two Prosperity Partnerships by the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC).

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/news:
Explore how Cambridge is using AI for better healthcare, smarter public services and new ways of tackling climate change.
Meet our community and discover how ai@cam is supporting the development of AI that works for science, citizens and society.
See how Cambridge is shaping AI for everyone
Dr Tom Worthington works on the restoration and conservation of coastal ecosystems.
The data he provides sits at the heart of billion-…
Keep up to date with our latest news, features, podcasts and videos with our email newsletter, the University news digest.
Enter your email address, confirm you’re happy to receive our emails and then select ‘Subscribe’.
I wish to receive the University's news digest by email.
The University of Cambridge will use your email address to send you our University news digest newsletter once each week.
We are committed to protecting your personal information and being transparent about what information we hold.
Please read our email privacy notice for details.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/jobs:
Home to pioneers whose work continues to change the world, and whose alumni have been recognised with 125 Nobel prizes.
A global centre for technology, research and innovation, renowned for its start up and spin out successes.
An outstanding academic reputation for intellectual freedom and brilliance, built over 800 years, and set against the backdrop of one of the world’s most beautiful cities.
The University of Cambridge is like no other.
Discover hundreds of academic, research and professional services roles on offer across the University and our 31 Colleges.
Find out what makes the University of Cambridge like no other.
Learn about our mission and how we will support you.
You can apply for most of our jobs online.
Find out how – and how we can accommodate you.
Stunning surroundings, modern amenities and a buzzing culture tucked together in a convenient and compact city make Cambridge a uniquely appealing place.
We welcome the best talent from across the globe.
Find out about our range of provisions to support you with your move to Cambridge.
Colleges and affiliated institutions are independent and autonomous.
They appoint their own staff on their own terms and conditions of employment.
Subscribe to a weekly email about new jobs

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research:
The brain holds a ‘map’ of the body that remains unchanged even after a limb has been amputated, contrary to the prevailing view that it rearranges itself to compensate for the loss, according to new research from scientists in the UK and US.
A new total-body PET scanner to be hosted in Cambridge – one of only a handful in the country – will transform our ability to diagnose and treat a range of conditions in patients and to carry out cutting-edge research and drug development.
An artificial heart valve made from a new type of plastic could be a step closer to use in humans, following a successful long-term safety test in animals.
A drought lasting 13 years and several others that each lasted over three years may have contributed to the collapse of the Classic Maya civilisation, chemical fingerprints from a stalagmite in a Mexican cave have revealed.
Research reveals how political crises cause a shift in the force behind viral online content ‘from outgroup hate to ingroup love’.
The brain holds a ‘map’ of the body that remains unchanged even after a limb has been amputated, contrary to the prevailing view that it rearranges itself to co...
A new total-body PET scanner to be hosted in Cambridge – one of only a handful in the country – will transform our ability to diagnose and treat a range of cond...
Researchers have captured the first clear view of the hidden architecture that helps shape a simple multicellular organism, showing how cells work together to b...
The next wave of artificial intelligence must deliver real public value.
Discover how we're harnessing the potential of AI to tackle society's most pressing challenges.
Our selection of the week's biggest Cambridge research news sent directly to your inbox.
Enter your email address, confirm you're happy to receive our emails and then select 'Subscribe'.
I wish to receive a weekly Cambridge research news summary by email.
The University of Cambridge will use your email address to send you our weekly research news email.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/colleges-and-departments:
Colleges and Departments
The University of Cambridge is a confederation of Schools, Faculties, Departments and Colleges.
The Colleges are governed by their own statutes and regulations, but are integral to the make-up of the University.
Students live, eat and socialise in one of the University’s 31 Colleges.
Undergraduates receive College supervisions – small group teaching sessions that are regarded as one of the best teaching models in the world.
Each College is autonomous and selects its own students, subject to University regulations, and most admit both undergraduate and postgraduate students.
College representatives sit on the University Council and Finance Committee.
View the College A-Z
University Faculties organise teaching and research into individual subjects or groups of subjects.
Their work is normally organised into sub-divisions called Departments.
Centres of studies are controlled by committees of management, bringing together representatives from several disciplines.
Links to all of the Faculties' and Departments' websites can be found on the Department A-Z page.
View the Department A-Z
There are 6 Schools, each of which constitutes an administrative grouping of Faculties and other institutions.
They are: Arts and Humanities, Biological Sciences, Clinical Medicine, Humanities and Social Sciences, Physical Sciences, and Technology.
There is a Council of each School – including representatives of its Faculties and Departments.
The Schools are represented on the General Board.
See the list of Schools, and their Departments and Faculties, on the Department A-Z page.
Cambridge University Press & Assessment publishes and creates world-leading content and examinations that are used around the world.
The organisation exists to further the University’s objective to contribute to society through the pursuit of education, learning and research at the highest international levels of excellence.
The trusted qualifications and assessments that it offers through its three exam boards ( Cambridge Assessment English , Cambridge Assessment International Education and OCR ) are used by more than 8 million learners each year.
And it currently publishes more than 380 peer-reviewed academic journals and more than 33,000 e-books that help to spread knowledge, spark curiosity and aid understanding in nearly every country in the world.
The organisation also gives vital support to teachers and schools globally, shaping curricula and education systems, and its range of research-based admissions tests connect universities, governments and employers to applicants around the world.
The University's Professional and Continuing Education was founded in 1873 and provides accessible, flexible and high-quality education to adults throughout their lives.
It offers over 250 courses covering a variety of academic disciplines and subject areas in a wide range of formats.
Professional and Continuing Education's aim is to form supportive communities of learning where expert teachers and adult students work together as peers to achieve personal and collective educational goals, be it as a first step in higher education or progressing to mid-career postgraduate studies.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/about-the-university/contact-the-university:
About the University
Find contact details for undergraduate and postgraduate study queries, departmental contacts, and general enquiries at the University of Cambridge.
Contact Student Admissions by email or post if you have an undergraduate application query.
Or, look for answers online by visiting our undergraduate study website.
admissions@cam.ac.uk
Student Admissions and Access Student Services Centre New Museums Site Cambridge CB2 3PT United Kingdom
Visit our undergraduate study website
Find answers to your postgraduate applications queries, or get in touch, by visiting our postgraduate admissions website.
Visit our postgraduate admissions website
Find the website link to each of our Departments, Faculties, Schools or institutes.
From each website, you can find the correct contact details to send your query to.
Find links to each of our Departments, Faculties, Schools and institutes
University of Cambridge The Old Schools Trinity Lane Cambridge CB2 1TN United Kingdom
+44 (0)1223 337733

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/about-the-university:
The University of Cambridge has more than 24,000 students, from over 140 countries.
Find out more about our unique institution.
There are 31 Colleges, 6 Schools and over 150 Faculties and Departments that make up the University of Cambridge, covering a vast array of subjects and specialised areas of research.
Cambridge's Academic Year commences on 1 October and finishes on 30 September.
Discover the University of Cambridge through open days, virtual tours, and detailed information about our departments and accessibility.
The University of Cambridge has been at the forefront of academic study and research since 1209.
Here is a selection of our discoveries and innovations so far.
Discover how the University works with partners in Cambridge and throughout the East of England.
The University's mission is to contribute to society through the pursuit of education, learning and research at the highest international levels of excellence.
View and download the University of Cambridge Group's Annual Reports and Financial Statements.
The University of Cambridge is a global institution.
See an overview of Cambridge's international activities in pursuit of its mission to contribute to society through excellence of education, learning and research.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/cambridge-extracurriculars:
To those of you for whom A-Level results confirmed your place at Cambridge – congratulations!
You’ve got your subject, your College and your Faculty sorted.
Now comes another vital choice: how do you want your life outside lectures to unfold?
Whether you want to get active, make music or tread the boards, joining University sport, music or theatre isn’t just a fun extra – it’s a wellbeing boost, a confidence-builder, a community, and a memorable part of your Cambridge experience.
Feel better, do better.
One weekly activity – be it a football practice, band rehearsal or drama workshop – can lift your mood, reduce the stress of academic deadlines, and help you feel part of something bigger.
For many, this may be your first time away from home and your extracurricular life will be a crucial part of your wellbeing toolkit.
It’s where you can find your people .
Whatever your interest – jazz, judo, hip hop or cheerleading – there’s a community waiting for you.
It’s where you meet lifelong friends, make memories, forge skills, build confidence, and find your place.
Balance builds brilliance.
Research shows that students who participate in extracurriculars like sport often perform better academically.
Plus, leadership roles in clubs, ensembles or productions shine on your CV and help you stand out to future employers.
Scroll down to explore sport, theatre and music, or use the menu bar at the top to jump straight to your area of interest.
Sport at Cambridge
Whatever your level, there’s a place for you
Varsity Netball 2025 (credit: Dik Ng)
Cambridge has over 70 University Sports Clubs , covering everything from football, rowing and netball to ultimate frisbee, korfball, modern pentathlon and more.
Many clubs run beginner sessions, and nearly half explicitly welcome students with no prior experience .
So if you’ve never tried fencing, squash or dance before, Cambridge is the perfect place to start.
Table tennis (credit: Dik Ng)
You don’t need to represent the University to take part.
Each College has its own sports teams, and intercollegiate matches are a huge part of the Cambridge student experience.
You can get involved in football, hockey, rowing, rugby and more at College level.
No trials, no pressure, and a brilliant way to meet people.
If you’re not sure where to start or want to try something in a relaxed environment, the ' Give it a Go' programme is designed for you.
It offers a series of free, low-commitment, turn-up-and-play recreational sessions, covering everything from tennis and yoga to dodgeball and padel.
You don’t need to sign up in advance, and all equipment is provided – just bring yourself and a bit of curiosity.
To help you get started, the annual Sports Fair on Monday 6 October is your one-stop shop for information.
You’ll be able to meet club reps, ask questions, and even sign up for trial sessions on the day.
'Give It A Go' touch rugby (credit: Dik Ng)
Start by visiting the University Sports Service website and attending the Sports Fair to explore what you could get involved in.
Equestrian (credit: Dik Ng)
Music at Cambridge
It's for everyone , whether you’re an aspiring professional performer, a complete beginner, or anywhere in between.
The University is home to world-class groups like the Cambridge University Orchestra and the renowned College chapel choirs , but also offers opportunities through the Centre for Music Performance (CMP) for a far wider range of students.
If you’re new to music, you can learn an instrument from scratch, attend introductory classes on music production, DJing, songwriting and sound technology, or join an ensemble that welcomes beginners .
For more advanced musicians, there are structured talent development pathways, including:
Credit: Angelynn Zhang
Most colleges have thriving music societies - it’s worth checking out what opportunities are on offer through yours.
Whatever your level, you’ll find fantastic facilities, including:
Credit: Cambridge Chronicles
There’s also a strong focus on accessibility .
Many groups actively encourage beginners, and the CMP works to remove financial and logistical barriers to participation.
There’s Come and Play week from Monday 13 October, where you can sample varying genres of music.
Students like Alex Bird (English, Corpus Christi), who took part in both popular music and steel pans, describe music at Cambridge as a collaborative experience that helps you “meet and make connections” – a key part of the student journey.
Credit: Centre for Music Performance
Start by visiting the Centre for Music Performance at the Fresher’s Fair on 7-8 October , or visit their website and discover how to make music part of your Cambridge life.
Theatre at Cambridge
One of the most exciting places in the UK to get involved in student theatre
Sweeney Todd at ADC (credit: Paul Ashley)
At the heart of the drama scene is the ADC Theatre , the oldest University playhouse in the country, where plays have been performed on the site since the mid 1800s.
While the building is managed by the University, all productions are entirely student-run .
Each term sees around 40 different shows, ranging from large-scale week-long productions, to smaller studio shows, to one night only performances and rehearsed readings, and including everything from Shakespeare and musicals to new writing and comedy.
All productions at the ADC are open and accessible – you don’t need to study drama or have a portfolio.
New students are encouraged to get involved through:
Rehearsals for Pride & Prejudice (credit: Paul Ashley)
Student societies based at the ADC include:
You don’t need to join straight away – opportunities run all year.
By taking part in CUADC’s annual Get Involved campaign in Michaelmas, you’ll stay informed about auditions, crew calls, writing opportunities and social events.
If you want to get involved in future terms, sign up to CUADC’s mailing lists and follow the ADC Theatre and CUADC on social media.
There are also regular mixers and training sessions, helping you meet like-minded students and learn new skills.
Stempenyu (credit: Paul Ashley)
To get started, visit the ADC Theatre’s ‘Get Involved’ page and sign up for the relevant mailing lists.
Sister Act (credit: Paul Ashley)
Small steps, big difference
Sweet Charity (credit: Paul Ashley)
Whether you pick up a racket, step into band rehearsal or walk out on stage, your time at Cambridge isn’t just about academics – it’s about finding your place.
Men's football (credit: Izzy Poles)
Pride & Prejudice (credit: Paul Ashley)
The text in this work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.
Story and design by: Jessica Keating Date: 21 August 2025

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research/news/gone-but-not-forgotten-brains-map-of-the-body-remains-unchanged-after-amputation:
Research
We suspected that the brain maps would be largely unchanged, but the extent to which the map of the missing limb remained intact was jaw-dropping
The findings, published today in Nature Neuroscience, have implications for the treatment of ‘phantom limb’ pain, but also suggest that controlling robotic replacement limbs via neural interfaces may be more straightforward than previously thought.
Studies have previously shown that within an area of the brain known as the somatosensory cortex there exists a map of the body, with different regions corresponding to different body parts.
These maps are responsible for processing sensory information, such as touch, temperate and pain, as well as body position.
For example, if you touch something hot with your hand, this will activate a particular region of the brain; if you stub your toe, a different region activates.
For decades now, the commonly-accepted view among neuroscientists has been that following amputation of a limb, neighbouring regions rearrange and essentially take over the area previously assigned to the now missing limb.
This has relied on evidence from studies carried out after amputation, without comparing activity in the brain maps beforehand.
But this has presented a conundrum.
Most amputees report phantom sensations, a feeling that the limb is still in place – this can also lead to sensations such as itching or pain in the missing limb.
Also, brain imaging studies where amputees have been asked to ‘move’ their missing fingers have shown brain patterns resembling those of able-bodied individuals.
To investigate this contradiction, a team led by Professor Tamar Makin from the University of Cambridge and Dr Hunter Schone from the University of Pittsburgh followed three individuals due to undergo amputation of one of their hands.
This is the first time a study has looked at the hand and face maps of individuals both before and after amputation.
Most of the work was carried out while Professor Makin and Dr Schone were at UCL.
Prior to amputation, all three individuals were able to move all five digits of their hands.
While lying in a functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) scanner – which measures activity in the brain – the participants were asked to move their individual fingers and to purse their lips.
The researchers used the brain scans to construct maps of the hand and lips for each individual.
In these maps, the lips sit near to the hand.
The participants repeated the activity three months and again six months after amputation, this time asked to purse their lips and to imagine moving individual fingers.
One participant was scanned again 18 months after amputation and a second participant five years after amputation.
The researchers examined the signals from the pre-amputation finger maps and compared them against the maps post-amputation.
Analysis of the ‘before’ and ‘after’ images revealed a remarkable consistency: even with their hand now missing, the corresponding brain region activated in an almost identical manner.
Professor Makin, from the Medical Research Council Cognition and Brain Science Unit at the University of Cambridge, the study’s senior author, said: “Because of our previous work, we suspected that the brain maps would be largely unchanged, but the extent to which the map of the missing limb remained intact was jaw-dropping.
“Bearing in mind that the somatosensory cortex is responsible for interpreting what’s going on within the body, it seems astonishing that it doesn’t seem to know that the hand is no longer there.”
As previous studies had suggested that the body map reorganises such that neighbouring regions take over, the researchers looked at the region corresponding to the lips to see if it had moved or spread.
They found that it remained unchanged and had not taken over the region representing the missing hand.
The study’s first author, Dr Schone from the Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, University of Pittsburgh, said: “We didn’t see any signs of the reorganisation that is supposed to happen according to the classical way of thinking.
The brain maps remained static and unchanged.”
To complement their findings, the researchers compared their case studies to 26 participants who had had upper limbs amputated, on average 23.5 years beforehand.
These individuals showed similar brain representations of the hand and lips to those in their three case studies, suggesting long-term evidence for the stability of hand and lip representations despite amputation.
The researchers offer an explanation for the previous misunderstanding of what happens within the brain following amputation.
They say that the boundaries within the brain maps are not clear cut – while the brain does have a map of the body, each part of the map doesn’t support one body part exclusively.
So while inputs from the middle finger may largely activate one region, they also show some activity in the region representing the forefinger, for example.
Previous studies that argue for massive reorganisation determined the layout of the maps by applying a ‘winner takes all’ strategy – stimulating the remaining body parts and noting which area of the brain shows most activity; because the missing limb is no longer there to be stimulated, activity from neighbouring limbs has been misinterpreted as taking over.
The findings have implications for the treatment of phantom limb pain, a phenomenon that can plague amputees.
Current approaches focus on trying to restore representation of the limb in the brain’s map, but randomised controlled trials to test this approach have shown limited success – today’s study suggests this is because these approaches are focused on the wrong problem.
Dr Schone said: “The remaining parts of the nerves — still inside the residual limb — are no longer connected to their end-targets.
They are dramatically cut off from the sensory receptors that have delivered them consistent signals.
Without an end-target, the nerves can continue to grow to form a thickening of the nerve tissue and send noisy signals back to the brain.
“The most promising therapies involve rethinking how the amputation surgery is actually performed, for instance grafting the nerves into a new muscle or skin, so they have a new home to attach to.”
Of the three participants, one had substantial limb pain prior to amputation but received a complex procedure to graft the nerves to new muscle or skin; she no longer experiences pain.
The other two participants, however, received the standard treatment and continue to experience phantom limb pain.
The University of Pittsburgh is one of a number of institutions that is researching whether movement and sensation can be restored to paralysed limbs or whether amputated limbs might be replaced by artificial, robotic limbs controlled by a brain interface.
Today’s study suggests that because the brain maps are preserved, it should – in theory – be possible to restore movement to a paralysed limb or for the brain to control a prosthetic.
Dr Chris Baker from the Laboratory of Brain & Cognition, National Institutes of Mental Health, said: “If the brain rewired itself after amputation, these technologies would fail.
If the area that had been responsible for controlling your hand was now responsible for your face, these implants just wouldn’t work.
Our findings provide a real opportunity to develop these technologies now.”
Dr Schone added: “Now that we’ve shown these maps are stable, brain-computer interface technologies can operate under the assumption that the body map remains consistent over time.
This allows us to move into the next frontier: accessing finer details of the hand map — like distinguishing the tip of the finger from the base — and restoring the rich, qualitative aspects of sensation, such as texture, shape, and temperature.
This study is a powerful reminder that even after limb loss, the brain holds onto the body, waiting for us to reconnect.”
The research was supported by Wellcome, the National Institute of Mental Health, National Institutes of Health and Medical Research Council.
Reference
Schone, HR et al.
Stable Cortical Body Maps Before and After Arm Amputation.
Nature Neuroscience; 21 Aug 2025; DOI: 10.1038/s41593-025-02037-7
The text in this work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International License .
Images, including our videos, are Copyright ©University of Cambridge and licensors/contributors as identified.
All rights reserved.
We make our image and video content available in a number of ways – on our main website under its Terms and conditions , and on a range of channels including social media that permit your use and sharing of our content under their respective Terms.
Emily Wheldon, tested before and after her arm amputation surgery
Credit: Tamar Makin / Hunter Schone

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/news/startups-to-receive-support-in-new-programme:
News
King’s Entrepeneurship Lab (King’s E-Lab) and Founders at the University of Cambridge have revealed the 24 startups that will join King’s College’s first-ever incubator programme designed to turn research-backed ideas from University of Cambridge students and alumni into investable companies.
We look forward to seeing this cohort turn their ambitions into ventures that contribute meaningfully to the economy
Created by King's E-Lab, in partnership with Founders at the University of Cambridge, SPARK will act as an entrepreneurial launchpad.
This programme will offer hands-on support, world-class mentorship and practical training to enable world-changing ventures covering challenges such as disease prevention and treatment, fertility support and climate resilience.
The combined networks of successful entrepreneurs, investor alumni and venture-building expertise brought by King’s E-Lab and Founders at the University of Cambridge will address a critical gap to drive innovation.
More than 180 applications were received for SPARK 1.0 , reflecting strong demand for early incubation support.
Of the selected companies, focused on AI, machine learning, biotechnology and impact, 42% of the companies are at idea stage, 40% have an early-stage product, and 17% have early users.
Around half of the selected companies are led by women.
The intensive incubator will run for four weeks from the end of August.
Each participant will receive specialised support from Founders at the University of Cambridge and King’s E-Lab mentors and entrepreneurs-in-residence to turn their concepts into companies that can attract both investment and ultimately grow into startups capable of driving economic growth.
Following the program, the founders will emerge with:
A validated business model and a clear pathway to product development
Access to expert mentorship and masterclasses with global entrepreneurs and investors
The opportunity to pitch for £20,000 investment and chance to pitch for further investment from established Angel Investors at Demo Day
A chance to join a thriving community of innovators and change-makers
Kamiar Mohaddes, co-founder and Director of King’s Entrepreneurship Lab, said: “Cambridge has been responsible for many world-changing discoveries, but entrepreneurship isn't the first thought of most people studying here.
Driving economic growth requires inspiring the next generation to think boldly about how their ideas can shape industries and society.
We want SPARK to be a catalyst, showing students the reality of founding a company.
We look forward to seeing this cohort turn their ambitions into ventures that contribute meaningfully to the economy.”
Gerard Grech, Managing Director at Founders at the University of Cambridge, said: “Cambridge is aiming to double its tech and science output in the next decade – matching what it achieved in the past 20 years.
That ambition starts at the grassroots.
The energy from the students, postgraduates and alumni is clear, and with tech contributing £159 billion to the UK economy and 3 million jobs, building transformative businesses is one of the most powerful ways to make an impact.
This SPARK 1.0 cohort is beginning that journey, and we’re pleased to partner with King’s Entrepreneurship Lab to support them.”
Gillian Tett, Provost of King’s College, said: “Cambridge colleges have more talent in AI, life sciences and technology, including quantum computing, than ever.
Through SPARK, we can support even more students, researchers and alumni to turn their ambition into an investable idea and make the leap from the lab to the marketplace.
This isn’t just a game-changer for King’s, but for every college in Cambridge whose students join this programme and journey with us to make an impact from Cambridge, on the world.”
Jim Glasheen, Chief Executive of Cambridge Enterprise, said: “The SPARK 1.0 cohort highlights the breadth and depth of innovation within collegiate Cambridge.
SPARK, and the partnership between King’s College and Founders at the University of Cambridge, is a testament to our shared commitment to nurture and empower Cambridge innovators who will tackle global challenges and contribute to economic growth.”
The programme is free for students graduating in Summer 2025, postgraduates, post-docs, researchers, and alumni who have graduated within the last two years.
This is made possible through the University of Cambridge, as well as a generous personal donation from Malcolm McKenzie, King’s alumnus and Chair of the E-Lab’s Senior Advisory Board.
The University's news digest summarises news and features from across the University of Cambridge into one weekly email.
Enter your email address, confirm you are happy to receive our emails and then select 'Subscribe'.
The University of Cambridge will use your email address to send you our University news digest email once each week.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/cambridge-maths-school-a-levels-results-university:
Average grade is A* at specialist sixth form developed in partnership with University
Students at Cambridge Maths School celebrated their A-level results today – the first cohort to study at the new specialist sixth form college.
The state-funded school , run by the Eastern Learning Alliance , was developed in association with the University of Cambridge and opened in September 2023 with a focus on pioneering learning and increasing diversity in the field of maths.
In total, 43 students received their A-level results today, with more than half of the grades (53%) awarded at A*.
They will now study subjects including maths, computer science, engineering, and natural sciences at universities such as Cambridge, Durham, Warwick, Bath, Edinburgh, and UCL.
Michela Castello-Lamb, 18, from Cambridge, achieved A*s in maths, further maths, chemistry, and computer science, and will study maths at the University of Bath.
She said: “Coming to a brand new school was a bit of unknown, but I had faith.
It was an exciting opportunity that I just couldn’t pass up, and I’m delighted I didn’t!
“I’ve known from an early age that maths was the area I wanted to focus on, and I really hope I can inspire younger girls to stick with the subject.
The reality is that from a young age girls are often subtly encouraged to go in a different direction, and not even think of it as an option.
But I want to show them that maths isn’t the environment they might think it is.”
Joshua Overton and Michela Castello-Lamb
Joshua Overton, 18, from Cambridgeshire, achieved A*s in biology, chemistry, maths, and further maths.
He is going to study natural sciences at the University of Cambridge’s Selwyn College.
He said: “I’m really excited about the next step and going deeper into the subject.
I really enjoy the logical aspects of maths, and how it can be applied to situations in the real world, as well as the beautiful flowing arguments it creates.
It was the extensive curriculum that encouraged me to apply to the Cambridge Maths School, and I’ve really enjoyed studying here, particularly the classroom style and being stretched in my subjects.”
Clare Hargraves, Headteacher of Cambridge Maths School, said: “We are exceptionally proud of our students, who have achieved outstanding results in our very first year – with more than 50% of grades awarded at A*.
Their success is a testament to their hard work, resilience, and the strength of our school community.
We’re especially proud of the achievements of students from underrepresented backgrounds, including those who are economically disadvantaged and girls, who have excelled in a field where diversity is so needed.
“This founding cohort didn’t just join a school – they joined a bold vision.
When they applied, there was no building, no staff, and no track record – just a promise of something different.
They took a leap of faith, driven by ambition, curiosity, and a passion for learning.
Their belief in that vision, and their commitment to it, has led to these extraordinary outcomes.
We are truly inspired by what they’ve achieved, and it’s been a privilege to walk alongside them.
We can’t wait to see the incredible things they’ll go on to do.”
Students among the Cambridge Maths School's first cohort celebrate their A-level results
As well as offering a unique curriculum for A-level students in its Cambridge classrooms, the School supports students across the East of England region through outreach activities developed in partnership with the University and its Millennium Mathematics Project .
One of the School’s priorities is encouraging more girls to study STEM subjects post-16, and earlier this year it ran a summer school to help inspire the next generation of female mathematicians.
University mathematicians are also among the School’s governors, providing leadership input.
Prof Colm-Cille Caulfield, Head of the Department of Applied Mathematics and Theoretical Physics, at the University of Cambridge, said: “The School has already achieved so much after just two years, and I’d like to congratulate everyone receiving their results on all their hard work.
The Faculty of Mathematics looks forward to continuing to support staff and students, working with them and learning from them, so we can encourage this spirit of curiosity and love of maths in even more young people across the region, regardless of background.”
Some sixth formers at the School – where students study maths and further maths, and then choose from physics, chemistry, biology or computer science A-levels – come from the city of Cambridge itself, but others travel in from farther afield, including Luton, King’s Lynn, and Peterborough.
The School – which expects to expand its intake as it develops – is part of a nationwide network of maths schools, one for every region of England.
The principal aim of maths schools is to help prepare more of the UK’s most mathematically able students to succeed in maths disciplines at top universities, and address the UK’s skills shortage in science, technology, engineering and maths (STEM) subjects.
Words and images: Stephen Bevan Published: 14th August, 2025
The text in this work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International License

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/linkedin:
Stay updated on your professional world.
By clicking Continue, you agree to LinkedIn’s User Agreement , Privacy Policy , and Cookie Policy .
Click on the link to sign in instantly to your LinkedIn account.
If you don’t see the email in your inbox, check your spam folder.
Agree & Join LinkedIn
LinkedIn © 2025

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/tiktok:
Dear Users,
On June 29, 2020 the Govt.
of India decided to block 59 apps, including TikTok.
We are in the process of
                complying with the Government of India's directive and also working with
                the government to better understand the issue and explore a course of action.
Ensuring the privacy and security of all our users in India remains our utmost priority.
TikTok India Team.
Follow us on Twitter and Instagram .

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/about-this-site/accessibility:
About this site
This website is run by the University of Cambridge and this accessibility statement applies to www.cam.ac.uk .
We want as many people as possible to be able to use this website.
For example, that means you should be able to:
AbilityNet has advice on making your device easier to use if you have a disability.
All pages should comply with WCAG 2.1 AA and where possible comply with WCAG2.2 AA.
We know some parts of this website are not fully accessible:
If you need information on this website in a different format, email accessibility@cam.ac.uk .
We’ll consider your request and get back to you in 5 business days.
If you are a student or member of staff with a disability, you can convert inaccessible files with SensusAccess software.
It converts documents, text or files into an e-book, text file, audio or braille.
You can also use this service if you support someone in the University with a disability.
We’re always looking to improve the accessibility of this website.
If you find any problems not listed on this page email accessibility@cam.ac.uk and give details of the URLs and the problems you encountered.
The Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) is responsible for enforcing the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No 2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 (the ‘accessibility regulations’).
If you’re not happy with how we respond to your complaint, contact the Equality Advisory and Support Service (EASS) .
(Link opens in a new window)
The Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No 2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 (the ‘accessibility regulations’) do not apply to the University of Cambridge.
However, the University of Cambridge is committed to making its websites and mobile applications accessible and in this regard to complying voluntarily with the accessibility regulations.
This accessibility statement is published in that context.
This website is partially compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines version 2.1 AA standard, due to the following non-compliances.
The content listed is non-accessible for the following reasons.
Many images do not have a text alternative, so people using a screen reader cannot access the information.
This fails WCAG 2.1 success criterion 1.1.1 (non-text content).
Some video and audio files on our site do not have audio description, transcripts or captions.
This fails WCAG 2.1 success criteria:
The hierarchy of some page headings is incorrect.
This means that information may be presented in the wrong order to people using assistive technology.
This fails WCAG 2.1 success criterion 1.3.2 (Meaningful sequence).
Some text, links and buttons have poor colour contrast.
This fails WCAG2.1 success criterion 1.4.3 (Contrast – minimum)
Some URL link text does not describe its purpose or destination.
This means that it is not always clear where a link will take the user.
This fails WCAG2.1 success criterion 2.4.4 (Link purpose)
Some form controls and inputs do not have labels.
This means that it is not always clear what the purpose of the field is.
This fails WCAG2.1 success criterion 2.4.6 (Headings and labels)
Older PDF documents are not fully accessible to screen reader software.
We’re working to fix the issues identified in this accessibility statement and aim to fix these during 2025.
We are currently re-platforming our content management systems and introducing new typefaces and codebases for our websites.
These are being built with an accessibility-first approach.
We are also refreshing our training for content creators so that content can be created with accessibility at the forefront as well.
The University has an extensive web presence.
We have listed all known accessibility issues in this statement.
A new report was compiled in autumn 2024 to inform the design of our new platform.
This statement was was last reviewed on 21 January 2025.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/about-this-site/privacy-policy:
This page explains how and why we collect, and use, your personal information when you visit the University of Cambridge’s central website ( www.cam.ac.uk ) or any website within the University’s domain (cam.ac.uk) that has referred you to this privacy notice.
When you view or use www.cam.ac.uk , or any website within the University’s domain (cam.ac.uk) that has referred you to this privacy notice, the University of Cambridge (‘we’, ‘us’ and ‘the University’) is the data controller.
This notice applies to the use of your personal information (also known as ‘personal data’) by the University of Cambridge, including its Departments, Institutes and Research Centres/Units, when you view or use a website within the University’s domain.
Each of the 31 Colleges of the University is a separate legal entity for these purposes and each College’s website will supply you with its own information.
If you follow a link from this website to another website, we recommend that you read the privacy policy on that website to find out what it does with your information.
When you visit our website, we use cookies and page-tagging techniques to collect the request made by your browser to the server hosting the website.
This includes your IP address, the date and time of connection, the version of the web browser you are using, and the page you ask for.
We use this information to ensure the security of our websites and we delete it after a maximum of 3 months.
We may need to use and disclose it as necessary in the event of a security concern or incident.
If you opt in to ‘Site usage measurement’ cookies, when you visit our website we will use the third-party Google Analytics service to collect standard internet log information.
We use Google Analytics 4, which does not log or store individual IP addresses.
We use analytics to find out how visitors use our website and to improve its usability.
The data is anonymised before it is stored and before we see or use it for analytics processing.
We do not make, and do not allow Google to make, any attempt to find out the identities of those visiting our site.
For more information about how Google Analytics uses this information, please see the Google privacy policy .
Our website search is powered by Funnelback.
Search queries and results are logged anonymously to help us improve our website and search functionality.
No identifiable personal information is collected by us or Funnelback.
At times, we use a third-party service, Qualtrics, to gather answers to survey questions that we may ask about how you use our website.
We collect your IP address if you submit a response, or if you do not wish to reply and ask us not to ask you again.
For more information about how Qualtrics uses your personal information, please see Qualtrics’ privacy statement .
Third-party services that we embed on some of our webpages – such as Vimeo or YouTube videos – may set cookies to measure how you use their services and record what advertising you see during your use of their service.
This will only happen if you interact with the embedded content or opt in to ‘Social and marketing’ cookies.
The use of your personal information in the ways described above is necessary for the legitimate interests of the University in operating and improving its websites, and ensuring their security, or is carried out with your consent when you opt in to receive ‘Personalisation’, 'Site usage measurement' or ‘Social and marketing’ cookies.
We are committed to respecting the information you trust us with.
We do all that we can to keep your data secure.
We have established systems and processes to prevent unauthorised access or disclosure of your data - for example, we protect your data using varying levels of encryption.
We also make sure that any third parties that we deal with keep all personal data they process on our behalf secure.
Where we do need to collect any additional personal data not listed above via our website, you will be told at that time about the use we will make of that information.
For example, you may need to complete an online form in order for us to send you newsletters or to book to attend a University event.
We design, build and run our systems to make sure that your data is as safe as possible, both while it’s processed and when it’s stored.
We may need to transfer your personal information outside of the United Kingdom in order to provide you with the services and products you require or as necessary for our legitimate interests.
Any such transfers are carried out with safeguards in place to ensure the confidentiality and security of your personal information.
Transfers are protected either by 'adequacy regulations' issued by the UK Government (declaring the recipient country as a 'safe' territory for personal data) or by standard contractual clauses issued by the UK Information Commissioner's Office (which give obligations for the recipient to safeguard the data).
Our services are not designed for, or intentionally targeted at, children 13 years of age or younger.
We do not intentionally collect or maintain data about anyone under the age of 13.
For full details of how we use cookies on our website, including those that do not collect personal data, please see our cookie notice .
For more information about how we handle your personal information, for contact details and to understand your rights under data protection legislation, please see our general data protection notice .
Page last updated: 04 June 2025

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/about-this-site/terms-and-conditions:
These terms of use (together with the documents referred to on it) set out the terms for use of the University of Cambridge website www.cam.ac.uk , and its subdirectories and subdomains, ('our / the site') and applies to all users of and visitors to the site ('you').
Please read these Terms of Use carefully before you begin to use the site.
By using the site, you indicate that you accept these Terms of Use and that you agree to abide by them.
If you do not agree to these Terms of Use, please refrain from accessing, using and/or contributing to the site.
These Terms of Use may be amended at any time.
Revised Terms of Use take effect immediately from the time they are published and continued use of the site will be deemed acceptance of updated or amended terms.
The site is operated by the University of Cambridge (the 'University' or 'we' or 'us'), whose registered address is The Old Schools, Trinity Lane, Cambridge CB2 1TN, United Kingdom.
Access to the site is permitted on a temporary basis and the University reserves the right to withdraw or amend the services provided on the site without notice.
The University will not be liable if for any reason the site is unavailable at any time or for any period.
The University may restrict access to users to some parts of the site or to the entire site for technical, administrative or legal reasons.
If you choose, or you are provided with, a user identification code, password or any other piece of information as part of the University's security procedures, you must treat such information as confidential and you must not disclose it to any third party.
The University has the right to disable any identification code or password whether chosen by you or allocated by the University at any time if in the University's opinion you have failed to comply with any of the provisions of these terms of use.
You are responsible for making all arrangements necessary for you to have access to the site.
You are also responsible for ensuring that all persons who access the site through your internet connection are aware of these terms and that they comply with them.
You may use the site only for lawful purposes.
You must not use the site:
Use of the site by staff and students of the University of Cambridge is also subject to the University's policies and guidelines for computer use .
The University is the owner or the licensee of all intellectual property rights in the site and in the material published on it.
Those works are protected by copyright laws and treaties around the world.
All such rights are reserved.
Material prepared for the primary purpose of providing information about the University of Cambridge, its teaching and research activities, its subsidiary companies and organisations with which it is associated or affiliated has been placed on the site by the University ('University Material').
Subject to statutory allowances, extracts of material from the site may be accessed, downloaded and printed for your personal and non-commercial use and you may draw the attention of others within your organisation to material posted on the site.
The University's status and that of any identified contributors as the authors of material on the site must always be acknowledged.
You may not modify the paper or digital copies of any material printed off or downloaded in any way and you must not use any illustrations, photographs, video or audio sequences or any graphics separately from any accompanying text.
You must not use any part of the material on the site for direct or indirect commercial purposes or advantage without obtaining a licence to do so from the University or its licensors.
By seeking a licence from the University to reproduce University Material for commercial or other uses beyond that permitted above, the University can ensure that individuals and organisations have access to the most up-to-date material.
If you print, copy or download any part of the site in breach of these terms of use, your right to use the site will cease immediately and you must at the option of the University return or destroy any copies of the material you have made.
Nothing contained in the site shall be taken, construed or considered as a grant of licence or right to use the trademarks of the University of Cambridge or that of any third party displayed on the site without the prior written permission of the respective owner/s.
In submitting a contribution to the site:
1.
You grant to the University a non-exclusive, world-wide, royalty-free licence to copy, reproduce, broadcast, transmit, display and perform by all means all or part of your contribution on the site for the entire period of copyright in your contribution and all renewals, extensions or revivals thereof; and
2.
You warrant that:
Contributions and material submitted by University of Cambridge staff and students (and others as prescribed) are also subject to the Statutes and Ordinances of the University of Cambridge , specifically Ordinances, Chapter XIII Finance and Property, Intellectual Property Rights, pp 955-962.
These content standards apply to any and all material which you contribute to the site ('contributions') and to any interactive services or features associated with it, such as blogs, chatrooms, bulletin boards and wikis.
Contributions must:
Contributions must not:
The University reserves the right to review, edit or remove without warning any contribution that in its sole discretion breaches these Content Standards and to take further action, including legal action, as the University reasonably feels necessary or is required by law.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, and to the fullest extent permitted by law, the University accepts no responsibility or liability to any third party for the content or accuracy of any material posted by any user of the site.
University Material is provided on an 'AS IS' and 'AS AVAILABLE' basis.
To the extent permitted by law, the University excludes any representations or any warranties (whether express or implied by law), including the implied warranties of satisfactory quality, fitness of a particular purpose, non-infringement, compatibility, security and accuracy.
Unless material is part of University Material, or unless stated otherwise, the site may contain advice, opinions, statements or other information by various authors or organisations.
Reliance upon any such advice, opinion, statement or other information is at your risk and to the extent permitted by law the University disclaims all liability and responsibility arising from any reliance placed on such information by any user of the site or by anyone who may be informed of such information.
Where the site contains links to other websites and resources provided by third parties, those links are provided for information only.
The University has no control over the contents of those sites or resources and accepts no responsibility for them or for any loss or damage that may arise from your use of them.
In no event shall the University be liable to any party for any of the following losses or damages (whether such losses be foreseen, foreseeable, known or otherwise): loss of data, loss of revenue or anticipated profits, loss of business, loss of opportunity, loss of goodwill or injury to reputation, loss suffered by third parties, any direct, indirect, special, incidental, or consequential loss or damages arising out of use of the site or reliance on any material or services provided in the site or accessed through it, whether or not amended by third parties and regardless of form of action.
Nothing in these terms of use is intended to exclude the University's liability for death or personal injury caused by the University's proven negligence or fraudulent misrepresentation.
These terms of use and all questions of construction, interpretation, validity and performance under these terms including non-contractual disputes or claims shall be governed by English law and subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the English courts.
Nothing in these terms of use is intended to nor shall it confer any benefit on a third party whether under the Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act 1999 or otherwise.
The University's failure or delay to exercise or enforce any right in these terms of use does not waive the University's right to enforce that right.
If any of these terms of use should be determined to be illegal, invalid or otherwise unenforceable by reason of the laws of any country in which these terms of use are intended to be effective, then to the extent and within that jurisdiction in which that term of use is illegal, invalid or unenforceable, it shall be severed and deleted from these terms of use and the remaining terms of use shall survive and remain in full force and effect and continue to be binding and enforceable.
Contact the University

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/university-a-z:
​
[top]

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/study-at-cambridge:
Information about studying at Cambridge, including undergraduate courses, student life, finance and support.
Cambridge offers over 300 postgraduate study courses.
Find a course to suit your subject and research interests.
Flexible, part-time courses for adults of all backgrounds.
Learn new skills, pursue interests and advance your career with expert academics in a diverse, supportive learning community.
The Cambridge Foundation Year provides a stepping stone to study at Cambridge.
It is a fully-funded, one year course.
It is for for students who have experienced disadvantage in their education.
Our part-time courses offer a more flexible way to study for a research degree at Cambridge.
You can fit your studies around your career and other commitments.
These are courses for people working in executive environments, leaders, managers and professionals.
We offer study options for you and your organisation.
Cambridge Advance Online offers online study for professionals.
Led by University of Cambridge academics, you can study on a flexible schedule to suit your needs.
We offer all levels of study at the Faculty of Education.
This includes the Cambridge PGCE and professional development.
Cambridge has a range of funded doctoral training programmes.
These can provide support with your tuition fees, living costs and research costs.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/study-at-cambridge/executive-and-professional-education:
Study at Cambridge
Cambridge gives you the edge.
We offer quality-assured programmes with the full support and commitment of the University.
These courses are designed for people working in executive environments like leadership and management, or in professional disciplines.
You may be looking to add to your skills and knowledge, or to receive specialised direction for your organisation.
You'll be encouraged to debate, discuss, and analyse with motivated peers from around the world.
In this collaborative environment, you're inspired, stretched and supported to succeed.
Our executive and professional education providers share expertise from a wide range of departments, institutes, and centres at the University of Cambridge.
They offer comprehensive study options for individual and organisational needs.
Find courses for organisations, business professionals, managers, leaders, and executives in the private or public sector who are striving for professional and personal growth.
These programmes help you achieve operational excellence and results.
Cambridge Judge Business School Executive Education
Explore flexible, part-time courses for adults of all backgrounds.
Learn new skills, pursue interests, or advance your career with expert academics in a diverse and supportive learning community.
Professional and Continuing Education
Get research-based insights about innovative and commercially compelling ways to address global sustainability challenges.
Programmes will help decision makers to build the leadership capacity and skills needed to enable action.
Cambridge Institute for Sustainability Leadership
Generate impact from research with Cambridge Enterprise.
We train you to create impact from your research and expertise through different market-facing activities.
We work with universities, governments and organisations to build the skills to commercialise knowledge and technology.
Programmes support developing ecosystems, the commercialisation of research and the growth of new business.
Cambridge Enterprise
Explore executive education options for leaders in sectors including banking, financial services, legal, FMCG, healthcare, construction, creative industries, education and government.
Learn alongside peers in organisations worldwide.
Møller Institute, Churchill College
Access and learn from research undertaken in partnership with our Engineering Department.
Gain insight into modern industrial practice through its management, technology and policy.
You can choose from executive education, short public courses and consultancy.
Institute for Manufacturing
Gain exposure to the highest research and teaching standards from our Faculty of Education, a significant contributor to educational policy and practice improvement.
Your options include courses in middle leadership, teaching and learning, counselling, and mentoring.
Faculty of Education
Choose from courses in dentistry, nursing, physiotherapy, anaesthetics, neurosurgery and ultrasound, plus general management and leadership.
These programmes are provided by a University and NHS Healthcare Trust partnership dedicated to patient care, outcomes and population health.
Cambridge University Health Partners
Equip your teams to meet the demands of data science and artificial intelligence across sectors and industries.
Gain insight into modern machine learning techniques and their mathematical foundations.
Industry Training in Data Intensive Science
Join a professional development programme or get expert training, in the UK or internationally, to develop your understanding of assessment.
You can also attend seminars on educational assessment.
Cambridge Assessment Network
Ask us to design bespoke education to fit the needs of your organisation.
We create different types of programmes in various fields and provide consultancy.
Our education can support your leaders to excel, give you a competitive edge or just help you operate more efficiently.
Request a customised education solution
The University offers a quality-assured learning environment with world-class research and teaching expertise.
Our programmes have direct input from and engagement with private and public sector leaders – you’ll learn concepts and strategies that you can apply in your working life immediately.
We take the time to understand your organisational context and specific goals, develop strategies with you, and explore real ways to lead improvement and change.
Choose from a wide range of education options, including collaborative and bespoke programmes, to find exactly the right fit for individuals and organisations.
Our education providers are endorsed by the Board of Executive and Professional Education and are supported by the University.
Studying under academic experts and field leaders alongside peers, you’ll further benefit from becoming part of a global Cambridge network.
Apply to become an endorsed education provider – contact the Board of Executive and Professional Education .

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/about-the-university/how-the-university-and-colleges-work:
The 31 Colleges are governed by their own statutes and regulations, but are integral to the make-up of the University.
The University has more than 20,000 students and 12,000 staff from all walks of life and all corners of the world.
No two days are ever the same at the University of Cambridge.
Students are members of the University and of an academic Faculty or Department.
Our students also belong to a College community.
This is an arrangement that offers pastoral and academic support for each individual.
Students live, eat and socialise in one of the University’s 31 autonomous Colleges.
Undergraduates receive College supervisions – small group teaching sessions.
Supervisions are regarded as one of the best teaching models in the world.
Each College has its own internal procedures.
They select their own students, subject to University regulations.
Most Colleges admit both undergraduate and postgraduate students.
See a list of Cambridge Colleges
There are 6 Schools at the University.
These each form an administrative grouping of Faculties and other institutions.
They are:
There is a Council of each School, which includes representatives of its Faculties and Departments.
The Schools are represented on the University's General Board.
Centres of studies are controlled by committees of management.
These bring together representatives from several disciplines.
Links to all of the Schools', Faculties' and Departments' websites can be found in the Department A-Z.
See a list of our Departments
The University's Institute of Continuing Education was founded in 1873 and provides accessible, flexible and high-quality education to adults throughout their lives.
The Institute's aim is to form supportive communities of learning where expert teachers and adult students work together as peers to achieve personal and collective educational goals, be it as a first step in higher education or progressing to mid-career postgraduate studies.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/about-the-university/visiting-the-university:
We welcome undergraduates and postgraduates to the University throughout the year.
Find undergraduate open days
Find postgraduate open days
Visit the University of Cambridge, from wherever you are.
Take an online tour of our colleges, accommodation, academic subjects and student life at Cambridge.
Explore our virtual tour website
With over 100 to choose from, visit our department A-Z to explore more.
Go to our department A-Z index page
Use our detailed AccessAble guides to find accessibility information about all buildings across the University.
Visit the AccessAble website to find all our accessibility guides

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research/news:
Trump shooting and Biden exit flipped social media from hostility to solidarity 26 August 2025 Research reveals how political crises cause a shift in the force behind viral online content ‘from outgroup hate to ingroup love’.
Read More
Gone but not forgotten: brain’s map of the body remains unchanged after amputation 21 August 2025 The brain holds a ‘map’ of the body that remains unchanged even after a limb has been amputated, contrary to the prevailing view that it...
The brain holds a ‘map’ of the body that remains unchanged even after a limb has been amputated, contrary to the prevailing view that it...
Artificial heart valve found to be safe following long-term test in animals 20 August 2025 An artificial heart valve made from a new type of plastic could be a step closer to use in humans, following a successful long-term safety...
An artificial heart valve made from a new type of plastic could be a step closer to use in humans, following a successful long-term safety...
Cambridge to host cutting-edge total-body PET scanner as part of nationwide imaging platform 20 August 2025 A new total-body PET scanner to be hosted in Cambridge – one of only a handful in the country – will transform our ability to...
A new total-body PET scanner to be hosted in Cambridge – one of only a handful in the country – will transform our ability to...
Glowing algae reveal the geometry of life 14 August 2025 Researchers have captured the first clear view of the hidden architecture that helps shape a simple multicellular organism, showing how cells work together to build...
Researchers have captured the first clear view of the hidden architecture that helps shape a simple multicellular organism, showing how cells work together to build...
Stalagmites in Mexican caves reveal duration and severity of drought during the Maya collapse 13 August 2025 A drought lasting 13 years and several others that each lasted over three years may have contributed to the collapse of the Classic Maya civilisation,...
A drought lasting 13 years and several others that each lasted over three years may have contributed to the collapse of the Classic Maya civilisation,...
Why common blood pressure readings may be misleading – and how to fix them 12 August 2025 Researchers have found why common cuff-based blood pressure readings are inaccurate and how they might be improved, which could improve health outcomes for patients.
Researchers have found why common cuff-based blood pressure readings are inaccurate and how they might be improved, which could improve health outcomes for patients.
Cambridge researchers play key role in evidence leading to approval of new treatment for hereditary blindness 07 August 2025 The National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) has today announced the approval of a new treatment for a form of hereditary blindness for...
The National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) has today announced the approval of a new treatment for a form of hereditary blindness for...
Astronomers find new evidence for planet around our closest solar twin 07 August 2025 Astronomers using the NASA/ESA/CSA James Webb Space Telescope have found strong evidence of a giant planet orbiting a star in the stellar system closest to...
Astronomers using the NASA/ESA/CSA James Webb Space Telescope have found strong evidence of a giant planet orbiting a star in the stellar system closest to...
Cicadas sing in perfect sync with pre-dawn light 06 August 2025 Cicadas coordinate their early morning choruses with remarkable precision, timing their singing to a specific level of light during the pre-dawn hours.
Cicadas coordinate their early morning choruses with remarkable precision, timing their singing to a specific level of light during the pre-dawn hours.
Media enquiries may be directed to External Affairs and Communications .

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research/research-at-cambridge:
In Cambridge, we are committed to achieving excellence in research and scholarship, and to ensuring that our research contributes to the well-being of society.
We seek to provide a creative and supportive environment in which ideas are generated and can flourish.
The excellence and diversity of our research across the Schools of Arts & Humanities , Humanities & Social Sciences , Clinical Medicine , Technology , Physical Sciences and Biological Sciences , and our role as one of the founder members of the Cambridge Network , means that in addition to our achievements in fundamental research, we are also well-positioned to make significant contributions to the global innovation agenda and, by conveying the implications of our research, to contribute to the formulation of policy.
In addition to the activities ongoing within the six Schools, we have identified a number of Strategic Research Initiatives & Networks and Interdisciplinary Research Centres which build on the existing research base in Cambridge to tackle challenges that can only be addressed by multi-disciplinary teams of researchers.
Our aim is to provide academic leadership in these areas and to develop strategic partnerships around the world to advance research, and the impact of that research, in these fields.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/public-engagement:
for Research Impact and Engagement.
We work with researchers and professional staff across the University to support an environment where high-quality public engagement with research can flourish.
We are also the team behind What's On , the Cambridge Festival , Open Cambridge and more.
Check out our public events page for activities for everyone.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research/spotlights-on:
The demand continues for materials that are stronger, cheaper, lighter, more conductive – simply better
Cambridge researchers have long worked with African colleagues on issues that matter not just to the continent but to the world.
AI systems might help solve some of the greatest challenges we face.
How do we maximise the promise and prepare for this future?
Our unprecedented ability to collect, store and analyse data is opening up new frontiers in science and the humanities.
Life on Earth is at risk from an unprecedented rate of environmental change that threatens the natural resources on which we depend
The translation of scientific advances in understanding cancer into real benefits for patients is gathering pace
Understanding the implications of enabling children to grow into healthy, happy, educated and inquiring adults, in safety and free from adversity.
Digital technologies are opening up new fields of study and generating research questions that breach traditional disciplinary boundaries
About half the world’s population uses the internet.
How do we take advantage of this digital connectivity and also protect society from risk?
How research partnerships are offering innovative approaches to make the most of the region’s assets and tackle its more pressing challenges.
Research is tackling the need to reduce energy demand, maintain energy supply, increase the efficiency of energy-requiring processes, and develop policy and pricing strategies
Over half the world’s population lives in urban areas.
The quality of life in future cities depends on the innovations we put in place today.
New technologies and strong academic-industry partnerships have the potential to change the face of therapeutic medicine.
The task of ensuring affordable access to sufficient, safe and nutritious food for all is one of the major challenges of the 21st century
From microscopic cells to massive galaxies, imaging is a core tool for many research fields today, and it’s also the basis of a surge in recent technical developments – some of which are being pioneered in Cambridge.
Cambridge and India have well over 100 collaborations and partnerships, many forged over decades, others more recently.
Combating infectious diseases and the threat of antimicrobial resistance remains one of the greatest global challenges
The application of new ideas, discoveries and inventions contributes to society and the economy nationally and globally
The importance of language is hard to overestimate, yet few of us are aware of the sheer breadth and diversity of language research
Understanding how we interact with our material world can reveal unparalleled insights into what it is to be human.
Immigration and migration, and the issues that surround them, have become symbolic of the 21st century
Neuroscience has transformed our understanding of the brain and promises treatments for devastating disorders that affect millions.
Putting public health research into practice has had major impacts worldwide, resulting in longer, healthier lives
From understanding ancient ideas of generation to exploring new frontiers in fertility, researchers are understanding reproduction from multiple perspectives.
From cybercrime to earthquakes, influenza to air travel, research on risk and uncertainty reflects issues that are of paramount importance
Stem cells, the 'building blocks' for every type of cell in the body, have tremendous potential to improve human health
Focusing efforts on sustaining the planet and its precious resources while moving towards a carbon-neutral future
Getting ‘work’ right is good for people and the nation.
It contributes to increasing productivity, better living standards and economic growth.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/for-staff:
Search now
The University of Cambridge Staff Hub provides information, support and resources for staff at the University of Cambridge.
Visit the Staff Hub [Raven login required]
Useful information about your employment, including pay and benefits, salary scales, CAMbens employee benefits, and policies and procedures.
Financial services for departments and everyday transactions that affect individuals across the University
Self-service gives you direct access to some of your data held in the University HR/Payroll system.
The University Training Booking System.
Search and book onto a variety of training courses run by University providers.
View current job opportunities at the University, Colleges and affiliated institutions.
The Reporter is the University's journal of official business and is published weekly during term-time.
Search for people, institutions and groups within the University.
Access your work emails in your browser.
The University’s outstanding global reputation for teaching and research is built on the talent we attract and retain.
We recognise that our people are our greatest asset and want you to enjoy working here.
Would you like to work for one of the world's oldest and most successful universities?
See the benefits of working for Cambridge
You will need a University of Cambridge Microsoft Account to access the Staff Hub.
Check your eligibility and how to access
Guidance for staff and students
Cookies
Privacy policy

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/about-the-university/term-dates-and-calendars:
Cambridge’s academic year starts on 1 October and ends on 30 September.
The academic year has 3 terms:
During each term, there’s an 8-week period called ‘Full Term’.
This is when undergraduate teaching takes place.
Academic activities for postgraduate students take place throughout the academic year.
Starts: Tuesday 8 October 2024 Ends: Friday 6 December 2024
Starts: Tuesday 21 January 2025 Ends: Friday 21 March 2025
Starts: Tuesday 29 April 2025 Ends: Friday 20 June 2025
Starts: Tuesday 7 October 2025 Ends: Friday 5 December 2025
Starts: Tuesday 20 January 2026 Ends: Friday 20 March 2026
Starts: Tuesday 28 April 2026 Ends: Friday 19 June 2026
Your College, Faculty or Department will send you information about preparing for your time in Cambridge, including when to arrive.
Find out about coming to Cambridge as a new student
Add term dates to your calendar app using Google or iCal
The University’s Statutes and Ordinances have more information about term dates, including:
Find out more about term dates in the University’s Statutes and Ordinances (PDF, 730 KB) , under the heading ‘Dates of Term and Full Term’.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/about-the-university/history:
The University of Cambridge is one of the world's oldest universities and leading academic centres, and a self-governed community of scholars.
Established in 1209, the University is rich in history.
Cambridge's famous Colleges and University buildings attract visitors from all over the world, while its museums and collections also hold many treasures which give an exciting insight into the scholarly activities of the University's academics and students.
The University's reputation for outstanding academic achievement is known worldwide and reflects the intellectual achievement of its students over more than eight centuries, as well as the world-class original research carried out by the staff of the University and the Colleges.
Many of the University's customs and unusual terminology can be traced to roots in the early years of the University's long history, and this section of our website looks to the past to find the origins of much that is distinctive in the University of today.
Cambridge through the Centuries
1200s | 1300s | 1400s | 1500s | 1600s | 1700s | 1800s | 1900s | 2000s

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/a-global-university:
These pages provide an overview of Cambridge's international activities in pursuit of its mission to contribute to society through excellence of education, learning and research.
Cambridge admits talented students from around the world to its undergraduate and postgraduate programmes.
Our 22,000-strong student body includes over 9,000 international students from nearly 150 different countries.
The Strategic Partnerships Office facilitates corporate partnerships and manages our key research collaborations with universities around the world.
From the Arctic to Zambia, explore our interactive global map to learn about the work of Cambridge and its partners to make a positive impact around the world.
Learn about the international university networks of which Cambridge is a part.
Vibrant teaching and research programmes focused on Africa exist across Cambridge.
These have been brought together in a major University-wide initiative: the Cambridge-Africa Programme.
The range and diversity of countries in the wide Asia-Pacific region is reflected in Cambridge’s varied and dynamic range of activities - in Australia, New Zealand, Japan, Singapore and elsewhere in the region.
In the People's Republic of China, Cambridge academics are engaged in a broad range of collaborations with Chinese colleagues, in areas as diverse as food security, the design of sustainable buildings, photonics and mental health.
Through high-level participation in pan-European bodies and through strong bilateral relations with institutions in other European countries, Cambridge is committed to active and positive engagement with its partners across our continent.
Our academics are involved in many key research projects with Indian partners, in areas as varied as sensor technology, multilingualism, antimicrobial resistance, inclusive education, agriculture, and resilience to earthquakes.
Strong transatlantic relationships have long been a feature of education and research at Cambridge.
Our academics are involved in world-leading collaborations with American and Canadian colleagues in every area of research.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/about-the-university/annual-reports:
In 2023–24, Cambridge had an excellent year, with an impressive roll call of new Fellows of the learned societies, and many members of our community recognised with national honours.
We enjoyed sporting success, award-winning exhibitions, celebrated discoveries, new spin-out companies, and made significant progress on major capital projects.
It was also a strong year for philanthropy, as we reached the goal of £500m raised for the Student Support Initiative.
That scheme has been transformative – it has underpinned the Foundation Year, the Stormzy scholarships, the Mastercard Foundation scholarships, and the Harding postgraduate scholarships.
It has enabled the transformation of our student health and wellbeing services, and much more.
In collaboration with the Colleges, we are stepping up widening participation efforts to attract students from areas of the country where we do not draw as strongly.
We are in the advanced planning stages for 2 new hospitals on the biomedical campus – the Cambridge Cancer Research Hospital and the Cambridge Children’s Hospital – which will revolutionise care across East Anglia, the UK, and beyond.
We are expanding the Bennett Institute for Public Policy, already a hub of academic and policy research about the major challenges facing the country and the world.
And we have bold, ambitious plans for the creation of an innovation hub at our Cambridge West site that will bring together the very best researchers, innovators, entrepreneurs, spinouts and funders under one roof.
Read more about our achievements and plans below.
Professor Deborah Prentice, Vice-Chancellor
Highlights from the University of Cambridge Group's 2023-24 annual report.
The University of Cambridge Group's annual report, including financial statements, for the year ending 31 July 2024.
Archive copies of the University of Cambridge Group's annual reports and financial statements are available to view online or download as PDFs.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/business-and-enterprise/for-business:
Business and enterprise
We work with organisations of all shapes and sizes in all sorts of different ways, helping to develop world-class businesses, technologies and people.
Fruitful collaborations are built on mutual understanding and shared values.
By working together, we can turn new ideas into truly groundbreaking commercial realities which make a difference to all our lives.
Our long-term, multidisciplinary programmes give our partners access to research across the University, and to novel technologies, labs and facilities as well as to joint applications for public funding.
These programmes are managed by our Business Partnerships Team.
There are also many other ways you can benefit from our world-leading research, including:
Start a conversation
Our researchers are world leaders in their fields.
Many help companies solve specific business problems on a consultancy basis.
If you know who you’re looking for, you can contact any of our researchers directly through our departmental web pages .
If you’re not sure where to start, we can help connect you with the right person.
And to make sure project expectations are properly understood and all parties are protected, our commercialisation arm, Cambridge Enterprise, provides a professional consultancy support service.
Find out more
Tackle the big challenges that no one organisation can solve alone by joining one of our networks.
They bring businesses, government, and academics together to develop new ideas and practical solutions to complex problems, from profitability to sustainability.
We can help you find the right fit for your business.
Every year, the University of Cambridge produces a new generation of leaders.
Recruiting a Cambridge graduate secures that expertise for your business and there are plenty of ways you can showcase the career opportunities you can offer them.
And there are other ways to bring these passionate, inquisitive minds into your organisation.
You can also host student internships, projects, and placements - and benefit from their talents while fostering relationships with tomorrow’s rising stars.
Expand horizons for your people and your business through our executive and professional education programmes, taking advantage of some of the best teaching in the world.
The University runs a wide range of open and customised courses and programmes to embed Cambridge thinking into your organisation’s DNA.
Cambridge Enterprise invests the University’s seed funds in new companies started by academics, researchers, staff, and students, building a bridge between research and commercial development.
There are many opportunities to invest and Cambridge Enterprise is keen to speak with venture capital firms, business angel networks and other investors looking to invest in early stage opportunities.
Cambridge Enterprise facilitates licence agreements for a wide range of technologies and research tools that are ready for commercialisation, from biosciences to engineering.
MeetCambridge will help you find the perfect venue and help you plan the event.
Or, if you think you might be interested in working with Cambridge but aren't sure where to start, get in touch with our Business Relations team.
We are here to help.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/business-and-enterprise/for-enterprise:
The Cambridge Cluster is one of the most successful technology clusters in Europe.
There are more than 5,000 knowledge-intensive firms based here, employing more than 73,000 people and generating £24 billion turnover.
The Cambridge cluster brings together exceptional research, a huge range of entrepreneurial skills and know-how (and the training and support to further develop it), flexible working spaces, a well-funded investment community and access to IP expertise – all connected through lots of different groups and networks.
You can drill down into the detail of the Cluster's extraordinary growth in recent years on this dashboard , created and maintained by the Centre for Business Research at Cambridge Judge Business School.
You don't have to be part of the University to benefit from our support.
If you have big ambitions and are starting a new business in or around Cambridge, you can access the training, mentoring and networking opportunities the University provides and our flexible office space in and around the City.
Entrepreneurship Centre at Cambridge Judge Business School which runs a range of programmes and events for aspiring entrepreneurs Impulse Programme at the Maxwell Centre which provides support for tech innovators ideaSpace is a community of high potential entrepreneurs which provides flexible working space.
Being part of the Cambridge cluster puts you in touch with a dynamic community of inspirational entrepreneurs.
The culture is all about open innovation, with large and small companies working together to turn world-changing ideas into commercial reality.
By partnering with the University, you can get involved with mentoring schemes and networking opportunities that help you build relationships with these high-potential start-ups.
Cambridge Enterprise helps University staff and students from across the University’s Schools to create beneficial impact from their research ideas and expertise.
They do this by expertly guiding and mentoring you through the process of developing ideas into commercial and social enterprise opportunities.
There are different routes to commercialisation open to you, including using your expertise as a consultant, collaborating with external companies, and creating a new company or social enterprise.
The process can both inform your research and create external impact.
The IE Cambridge is also a fantastic resource for staff and students interested in all aspects of enterprise and innovation, pointing you to a huge range of activities and support available across the University.
There's a lot going in the Cambridge Cluster.
These are just a few of the places that can help but if you can't find what you are looking for email us at: business@admin.cam.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/innovation-in-numbers:
billion-dollar businesses born in Cambridge
the world’s leading science and technology cluster by intensity
in total annual turnover generated by knowledge-intensive firms
knowledge-intensive firms
people work for knowledge-intensive firms
year-on-year increase in knowledge-intensive jobs in Cambridge City region over last 6 years
spent over 3 years on R&D by companies on 40 key business parks around Cambridge.
life sciences companies
knowledge-intensive services companies
high-tech manufacturing companies
IT and telecoms companies
contributed annually to UK economy
jobs supported across the UK
contributed through teaching and learning of UK students
one of the world’s top 4 universities
Cambridge affiliates awarded the Nobel Prize
new companies formed through Cambridge Enterprise, the University's commercialisation arm, 2023-24
researchers supported by Cambridge Enterprise 2023-24
patent applications filed via Cambridge Enterprise 2023-24
in follow-on funding raised by University of Cambridge spinouts in the Cambridge Enterprise portfolio since 1995
firms founded by staff and alumni of the University’s Department of Computer Science and Technology
Layout: Sarah Fell Infographics: designed by Alison Fair, provided by Suvi Roberts
Published: May 2025
This information has been collated from Cambridge Enterprise; Centre for Business Research, Cambridge Judge Business School; Department of Computer Science and Technology; Economic Impact of University of Cambridge report, London Economics; Global Innovation Index, Dealroom; QS World University Rankings.
Figures are based on information available in May 2025

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/business-and-enterprise/case-studies:
Meet four of our leading researchers, hear about their work and why partnering with industry is key to their success.
Arm is working with Cambridge researchers to make our phones and computers more secure, more efficient and ready for the digital revolution.
Cambridge and Arup have been working together to make our world safer and more sustainable - and to transform the way professionals are taught.
Looking back at the last 10 years of partnership focusing on scientific collaboration, nurturing talent and strengthening our ecosystem
This new partnership between Aviva and Cambridge is asking what do advances in technology and data science mean for the future of insurance?
Cambridge and Boeing have been working together for 20 years.
Today they are combining their research strengths and industry know-how to speed aviation towards a carbon-neutral future.
Cambridge and BT have been working together for more than 25 years developing new technologies, exploring human behaviour and considering how those two things come together to shape our world.
What do we want from work – and how can we get it?
A new partnership between the University of Cambridge and KPMG is re-imagining the Future of Work.
Wearable technologies will play an important part in the healthcare delivery of the future.
Cambridge and Nokia Bell Labs are working together to build the foundations of these transformative technologies.
Cambridge researchers are helping Rolls-Royce make its aeroengines greener.
Industry placements for PhD students can be hugely beneficial for all concerned.
We hear from two former students and the companies they worked for.
Meet 10 University spinouts that are having an impact in the UK and around the world.
Thanks to the work of two Cambridge researchers, businesses and policymakers alike can see how the Cambridge Cluster continues to thrive.
Cambridge's Experimental Medicine Initiative, supported by AstraZeneca and GSK, is training specialists to find out much earlier in clinical trials if a new treatment is likely to be effective.
Three companies, Astex Pharmaceuticals, Eisai Ltd and Eli Lilly and Company, are joining forces with research scientists across Cambridge to explore promising new approaches to the treatment of neurodegenerative disease.
Read about the partnership between Aviva and Cambridge and its activities and achievements in 2020-21.
An award-winning team from Cambridge, Botswana, Mozambique and Namibia has been bolstering entrepreneurship in Southern Africa and supporting some exciting new ventures along the way.
The University provides a wide range of executive education programmes and lifelong learning.
Moving all this online during a pandemic has led to the development of a new range of courses for professionals, Cambridge Advance Online.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/business-and-enterprise/digital-insights-webinars-and-podcasts-for-business:
Get ahead by tapping into the latest Cambridge thinking through our webinars, podcasts and online events.
Monthly webinar featuring speakers from across the therapeutic sciences landscape, showcasing some of the latest R&D in and around Cambridge.
Second Wednesday of the month.
Live Q&A with recordings available online afterwards.
Twice monthly talks from academics and industry scientists on advances in disease understanding and therapeutic approaches hosted by the Milner Therapeutics Institute.
Every other Thursday.
Live Q&A at 13:00 (UK) with previous talks available online
Podcast highlighting the ground-breaking science of the members of the Integrated Cancer Medicine Programme (ICM) at the Cancer Research UK Cambridge Centre and the University of Cambridge.
Podcasts from THIS Institute on the field of healthcare improvement studies: unique perspectives from experts who are generating evidence and innovating practice to improve quality and safety in the NHS.
Weekly seminars for academic and industrial biomedical science researchers, with live Q&A.
Fridays, 12.00-13.00 (UK).
Previous talks can be accessed for two weeks after transmission.
A curated list of open online events for the data science community.
Regular webinars and events.
Regular talks and online events plus a series of webinars covering a wide range of subjects from digitalisation to developing sustainable business models.
A series of podcasts featuring faculty and others associated with Cambridge Judge Business School and the broader Cambridge community covering a wide range of business-focused subjects.
Cambridge economists have joined forces with the New York-based Institute for New Economic Thinking (INET) to help us understand how our economy and the associated financial system really work.
There are lots of other online talks you might be interested in, covering a huge range of topics from the future of democracy to the secrets of successful thriller writing.
Here are links to some of the best webinars and podcasts from across the University.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/business-and-enterprise/blog:
Dr Diarmuid O'Brien, Pro-Vice-Chancellor for Innovation
Every year we host an event for Cambridge’s key business partners.
Diarmuid O'Brien reflects on what we learned about how we can work better together to deliver economic growth and life-changing innovations.
Posted: January 2025
Amanda Zeffman, Head of Consultancy Services and Research Tools, Cambridge Enterprise
"Channelling the intellectual might of Cambridge’s diverse disciplines into practical solutions and innovations".
Cambridge Enterprise's Amanda Zeffman makes the case for consultancy as an effective way of building partnerships and achieving impact.
Posted: March 2024
Dr Manar Alsaif, Energy Sector Lead, Strategic Partnerships Office
Reflecting on COP28, Manar Alsaif finds reasons to be optimistic, not least in the focus on 'transdisciplinarity' to drive change, bringing together not only different research specialisms but also fostering collaboration with stakeholders from the private and public sectors and with the communities at the front line of the climate emergency.
Posted: December 2023
Dr Konstantina Stamati, Director, Cambridge Grand Challenges
A fresh pair of eyes on a problem can help an organisation think differently about the challenges they face.
Konstantina Stamati explains how Cambridge Grand Challenges connects the best academic minds with corporate partners and the public sector to come up with innovative solutions.
Posted: May 2022
Yupar Myint, Head of Impulse Programme
Innovation is critical for a company's long-term survival.
Yupar Myint explains why all organisations need entrepreneurs and how the University's Impulse Programme helps company executives develop the critical thinking and drive they need to bring about change.
Posted: February 2022
Claire McGlynn, Head of Impact Acceleration, Research Strategy Office
University knowledge exchange professional, Claire McGlynn, on the rewards of helping businesses and universities identify and nurture synergies between them to achieve things neither could do on their own.
Posted: November 2021
Dante McGrath, Department of Engineering
PhD candidate Dante McGrath reflects on his experience of a University of Cambridge ThinkLab project and how it is helping insurance company Aviva create a more neurodiverse workforce.
Posted: October 2021
Dr Kathryn Chapman, Deputy Director of the Milner Therapeutic Institute and University Relationship Manager for AstraZeneca
Kathryn Chapman introduces Connect: Health Tech, a new online community of researchers, businesses and healthcare providers which aims to bring the future of medicine one step closer.
Posted: May 2021
Dr Rui Mauricio, Healthcare Sector Manager, Strategic Partnerships Office
Cambridge - the University and the wider ecosystem - has an important role to play in ensuring that the UK’s capabilities in life sciences continue to deliver economic, social and health benefits.
But we can only do that by working with others.
Rui Mauricio sets out his priorities for developing productive healthcare partnerships.
Tomas Ulrichsen, Director, UCI Policy Evidence Unit, University of Cambridge
If we are to 'build back better', the UK is going to need a robust system of universities working in close partnership with the private and public sectors.
Tomas Ulrichsen reports on how universities' innovation activities have been affected by the pandemic and argues that we must do more to support university-industry collaborations to drive the national recovery.
Posted: March 2021
Jenny Blakesley, Director, University Careers Service
The University Careers Service helps students to make those tough career decisions.
It also, explains Jenny Blakesley, encourages recruiters to be authentic and to think laterally about where to find the talent they need.
Posted: February 2021
More than 1500 researchers, scientists and clinicians from the University and AstraZeneca came together over Zoom to share knowledge and spark new ideas for future collaborations.
Kathryn Chapman explains why that's important for us all.
Posted: December 2020
Dr Catherine Hasted, Head of Business Partnerships, Strategic Partnerships Office
What make a successful business-university partnership?
Catherine Hasted suggests it's four things: a long-term focus, a willingness to engage widely, a shared vision and an ability to make serendipity happen.
Posted: November 2020
Professor Andy Neely, Pro-Vice-Chancellor for Enterprise and Business Relations
By working together, businesses and universities can make a difference at a global scale.
Andy Neely explains why long-term strategic partnerships are so important and how Cambridge has put in place mechanisms to make sure they run smoothly.
Collaboration, creativity and speed have characterised the Cambridge Cluster's response to COVID-19.
Andy Neely considers some notable local successes and asks what lessons we can learn from them.
Posted: September 2020

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/business-and-enterprise/contact-us:
There’s a lot going on at Cambridge and lots of different ways organisations can work with us.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/astrazeneca-partnership:
This article has been created in partnership with AstraZeneca
The University of Cambridge and AstraZeneca have a long history of scientific collaboration.
In 2013, AstraZeneca’s decision to move its global headquarters and new strategic R&D centre to Cambridge started a new chapter of partnership.
AstraZeneca chose Cambridge – the largest life science cluster in Europe – for its access to world-leading academic, industry and healthcare organisations, including the University of Cambridge.
Over the last decade, our partnership has gone from strength-to-strength, based on a shared ambition to drive progress for patients and society.
Grants from AstraZeneca to the University
Senior University researchers
University departments
Cambridge PhD students
Building skillsets
For more information, contact: Nicola White , Strategic Partnerships Office, University of Cambridge
Jacqueline Hall , BioPharmaceuticals R&D, AstraZeneca
Images Banner: Two scientists in lab: credit: StillVision Shaun Grady, AstraZeneca: credit: AstraZeneca Deborah Prentice, University of Cambridge: credit University of Cambridge Science & innovation CRISPR functional genomics sections: credit: AstraZeneca Mark O'Connor, AstraZeneca: credit AstraZeneca Two scientists in a lab wearing protective glasses: credit: AstraZeneca Talent Sarah Folliet, AstraZeneca: credit AstraZeneca Three scientists in a lab looking at a computer screen: credit AstraZeneca Hannah Comfort: credit AstraZeneca Cluster Cambridge Biomedical Campus: credit AstraZeneca Business people at a table: credit GettyImages/ 10'000 Hours A child holding Medicine Makers sign: credit Cambridge Festival/Domininkas Zalys
Veeva ID: GB-68343 Date of preparation: July 2025

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/topics/enterprising-minds:
People with enterprising minds make things happen, whether it’s starting a business or social venture or doing something new in established organisations.
In this series, we ask people how they’re trying to change the world and what it takes to turn an idea into a reality.
16 June 2025
The new head of Cambridge Enterprise reflects on innovation in Cambridge and what he's learnt from a career spent founding and building successful life science businesses.
Tammy Dougan on why it's so important that universities work with industry to get fundamental science out of the lab and into the real world.
Kathryn Chapman, Executive Director of Innovate Cambridge, on the secrets of successful innovation and her ambitious plans for innovation in...
Diarmuid O'Brien, the University's new Pro-Vice-Chancellor for Innovation on what makes Cambridge such an enterprising place and what we can achieve...
Meet the brilliant founder and CEO of Nu Quantum, a Cambridge spinout paving the way for a new era of quantum computing.
Meet Umaima Ahmad, co-founder and CEO of a Cambridge spinout that aims to keep chemotherapy patients safe from infection while sparing them...
Enterprising Mind João Costa has turned a philosophical idea into a practical tool for resolving real-world conflict.
Co-founder and CEO of Start Codon, Jason Mellad on helping healthcare start-ups thrive and why inclusion and diversity will change the world.
Psychiatrist, Professor of Neurotechnology and 'Enterprising Mind', Sabine Bahn has founded two companies both with the aim of helping people with...
Dr Jag Srai on finding unexpected ways around a problem and putting new supply chain thinking into practice with global companies.
Meet Daniel Ives, co-founder of a Cambridge start-up with one big ambition: to put an end to ageing and the diseases that come with it.
Dr Giorgia Longobardi, founder and CEO of University spinout Cambridge GaN Devices, is harnessing the extraordinary properties of superconductor...
Marcel Gehrung, co-founder and CEO of rapidly growing Cambridge biotech company, Cyted, on revolutionising disease diagnostics and the challenges of...

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/news/cambridge-wins-two-prosperity-partnership-awards-to-support-innovation-in-clean-technologies:
The awards are designed to support partnerships between universities and business which are focused on fundamental research addressing key industry challenges.
A collaboration on carbon capture between Cambridge and Hitachi Europe Ltd has been awarded Prosperity Partnership funding to develop a new way of converting green methanol – made from captured CO 2 – into high-value chemicals used in pharmaceuticals, cosmetics and materials manufacturing.
While many technologies focus on capturing and storing surplus CO₂, the researchers, led by Professor Ljiljana Fruk, aim to turn it into something genuinely useful.
The approach uses compact, continuous‑flow reactors – systems that enable chemical reactions to run more efficiently – with lower energy demand, less waste, and better control at scale.
The catalysts themselves are being designed to work under mild, sustainable conditions, helping reduce reliance on fossil fuels.
Professor Fruk said: “It’s exciting to be part of something that is working towards a future where science helps build a cleaner, healthier world.”
Read the full story here
With Prosperity Partnership funding from UKRI and Tata Steel, Cambridge University, Imperial College and the Warwick Manufacturing Group (WMG) at the University of Warwick will work in partnership to drive innovation in low-emission steel production.
As the UK steel industry transitions towards electric arc furnace (EAF) technology, the programme will address one of the key challenges of using high-recycled-content steel: how to ensure its performance in demanding applications such as some automotive components and packaging.
The five-year programme will also fund 13 PhD studentships across the three universities to conduct leading research into the advanced manufacturing of steels and steel products suited to EAF steelmaking.
Professor Howard Stone, lead academic for the project, said: “This partnership will enable us to unlock the full potential of electric arc furnace steelmaking, combining advanced data science with metallurgical expertise.
By working closely with Tata Steel, we aim to deliver practical solutions that support a more sustainable future for the UK steel industry and beyond.”

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/news/business:
King’s Entrepeneurship Lab (King’s E-Lab) and Founders at the University of Cambridge have revealed the 24 startups that will join King’s College’s...
The...
This week, UK Ambassador to the United States of America Lord Mandelson visited the University of Cambridge to explore its world-leading strengths in...
Alex Kendall, CEO and Co-Founder of Wayve, a billion-dollar UK company that uses deep learning to solve the challenges of self-driving cars, has been...
Meet Bhumika Billa: the legal scholar with a poet’s love of language.
Her Information Theory of Law pushes our legal systems towards justice and...
The new head of Cambridge Enterprise reflects on innovation in Cambridge and what he's learnt from a career spent founding and building successful...
Cambridge will join forces with Manchester as part of a pioneering collaboration to harness the combined strengths of both universities and cities –...
A new report by Dealroom shows that Cambridge is, for its size, the most innovative city in the UK.
Globally, it ranks fourth behind US innovation...
AI is reshaping the way we work – and think about work.
Experts from Cambridge and KPMG take a look at the opportunities and challenges that lie...
Meet 10 Cambridge spinouts, all hoping to harness the potential of AI for the good of the planet and its people.
A University of Cambridge spin-out company working to improve AI efficiency and bandwidth has raised €25 million in new funding.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/about-this-site/connect-with-us:
The University of Cambridge makes its content available on a number of social media channels.
These include:

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/taxonomy/super-tags/health-and-medicine:
The brain holds a ‘map’ of the body that remains unchanged even after a limb has been amputated, contrary to the prevailing view that it rearranges...
An artificial heart valve made from a new type of plastic could be a step closer to use in humans, following a successful long-term safety test in...
A new total-body PET scanner to be hosted in Cambridge – one of only a handful in the country – will transform our ability to diagnose and treat a...
Researchers have found why common cuff-based blood pressure readings are inaccurate and how they might be improved, which could improve health...
The National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) has today announced the approval of a new treatment for a form of hereditary blindness...
Users of the NHS Active 10 app, designed to encourage people to become more active, immediately increased their amount of brisk and non-brisk walking...
Cambridge scientists have developed and tested a new drug in mice that has the potential to reduce damage to the brain when blood flow is restored...
Animal research is an essential part of the drug discovery process - allowing scientists to test new treatments that could help change people’s lives.
Year 10 students from around the Cambridge region took part in a special programme designed to inspire the next generation of female mathematicians.
High levels of a hormone found in cells in the gut could underlie many cases of chronic diarrhoea and help explain up to 40% of cases of patients...
An analysis of studies incorporating data from almost 30 million people has highlighted the role that air pollution – including that coming from car...
Cambridge University has been selected as a partner in a key Government initiative to attract more of the world’s best research talent to the UK.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/taxonomy/super-tags/environment:
As the world grapples with rising temperatures and the challenge this brings, a Mastercard Foundation Scholar has devised a novel way of keeping...
Cicadas coordinate their early morning choruses with remarkable precision, timing their singing to a specific level of light during the pre-dawn...
A Cambridge professor and counsel team member for Vanuatu gives his initial views on the ICJ Advisory Opinion.
A treasure trove of exceptionally preserved early animals from more than half a billion years ago has been discovered in the Grand Canyon, one of the...
Researchers from the University of Cambridge are using AI to speed up landslide detection following major earthquakes and extreme rainfall events—...
In the largest ever survey of rainforest birdlife, scientists have discovered that deforestation to create pastureland in Colombia is causing around...
Three Cambridge academics have been appointed to the UK Department for Energy Security and Net Zero’s new Science and Technology Advisory Council (...
With countries such as the UK declaring ambitious goals for both AI leadership and decarbonisation, a new report suggests that AI could drive a 25-...
Researchers from every school and more than 20 departments across the University of Cambridge gathered in February to explore the links between air...

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/taxonomy/super-tags/science:
Researchers have captured the first clear view of the hidden architecture that helps shape a simple multicellular organism, showing how cells work...
Average grade is A* at specialist sixth form developed in partnership with the University of Cambridge.
A drought lasting 13 years and several others that each lasted over three years may have contributed to the collapse of the Classic Maya civilisation...
Astronomers using the NASA/ESA/CSA James Webb Space Telescope have found strong evidence of a giant planet orbiting a star in the stellar system...
How might AI change the way we advance human knowledge?
Could it change how universities like Cambridge carry out one of their core functions...
Twelve academics from the University of Cambridge have been made Fellows of the prestigious British Academy for the humanities and social science

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/taxonomy/super-tags/technology:
Scientists have used AI to re-analyse a clinical trial for an Alzheimer’s medicine, and identified a group of patients who responded to treatment...
Annie Walker's true role in observing hundreds of stars has been uncovered more than a century later.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/taxonomy/super-tags/society:
People in the UK and US are more likely to feel nostalgic towards places by the sea, lakes or rivers than they are towards fields, forests and...
Researchers have mapped the spread of infectious diseases in humans across millennia, to reveal how human-animal interactions permanently transformed...
Cambridge researchers are working to undo a longstanding male bias in health research, to help drive more effective healthcare for all.
To save democracy and solve the world's biggest challenges, we need to get better at spotting and exposing people who exploit human cooperation for...
Academics at the University of Cambridge are among those featured in the King's Birthday Honours 2025, which recognises the achievements and...
The Reckoning is an intimate work of documentary theatre composed from a verified archive of witness testimonies chronicling Russia’s war of...
On 9 June, the Department for Science, Innovation and Technology (DSIT) announced the launch of the Spärck AI Scholarships, a major new initiative to...

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/taxonomy/super-tags/arts-and-humanities:
You know your course, you know your College...now choose your Club!
Cambridge students – one a researcher in the electrical currents of heart tissue – have created a new musical partly inspired by the genesis of Mary...
The extraordinary find has been uncovered as part of the Museum's upcoming exhibition, ‘Made in Ancient Egypt’.
Overlooked diaries written by teenage boys in pre-war Soviet Russia reveal relatable perspectives on love, lust, boredom, pressure to succeed and...
A medieval literary puzzle which has stumped scholars including MR James for 130 years has finally been solved.
Cambridge scholars now believe the...
Artists urgently need stronger defences to protect their work from being used to train AI models without their consent.
Eleven senior researchers at the University of Cambridge have been awarded Advanced Grants from the European Research Council – the highest number of...
A Cambridge criminologist has uncovered new evidence in the killing of a priest, John Forde, who had his throat cut on a busy London street almost...
Over the last half-century, British poets including Philip Larkin and Andrew Motion have driven a ‘lawnmower poetry microgenre’, using the machine to...

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/taxonomy/super-tags/university-news:
Congratulations to the students who've secured the grades they need to get in to Cambridge.
Bookings are now open for Open Cambridge 2025 (12-21 September).
This September the public can enjoy tours of College gardens, exhibitions from...
New Entrepreneur in Residence programme builds on work by Cambridge Enterprise and will match serial entrepreneurs with academics to develop world-...
Lord Chris Smith has been elected as the new Chancellor of the University of Cambridge.
For the third year in a row, the University of Cambridge has awarded prizes to teachers who’ve put in extra effort to help their students secure a...

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research/news/trump-shooting-and-biden-exit-flipped-social-media-from-hostility-to-solidarity:
It appears that political crises evoke not so much outgroup hate but rather ingroup love
While previous research shows outrage and division drive engagement on social media, a new study of digital behaviour during the 2024 US election finds that this effect flips during a major crisis – when “ingroup solidarity” becomes the engine of online virality.
Psychologists say the findings show positive emotions such as unity can cut through the hostility on social media, but it takes a shock to the system that threatens a community.
In a little over a week during the summer of 2024, the attempted assassination of Donald Trump at a rally (July 13) and Joe Biden’s suspension of his re-election campaign (21 July) completely reshaped the presidential race.
The University of Cambridge’s Social Decision-Making Lab collected over 62,000 public posts from the Facebook accounts of hundreds of US politicians, commentators and media outlets before and after these events to see how they affected online behaviour.*
“We wanted to understand the kinds of content that went viral among Republicans and Democrats during this period of high tension for both groups,” said Malia Marks, PhD candidate in Cambridge’s Department of Psychology and lead author of the study, published in the journal Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences.
“Negative emotions such as anger and outrage along with hostility towards opposing political groups are usually rocket fuel for social media engagement.
You might expect this to go into hyperdrive during times of crisis and external threat.”
“However, we found the opposite.
It appears that political crises evoke not so much outgroup hate but rather ingroup love,” said Marks.
Just after the Trump assassination attempt, Republican-aligned posts signalling unity and shared identity received 53% more engagement than those that did not – an increase of 17 percentage points compared to just before the shooting.
These included posts such as evangelist Franklin Graham thanking God that Donald Trump is alive, and Fox News commentator Laura Ingraham posting: “Bleeding and unbowed, Trump faces relentless attacks yet stands strong for America.
This is why his followers remain passionately loyal.”
At the same time, engagement levels for Republican posts attacking the Democrats saw a decrease of 23 percentage points from just a few days earlier.
After Biden suspended his re-election campaign, Democrat-aligned posts expressing solidarity received 91% more engagement than those that did not – a major increase of 71 percentage points over the period shortly before his withdrawal.
Posts included former US Secretary of Labor Robert Reich calling Biden “one of our most pro-worker presidents”, and former House Speaker Nancy Pelosi posting that Biden’s “legacy of vision, values and leadership make him one of the most consequential Presidents in American history.”
Biden’s withdrawal saw the continuation of a gradual rise in engagement for Democrat posts attacking Republicans – although over the 25 July days covered by the analysis almost a quarter of all conservative posts displayed “outgroup hostility” compared to just 5% of liberal posts.
Research led by the same Cambridge Lab , published in 2021, showed how social media posts criticizing or mocking those on the rival side of an ideological divide typically receive twice as many shares as posts that champion one’s own side.
“Social media platforms such as Twitter and Facebook are increasingly seen as creating toxic information environments that intensify social and political divisions, and there is plenty of research now to support this,” said Yara Kyrychenko, study co-author and PhD candidate in Cambridge’s Social Decision-Making Lab.
“Yet we see that social media can produce a rally-round-the-flag effect at moments of crisis, when the emotional and psychological preference for one’s own group takes over as the dominant driver of online behaviour.”
Last year, the Cambridge team (led by Kyrychenko) published a study of 1.6 million Ukrainian social media posts in the months before and after Russia’s full-scale invasion in February of 2022.
Following the invasion they found a similar spike for “ingroup solidarity” posts, which got 92% more engagement on Facebook and 68% more on Twitter, while posts hostile to Russia received little extra engagement.
Researchers argue that the findings from the latest study are even more surprising, given the gravity of the threat to Ukraine and the nature of its population.
“We didn’t know whether moments of political rather than existential crisis would trigger solidarity in a country as deeply polarised as the United States.
But even here, group unity surged when leadership was threatened,” said Dr Jon Roozenbeek, Lecturer in Psychology at Cambridge University and senior author of the study.
“In times of crisis, ingroup love may matter more to us than outgroup hate on social media.”
* The study used 62,118 public posts from 484 Facebook accounts run by US politicians and partisan commentators or media sources from 5-29 July 2024.
The Trump assassination attempt on the front page of German newspaper Bild.
Credit: conceptphoto.info via Flickr

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/latest-news:
Researchers have captured the first clear view of the hidden architecture that helps shape a simple multicellular organism, showing how cells work together to build complex life forms.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/Fitzwilliam-Museum-discovers-4000-year-old-handprint:
A side view of the ‘soul house’, circa 2055–1650 BCE, clay.
A 4,000-year-old handprint has been discovered on an ancient Egyptian tomb, in a discovery that gives a rare glimpse of a human touch from the distant past.
The print was found on the base of a clay 'soul house' - a model dwelling often used in burials - by researchers at Cambridge University's Fitzwilliam Museum during preparations for its upcoming exhibition, Made in Ancient Egypt , opening 3 October 2025.
Soul houses, often shaped like buildings with an open courtyard, were often placed in tombs to hold food offerings such as bread, lettuce and ox heads.
They may have been served as both symbolic offering trays and a resting place for the soul of the deceased.
A maker’s handprint visible on the underside of the ‘soul house’ was probably made when someone, perhaps the potter, moved the house out of the workshop to dry before firing, 2055–1650 BCE, clay.
The soul house, which dates to around 2055–1650 BCE, underwent extensive examinations at the Museum which shed new light on how it was made 4,000 years ago.
The potter who made this example, pictured, first created a framework of wooden sticks and then coated it with clay to make a building with two storeys supported by pillars.
Staircases were formed by simply pinching the wet clay.
During firing the wooden framework burnt away, leaving empty spaces in their place.
The handprint found underneath is likely to have been made when someone, perhaps the potter, moved the house out of the workshop to dry before firing in a kiln.
Detail of the fingers from the maker’s handprint on the underside of the ‘soul house’, circa 2055–1650 BCE, clay
Ceramics were widely used in ancient Egypt, mostly as functional objects but occasionally as decorative pieces.
This is apparent from the vast amounts of pottery that have survived.
From the earliest times, providing the dead with nourishment was important, and pottery containing food and drink became a common feature of burials for people of all ages.
Unlike many other ancient Egyptian crafts, relatively few details of potters at work survive which makes the discovery of a complete handprint even more important.
The ready availability and generally low value of pottery, as well as the fact that potters worked with clay, may have affected their status.
Clay was a commonly found material, either deposited by the Nile as silt, or as shale - a stone that occurred under or between the layers of limestone rock in the desert.
The shale would be processed to make a clay known as marl by soaking it in water before kneading by hand or underfoot.
Various items of food laid out as offerings in the open space at the front of the house include round and triangular loaves of bread, a lettuce and an ox’s head.
‘Soul house’, 2055–1650 BCE, clay.
A staircase and hollow pillar.
Staircases were formed by simply pinching the clay, ‘Soul house’, 2055–1650 BCE, clay.
The lives and histories of Egyptian rulers have received a great deal of attention but the makers of the artefacts themselves are often overlooked.
Made in Ancient Egypt will show who those people were, how they thought of themselves and what other Egyptians thought of them.
Tomb illustrations in the exhibition will bring to life the makers at work – written documents like Ostraca show everyday activities like orders, receipts and delivery notes; unfinished objects reveal working methods that we recognise today, including changes to designs and mistakes that were corrected or covered up.
'Made in Ancient Egypt' will combine these with the results of scientific analyses, to help create a vivid picture of these workers as individuals, while monuments and records like stela, reveal how they wanted to represent themselves.
Date: 28 July 2025 Story: Jessica Keating and Emma Shaw Photography: © The Fitzwilliam Museum, University of Cambridge.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/grand-canyon-fossils:
By Sarah Collins Published 23 July 2025
View of the Grand Canyon from the Colorado River.
Credit: Jason Muhlbauer
The rich fossil discovery – the first such find in the Grand Canyon – includes tiny rock-scraping molluscs, filter-feeding crustaceans, spiky-toothed worms, and even fragments of the food they likely ate.
By dissolving the rocks these animals were fossilised in and examining them under high-powered microscopes, researchers led by the University of Cambridge were able to get a highly detailed picture of a unique period in the evolution of life on Earth.
The fossilised animals date from between 507 and 502 million years ago, during a period of rapid evolutionary development known as the Cambrian explosion, when most major animal groups first appear in the fossil record.
In some areas during this period, nutrient-rich waters powered an evolutionary arms race, with animals evolving a wide variety of exotic adaptations for food, movement or reproduction.
Sternal elements of crustaceans from the Cambrian period.
Most animal fossils from the Cambrian are of hard-shelled creatures, but, in a handful of locations around the world, such as Canada’s Burgess Shale formation and China’s Maotianshan Shales, conditions are such that softer body parts could be preserved before they decayed.
So far, however, fossils of non-skeletonised Cambrian animals had been known mostly from oxygen and resource-poor environments, unlikely to kickstart the most complex innovations that shaped early animal evolution.
Now, the Grand Canyon has revealed the first soft-bodied, or non-mineralised, Cambrian fossils from an evolutionary ‘Goldilocks zone’ that would have provided rich resources for the evolution of early animals to accelerate.
The results are reported in the journal Science Advances .
“These rare fossils give us a fuller picture of what life was like during the Cambrian period,” said first author Giovanni Mussini, a PhD student in Cambridge’s Department of Earth Sciences.
“By combining these fossils with traces of their burrowing, walking, and feeding – which are found all over the Grand Canyon – we’re able to piece together an entire ancient ecosystem.”
Mussini and colleagues from the US located the fossils during a 2023 expedition along the Colorado River, which began carving the Grand Canyon in what is now Arizona between five and six million years ago.
“Surprisingly, we haven’t had much of a Cambrian fossil record of this kind from the Grand Canyon before – there have been finds of things like trilobites and biomineralised fragments, but not much in the way of soft-bodied creatures,” said Mussini.
“But the geology of the Grand Canyon, which contains lots of fine-grained and easily split mud rocks, suggested to us that it might be just the sort of place where we might be able to find some of these fossils.”
Credit: Joe Clevenger
The researchers collected several samples and returned them to Cambridge.
The fist-sized rocks were first dissolved in a solution of hydrofluoric acid, and the sediment was passed through multiple sieves, releasing thousands of tiny fossils within.
None of the animals were preserved in their entirety, but many recognisable structures helped the researchers identify which groups the animals belonged to.
Further examination of the fossils revealed some of the most complex ways animals evolved during the Cambrian to capture and eat their food.
“These were cutting-edge ‘technologies’ for their time, integrating multiple anatomical parts into high-powered feeding systems,” said Mussini.
Many of these fossils are of crustaceans, likely belonging to the group that includes brine shrimp, recognisable by their molar teeth.
These tiny creatures had hair-like extensions on triangular grooves around their mouths, and used their hairy limbs to sweep up passing food particles like a conveyer belt.
Tiny grooves on their teeth could then grind up their food.
The detail on the fossils is such that several plankton-like particles can be seen near the crustaceans’ mouths.
Other modern-looking animals from the Cambrian of the Grand Canyon include slug-like molluscs.
These animals already had belts or chains of teeth not dissimilar to modern garden snails, which likely helped them scrape algae or bacteria from rocks.
The most unusual creature identified by the researchers is a new species of priapulids, also known as penis or cactus worms, which were widespread during the Cambrian but are nearly extinct today.
The Grand Canyon priapulid had hundreds of complex branching teeth, which helped it sweep food particles into its extensible mouth.
Due to the size of the fossil and its exotic rows of teeth, the researchers named this new animal Kraytdraco spectatus , after the krayt dragon, a fictional creature from the Star Wars universe.
“We can see from these fossils that Cambrian animals had wide variety of feeding styles used to process their food, some which have modern counterparts, and some that are more exotic,” said Mussini.
Sections from the pharynx of Kraytdraco spectatus
During the Cambrian, the Grand Canyon was much closer to the equator than it is today, and conditions were perfect for supporting a wide range of life.
The depth of the oxygen-rich water, neither too deep or too shallow, allowed a balance between maximising nutrients or oxygen and reducing wave damage and exposure to UV radiation from the Sun.
This optimum environment made it a great place for evolutionary experimentation.
Since food was abundant, animals could afford to take more evolutionary risks to stay ahead of the competition, accelerating the overall pace of evolution and driving the assembly of ecological innovations that still shape the modern biosphere.
“Animals needed to keep ahead of the competition through complex, costly innovations, but the environment allowed them to do that,” said Mussini.
“In a more resource-starved environment, animals can’t afford to make that sort of physiological investment.
It’s got certain parallels with economics: invest and take risks in times of abundance; save and be conservative in times of scarcity.
There’s a lot we can learn from tiny animals burrowing in the sea floor 500 million years ago.”
The research was supported in part by the US National Science Foundation and the UK Natural and Environment Research Council (NERC), part of UK Research and Innovation (UKRI).
Giovanni Mussini is a Bye-Fellow of Magdalene College, Cambridge.
Reference: Giovanni Mussini et al.
‘ Evolutionary escalation in an exceptionally preserved Cambrian biota from the Grand Canyon (Arizona, USA) .’ Science Advances (2025).
DOI: 10.1126/sciadv.adv6383
Photo credits (top-bottom): 1.
Credit: Jason Muhlbauer 2.
Sternal elements from Cambrian period crustaceans.
Credit: Mussini et al.
3.
View of the Grand Canyon.
Credit: Jason Muhlbauer 4.
5.
Artist's impression of Kraytdraco spectatus.
Credit: Rhydian Evans 6.
Sections from the pharynx of Kraytdraco spectatus.
The text in this work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/teenage-boys-diaries-from-stalins-russia:
Diaries written by teenage boys in 1930s Russia reveal relatable perspectives on love, lust, boredom, and pressure to achieve; but also experience of famine, exile and conscription under Stalin.
By Tom Almeroth-Williams
“I drew her near and smooched her on the cheek.
Having recovered from the initial embarrassment, I greedily bit into her lips.”
( Vasilii Trushkin , November 1939, aged 18)
“Tests and exams should not define life, right?!
… But what is true life?
Take my parents: they live and work by the sweat of their brow.
Maybe, this is “life”?
If so, God forbid.
Maybe, “true” life is in the army, at war, at the front?
”
(Sergei Argirovskii, January 1941, aged 19)
“Our father was sent to Siberia … we were famished.
We started going out to the field and luring out gophers to eat them.”
(Ivan Khripunov, September 1941, aged 18)
Ivan Khripunov, undated self-portrait
New research by Ekaterina Zadirko, a Slavonic Studies researcher at Trinity College, University of Cambridge, reveals the fascinating contents of 25 diaries written by teenage boys between 1930 and 1941.
Most of these documents have never been studied before.
Today, Slavic Review publishes Zadirko’s findings about one of these diaries, that of Ivan Khripunov, the son of a once wealthy peasant who was labelled a kulak and exiled as an enemy of the people.
A rare example of a peasant diary written by a young person, it provides astonishing insights into a young man’s life from 1937, when Ivan was 14, until his ill-fated conscription into the Red Army in 1941.
Together, the 25 diaries which Zadirko is studying for a PhD at Cambridge, preserve the voices of teenage boys from a wide range of families and locations.
Sergei Argirovskii, for example, was born into Leningrad’s intelligentsia, his parents teachers of Russian language and literature.
By contrast, Aleksei Smirnov was of peasant origin and worked as a mechanic in a Moscow boiler-house.
“Scholars tend to disregard most of what’s in these diaries as just teenage concerns,” Zadirko says.
“But in 1930s Russia, writing was a key strategy for teenage boys to process their coming of age and find their place in society.
Even if their diary remained a private document, writing for these boys felt very high-stakes, even existential.”
Ekaterina Zadirko
In December 1940, Ivan Khripunov wrote: “Ten in the evening.
I am sitting alone in the back room.
Everyone has already gone to sleep … the ink is bad, it blurs on paper, and the quill scratches the paper like a good plough … Everything hinders my work … But I have to fill in the diary, whatever it takes.”
Ivan followed Maxim Gorky’s literary model, recording his hardships as Gorky had described his pre-revolutionary struggles.
Ivan wrote about his family surviving the famine of 1932–33, his father’s exile, and his mother and elder sisters suffering from the public humiliation of 'dekulakization', the Soviet campaign to eliminate those it labelled kulaks.
“I don’t think Ivan realised that he was doing something potentially dangerous,” Zadirko says.
“By imitating Gorky, Ivan was following established literary conventions, but in doing so, he broke the rules of a Stalinist public autobiography, by discussing taboo subjects.
It was not an expression of conscious political dissent but a clash of cultural models.”
“He points directly to the state for causing famine and describes his family collecting wheat heads, known as ‘spikes’, which was criminalised by the infamous Law of Three Spikelets.”
Ivan wrote : “The famine broke out not because of a bad harvest but because all crops were taken away.
Kulaks were exiled to Solovki.
Many innocent people suffered.
For not giving up the grain, which was taken away from us, our father was sent to Siberia … Without bread … and our father, we were famished … we collected spikes (it was forbidden to collect spikes, and many times, the overseers took the spikes and our bags); we brought home the chaff and made cakes from it.”
Pages from Ivan Khripunov's diary with his drawing of a street in Rostov-on-Don (1941)
Boys writing
“Literary writing was primarily a male pursuit in 1930s Russia,” Zadirko says.
“While girls kept diaries too, boys were more focused on the literary potential of their self-writing: they wrote poetry and prose, experimented with their style, and often tried to fashion their diaries as writers’ diaries.”
In November 1941, Ivan Khripunov wrote: “I think about my future big literary work in which I will show my life and give a full description of contemporary society.”
A few of the diarists eventually became successful writers and saw their diaries published.
Other diaries were printed in small regional journals, but the majority are only now accessible thanks to Prozhito , a crowdfunded digital archive of diaries, memoirs and letters launched in 2015 by scholars at the European University in Saint Petersburg.
The diaries record the daily grind of going to school, doing homework and being bored at home.
But they also provide fascinating insights into the boys’ attitudes to girls, the troubled times they lived in, and their visions of the future.
Pages from Vasilii Trushkin’s diary with text written in Russian and German (1937)
‘Abroad, love is the main goal of life … For us, love is a secondary concern.
The most important thing is communal work.
We rarely say the word “love.” …I fell in love with a girl, but she didn’t love me back … In my thoughts, I only wanted to look at her and not besmirch my tender being with the dreams about sexual intercourse.” (Ivan Khripunov, September 1941)
Zadirko points out that when teenage boys described the girls they liked, they asked themselves, ‘Is she a good comrade?’, ‘Is she politically conscious?’, ‘Does she have good grades?’ But they also described them in a lofty Romanticist way, highlighting features like rosy cheeks and soft lips.
Soviet guidelines for romantic and sexual behaviour became very rigid and puritanical in the 1930s.
“Ideas of sexual behaviour were all over the place, the diaries record a lot of teenage angst,” Zadirko says.
“Young people were instructed not to have premarital sexual relationships, encouraged to establish friendship first and to choose a partner who would be a comrade, someone who would make you a better person.
“In this environment, teenagers had a lot of conflicted emotions and struggled to express them.
They often wrote poetry about girls that is reminiscent of 19 th -century Romanticism.
The result was a weird mix of lofty and judgemental.”
One of the diarists, Vasilii Trushkin (1921–1996), was a melancholic, brooding peasant who wrote poetry and aspired to be a writer.
Aged 12, his family fled famine in the Saratov region of southwestern Russia by moving 4,800km to Irkutsk in Siberia .
Vasilii Trushkin aged 15 in 1937
In August 1939, aged 18, Trushkin wrote of being with a girl named Natasha: “It is so pleasant to feel the closeness of a beloved woman!
From the sacred vessel, sung by many poets, I greedily drank pleasure.
Afterwards, already in bed, I could not calm down for a long time.”
Vasilii Trushkin's drawing of a countryside house and its yard with the words “Tischdecke” and “Скатерть” (both mean “tablecloth”) (1937)
“I am 18 today … If I remember my past and imagine my uncertain future, I get this scary feeling, an urge to get out of the life element, but where – I don’t know myself.
But this feeling is very strong, to the point of frenzy.” (Aleksei Smirnov, February 1940)
Zadirko says that from today’s perspective, teenage boys in 1930s Russia seem very conforming, but while diarists used Soviet ideological concepts to think about and fashion themselves, she argues that they did so in creative, unexpected ways.
“These boys bent and circumvented Soviet doctrine, so they retained their teenage sense of self while still trying to fit the Soviet mould,” Zadirko says.
How the boys considered their future highlights a dilemma in Stalinist culture, she argues.
“So much was expected from these boys, and they felt really confused about what they should do,” Zadirko says.
“They were told they could become whoever they like and inhabit a socialist utopia, but they were put under huge pressure to become the kind of heroic role models that Soviet culture celebrated.”
“They believe that to be useful and to fit in, paradoxically they had to be exceptional.
They worry that you’re either born with exceptional talent or you’re not, and if you don't have it, you're doomed.
“When something goes wrong, aged just 16 or 17, some worry they’ve already lost too much time, that they haven’t achieved anything, and they write about their life already being over.
This is familiar teenage angst but in an incredibly high-stakes environment.”
In September 1936, a 16-year-old David Samoilov – who went on to become one of the most famous poets of his generation – wrote: “I am completely untalented, and writing will always be a torment for me.
To be a high school literature teacher, a lowly critic, an editor of a provincial newspaper?
It’s a disgusting prospect.
But let it be!
Suppose I sacrifice my self-esteem, aspirations, etc.
for the thing I love, but will I be of any use to the society I live in?”
Zadirko believes that the diaries provided a crucial safe space for 1930s Soviet teenagers to work out how to perform their public identity, which gave them an advantage over many teenagers today.
“Working out your identity in public on social media today feels much less safe,” Zadirko says.
“In the private setting of a diary, the only judge is yourself.”
Some of the diaries end abruptly as their writers entered the Red Army and Second World War.
Zadirko says: “These boys went to the front ‘from the school bench’, some of them perished, but those who survived, aged and died roughly with the Soviet Union itself.”
As he prepared for the military draft in 1941, Ivan wrote, “A new life begins.
That is why I have written my autobiography … The war makes everyone into adults.
I thought I was a boy, but now I am being drafted like an adult.” Less than a year later, he was reported missing.
The exact date of his death is unknown.
A page from Ivan Khripunov's diary with his drawing of his house in the village [ khutor ] Prishib, Rostov oblast, where he lived until 1935 (1941).
The inscription at the bottom: “The house [ khata ] where I lived in Prishib ([drawn] from memory)”.
“We mustn't over exoticize Soviet lives,” Zadirko says.
“Soviet ideology shaped people, but they weren’t completely brainwashed.
There weren’t just true believers and dissidents.
People didn’t simply accept or reject propaganda, or play by its rules to survive.
The diaries show that Soviet people, including teenagers, were many things all at once, trying to assemble their identity and make sense of the world with what they were given.”
Image (top right): One of Vasilii Trushkin's diary notebooks with a cover made from newspaper.
The inscription reads: The diary from 1938 Diary from the months of June–July V.
Trushkin (signature)
Image (bottom right): A page from Ivan Khripunov’s diary with his drawing (a view of a river, possibly the Big Sandata, near Razvil’naia, Rostov oblast).
Ekaterina Zadirko, “This Is Not Art but the Most Real Life”: Ideology, Literature, and Self-creation in a Soviet Teenager’s Diary (1937–1941) , Slavic Review (2025).
DOI: 10.1017/slr.2025.10152
Published 21st July 2025
Image credits
Vasilii Trushkin diary and photograph : Courtesy of Anna Trushkina Ivan Khripunov diary and drawings : Courtesy of Aleksandr Khripunov and Svetlana Bykova Soviet flag : Серёжа Русский via Flikr

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/ai:
AI and public benefit Working with local government so that staff can focus on what matters to the public
AI and health & wellbeing From drug discovery to GP consultations: how AI will be good for our health
AI and climate & nature Using the power and speed of AI to tackle our most pressing challenges
AI-deas Research on issues that matter – from fertility to cultural heritage, education to mental health
Under the bonnet of Dawn How we're using the UK's fastest AI supercomputer
10 Cambridge AI spin-outs Harnessing AI for the good of the planet and its people
Neil Lawrence and Jess Montgomery Highlighting the vital role of universities
Gina Neff Building a democratic digital future
Diane Coyle Unlocking productivity in public services
Anil Madhavapeddy Healing the planet
Jill Duffy Helping teachers and students
Richard Turner Forecasting climate
Anna Korhonen Putting people at the heart of AI
Eoin McKinney, Mihaela van der Schaar and Andres Floto Transforming medicine
Michael Barrett Balancing the risks and benefits of AI
We want to generate new ways of thinking about the role of AI.
The next wave of AI must deliver real-world impact – better healthcare, smarter public services and new ways of tacking climate change.
We’re building interdisciplinary teams focused on solving real-world problems.
We’re working to put the tools of AI innovation directly into the hands of those closest to the challenges we face.
With the strength of our community, we’re creating AI that works for science, citizens and society.
AI-deas Supporting AI innovations that benefit science, citizens and society
Policy Lab Informing national and international dialogues about the future of AI
AI Sciencepreneurship Building a network of European AI and Science incubators
Film AI-deas project: AI and language
Film AI-deas project: AI and city planning
News Using AI to speed-up landslide detection and target responses
Film The AI Hopes & Fears Lab
Feature AI and English language learning
Feature AI and nature
News AI can accelerate the search for effective Alzheimer’s medicines
Feature AI-enabled tech tackles the fear of public speaking
Feature Cambridge brings research-backed AI to the classroom
Case study Studying the impact of social media use on young people
Case study Untangling global supply chains using AI
News Cambridgeshire AI activity and commitment to public benefit
Feature The AI pioneer looking for new treatments in abandoned drugs
Case study Diagnosing data challenges in cancer research and treatment
The University of Cambridge is home to a dynamic AI community, pursuing high-quality interdisciplinary collaborations to find solutions to some of the world's most urgent and complex challenges.
Philanthropic support plays a vital role in enabling breakthroughs that can transform lives, communities and the planet.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/Neil-Lawrence-Jess-Montgomery-AI:
Neil Lawrence and Jessica Montgomery
Universities can bridge the gap between those who develop AI systems and those who will use and be affected by them.
We must step up to deliver this role, say Neil Lawrence and Jess Montgomery .
As the government considers its ambitious agenda to drive wider roll out of AI across the public sector in areas that directly affect people’s lives, we need to find different approaches to innovation that avoid failures like the Horizon Post Office scandal.
For almost a decade, public dialogues have been highlighting what people want from AI: technologies that tackle challenges affecting our shared health and wellbeing; tools that strengthen our communities and personal interactions; and systems that support democratic governance.
As these conversations continue, they reveal a growing public scepticism about AI's ability to deliver on these promises.
This scepticism is warranted.
Despite impressive technical advances and intense policy activity over the last ten years, a significant gap has emerged between AI's capabilities in the lab and its ability to deliver meaningful benefits in the real world.
This disconnect stems in part from a lack of understanding of real-world challenges.
We’ve seen the impact of this lack of understanding in previous attempts to drive technology adoption.
In the UK, both the Horizon Post Office and Lorenzo NHS IT scandals demonstrated how IT projects can fail catastrophically.
These failures share common patterns that we must avoid repeating.
Insufficient understanding of local needs led to systems being designed without considering how they would integrate into existing workflows.
Lack of effective feedback mechanisms prevented early identification of problems and blocked adaptation to user experiences.
Rigid implementation approaches imposed technology without allowing for local variation or iteration based on real-world testing.
Together, these factors created systems that burdened rather than benefited their intended users.
As the government considers its ambitious agenda to drive wider roll out of AI across the public sector – in areas that directly affect people’s lives – we need to find different approaches to innovation that avoid these failures.
Achieving its potential
There is an alternative.
The UK has strategic advantages in research and human capital that it can leverage to bridge this gap by building AI from the ground up.
Work across Cambridgeshire demonstrates this alternative approach in action.
In local government, Greater Cambridge Shared Planning is collaborating with universities to develop AI tools that analyse public consultation responses.
By combining planners' expertise with research capabilities, they're creating systems that could reduce staff time for analysis from over a year to just two months.
Similar collaborations are emerging in healthcare, where clinicians and researchers are leading the development of AI tools for cancer diagnosis.
Their work shows how frontline staff can ensure AI enhances rather than replaces clinical judgment, while improving outcomes for patients.
We've already seen the value of this approach during COVID-19 , when NHS England East collaborated with researchers to develop AI models that helped hospital leaders make critical decisions about resource allocation.
This partnership demonstrated how AI can support operational decisions when developed with those who understand local needs.
This points toward what we call an ‘attention reinvestment cycle’.
The key to scaling innovation comes when some of the time that professionals save by using AI is reinvested in sharing knowledge and mentoring colleagues, allowing solutions to spread organically through professional networks.
Unlike top-down implementation, this approach builds momentum through peer-to-peer learning, with frontline workers becoming both beneficiaries and champions of technology
Too often in the past, universities have been distant from the difficulties that society faces.
However, universities have access to the research and human capital that are vital for the next wave of AI innovation.
Their position as neutral conveners allows the creation of spaces where people working to deploy AI in public services and industry can collaborate with diverse communities of expertise, from engineering to ethics.
This bottom-up, human-centred approach offers more effective and ethical AI implementation.
It is a vital component of how government can successfully implement its national AI strategy and deliver on the promise of AI for all citizens.
We must step up to deliver this role.
By fostering collaboration between those who develop AI systems and those who will use and be affected by them, universities can ensure that technological progress truly serves the public good.
Jessica Montgomery is Director of ai@cam and Neil Lawrence is DeepMind Professor of Machine Learning and Chair of ai@cam , the University of Cambridge's flagship mission on artificial intelligence.
Leveraging the world-leading research pursued across the University, ai@cam creates connections between disciplines, sectors and communities to unlock a new wave of progress in AI and its application to benefit science and society.
ai@cam’s mission is to drive a new wave of AI innovation that serves science, citizens and society.
Published: 2 April 2025

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/Diane-Coyle-AI-productivity-public-services:
Professor Dame Diane Coyle
AI applications have tremendous potential for improving productivity – saving time and money and improving quality of service.
Here's what's required to make this work in the public sector, says Diane Coyle .
“Sluggish technology has hampered our public services for too long, and it’s costing us all a fortune in time and money,” said The Rt Hon Peter Kyle MP (Secretary of State for Science, Innovation and Technology) announcing a shake-up for the public sector in January this year.
All of us can testify to the sluggishness, whether it concerns (lack of) communication among medical staff caring for us or the challenges of dealing with the local council.
Will AI live up to hopes that it can transform productivity in public services – and even better, help improve services while cutting costs?
AI applications certainly have tremendous potential to save time and money, and improve service quality, in areas ranging from health and adult social care to criminal justice and local government.
But it is often difficult to distinguish hype from realistic opportunities, while unlocking those opportunities will require different ways of working in the public sector.
In recent research at the Bennett Institute for Public Policy , we conducted several workshops in collaboration with Professor Wendy Hall, Director of the Web Science Institute at the University of Southampton, bringing together academics and practitioners to explore the opportunities and barriers to AI adoption in public services.
Additionally, with Professor Bart Van Ark, Managing Director of The Productivity Institute , at the University of Manchester, we have specifically looked at the responsible use of AI in adult social care.
(Both of these studies will be published soon.)
Our work, along with that of other researchers, reveals several key themes.
One of the most prominent is the central role data plays in AI adoption .
The process of organising data into a consistent and usable format, overcoming barriers to linking datasets, addressing privacy and security needs, and gaining access to comprehensive data for service improvements are all time-intensive tasks.
The government has announced plans for a National Data Library but the need for painstaking construction of high quality and accessible datasets also needs less exciting interventions such as clear regulations and setting common standards for the public sector, as discussed in a new policy brief by Dr Jeni Tennison.
Another broad theme is the shortage of AI know-how in public services .
While there are individuals with deep expertise, a broader understanding of how to effectively use AI and its policy implications is not widespread.
This is one reason why – when the Bennett School of Public Policy opens in Autumn 2025 – we will launch a new MPhil programme in Digital Policy for mid-career officials and analysts to contribute to broadening the base of know-how about AI in the public sector.
Finally, changes will be necessary to update governance and accountability structures in response to these rapidly evolving times.
AI is an information machine that provides users with predictions or suggested decisions.
The productivity benefits will rely on employees' ability to competently use the information in a skilled way and feel empowered to make informed decisions.
There are many pilot schemes across the public sector that suggest tremendous potential; for example one council claims using AI in adult social care has led to 44% administrative time savings for its workers, enabling it to start reducing a backlog of need.
But scaling up AI use across the public sector presents a significant challenge – one that our multidisciplinary research at the University of Cambridge, in collaboration with other academics, policymakers, business leaders and public sector workers, aims to address.
Dame Diane Coyle is Bennett Professor of Public Policy and Co-Director of the Bennett Institute for Public Policy.
The Bennett School for Public Policy will open in October 2025, established with the support of the Peter Bennett Foundation.
It will offer the well-established MPhil in Public Policy, the new MPhil in Digital Policy, and host the Bennett Institute for Public Policy research centre.
Published: 27 March 2025

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/anna-korhonen-ai-and-humans:
Professor Anna Korhonen
With the right development and application, AI could become a transformative force for good.
What's missing in current technologies is human insight, says Anna Korhonen .
AI has immense potential to transform human life for the better.
But to deliver on this promise it must be equipped with a better understanding of human intelligence, values and needs.
AI could help tackle some of the world’s most pressing challenges – advancing climate science, improving healthcare, making education more accessible, and reducing inequalities.
In the public sector, AI could enhance decision-making, optimise service delivery, and ensure that resources reach the people and places where they are most needed.
With the right development and application, it could become a transformative force for good.
But today’s AI technologies struggle to grasp the nuances of human behaviour, social dynamics and the complex realities of our world.
They lack the flexibility and contextual understanding of human intelligence.
Their limitations in communication, reasoning and judgment mean that they fall short of supporting us in many critical tasks.
Meanwhile, concerns around bias, misinformation, safety and job displacement continue to grow.
To unlock AI’s potential for good, we need a fundamental shift in how it is developed.
That starts with designing technologies to work in harmony with people – to be more human-centric.
Rather than replacing us, AI should enhance our capabilities, support our intelligence and creativity, and reflect our values and priorities.
To truly benefit everyone, it should be designed to be trustworthy, inclusive, and accessible, serving diverse communities worldwide – not just a privileged few.
To enable this, we need to move beyond viewing AI as a purely technical field .
Building technologies that genuinely understand and support people requires insights from the diverse range of disciplines that explore the human condition – social, behavioural, cognitive, clinical and environmental sciences, the arts and more.
Universities are uniquely positioned to lead this shift by promoting interdisciplinary research and connecting technical fields with human-centred perspectives.
We must also take AI research beyond the lab and into the real world by collaborating across sectors – bringing together academia, industry, policymakers, NGOs, and civil society to understand the needs, ensure technologies are fit for purpose, and test them in real-world settings.
These partnerships are crucial to building systems that are robust, scalable, and socially beneficial.
Finally, AI education must evolve .
The next generation of AI practitioners needs more than technical expertise – they must also understand the wider social, ethical, environmental, and industrial contexts of their work.
At Cambridge, we are launching new MPhil and PhD programmes in Human-Inspired Artificial Intelligence to help meet this need.
These programmes, starting in October 2025, will equip students with the interdisciplinary and cross-sector knowledge needed to innovate AI that is not only powerful, but also aligned with human values and needs.
The opportunity is vast – but progress depends on the choices we make today.
By rethinking how AI is developed, embedding human insight at every stage, working collaboratively across sectors, and reimagining how we educate the next generation, we can ensure that AI becomes a force for public good – one that helps shape a more just, inclusive and equitable future.
Anna Korhonen is Professor of Natural Language Processing, Director of the Centre for Human-Inspired Artificial Intelligence (CHIA) and Co-Director of the Institute for Technology and Humanity at the University of Cambridge.
Published: 3 April 2025

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/anil-madhavapeddy-ai-climate-nature:
Professor Anil Madhavapeddy
AI can do in seconds what might take a team of experts a year.
This is why we must harness it to reverse the damage we’ve done to the planet.
Anil Madhavapeddy explains.
We need to act fast to mitigate the impacts of climate change, and to protect and restore biodiversity.
There’s incredible potential in using AI to augment our work.
It enables us to do things much more quickly – it’s like giving humans global knowledge superpowers!
It can turbocharge human capabilities, simulate complicated systems and search through vast amounts of data.
It would help us make rapid progress in reversing the damage we’ve done to the planet with well-targeted interventions, while continuing to supply human needs.
Of course, this comes with risks of runaway systems causing harm, so everything we do must include a ‘human in the loop’ to guide what’s going on.
AI systems have no capability for nuanced judgement.
Humans are generating vast amounts of information about our natural world.
The imaging data alone spans every scale, from satellite and drone images of countries and landscapes, to land-based photographs of species and habitats, to microscopic observations of life.
Alongside the visuals, conservation and climate scientists and practitioners are publishing an ever-increasing amount of written information on their ideas, experiments and real-world trials.
Imagine having access to all of this, plus razor-sharp climate models, available at your fingertips - with answers about any real or imagined situation available in seconds.
The Holy Grail is to combine all this observational data with all knowledge-based data from the whole of humanity and generate evidence-driven insights to accelerate our collective healing of the planet.
AI algorithms, searching and analysing the data, could help empower decision-makers to be confident that they’re making the best choices.
Ultimately, we should be able to create AI ‘Co-Pilots’ for policy-makers, to help them make decisions about all sorts of things in the best interests of our planet – whether a new development in Cambridge is a good idea, for example.
AI could quickly create a referenced, in-depth report on anything a policy-maker wants to know, and forecast what will happen as a result of any specific decision.
There are currently three barriers to achieving this promising vision: access to enough hardware, energy and data.
Data is fuel for AI – but it’s been an enormous challenge getting hold of enough of it – particularly accessing published journal papers.
The government has a desire to create a National Data Library, which is a great idea, because it would allow us to access huge amounts of existing knowledge and run it through AI algorithms while preserving privacy needs.
Right now, the data is scattered and difficult to securely access for researchers and policymakers.
We also don’t have enough hardware .
We need more GPUs – graphics processing units – they cost around £40,000 each and we need hundreds of thousands of hours of GPU time to unlock the scale required for modern learning algorithms.
And on energy , the fact that AI uses huge amounts of it is a big concern, but there have been recent research advances in the core AI approaches to make our energy expenditure much more efficient.
Simulating the planet is also what's called a 'root node problem' in that it is the beginning of a continuously 'branching tree' of other computational possibilities that will unlock ways to improve human lives.
If the barriers can be overcome, then the potential for AI to help us address the climate and biodiversity crises is huge.
Through collaborative efforts across departments, Cambridge is harnessing the power of AI to work alongside some of the world’s brightest minds.
There has never been a greater opportunity to develop solutions for our planet’s future – and to help rebalance the relationship between humans and nature across the world.
Anil Madhavapeddy is Professor of Planetary Computing in the Department of Computer Science and Technology.
Across Cambridge, researchers are using AI to transform climate and biodiversity research.
Find out how
Published 5 April 2025
Photography: Lloyd Mann Interview: Jacqueline Garget

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/cancer:
Read more
News 'Pill-on-a-thread' cancer screening trial welcomes participants
News Using light and sound to detect of monitor cancer
News Possible new targets for preventing cancer
News New test for those at risk of certain blood cancers
Feature Supertroopers: CAR-T cell cancer therapy super-charges immune system
Feature How the discovery of a breast cancer risk gene changed the story of cancer
News Genomic tests can improve care of children with cancer
Feature ‘Kinder’ treatments for a devastating childhood cancer
Feature Scientists, patients and industry join forces to transform prostate cancer care
Profile Nurse Elaine Chapman is helping make the new hospital work for everyone
Feature The patients and staff sharing lived experiences and expertise
Feature Cancer isn't fair but care should be – how do we close the gap?
Feature Black excellence in cancer research at Cambridge
News Cancer researchers and astronomers join forces
Feature Artificial intelligence versus cancer
Feature 10 Cambridge spinouts changing the story of cancer
Feature Cambridge startups innovate in cancer detection, therapy and drug delivery
Feature Fighting cancer: how biotech companies are making an impact
Profile Jessica Taylor, changing outcomes of child brain cancers
Profile Swetha Kannan, founder of The Lalitha Foundation
Profile Segun Afolaranmi, co-founder of The Ganglion Initiative
Cambridge hosts a cancer research community responsible for globally significant breakthroughs and innovations.
Together we are changing the way cancer is treated.
Our scientists will make discoveries alongside expert clinicians treating patients, drawing on the world-leading expertise found within the University and across the Cambridge Biomedical Campus.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/climate-and-nature:
As our climate stability ends and nature declines at rates unprecedented in human history, Sir David Attenborough talks about the urgent need for action:
"Those with knowledge and the ability to innovate can provide solutions to a great number of problems.
There are huge opportunities to getting things right and the only way to operate is to believe we can do something about it.
And I truly think we can ."
Cambridge has more than 200 climate and nature research projects happening now: explore our impact
To save nature, AI needs our help
Using AI to tackle climate & nature challenges
Targeted conservation success stories
10 Cambridge spinouts forging a future for our planet
AI driven weather prediction system for forecasting
Professor Bhaskar Vira Pro-Vice-Chancellor for Education and Environmental Sustainability
Professor Emily Shuckburgh Cambridge Zero
Professor Melissa Leach Cambridge Conservation Initiative
Professor Rachael Garrett Conservation Research Institute
Lindsay Hooper Cambridge Institute for Sustainability Leadership
Feature The programme that's protecting Europe's land, sea and species
Feature How evidence-based conservation is helping to stop biodiversity loss
Feature Ambitious collaborations are bringing biodiversity back to the Scottish Highlands
Feature Turning waste into clean fuel
Feature What does it take to make a better battery?
Feature The cost of solar power: how low can we go?
News Plan launched to cut global aviation emissions
News Spinout demonstrates ultra-fast EV charging
Feature Can trucking clean up its act?
Feature How do we drive a more sustainable global economy?
News Call for businesses to stop seeing sustainability as a 'nice to have'
News UK budget rules hand green economy to China
Cambridge is the global epicentre for innovative climate and nature initiatives, driving solutions with significant impacts on society and the environment.
With experts at COP and beyond, we inform policy as a trusted resource for leaders seeking clarity and new ideas.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/mangrove-restoration:
Dr Tom Worthington is an expert on coastal ecosystems.
His data underlies billion-pound initiatives to save our natural world.
By Liam Morgan
Dr Tom Worthington at the Cambridge Conservation Initiative.
You’re in a dense, murky forest.
A sound rises in the distance: almost like wind rushing through leaves, but not quite.
It only makes sense when water laps at your feet.
The tide is coming in, bringing with it small fish that dart between the tree roots.
Your eyes pick out a striped trunk that appears to be moving.
With a sharp breath, you recognise the flank of a Bengal Tiger.
Mangroves are the mysterious broker between land and ocean.
They survive in soil flooded with saltwater and withstand the battering of waves.
Their roots knit together the sediment beneath, softening the effects of erosion.
They support over 700 billion juvenile fish and invertebrates as well as tigers in the Sundarbans, a mangrove forest crossing India and Bangladesh.
Coastal ecosystems like these sustain fisheries, protect the shore against storm surges, and reduce flooding on our frontlines.
What’s more, they store a surprisingly huge amount of carbon.
Until recently, scientists worried that mangroves were declining so rapidly that they would disappear from some regions.
But in a victory for conservation, the most recent data shows that worldwide mangrove decline is stabilising.
Our understanding of the value of these ecosystems is thanks to the work of people like Dr Tom Worthington , incoming Associate Professor of Ecology in the Department of Plant Sciences.
Bengal Tiger entering a creek in Sunderbans NP, India.
Credit: Liz Leyden, via Getty.
Worthington provides the foundational data for restoration projects on the biggest scale.
As co-lead for science at the Global Mangrove Alliance , Worthington’s data was crucial in launching the Mangrove Breakthrough : a £3 billion initiative that aims to conserve 15 million hectares of mangroves by 2030.
“The science feeding into that initiative was developed here at Cambridge,” Worthington says.
“We mapped areas where mangroves are restorable.
We’ve also provided indications of how much carbon could be secured by restoring these areas.”
Worthington previously worked in Oklahoma, and was headed back to the US until the first Trump administration cut funding for his project.
Since then, many more climate researchers’ careers have been derailed.
US agencies warn the latest cuts will leave the country with unbreathable air and undrinkable water .
Oklahoma’s loss was Cambridge’s gain.
Now, Worthington works with some of the UK’s finest conservation experts at the Cambridge Conservation Initiative .
This wider network of collaborators is crucial, allowing Worthington to provide the world’s leading NGOs and scientific organisations with reliable, actionable data on coastal ecosystems.
Tom at work in his office.
Havelock island, Andaman and Nicobar, India.
Credit: CR Shelare, via Getty.
Dr Tom Worthington
With collaborators at Aberystwyth University, Wetlands International and The Nature Conservancy , Worthington developed the Global Mangrove Watch platform.
The tool brings together massive datasets on the state of the world’s mangroves.
With freely available maps, users can see changes in these ecosystems from on high, made possible by satellite imagery.
Worthington says, “The platform lets you see how mangrove areas have changed over the last few decades.
It’ll tell you the carbon values of that area, as well as the restoration potential.”
By using the latest data and machine learning techniques, this research community has ushered in a new era.
Environmental monitoring is now lightning fast and remedial action can be laser targeted.
“With the latest satellite sensors, we can identify deforestation much quicker, ” says Worthington.
“ We can send alerts to teams on the ground, who can then go and investigate the cause.”
Communities can take a variety of actions to stop ecosystems declining.
They can fence off areas to stop overgrazing, remove harmful dams, or find more sustainable ways to provide the same economic benefit for local populations.
Screenshot from the Global Mangrove Watch platform, showing the Sundarbans' mangrove coverage from above.
These monitoring tools are still fresh, and their capacities are getting better all the time.
Given the pressing nature of the climate crisis, we don't have the luxury of waiting to see if projects will work.
“We need to know now, ” Worthington says.
“ If restoration projects are not on the right track, they need swift remedial action.”
“In South America, for example, you see these incredible patterns in the satellite imagery.
Long mud-flats develop on one end while being eroded on the other, and so the mangroves will colonise new ground and shift along the coastline.
Environments like these are cyclical and constantly changing.
But if humans are damming rivers and building structures on the coastline, this changes the dynamics even further.”
While mangroves have got a lot of attention, Worthington thinks we’ve overlooked the importance of salt marshes.
That’s why his team have produced the world’s first remote-sensed map of salt marshes .
In addition to this work, Cambridge’s Dr Tania Maxwell developed the first global map of soil carbon in tidal marshes .
Worthington hopes that this early work on marshes will eventually replicate the success of mangrove restoration.
His team provide a bird’s eye view of our changing planet.
By making the bigger picture available to all, their tools point us in the right direction, and vastly increase our chances of success.
Published on 23 June 2025.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/this-cambridge-life/the-historian-gathering-fragments-of-the-past-to-understand-how-humans-tick:
The historian gathering fragments of the past to understand how humans tick
By Charis Goodyear
Sujit Sivasundaram in the Old Library, Gonville and Caius College.
By Lloyd Mann
People say that all the world is concentrated in Sri Lanka.
If I think back to my childhood, I have memories of stunning beaches, beautiful highlands covered in forests and bustling cities.
I went to school with Buddhists, Hindus, Muslims, Catholics and Protestants.
The island is culturally diverse, multi-religious and multi-ethnic.
Despite being unbelievably beautiful it can be a tragic place.
While most of the time people of different communities and faiths live alongside each other peacefully, at other times prejudices and racism emerge and shift into moments of enmity and violence.
Sri Lanka’s virulent civil war also arose out of long-term inequalities of access and disparities of power.
I remember a moment in the Sri Lankan Civil War, the 1983 anti-Tamil pogrom, which ripped through Colombo, the city in which I lived.
I would have been seven years old at the time.
One indelible memory is the sight of a gang of people coming down the street close to where my family lived burning houses belonging to Tamils.
It was a confusing place in which to grow up and to work out what it meant to belong and to be human.
Despite my Tamil surname, I knew I had at least three of Sri Lanka’s communities within me as my ancestors, majorities and minorities included.
Though I was unscathed by the conflict, I was quite uncertain of where I fitted in the world.
The first thing Cambridge taught me was that it was important to follow my passions.
What I really enjoyed was reading, writing and thinking – and studying history allowed me to do more of this.
I changed degrees, first to the fascinating field of history and philosophy of science which introduced me to the way knowledge, including race, is constructed, and over time I became more and more caught up with my study of human beings and the natural world.
Curiosity and imagination are essential to being a historian.
The people I find most interesting are those who are unlike me.
When I do my research, I know I need to be open to that sense of surprise at the realisation of difference and to the power of understanding new ways of thought.
Historical research also depends on being ingenious with evidence, working with fragments and going beyond the bulk of sources to get to the underside.
Global history is about reaching for places that are not at the forefront of historical narratives.
It’s about continuously decentring the obvious, the familiar and the iconic in order to bring overlooked stories and processes of change to the light.
I like to think of it as starting with an island like Sri Lanka which holds the world in it – to understand the world from that one small place far from the expected centres of historical change and innovation.
Viewing a map of Tonga, one of the sites in Waves Across the South.
I’m interested in understanding the paths that were taken – and not taken – by our predecessors and how these pathways were constrained by larger structural forces, like the rise and fall of empires, ideas of race and gender, capitalism or nationalism.
Even the environment we inhabit influences these paths.
I’m especially interested in how oceans have shaped the human past over the long term and have written on this.
I have recently written on COVID-19 by thinking about the rapidly changing relations of humans and animals in the modern era in Asia .
The late 18th century to the early 19th century is a period that fascinates me as it was a moment of a lot of possibilities.
Various people around the world were trying to figure out what their future might be.
It was ‘the age of revolutions’, yet these uprisings were stalled by the rise of global imperialism.
The Atlantic Ocean, encompassing revolutionary events such as the French Revolution or the Haitian Revolution, is normally the focus of this period, but I wanted to track this era across the islands of the Indian and Pacific Oceans.
I’d previously written on Sri Lanka and my PhD was on the Pacific Ocean – now I had an opportunity to connect up the dots and to be ambitious in linking two vast zones in the global South which are rarely brought together in historical writing.
I travelled around the Indian and Pacific oceans doing research in archives and meeting people, from Mauritius, South Africa, Tonga, Burma/Myanmar and many places between.
The conversations I had were wonderful and fed my historical imagination and I learnt a great deal from scholars in many places in the global South.
I wrote a book about my research called Waves Across the South .
In Waves Across the South I had to exercise my imagination in reconstructing a rich range of lives.
Among the most telling was the story of Tasmanian Aboriginal women involved in the seal trade alongside foreign men such as escaped convicts from New South Wales.
What really struck me was how gender roles looked different in the sealing camp.
But their story like so many in the book is utterly tragic: genocide driven in part by British abolitionist commitments to protecting these women saw rapid depopulation.
The pandemic has made me nostalgic about Sri Lanka and Colombo once again.
While stuck in Cambridge, in my mind I walked the streets of Colombo, exploring the neighbourhoods and buying food from street markets.
View from quarantine hotel showing the new port development project financed by China, involving land taken back from the sea, which can be seen on the horizon.
Credit: Sujit Sivasundaram, taken in 2021
Street in Colombo.
Cityscape of Colombo.
On returning, the first sight out of the window of my quarantine hotel, however, was the massive project afoot to build a new zone of Colombo in the sea, with Chinese finance and expertise.
Once again, Colombo is at a cross-roads with the rise of China.
This is no time to be nostalgic.
The city is changing dramatically, and what I would like to research next is how this moment came to be.
But in keeping with my commitment to starting with the least expected departure point, one of my first ports of call is to consider the role of Muslims in this city, another small community who have faced sustained discrimination.
Colombo was first and foremost an Islamic settlement and Muslims have played and continue to play a critical role in building it.
This is a scarcely-acknowledged historical story.
One of the things I absolutely love about being in Cambridge is working with students.
Teaching invigorates me as a person and energises my research.
The graduate students are brilliant, and the future of my discipline is theirs.
Since I’ve been here for more than two decades, Cambridge has undoubtedly shaped me.
Or perhaps it is more correct to say that it has given me the space to engage with the global South, by reminding me of who I am.
Rather than being unsure of myself or seeing myself as someone born of conflict, I am confident to express my views and to let my imagination roam.
The experience of that transition still guides the style of my intellectual life.
And the gift I’d like to give Cambridge is to make it more and more a place, where other young people, who perhaps are like I was, and certainly who are far less privileged, have the opportunity to follow their passions and express their views.
Sujit Sivasundaram is Professor of World History, Director of the Centre of South Asian Studies and Fellow at Gonville and Caius College.
He arrived in Cambridge in 1994 as an undergraduate of Christ’s College where he studied History and Philosophy of Science.
His book Waves Across the South has just been shortlisted for the British Academy Book Prize for Global Cultural Understanding .
This profile is part of This Cambridge Life – stories from the people who make Cambridge University unique.
Words: Charis Goodyear .
Photography: Lloyd Mann.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/this-cambridge-life/pat-marsh:
The woman who brought Space Invaders to the UK and is championing women’s sport
Pat Marsh
I’m often out of the house at 5:20am during term time.
The Cambridge University Women’s Boat Club (CUWBC) are waiting for me outside and then it’s up to Ely for the morning training session.
Luckily I’ve always been an early riser.
You will find me in the launch alongside the coaches encouraging the crews.
I support the girls off the river too.
They know they can always come round, have a cup of tea, a piece of cake and a chat.
The girls are training hard for the Boat Races on 7 April.
The 2018 Boat Races were a huge success for Cambridge, with all our crews, both the men and women, securing victory over Oxford.
This was the first time since 1993 that Cambridge rowing had achieved a clean sweep.
Twenty-five years ago a photograph was taken outside the Hawks’ Club (a Cambridge University sporting club) to commemorate this achievement, and last year the Club asked me to recreate this famous photo.
The six winning crews of the Boat Races 1993
The trophies had to be chauffeured from London to Cambridge, accompanied by security guards wearing white gloves!
Gathering senior members of the University and 54 student athletes together was easier said than done.
I’m hugely proud of what the photo represents.
A lot has changed since the last clean sweep 25 years ago, for sport in general and especially for women in sport.
Today the women race on the Tideway – the same stretch of water on the Thames as the men.
Up until 2014 the women’s races were held at Henley.
The six winning crews of the Boat Races 2018
In 2013 I played an instrumental role in the University’s review of sport.
At the time, sport was, in governance terms, quite isolated and had no strategy for its future development.
The review proposed major changes which placed sport firmly within the University’s governance structure where it can, and does, now have a voice.
Sport is now represented on the Council and the General Board by the Senior Pro-Vice-Chancellor for Education, Professor Graham Virgo, who is pictured in the front row of the Clean Sweep photograph.
I have always said it was rowing that saved my sanity.
I firmly believe that sport is essential for students' happiness, health and wellbeing.
On the river I was just Pat, number three, with a job to do, a rhythm to keep and a crew not to let down.
I first took hold of an oar in 1997.
I’d come to Cambridge in my fifties to study for an MPhil in Archaeology at Magdalene College.
Prior to that I’d been sitting on a number of high profile executive boards and committees.
Please accept marketing cookies to show embedded content (open cookie preferences)
I grew up in Tipton, a working class town in the Midlands.
All my family lived locally so we were always in and out of each other’s houses.
People always think that, if you are hard-up, things are difficult but everyone was the same, so we didn’t know any different.
My sister reminded me recently that we had to sleep with our coats on the bed to keep warm.
We had a flat roof and each year someone put up a new tarpaulin to keep the rain out.
But it wasn’t completely watertight so there were always buckets around.
Although we were poor we were also proud, with polished shoes.
My father joined the Grenadier Guards at the age of 15 and fought with the Desert Rats in North Africa.
Since reading Malory Towers I’d always dreamed of going to boarding school.
But then I heard of such a thing as university, after watching the The Student Prince and The Wild and the Willing at the local Odeon, and thought that sounded even better.
I was the only girl from my school to go to Grammar School and the only girl to go on to university.
In those days girls went to secretarial or teacher training college so this was unusual.
I got a place at Hull University to study geography, which was my best subject at school.
University in the 1960s was magical.
One time at the Old Hill Plaza George Harrison held my hand – what more could a girl want in life?
After university, my career started with slot machines.
I’d set up a business to service these machines in cafes.
We started being asked about a new game called Space Invaders, so went to a trade show in Japan and ended up forming a joint Japanese company, which was the first to bring Space Invaders to the UK.
We had to file down the slots, which were just big enough for Yen, so that 10 pence pieces could fit in.
Everyone wanted one and we found ourselves airlifting these arcade games to businesses all over the UK.
It was a crazy time.
We had two Japanese colleagues living with us, one dealing with imports and exports, the other with technical issues.
Because of this my children picked up Japanese.
Later we decided to just import the electronic components and build the machines in the UK at Ace Coin Equipment Ltd in South Wales .
This meant we needed to design a circuit board for the new range of machines, which led to my first association with Cambridge.
One of our directors, Keith Arnold, knew of two young men, Hermann Hauser and Chris Curry in Cambridge who were paid £20,000 to design the new board.
With this money they founded Acorn Computers.
Haute couture hats have been my most recent business venture.
I served as Executive Chairman of, and was a major shareholder in, Philip Treacy Ltd.
Philip’s couture hats have been worn by royals and celebrities and are widely regarded as works of art.
I have some hanging on my wall at home.
I sometimes feel like someone who wears lots of metaphorical hats.
A year or so ago I did a course at Cambridge Judge Business School.
We were asked what we would like to be doing in five years’ time.
I wrote down: Magdalene College, sport and archaeology - my three loves.
And here I am, organising alumni reunions, cheering on the girls on the river and supporting archaeological research.
I love all my hats, real and metaphorical.
Patrick Ryan, Assistant CUWBC Coach and Pat Marsh in the launch following ‘Blondie’
This profile is part of our This Cambridge Life series, which opens a window on to the people that make Cambridge University unique.
Cooks, gardeners, students, archivists, professors, alumni: all have a story to share.
Pat is the Executive Director and a former Chairman of Cambridge University Women’s Boat Club, a Trustee of the Hawks’ Charitable Trust, and Director of the Executive Committee of the Ospreys.
She is the Alumni Secretary and a Fellow Commoner of Magdalene College.
She sits on the Management Board of the McDonald Institute for Archaeological Research and is a member of the Alumni Council at Cambridge Judge Business School.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/this-cambridge-life/the-medical-student-tackling-the-taboo-around-periods:
The medical student tackling the taboo around periods
Ashna Biju at Caius College
At school I enjoyed most subjects, especially psychology, and so medicine – with its mixture of science and communication skills – felt like a good fit.
And maybe, there was another reason: as someone who is deaf, I wanted to ‘prove’ that I could be a doctor – whether this was proving to myself, others, or society, I’m not quite sure, but it certainly played a role in my choice.
My parents and teachers were incredibly supportive of me applying to study medicine.
But I was still aware that I’d never seen a doctor with disability – at least not one that was visible.
I was shocked to learn in a recent survey by the National Deaf Children’s Society that almost half of the public don’t think you can be deaf and be a doctor or nurse.
I often face a ‘hair-up’ or ‘hair-down’ dilemma – but not for the reason you might think.
If my hair is up and my hearing aids are on show, people are surprised that I understood and followed the conversation, often with a comment of “you don’t look deaf!” It reminds me that there are still so many assumptions made about what people can and can’t do.
Being a woman of colour also comes with implicit biases.
People may say “your name doesn’t sound British”.
They’re not trying to be hurtful, but it does have an impact.
Some assume I’m a nurse.
Why could I not be seen as a doctor?
Why don’t we see women of colour in the top positions?
My parents moved to the UK from Kerala in India when I was about five years old.
I’ve grown up here and feel British, but people may not perceive me as being British.
Equally when I visit my family in Kerala, I’m not seen as truly Indian as I carry myself differently or don’t pronounce my mother tongue quite so ‘correctly’.
I’m passionate about understanding how racial, cultural and gender differences play out in everyday life, especially when it comes to health care.
I’m also interested in understanding how communities can influence people’s health – for good or bad.
I’ve realised I’m drawn to topics that are considered a bit ‘out there’ like mental health or woman’s health.
I’ve always been interested in menstrual health – it’s something that affects half the world’s population and yet there is still stigma surrounding periods.
It’s not fair that in some countries girls can’t go to school because they are on their period or can’t talk about their period just because a senior male figure has told them not to.
When something is seen as taboo it’s often underfunded and under resourced.
In India – as in many other parts of the world – cultural factors come into play.
Doing things differently can be seen as being too modern or Westernised – it can be difficult to break thousands of years of tradition.
In India there isn’t a centralised system for disposing of sanitary waste – people just do whatever they can.
Pads may be flushed down the toilet, burnt in backyards or thrown into wells or fields.
This has knock-on effects for people’s health and the environment.
Disposable pads are very absorbent, which means they can block sewage systems.
This can lead to a backflow of waste and the spread of disease.
Often water systems are cleared by people who do not have access to protective clothing, putting them at risk of coming into contact with toxins or infected blood.
It’s been estimated that commercial pads could take up to 800 years to break down into microplastics.
We know that microplastics build up in organisms and affect ecosystems.
Burning pads can lead to the release of harmful chemicals.
I put forward a model for how we might tackle the disposal of period products in India.
The paper was published in the journal The Lancet !
I suggested that there could be community education to tackle the stigma around periods, encouragement to use reusable period products and the development of national infrastructure to safely dispose of sanitary waste.
Here in Cambridge, I'm part of The Cambridge Period Project.
We’ve successfully campaigned to have free period products in toilets across the University and we also hold fundraising initiatives to provide toiletries to local charities that support vulnerable individuals in the community.
In the future I hope I'll get the chance to work alongside communities.
I think it’s important to get out of the consulting room and lecture halls to talk to people – that's how you get to the heart of how someone feels and what they choose to do.
One of the best parts of being a doctor is working with the patients – finding out about their lives, listening to what they’re struggling with and hopefully helping them.
To be with patients at one of their most vulnerable times in their life is such a privilege.
I feel so honoured as a medical student, to be able to listen to their stories and know that I can help, even if just to provide comfort.
To be joining the NHS – the organisation that has provided so much support to me over the years feels like I’ve come full circle.
I am so grateful for all the lovely doctors, nurses, and teachers of the deaf who have looked after me.
The people really make the NHS, and I am thrilled that in just a year’s time I will hopefully qualify and join them.
I very much believe in the ripple effect – you just never know how doing one little thing for someone might help them and ultimately have a big impact on their lives.
That’s certainly been the case for me when I think about all the people who have helped me over the years to get me to where I am today, and I just feel so grateful.
Ashna Biju attends Caius College.
Published 3 July 2023 With thanks to:
Ashna Biju
Words: Charis Goodyear
Photography: Lloyd Mann

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/jobs/why-cambridge:
Jobs
800 years of tradition of breakthrough discoveries and innovation.
Newton, Darwin, Crick and Watson, Russell, Wittgenstein, Hawking.
More than a 100 Nobel Prizes – leading the world.
A vibrant intellectual atmosphere.
An outstanding academic reputation.
All located in one of the most beautiful cities in the UK.
We have been producing world-leading research and educating students for centuries.
But it’s not just about history.
On research, we consistently rank among the top universities globally, and our people are at the forefront of tackling some the most pressing societal challenges of the 21st century.
We’re also at the heart of the UK government’s plans for innovation and growth, drawing on our status as having Europe’s largest technology cluster.
Our academics and researchers enjoy high levels of academic autonomy and unrivalled opportunities for multi-disciplinary collaboration.
Most are members of one of our 31 colleges – each a distinct academic and social community where small-group teaching takes place, and new ideas and collaborations are forged.
Our mission is to contribute to society through the pursuit of education, learning and research at the highest international levels of excellence.
Our core values are freedom of thought and expression, and freedom from discrimination.
We welcome the very best talent from across the globe to join our lively and inclusive staff body.
If that appeals, read about our pay and reward and employee benefits .

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/jobs/why-cambridge/pay-and-reward-and-employee-benefits:
As a Real Living Wage accredited employer, we aim to offer an attractive salary package for all staff, including annual salary increments (until you reach the ‘contribution points’ of your grade) and an annual cost of living increase, negotiated at a national level.
We reward outstanding contribution and achievement through a range of recognition schemes, such as our separate academic, research and professional services contribution schemes, and our annual long service event.
Our staff are supported and encouraged build successful careers.
Our career pathways recognise and reward outstanding contributions and celebrate academic and research achievement through promotion and/or pay progression.
The University (and its associated employers) offer access to several attractive, tax-efficient pension arrangements for all staff.
The scheme that a new employee will join is determined by their contract type.
Working at the University also comes with other perks, including:
We offer flexible working to help you strike the right balance between working and living in Cambridge:
We want to support all our staff, students and visiting scholars – including those with children and other caring responsibilities.
We offer:
We are dedicated to creating a healthy, inclusive, and supportive working environment for all staff.
To promote mental, physical, and emotional wellbeing, we offer a wide range of resources and programmes, including:
Our goal is to ensure every member of staff feels supported, valued, and empowered to thrive, both professionally and personally.
We value ongoing personal and professional development and want to help our employees reach their goals.
When you join us, you’ll be invited to a number of induction events to set you off on the right foot, and throughout your time with us, you’ll have access to:
We believe that embracing inclusivity enhances our collective impact.
We aim to be a leader in fostering equality and inclusion, and by joining us, you will become part of a vibrant, talented, and creative global community.
Here, different backgrounds, perspectives and disciplines meet in meaningful discussion, to unlock new ideas and drive innovation.
We all play a unique part in delivering a positive impact in the world.
We have been awarded a bronze Race Equality Charter award, and we have a framework for improving the representation, progression and success of minority ethnic staff and students within higher education.
Our silver Athena Swan award recognises and celebrates good practice in recruiting, retaining and promoting gender equality.
Employment and progression with the University are determined only by personal merit.
We assess this by applying criteria related to the duties and conditions of each post and the needs of the institution concerned.
We won’t treat anyone seeking employment with us less favourably because of their sex, gender, sexual orientation, marital or parental status, race, ethnic or national origin, disability, religion or age.
Ability to perform the job will be the primary consideration.
Find out more about our Inclusive Recruitment processes

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/jobs/how-to-apply:
We’re delighted you’re considering joining the University of Cambridge.
This page provides information about the application process, as well as advice to help your application shine.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/jobs/how-to-apply/finding-a-role-and-applying-online:
Our vacancies are broadly split across three categories:
You can search for roles by category to find the type of job you’re looking for.
Just click the ‘apply now’ button on the job advert.
You’ll need to enter your email address to register for our online system, and guidance is available to help you through the process of filling out the online application.
Each job advert will give you a summary of the role, key information like the salary, closing date and reference number, and a ‘further information’ document.
The job advert (or further information document) will tell you who to contact if you have any questions about the job.
You can also contact that person should you need the application in a different format, for example, if you have a disability.
In some limited circumstances, there may not be the option to apply online for a vacancy.
The job advert (or the further information document) will provide information on how and where to apply.
It will also tell you who to contact if you have any questions.
If you experience technical difficulties with the online application process, please contact our Technical Support Team at: technical.recruitmentsupport@admin.cam.ac.uk
For information about how your personal data is used as an applicant, please see the section on Applicant Data on our HR web pages.
Unfortunately we are unable to consider speculative applications for employment, but we do offer work experience and volunteering opportunities.
If you are interested in work experience, or opportunities to volunteer with the University of Cambridge, please see:

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/jobs/how-to-apply/inclusive-recruitment:
As an employer, we foster equality and inclusion, and by joining us, you will become part of a vibrant, talented, and creative global community.
As a proud member of the Disability Confident scheme, the University of Cambridge welcomes applications from individuals with disabilities.
We will ensure fair treatment throughout the recruitment process, and adjust the process wherever reasonable, to enable applicants to compete to the best of their ability – and continue to support you through your employment.
We do not provide our recruiting teams with any information about a candidate’s protected characteristics, including disability.
If you would like to be considered under the Disability Confident scheme, we encourage candidates to state this under the ‘Reasonable Adjustments’ section of the application.
This information is only available to recruitment administrators.
We encourage applicants to disclose their disabilities in the ‘Equal Opportunities Monitoring’ section of the application.
Applicants or employees can disclose a disability at any time.
If you wish to discuss any reasonable adjustments, you can contact the recruiting department at any point in the process.
Contact details will be in the job advert or the further information document (which will be attached to the vacancy).
Alternatively, you can contact the HR Resourcing Team .
We have dedicated web pages for applicants and employees with a disability .
If you cannot apply online—for example, if you have a disability—then you should contact the person listed on the advert, who will be able to provide you with an application in another suitable alternative format.
As part of the application process, we may ask some questions about you to help us monitor how well our equal opportunities policy is working.
We may ask about your race, ethnicity, gender, gender identity, sexual orientation and whether you have any disabilities.
We use these categories as outlined by the Higher Education Statistics Agency (HESA).
We recognise the sensitivity of this information and we only use it in the manner set out above, to generate anonymised and aggregated equality statistics.
This information is stored in a different part of our system.
It will not be visible when you or others view your application, and it will not be used as part of the selection process.
We encourage all applicants to complete this section of the application as fully as possible, but each question also has a “Prefer not to say” option for those who do not feel comfortable to share this information.
For information about how applicants’ personal data is used, please see the section on Applicant Data on our HR web pages.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/jobs/how-to-apply/application-tips:
Here are some tips to help you put your best foot forward when applying for a role at the University of Cambridge.
Please note: You will not be able to change your application once you have submitted it.
If you are expecting any details in your application to change before the closing date of a vacancy, you may wish to delay submitting your application.
If you have any general queries about the application process, please contact the Resourcing Team .

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/jobs/how-to-apply/contact-us:
On these pages we have aimed to provide all the information you might need to apply to work for the University of Cambridge, but do get in touch with any further queries:

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/jobs/browse-our-vacancies:
With its blend of tradition, intellectual exploration and a strong sense of community, the academic experience at University of Cambridge is uniquely fulfilling.
View current academic vacancies
At the University of Cambridge, we’re at the forefront of global research.
Renowned for our pioneering contributions across disciplines, we aim to foster a vibrant research environment that blends tradition with innovation.
View current researcher vacancies
Cambridge has given rise to many pathbreaking ideas, discoveries and breakthroughs that are helping shape the future on a global scale.
View current professional services vacancies
View current professorships and directorships vacancies
View current College and affiliated institution jobs

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/jobs/term/academic:
With its blend of tradition, intellectual exploration and a strong sense of community, the academic experience at the University of Cambridge is uniquely fulfilling.
Find out more about working as an academic at Cambridge .
Found 17 vacancies

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/jobs/browse-our-vacancies/academic-vacancies/working-as-an-academic-at-cambridge:
Key to this experience are the twin environments of department and college life.
Cambridge’s 31 independent colleges are communities where students and staff alike find academic support and social interaction, and where our famous small-group teaching takes place.
Whether it’s dining in historic – or contemporary - halls, hosting interdisciplinary conferences, or debating the theories of the day with brilliant colleagues, the collegiate system is truly unique.
Lectures and group research take place in more than 100 faculties, departments and institutions.
There are also strategic research initiatives and interdisciplinary research centres that tackle challenges that can only be addressed by multi-disciplinary teams of researchers.
The University offers unparalleled opportunities for interdisciplinary collaboration.
Academics and researchers enjoy high levels of autonomy, with freedom to explore their interests unrestricted.
They also have world-class resources at their fingertips – including one of the largest libraries in the world.
Cambridge students are some of the brightest and most motivated in the world.
Through the supervision system of one-to-one and small-group teaching, academics really get to know their students, pushing them to be the best they can be intellectually.
We are proud of offering our students the chance to study with leading academics, and teaching loads allow plenty of research time.
Ideas and innovation thrive at Cambridge and we offer excellent support to research spin-outs, helping turn groundbreaking ideas into impactful businesses through Cambridge Enterprise.
With students, researchers, academics and faculty from more than 140 countries, Cambridge is host to a rich diversity of new ideas and cultural experiences, both inside the lecture hall and out.
This vibrancy spills over into the city as a whole, which buzzes with talks, debates, lectures, concerts and performances - all against a backdrop of stunning architecture, historic streets, peaceful green spaces, and of course the serene and picturesque River Cam.
Learn more about living in Cambridge
As an academic at the University of Cambridge, you can expect:

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/jobs/term/professional-services:
Find out more about working in professional services roles in Cambridge .
Found 82 vacancies

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/jobs/browse-our-vacancies/professional-services-vacancies/working-in-professional-services-roles-in-cambridge:
Everyone who works here contributes to these achievements.
Our professional staff – whether an IT specialist, a librarian, a college porter or catering assistant – all play a role in helping us achieve our academic mission.
At Cambridge, you’ll join a diverse, talented and innovative community of more than 13,000 staff from all backgrounds and corners of the world.
Here’s what makes working at Cambridge special:
We offer a wide range of support to our staff to help them progress in their fields, including:
Read about our professional services values

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/jobs/term/Professorships-and-Directorships:
Found 7 vacancies

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/jobs/term/research:
Find out more about working as a researcher at Cambridge .
Found 50 vacancies

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/jobs/browse-our-vacancies/research-vacancies/working-as-a-researcher-at-cambridge:
Researchers here are empowered by a culture of intellectual freedom, interdisciplinary collaboration, and access to world-class facilities.
Scholars here are free to pursue transformative ideas and tackle some of the most pressing challenges of our time.
Our researchers are driving breakthroughs in cancer care, highlighting the university’s powerful blend of clinical expertise and cutting-edge science.
They’re leading bold, interdisciplinary projects in the fields of technology and sustainability – from engineering programmable plants to advancing robotics through major national initiatives.
It’s a place where world-changing ideas are not only imagined – they’re realised.
At Cambridge, you can become part of a dynamic, supportive community that values curiosity, creativity, and collaboration.
We’re right at the centre of UK innovation, connecting academia, industry, and policy.
It’s an inspiring environment where researchers at every stage can thrive and make a lasting difference.
As a researcher at Cambridge, you can:

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/jobs/search:
Academic vacancies , Research vacancies , Professional services vacancies , Professorships and Directorships , College and affiliated institutions vacancies .
Found 161 vacancies.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/jobs/life-in-cambridge:
Spectacular architecture, modern amenities and beautiful outdoor spaces all tucked together in a convenient and compact city make Cambridge a uniquely appealing place.
With good links to London, reliable public transport, a car-free centre and well-maintained bike paths, it’s easy to get around sustainably.
In fact, Cambridge is the cycling capital of the UK, with more than 55% of locals cycling at least once a week.
The city is well-served by healthcare facilities including Addenbrooke’s Hospital, which is also a leading centre for medical research.
Families have a range of options to ensure their children get a quality education.
Cambridge offers a strong network of state-funded primary and secondary schools rated “good” or “outstanding” by Ofsted, as well as prestigious independent schools and even schools that specifically aim to provide an international curriculum.
Cambridge punches above its weight culturally, with concert halls, theatres, libraries, museums and galleries.
And in the summer, the city’s many parks and meadows are perfect for picnics or walks, while the slow and serene River Cam offers boating options from rowing to kayaking, paddleboarding and punting.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/jobs/life-in-cambridge/community-and-surroundings:
If you’re new to the University, the Cambridge Festival is an exciting annual event which presents the opportunity to explore an eclectic mix of more than 350 events and activities.
The public celebration of research offers everything from panel discussions to film premiers and a variety of options for the whole family.
It’s one programme enabled by the University’s Connecting Communities initiative , which supports outreach work in the area.
It also supports Open Cambridge , which hosts free behind-the-scenes tours and talks at local venues.
There are lots of other ways the University connects with the local community, from hospitals to community groups.
Our staff and students are shaping partnerships across the city to create jobs and support local growth.
Read more about our civic and community engagement .
There’s always something happening in Cambridge – for a taste of what’s on offer, check out Visit Cambridge , the official tourism website for the city.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/jobs/life-in-cambridge/getting-around:
As part of our environmental strategy for providing greener travel, the University offers a range of benefits to promote sustainable forms of travel.
Cambridge is the cycle capital of the UK, having long been famous for its large number of bicycles.
Cycling is still the preferred method of transport for many people and the University offers plenty of provisions to make it easier:
There are good public transport links within Cambridge, to the neighbouring villages, and even further afield:
University staff can also take advantage of travel discounts:
There is limited car parking in Cambridge and parking charges are comparatively high; at the University, a limited number of free parking spaces are available, but the allocation of these is strictly controlled due to the high demand.
However, staff who do need to drive have access to:
The University also offers a travel advisor service to help staff explore alternative travel options that may be healthier, greener, faster, or cheaper.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/jobs/relocating-to-cambridge:
Our diverse workforce is made up of experts from all over the world.
We currently employ about 13,500 staff, 30% of whom are from an international background.
Together, they form a thriving international community across our 31 Colleges and 150 departments and institutions.
We welcome talent from across the globe, so whether you’re thinking of joining us from overseas or are relocating from elsewhere in the UK, we have a variety of provisions to help you settle in as easily as possible.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/jobs/relocating-to-cambridge/visas-and-immigration:
We know that UK immigration fees can present a considerable burden for non-UK employees, particularly members of the post-doctoral community who may struggle to meet these costs for themselves and their families.
As part of our increasing relocation provision, we offer financial support to new and current employees who are applying for one of the three most common visa routes through which we engage and retain our employees – Skilled Worker, Global Talent and Settlement (also known as Indefinite Leave to Remain) – and their family members.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/jobs/relocating-to-cambridge/right-to-work-in-the-uk:
The University has a legal responsibility to ensure all employees have the legal right to live and work in the UK.
If you are made an offer of employment, we will need to verify this right before you start work.
Please note that all job applications are assessed based on the knowledge, skills and experience required for the relevant post.
You will not be treated less favourably than another applicant on the grounds of national origin.
You can show proof of your right to work by providing original documents from List A and List B:
Please visit the Employers' right to work checklist on the Government website to view the documents included under each list.
UK/Irish Citizens: If you are invited to attend an in-person interview, and you can bring a List A document with you, a copy will be taken.
Otherwise, you must provide proof (an original document which must be seen in person) before you can start work.
All other nationalities: You may provide a document from either list and this must be an original document, which must be seen in person.
Alternatively, if you hold 'digital’ immigration status, you will need to provide a Share Code so that your digital status can be checked.
If you already have right to work in the UK, you can provide this at any time before you start work and verification can take place via video call.
You will not need a visa to work in the UK if you are:
However, if none of those apply to you, you will require a visa to work in the UK.
If you are already in the UK, your current visa may allow you to start work at the University.
We encourage applications from all candidates, regardless of nationality or right to work status – but by law, you will not be able to start working for the University until you are able to provide evidence that you are allowed to do so.
The two most common routes for University employees are:
This is a points-based immigration route, and you would need to score a minimum of 70 points from a number of criteria:
The University is an approved sponsor, but we can only sponsor you if your role is at an appropriate skill level.
We cannot guarantee that any role will be sponsorable, as there are a number of minimum salary levels and the correct one will depend on both the job and your circumstances (for example what type of visa you currently hold, if any, and whether you have a PhD).
Research and some academic roles may be eligible for a Global Talent visa.
Briefly, the routes within Global Talent are:
If you do not already have the right to work in the UK, or if your current UK visa doesn’t allow you to start work at the University, and if the job for which you wish to apply is not eligible for sponsorship, there are several options depending on your personal circumstances.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/jobs/relocating-to-cambridge/accommodation-and-relocation-support:
We have a range of support to make the move and transition easier for new employees:

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research/our-people:
Cambridge researchers named as 2025 Academy of Medical Sciences Fellows 22 May 2025 Four Cambridge biomedical and health researchers are among those announced today as newly-elected Fellows of the Academy of Medical Sciences.
Four Cambridge biomedical and health researchers are among those announced today as newly-elected Fellows of the Academy of Medical Sciences.
Into the underworld: the mountains beneath our feet 14 January 2025 Sanne Cottaar is Professor of Global Seismology in Earth Sciences.
She wants to understand Earth’s inner structure: how it shaped the surface and allowed life...
Sanne Cottaar is Professor of Global Seismology in Earth Sciences.
The lab making food healthier and medicine cheaper 16 December 2024 Dr Nicola Patron is cultivating a new kind of biotechnology, where we can read nature’s blueprints and direct its energy to more potent ends.
Dr Nicola Patron is cultivating a new kind of biotechnology, where we can read nature’s blueprints and direct its energy to more potent ends.
Gates Cambridge: Class of 2024 17 April 2024 This year’s Gates Cambridge cohort comprises 75 new scholars, studying areas from the impact of climate change on tropical biodiversity to how the circulation of...
This year’s Gates Cambridge cohort comprises 75 new scholars, studying areas from the impact of climate change on tropical biodiversity to how the circulation of...
The graduate student rewriting Deaf histories and disability histories 05 January 2024 When Kirstie Stage was diagnosed with hearing loss, she realised that the experiences of Deaf and disabled people were missing from the history books.
Kirstie...
When Kirstie Stage was diagnosed with hearing loss, she realised that the experiences of Deaf and disabled people were missing from the history books.
The cosmologist solving questions at the boundary of our understanding 13 November 2023 Hiranya Peiris is Cambridge’s new Professor of Astrophysics (1909).
She discusses being inspired by Stephen Hawking, the unknown space before you arrive at an answer,...
Hiranya Peiris is Cambridge’s new Professor of Astrophysics (1909).
The artist who made ink from Newton's Apple Tree 16 October 2023 Nabil Ali is discovering the natural colours hidden within the berries, blooms and bark found in the Cambridge University Botanic Garden – including from a...
Nabil Ali is discovering the natural colours hidden within the berries, blooms and bark found in the Cambridge University Botanic Garden – including from a...
The Crimean Tatar who wants freedom for Ukraine to sing again 18 May 2023 Displaced journalist and scholar Elmaz Asan arrived in Cambridge from Ukraine in October 2022.
She sees her research as a chance to fight back against...
Displaced journalist and scholar Elmaz Asan arrived in Cambridge from Ukraine in October 2022.
The poetry scholar, the Black Atlantic and the Trembling Hand 13 March 2023 Mathelinda Nabugodi investigates the impact of colonialism and the slave trade on Romantic poets.
Her research has taken her into the archives with unexpected results.
Mathelinda Nabugodi investigates the impact of colonialism and the slave trade on Romantic poets.
The Classicist who wants the ancient world to have a radical future 22 February 2023 Mary Beard says the Greeks and Romans have more to say about modern society than we might think.
A new set of films, aimed at...
Mary Beard says the Greeks and Romans have more to say about modern society than we might think.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research/research-at-cambridge/animal-research:
The University of Cambridge is a Leader in Openness , recognised for 'the innovation and courage shown by individuals and the organisation in supporting greater openness around the use of animals in research.'
Animal research plays an essential role in our understanding of health and disease and in the development of modern medicines and surgical techniques.
Without the use of animals, we would not have many of the modern medicines, antibiotics, vaccines and surgical techniques that we take for granted in both human and veterinary medicine.
Some of the important and pioneering work for which Cambridge is best known and which has led to major improvements in people’s lives was only possible using animals, from the development of IVF techniques through to human monoclonal antibodies.
Some of the work carried out is fundamental research, aimed at understanding how humans and animals develop and how our immune systems and brains work, for example.
This knowledge is essential for underpinning our understanding of health and disease for both medical and veterinary purposes.
Other work is aimed at tackling specific diseases, for example in helping us understand how Parkinson’s disease affects the brain and motor system and how it might be tackled, or in developing new treatments for autoimmune diseases such as type 1 diabetes and multiple sclerosis.
Animal research is only undertaken where there is no alternative.
We always use the most appropriate species: in the vast majority of cases, this involves using mice, rats and zebrafish.
Sometimes, however, it is necessary to use species that are closer to humans in size or development.
“Animal research remains a small but vital part of the quest for new medicines, vaccines and treatments for humans and animals.
Alternative methods are gradually being phased in, but, until we have sufficient reliable alternatives available, it is important that organisations that use animals in research maintain the public’s trust in them.
By providing this level of information about the numbers of animals used, and the experience of those animals, as well as details of the medical breakthroughs that derive from this research, these Concordat signatories are helping the public to make up their own minds about how they feel about the use of animals in scientific research in Great Britain.” - Wendy Jarrett, Chief Executive of Understanding Animal Research .
Read the latest animal research news from the University of Cambridge

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research/research-at-cambridge/animal-research/overseeing-animal-research:
We take the position that compliance with the law and associated Codes of Practice relating to animal welfare is the minimum operating standard.
Our Animal Welfare Policy is available here .
​In May 2014, the University of Cambridge joined over seventy organisations from academia, industry, funding bodies and charities in signing the Concordat on Openness on Animal Research .
This commits us to being open about our animal research through our website, communications and public engagement activities.
We want people to be able to find out more about animal research, so they can debate the issues from a position of knowledge and make up their own minds about animal research.
We support the ARRIVE (Animal Research: Reporting In Vivo Experiments) Guidelines , which have been developed by the NC3Rs to improve standards of reporting and ensure that the data from animal experiments can be fully scrutinised and utilised.
The guidelines are aimed at scientists writing up their research for publication or involved in peer review.
The University supports and expects everyone involved in animal research to use Laboratory Animal Science Association (LASA) Guidelines , which should be adhered to whenever animals are used in research.
The University of Cambridge requires all staff and visitors who undertake work with animals, in the UK or other European Institutions, to do so in accordance with the Animals (Scientific Procedures) Act 1986 (ASPA 1986) and under the guidance of the University’s Animal Welfare and Ethical Review Body (AWERB).
The University expects staff and any persons likely to publish information gained from their experiences observing, working with, or studying animals outside the EU to conduct their research in an exemplary manner and to the same, if not higher, standards as those set out in ASPA 1986.
All University personnel who supervise or undertake research activities involving animals are trained to carry out their duties with due diligence in a responsible and caring manner.
Every member of staff is requested to acknowledge the importance we place on this objective and its delivery.
If any member of staff has any concern regarding our use or care of animals they are encouraged to raise them in accordance with our ‘ Whistleblowing’ policy .

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research/research-at-cambridge/animal-research/overseeing-animal-research/governance/the-animal-welfare-and-ethical-review-body:
All animal research at the University is overseen by the Animal Welfare and Ethical Review Body (AWERB), which consists of several committees.
These AWERB Committees concentrate on reviewing all new programmes of work, amendments to programmes of work and the outcome of the work undertaken.
The AWERB Standing committee is the overarching committee.
These three committees consist of internal and external members, including scientists, veterinarians and lay members.
In the case of the AWERB Standing and Sub-Committees, the chairperson is external and therefore independent of the University.
This committee scrutinises research projects and procedures involving the use of live animals to ensure that the 3Rs – reduction, refinement and replacement – have been adequately applied and retrospectively review research projects with this in mind.
This committee is proactive in the promotion of a culture of 3Rs within the University community, ensuring effective experimental design, and promotes awareness of alternatives where available.
The Named Persons Committee is responsible for awareness raising activities to provide information and advice to assist members of the University in addressing welfare concerns, and other ethical issues arising in the course of their work, including wider examination of standards of animal care and use within the establishment.
The committee helps to promote a ‘culture of care’ within the establishment and, as appropriate, in the wider community.
In order to fulfil our commitment to openness under the Concordat, the University has taken the step to publish redacted AWERB Minutes.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research/research-at-cambridge/animal-research/animal-welfare-and-ethics:
We place good welfare at the centre of all our animal research and aim to meet the highest standards: good animal welfare and good science go hand-in-hand.
Our research is scrutinised by the Animal Welfare and Ethical Review Body, who strive to reduce the number of animals used.
All experiments that need to be regulated are authorised by the Home Office under the Animals (Scientific Procedures) Act 1986 (ASPA).
‘Named Persons’ are individuals identified on the Establishment Licence who have an important role under ASPA to help the Establishment Licence Holder/Named Person Responsible for Compliance fulfil their responsibilities.
They include a ‘Named Veterinary Surgeon’, a ‘Named Animal Care & Welfare Officer’, ‘Named Information Officer’ and ‘Named Training and Competence Officer.’
We pride ourselves on the exceptionally high standards of care offered to all of our animals.
Our scientists, named persons and animal technicians are committed to providing consistent specialist care daily throughout the year ensuring that the health and welfare of each animal is optimised.
Like pets, research animals go through periods of time unattended overnight and during the weekend; it is an important element of an animal’s physiology to be provided with time unhindered by human intervention.
However, during weekends, animals are observed at least once a day by our experienced staff (the legal requirement under ASPA requires animals are checked at least daily).
All facilities are continually monitored by building maintenance systems, which notify staff immediately if there is fault, and some areas and animal accommodation are monitored by webcam.
Animals are provided 24/7 with food and water ad-lib and constant access to nesting, bedding, enrichment as appropriate to the animal’s needs, unless authorised otherwise as part of an experimental protocol licenced under ASPA.
If anyone has concerns about the health or welfare of any animal at the University a Named Veterinary Surgeon (NVS) is available immediately to provide advice 24 hours a day by telephone, email or face-to-face.
Emergency NVS contact details are displayed in every unit.
In addition the researchers responsible for each experiment must provide their contact details before their experiment begins.
This means that our named persons and animal technicians at the University can contact not only the scientists but also a veterinary surgeon when animals require it not just 24/7 but 365 days of the year.
View our Animal Welfare Policy

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research/research-at-cambridge/animal-research/what-types-of-animal-do-we-use:
We only use animals where no other alternatives are available and always use the most appropriate species.
In the vast majority of cases, this involves using mice, rats and zebrafish.
The principles of reduction, refinement and replacement of animals in research (the ‘3Rs’) underpin all related work carried out at the University.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research/research-at-cambridge/animal-research/what-types-of-animal-do-we-use/chickens:
Chickens are often used when birds are needed for a physiological study.
They have been bred domestically for many years, so a large amount of literature on their physiology is available.
They produce hardy embryos, whose development occurs outside the body of the mother.
A small portion of the egg shell can be removed and replaced with clear plastic so that development of the chicken can be viewed at all stages.
It is also possible to develop chick embryos in culture outside the egg.
Access to the embryo during development means that experiments involving surgical manipulation and chemicals which change the process of development are possible.
Since studying the development of mammals is such a difficult process, the insights from these studies often provide useful comparative information.
Since chickens are vertebrates, their developmental processes have a great deal in common with humans, despite the many differences.
They have provided valuable insights into the development of the nervous system, showing how cells migrate and differentiate.
They have also been used to discover the molecular basis of limb development – a process which is similar in humans and birds - and have helped the understanding of many limb disorders.
Chickens are also highly susceptible to infectious diseases, some which also infect humans, such as influenza.
By understanding the immune system of the chicken we are able to learn valuable information for prevention of pandemic outbreaks of flu.
Information adapted from AnimalResearch.info
Chickens are a valuable source of protein rich food, both in their meat and their eggs, in the UK and many other countries worldwide.
Just like us, chickens are susceptible to many diseases that have strong effects on their health and welfare.
Some of these diseases can also be a threat to human health, like ‘bird flu’ and Campylobacter.
See: Food poisoning: the bacteria lurking in your chicken
Cambridge researchers use chickens as a representative non-mammalian vertebrate, to understand more about the evolution of the adaptive immune system in humans.
They focus on the major histocompatibility complex (MHC), which encodes molecules with central roles in the immune response.
In addition to proposing how the adaptive immune system evolved, they have made contributions to the global poultry industry and to understanding fundamental properties, important for both chickens and humans.
Image: Chickens (Neil Barnwell)

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research/research-at-cambridge/animal-research/what-types-of-animal-do-we-use/guinea-pigs:
Guinea pigs have biological similarities to humans, which make them useful in many fields of research.
They have been used as experimental animals for centuries; hence the term 'guinea pig' for a human experimental subject.
Since vitamin C was discovered through research on guinea pigs, they have been important in nutritional research, and were also crucial to the development of: vaccines for diphtheria, TB, replacement heart valves, blood transfusion, kidney dialysis, antibiotics, anticoagulants and asthma medicines.
Cambridge researchers are using guinea pigs in work to find potential vaccines against viral diseases including Ebola, Lassa Fever, influenza viruses and Coronaviruses.
New and improved vaccines are needed against emerging diseases, as well as against existing infectious diseases where existing vaccines do not offer 100% protection or where protection is only short-lived.
The aim is to identify vaccine candidates that will be taken into clinical trials in collaboration with pharmaceutical companies.
Animal models can establish that a potential vaccine provides protection against disease before it is trialed in humans.
(See also: H amsters ).

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research/research-at-cambridge/animal-research/what-types-of-animal-do-we-use/equine:
Dr Neil Bryant in the Department of Veterinary Medicine is Principal Investigator on the equine herpesvirus vaccine development programme, funded by the Alborada Trust and the EBM charitable Trust.
This multi-year research project aims to create new and improved vaccines to protect against equine herpesvirus-1 (EHV-1).
EHV-1 is a viral infection that can cause respiratory and neurological disease in adult horses, and abortion or fatal illness in newborn foals.
Despite the potential severity and impact of outbreaks, no licensed vaccine protects against the neurological form of the disease and protection afforded by existing vaccines in use is suboptimal.
Through this research, the team will construct different viruses with attenuating mutations and assess their suitability as live attenuated vaccines.
They hope the findings will enable further development by vaccine manufacturers in creating an effective vaccine to protect against the serious clinical signs induced by EHV-1.
In order to get any successful vaccine to market, safety and efficacy data must be obtained by using the natural host of EHV-1, in this case Welsh mountain ponies.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research/research-at-cambridge/animal-research/what-types-of-animal-do-we-use/mice:
Over eight out of ten animals used in research at Cambridge are mice.
Their short life span and fast reproductive rate make it possible to investigate biological processes in many areas, at all stages of the life cycle.
The mouse makes an excellent model for human disease because the organisation of their DNA and their gene expression is similar to humans, with ninety-eight percent of human genes having a comparable gene in the mouse.
They have similar reproductive and nervous systems to humans, and suffer from many of the same diseases such as obesity, cancer and diabetes.
It is possible to manipulate the DNA of mice either through cross-breeding or using techniques that ‘knock out’ certain genes, or edit their genes using recently-developed CRISPR-Cas techniques.
This enables us to study novel genes of interest in the specific areas of the body without the need for generating new GM mice, which will dramatically reduce the number of animals needed to perform research.
Manipulating their genes can lead the mice to develop other diseases that do not naturally affect them.
As a result research on mice has helped the understanding of both human physiology and the causes of disease.
Understanding abnormalities in embryo development
Our researchers have used mice to model aneuploidy, where some cells in the embryo contain an abnormal number of chromosomes.
Normally, each cell in the human embryo should contain 23 pairs of chromosomes, but some can carry multiple copies of chromosomes, which can lead to developmental disorders.
For example, children born with three copies of chromosome 21 will develop Down’s syndrome.
Pregnant mothers – particularly older mothers, whose offspring are at greatest risk of developing such disorders – are offered tests to predict the likelihood of genetic abnormalities.
Until very recently, little was understood about the fate of embryos containing abnormal cells and about the fate of these abnormal cells within the developing embryos.
Our researchers developed a mouse model of aneuploidy by mixing 8-cell stage mouse embryos in which the cells were normal with embryos in which the cells were abnormal and showed that the embryo has an amazing ability to correct itself.
This means that even when early indications suggest a child might have a birth defect because there are some abnormal cells in its embryonic body, this isn’t necessarily the case.
See also: Early-stage embryos with abnormalities may still develop into healthy babies
Finding a treatment for heart disease
In 2020, Cambridge researchers trying to turn off a gene that allows cancers to spread made a surprising U-turn.
By making the gene overactive and functional in the hearts of mice, they triggered heart cell regeneration.Since adult hearts cannot usually repair themselves once damaged, harnessing the power of this gene represents major progress towards the first curative treatment for heart disease.
See also : Switching on a key cancer gene could provide first curative treatment for heart disease
Finding a vaccine against COVID-19
In 2020, Cambridge scientists began work to find a vaccine against COVID-19.
Mice are an important part of vaccine research: their physiology and immune systems are similar enough to ours to enable researchers to minimise the risk to humans taking part in clinical trials.
See also: Cambridge research team working towards vaccine against COVID-19

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research/research-at-cambridge/animal-research/what-types-of-animal-do-we-use/naked-mole-rats:
Naked mole-rats live in large underground colonies of approximately 80 animals, which are dominated by a single breeding female, the queen; this social system is highly unusual in mammals but is similar to that commonly observed in bees and termites.
Unlike queen bees and termites that use pheromones to control colony behaviour, a naked mole-rat queen uses aggression, being the physically dominant animal in a colony.
Over the last decade further physiological peculiarities of naked mole-rat physiology have come to light:
In 2014, scientists from the Department of Pharmacology established the University of Cambridge Naked Mole-Rat Initiative , which aims to bring together experts in different scientific areas with the overarching aim being to identify molecular explanations for the highly unusual physiology of this species.
All of their work aims to leverage the extreme biology of this species to understand more about how our bodies work normally.
In 2020 a study by Dr Ewan St John Smith, a founding member of the initiative, discovered the secrets of naked mole-rat cancer resistance.
Understanding how these remarkable animals are almost completely immune to cancer could improve our understanding of the early stages of the disease in people and lead to new ways to prevent or better treat it.
See: Secrets of naked mole-rat cancer resistance unearthed.
Dr Smith was also part of an earlier study that demonstrated that naked mole-rats are highly resistant to hypoxia and anoxia, due to their cells being able to efficiently utilise fructose to power energy production during periods of low oxygen.
This work enhances understanding of how nerve cells can function in the absence of oxygen, and might lead to work that uncovers novel treatments to prevent brain damage in stroke patients.
Dr Smith explains in this film, produced by Understanding Animal Research .

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research/research-at-cambridge/animal-research/what-types-of-animal-do-we-use/non-human-primates:
Monkeys and apes are our closest relatives in the animal kingdom, and because of their high cognitive abilities and complex social behaviour, biomedical research using these animals requires additional justification and high welfare standards.
Due to the high degree of genetic, anatomical and physiological conservation, non-human primates can be the best models for understanding human biological processes.
They may be used to understand normal or abnormal structure and function or determine the efficacy of treatments where no other suitable animal models exist.
Their use has led to a number of valuable medicines and treatments.
Whilst genetic similarity to humans is high in non-human primates, it is also high in less developed species; for instance, we share 96% of our DNA with mice, 70% with fruit flies, and indeed 50% with crops such as bananas.
In different species the same gene may be expressed in different ways or interact in different ways with other genes.
Having genes in common may help with comparing and understanding some biological processes but is of limited relevance with respect to assessing welfare, social needs etc.
Despite their close relatedness, research with non-human primates is not widespread and is only undertaken when other mammals are clearly inadequate.
They are used to study brain disorders such as Parkinson’s disease and obsessive compulsive disorder.
The brain is an incredibly complex organ, and while we can study some brain function in tissue culture, computer models and rodents, the study of advanced behaviour (both normal and abnormal) requires a human-like brain.
Our only option is therefore to study these processes in non-human primates, such as marmosets.
The majority of non-human primates used in biomedical research are either marmosets or rhesus macaques.
We must justify the use of these species to ourselves, our Ethics Committee, and to the Home Office and the Animals in Science Committee, providing proof that there is no alternative.
It is not legal in the UK to carry out research using great apes (for example chimpanzees and gorillas).
We use primates to study a limited number of potentially serious conditions that affect the health of many millions of people in the UK alone.
Ultimately, this will aid the development of new treatments to transform the lives of those affected by these conditions.
In all cases, we only use animals where absolutely necessary and where, for ethical and practical reasons, it is not possible to carry out the research in humans.
We use non-human primates – marmosets  – to study how advanced behaviour is controlled by the brain.
Mental health research
Our marmoset work provides a fundamental understanding of the processes behind the symptoms of psychiatric disorders including depression, obsessive compulsive disorder and anxiety.
The current range of potential treatments for many of these psychiatric disorders is relatively restricted and their success rates are limited and highly variable.
Basic research is essential to identify new treatments by analysing the cellular activity and chemical processes within regions of the brain that control those complex behaviours impaired in psychiatric disorders.
Brain manipulations often involve the permanent implantation of tiny metal tubes known as cannulas that permit direct delivery of drugs into specific brain regions in awake marmosets.
Once implanted, the cannulas do not bother the animals.
This allows researchers to determine the causal effects on behaviour of temporary alterations in the chemical function of these regions.
The drug infusion procedure only takes a few minutes while marmosets are held gently by a handler very familiar with them.
The drug effects are only temporary.
See: Marmoset study finds single brain region linking depression and anxiety, heart disease, and people's sensitivity to treatment.
Image: Marmoset

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research/research-at-cambridge/animal-research/what-types-of-animal-do-we-use/other-birds:
Our researchers study social and physical cognition in corvids (members of the crow family, which includes jackdaws, rooks and jays), from studies of alliance formation and post-conflict behaviours in rooks, and food-sharing in jackdaws, to tests of what jays and rooks understand about tools.
Corvids are surprisingly intelligent birds and as such may be able to help us understand human behaviours.
Professor Nicky Clayton (Department of Psychology) has carried out pioneering research into the thinking power of corvids.
Her observations have revealed these crows to be extremely clever.
In Aesop’s Fables, the wise old crow drops pebbles into a pitcher of water to raise the level and allow her to drink.
Clayton’s work has revealed that in real-life crows can, if they need to, use pebbles in just this way.
Corvids, including jays, cache food so that they can retrieve it later.
They know who’s watching them and they also show the ability to plan ahead.
Perhaps even more remarkably, corvids share their food.
Male corvids even demonstrate an ability to understand what foods females prefer and will bring their mates tasty titbits.
See also:
Jays: the birds that can talk like humans​
It's a kind of magic

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research/research-at-cambridge/animal-research/what-types-of-animal-do-we-use/rats:
The laboratory rat has made invaluable contributions to cardiovascular medicine, neural regeneration, wound healing, diabetes, transplantation, behavioural studies and space motion sickness research.
Rats have also been widely used to test drug efficacy and safety.
Improved models in all these areas of research should result from our new knowledge of the rat genome.
Almost all disease-linked human genes have counterparts in the rat.
Pinpointing these should help researchers to develop rat genetic models of human disease.
Rats are often used to study behaviour in psychology experiments.
Their brains are larger than mice, and the animals are less timid and more intelligent.
Although rats do not ‘think’ like humans, some of their brain structure resembles the more primitive elements of human brains, and hence they can be used to model some human behaviours.
Rats are helping us understand why some people are more likely to become addicted to cocaine and why they can find it so difficult to overcome their addiction.
Estimates suggest that for the year 2010-11, there were just short of 300,000 opiate and crack cocaine users in England alone .
Using rats, researchers showed that addiction manifests itself differently in different individuals and that, for some, compulsive cocaine-seeking behaviour continues despite adverse circumstances.
Drug addiction had largely been regarded as the end point of a progressive loss of control over drug seeking resulting from a failure of part of the brain – the prefrontal cortex – that deals with decision making.
However, our researchers were able to show that long term exposure to drugs also alters an area of the brain called the basolateral amygdala, which is associated with the link between a stimulus and an emotion.
In fact, using their rat model, our researchers have now identified a completely new path in the brain that links impulses with habits.
This brain circuit links the basolateral amygdala indirectly with the dorsolateral striatum, which is the neural locus of habits.
See also: Highway to addiction: how drugs and alcohol can hijack your brain
Atherosclerosis is a severe disease of the arteries, responsible for heart attack and stroke.
The disease is initiated by accumulation of fatty deposits in the artery wall.
In 2019, Cambridge scientists were involved in research that identified the mechanism behind hardening of the arteries, and, using rats, found a generic medication normally used to treat acne could be an effective treatment for the condition.
See also: Cause of hardening of the arteries - and potential treatment - identified
Image: Rat taking part in test of 'checking behaviour', a key trait in OCD

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research/research-at-cambridge/animal-research/what-types-of-animal-do-we-use/sheep:
Sheep are large mammals that have many similarities to humans in terms of physiology and suffer from many diseases which affect humans.
Because they have been used in farming for many decades, we know a significant amount about their care, handling and welfare that we are able to bring into the research field.
They also have a shorter gestation period than us yet give birth to young of a similar weight to human babies, making them an ideal species for studying development and genetics.
Sheep also live much longer than mammals such as mice and rats, enabling us to study diseases that affect humans in their adult lives, including neurodegenerative diseases such as Huntington’s disease.
They are also used extensively in veterinary research, studies of digestion in ruminants, and research on the impact of farming on the environment.
We use sheep to help us understand the effects on an individual’s health in later life of poor oxygenation during development in the womb.
We know that babies of low birth-weight are at a greater risk of developing diabetes and high blood pressure in later life, and have a greater chance of dying early from a heart attack or stroke as a consequence.
Our researchers are investigating how and why this occurs, by looking at fetal development and early newborn life in a range of animals, from mice through to sheep.
The ultimate goal of the research is to improve identification of individuals at risk of life-shortening conditions as a result of their early life environment and to offer potential therapeutic interventions to reduce this risk.
This will have implications for both humans and veterinary medicine.
Sheep’s brains are much larger than those of rodents, similar in size to the brain of a rhesus macaque, and with the complex folds that are seen in primate brains.
Crucially, their brains also have basal ganglia similar to ours – this is the area deep in the brain that, along with the cerebral cortex, is responsible for important functions such as the control of movement and ‘executive functions’ such as decision-making, learning and habit formation.
It’s this that makes sheep a useful model for studying brain diseases such as Huntington’s disease and Batten disease that affect the basal ganglia and cerebral cortex.
See: High doses of ketamine can temporarily switch off the brain, say researchers.
Batten disease is extremely rare, and only a handful of infants or children are diagnosed each year in the UK.
It is a genetic disease caused when a child carries two copies of an aberrant gene – one copy from each parent.
But it is also extremely serious – symptoms include progressive blindness, severe seizures and the loss of language, swallowing and motor skills.
Death at a young age is inevitable and there is no cure.
Although Batten disease affects humans, it also occurs naturally in sheep.
Our researchers have used Batten disease sheep to validate behavioural tests which will now be used to investigate Huntington’s disease, a more common, but equally devastating disease.
Unlike those with Batten disease, people – and sheep – with Huntington’s do not begin showing signs of disease until adulthood.
We have good mouse models for studying Huntington’s disease, but mice are short-lived animals, whereas sheep can live to at least 12 years.
See also: Counting on sheep

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research/research-at-cambridge/animal-research/what-types-of-animal-do-we-use/xenopus:
The xenopus – known more commonly as the African clawed frog – is one of the most studied of all amphibians.
The frog can be bred and maintained easily in the laboratory, where they can live for more than 30 years.
In its lifetime, a female xenopus can produce as many as 30,000 eggs, depending on the particular species; it can lay thousands of eggs each year.
The frog is genetically surprisingly similar to humans, which means that scientists can model human disease in this amphibian and replace the use of higher sentient species.
Unlike humans and other mammals, the xenopus’s offspring grow outside of the body.
Although the eggs are initially opaque, within a couple of days they become transparent, enabling researchers to see how the tadpole grows at all stages of development.
Professor Sir John Gurdon was awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 2012 for his work, carried out using xenopus, which showed that it is possible to take a nucleus from another cell (in this case, a tadpole cell), insert it into a frog egg cell and fertilise the egg, and that this would then grow into a healthy offspring – the principle that was later used by researchers to clone Dolly the Sheep from an adult cell.
Now, Professor Gurdon is continuing his work to find ways of obtaining embryo cells from the cells of an adult.
The eventual aim is to provide replacement cells of all kinds starting from easily obtainable cells of an adult individual, for example to obtain spare heart or brain cells from skin or blood cells.
The important point is that the replacement cells need to be from the same individual, to avoid problems of rejection and hence the need for immunosuppression.
His team is trying to identify the molecules and mechanisms by which eggs can reverse the process of specialisation, so as to derive embryo cells from adult skin cells.
Image: Xenopus (Brian Gratwicke)

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research/research-at-cambridge/animal-research/what-types-of-animal-do-we-use/zebrafish:
The zebrafish has many features that make it an excellent animal model for studying development in vertebrates.
The embryos develop externally to the mother and are transparent, so they can be easily viewed and manipulated.
Compared to frogs the organisation of the zebrafish embryo is simple, and they develop more quickly.
Zebrafish grow to maturity and are able to breed within two to three months.
They also produce large numbers of offspring – a female zebrafish can lay up to 200 eggs a week.
Like the mouse, the zebrafish is suitable for genetic analysis, and is a valuable animal for creating genetic models of human diseases.
Although the zebrafish genome is only half the length of the human genome, the genetic structure is remarkably similar.
Many genes responsible for human diseases often have equivalents in the zebrafish.
The use of zebrafish allows us to use a less sentient animal in research.
It is easy to produce mutations in zebrafish, and screening programmes have been developed to find mutations that affect particular biological systems, such as the development of the nervous system.
Huntington’s disease is a neurodegenerative disease that causes difficulties with behaviour, feeding and communication, and abnormal movements, getting progressively worse and leading to premature death.
There is no cure and treatments relieve only some symptoms.
The disease is caused by a defective gene which encodes huntingtin, which is toxic to cells in its mutant form.
Professor David Rubinsztein is using zebrafish to model the disease, and in particular to see whether it is possible to stimulate a process known as autophagy (‘self-eating’).
In this research the mechanism where cells ‘eat’ defective material, including mutant huntingtin, is being investigated as a means to alleviate the disease.
Professor Lalita Ramakrishan uses zebrafish to study tuberculosis (TB).
The disease affects millions of people worldwide and without treatment, many of these will die.
TB is on the increase worldwide, with the emergence, too, of multi-drug resistant strains.
We tend to associate human TB with the lungs, but in fact it can affect almost all of our organs.
Fish are affected by a close relative of the human TB bacterium.
Understanding how TB works in fish, and how to prevent it and treat it in fish, will take us a step closer to solving a major health problem in humans.
See also: Even without lungs, zebrafish help us study TB

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research/research-at-cambridge/animal-research/non-technical-summaries:
As part of the project licence application process, applicants must produce a summary (known as a Non-Technical Summary) [ASPA section 5A (1) (e) and (2) (a&b)] of their proposed programme of work.
Non-Technical Summaries are published on the Home Office website annually once a licence has been granted.
This mandatory requirement helps to put the debate on the use of animals in research and testing on a more informed footing.
The University of Cambridge publishes its Non-technical summaries on the University Biomedical Services website .
The University will collate and release Non-Technical Summaries on a quarterly basis.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research/research-at-cambridge/animal-research/policy-on-the-use-of-animals-in-research:
The University of Cambridge considers that research with animals is not taken for granted but must be earned by demonstration of our staff’s commitment to achieving the highest standards of animal welfare and an ongoing commitment to replacement, reduction and refinement – the 3Rs.
The University of Cambridge recognises that research with animals has made, and for some aspects of research, currently continues to make, an important contribution to the treatment and cure of human and animal diseases.
Across the UK research with animals is governed by a range of legislation, including the Animals (Scientific Procedures) Act 1986 (ASPA) .
There are three levels of licencing that must be in place before any animal research is conducted, which ensure that the individual completing the research is competent to work with animals and has all the required training; that the programme of work proposed will yield benefits outweighing the harms, and that the places where the research will be carried out are safe and appropriate for the animals.
This means abiding by the standards set out in the Codes of Practice for housing and care of animals in research .
The Animals in Science Regulation Unit (ASRU) is responsible for implementing ASPA.
If there is deviation from any of these requirements the University of Cambridge ensures prompt and open reporting of these adverse outcomes to ASRU.
All project licences are subject to robust scrutiny by the Animal Welfare Ethical Review Body (AWERB).
The AWERB committees are tasked with the review of project licences and have memberships consisting of lay members, veterinary surgeons, animal care staff and academic staff.
Lay members and specialist scientists may be drawn from outside of the University of Cambridge to ensure adequate review.
Only where a programme of animal research is necessary and justified with due consideration to the 3Rs will it continue the process towards being approved.
Under ASPA the University is required to employ a number of different Named Persons.
Replacement is the use of non-animal alternatives in place of using animals.
The University of Cambridge actively strives to replace all animals used in research with other techniques.
Examples of this include using cell cultures, ‘organ on a chip’ models and computational modelling.
Reduction is the practice of using as few animals as possible while still ensuring that data collected is valid, so that animals are not wasted.
The University of Cambridge has processes in place that actively encourage sharing of animals and animal tissues between scientists to ensure that the most information can be gained from the fewest animals for example if there are ever surplus animals available.
Wherever possible and feasible rehoming of animals in our care is investigated and supported.
Finally, the animal experience is refined to cause the least harm and distress to them as possible.
At every opportunity practices are reviewed to improve the animal experience.
For example, the University encourages taking small blood samples from a superficial blood vessel in the leg rather than from the tail of rodents.
This requires a less stressful restraint for the animal, reducing the distress they experience.
The University of Cambridge expects everyone involved in animal research to follow the Laboratory Animal Science Association (LASA) guiding principles as set out in their published documents, apply the use of analgesia and anaesthetic regimes together with maintaining a robust welfare ethos and strongly encourages using non-aversive training and testing methods.
All experiments using animals should be carefully designed and conducted in line with the principles set out in the PREPARE guidelines and data published in accordance with the ARRIVE guidelines .
Wherever possible negative data should be published thereby reducing the risk of experiments being repeated unnecessarily by others.
The University of Cambridge is a signatory and Leader of the Concordat on Openness and therefore aims to be as open as possible about the use of animals in research and abide by the four key commitments laid out in the Concordat.
Where research involving animals does not fall under the legislation as described above our responsibilities will extend to ensure this research is also undertaken with full consideration of our robust ethical justification and animal welfare.
Updated September 2023

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research/research-at-cambridge/animal-research/alternatives-to-animal-use:
We only use animals in research where there are no alternatives and try to limit the number of animals used in research, either through improving our experimental techniques or through the development of technologies or techniques that can replace the animals entirely.
These are the principles of reduction, refinement and replacement of animals in research (the ‘3Rs’), which underpin all related work carried out at the University.
Our researchers are actively researching alternatives that can be used in place of animals.
Several teams of researchers are developing ‘organelles’ that can be grow from stem cells.
These are essentially like miniature organs, which enable the researchers to study how these organs – for example, the liver – grow and to test possible drug candidates.
See also
Image: ‘Mini-bile ducts’ at day 25, stained with fluorescent dyes.
Credit: Nature Biotechnology/University of Cambridge

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research/research-at-cambridge/animal-research/faqs:
Research using animals is essential for understanding the biology that underpins health and disease in both humans and other animals.
Without such research, we would have few of the modern medicines, antibiotics, vaccines and surgical techniques that we take for granted in both human and veterinary medicine.
Animals are used to investigate fundamental biology, to model disease and to test potential new treatments before they are tested in humans.
The majority of the animals we use are mice and zebrafish – they make up 97% of all procedures at Cambridge.
Where these species are not suitable, we use a small number of other animals, such as xenopus frogs, rats and sheep, as well as non-human primates, namely marmosets.
The Home Office collects data on the number of procedures carried out, rather than the number of animals used.
The following numbers of procedures based on Home Office Returns were carried out on animals for research at the University of Cambridge:
A ‘procedure’ is regulated and counts towards our Home Office Returns if it is carried out on a protected animal (such as those species listed above) for a scientific or educational purpose and may cause that animal a level of pain, suffering, distress or lasting harm equivalent to, or higher than, that caused by inserting a hypodermic needle according to good veterinary practice.
Procedures that are regulated include modifying the genes of a protected animal if this is done for and experimental or other scientific purpose or applied for an educational purpose; for example, breeding mice with genetic alteration is a regulated procedure if the intention is to keep the animals produced beyond two-thirds of the way through their gestation period.
This helps explain why the numbers of mice and zebrafish are so high: each offspring born is counted as a procedure.
Researchers must assign a severity classification to the procedures they plan to undertake before authority to do their work is authorised by the Home Office (prospective severity).
Once their licence has been granted they must also record the actual level of suffering (actual severity), i.e.
severity experienced by each animal during the course of a procedure.
The prospective severity classification of a procedure is an assessment of the degree of pain, suffering, distress or lasting harm that is expected to be experienced by an individual animal during the course of the procedure.
The prospective severity classifications are defined by the EU Directive as Non-recovery, Mild, Moderate and Severe, examples of which are provided below.
During each procedure the researcher must monitor their animals and keep a record of the level of suffering (severity) each animal experiences.
After the completion of each procedure, the researcher must record the highest level of suffering and any cumulative suffering experience by an animal during the procedure.
This is the actual severity for each animal.
Actual severity classifications are Non-Recovery, Sub-threshold, Mild, Moderate and Severe.
The table below is a record of the numbers of animals assigned to each actual severity classification.
Procedures, which are performed entirely under general anaesthesia from which the animal shall not recover consciousness.
Procedures on animals as a result of which the animals are likely to experience short term mild pain, suffering or distress, as well as procedures with no significant impairment of the wellbeing or general condition of the animals.
Mild procedures include:
Procedures on animals as a result of which the animals are likely to experience short term moderate pain, suffering or distress, or long-lasting mild pain, suffering or distress as well as procedures that are likely to cause moderate impairment of the wellbeing or general condition of the animals.
Moderate procedures include:
Procedures on animals as a result of which the animals are likely to experience severe pain, suffering or distress, or long-lasting moderate pain, suffering or distress as well as procedures, that are likely to cause severe impairment of the wellbeing or general condition of the animals:
Actual severity: The above definitions and examples also provide a good insight into what animals could have experienced when undergoing procedures and so reflect how actual severity is determined.
The only difference is that in the UK the Home Office introduced a further actual severity classification known as sub-threshold.
This classification therefore appears when UK annual returns of procedures are published.
This is for procedures which were originally assigned an above-threshold pain or suffering classification, but when the work was undertaken the actual level of suffering was below that which would exceed the threshold at which procedures are licenced under the Act.
Sub-threshold procedures include:
Finally, animals that are undergoing experimental procedures that are found dead and death could have been procedure related will be automatically classified as Severe unless the researcher can proved that the death was not procedure related.
Example procedures courtesy of Understanding Animal Research
In 2017 every UK establishment provided data under the EU Directive (2010/63/EU), which required Member States to collect additional data that included the number of animals bred or produced for scientific procedures that were killed without being used in procedures.
The reasons for this include:
Only animals not reported in the annual return of procedures were counted.
Since 2017, the University of Cambridge has continued to collect these additional data annually and is publishing them in the interests of openness and transparency.
We believe that good science and good animal welfare go hand in hand.
The UK has the most rigorous animal welfare regulations in the world, and we consider adherence to these regulations as a minimum and will continue to aim for the highest possible standards of animal care.
We strongly agree with, and rigidly follow, the guiding principles emphasised by the Home Office on the need to refine protocols, keep the numbers of animals used to a minimum and replace the use of animals with other methods where possible.
To this end, we encourage all staff involved in animal research and husbandry to continuously develop and improve on existing welfare standards, offering incentives to those that contribute, and rewarding those that are recognised by the laboratory animal welfare organisations.
We are committed to refining, reducing and replacing the use of animals in research - known as the 3Rs.
Animals are only used where no alternatives are viable, and Cambridge scientists are leading research to find viable alternatives.
Dr Laura Pellegrini (2020) and Dr Marta Shahbazi (2019) at the MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology are among those who have recently won the UK’s annual 3Rs prize , for the scientific and technological advance with the most potential to achieve the 3Rs.
No.
It is not permitted anywhere within the UK or the European Union to test cosmetics or household products on animals.
More information is available from Understanding Animal Research.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research/research-at-cambridge/animal-research/further-information:
To find out more about how animals are used in research, how their use is regulated and research that is underway to find alternatives, you may wish to visit:

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research/research-at-cambridge/strategic-research-initiatives-networks:
Strategic Research Initiatives and Networks build on areas of existing research strength by bringing together a critical mass of expertise from across the Schools, with four key aims:
They are initiated and developed within the academic community and brought for approval to the University’s Research Policy Committee.
Award of Strategic Research Initiative or Network status is for a renewable period of three years, subject to annual review by the Committee, and usually includes funds to support a coordinator role and some associated activities.
After six years, our first Strategic Research Initiatives have successfully graduated into a new status as Interdisciplinary Research Centres .
Strategic Research Initiatives aim to create a shared cross-School vision and development plan for building research capacity and partnerships over the medium to long term.
Our current portfolio of Strategic Research Initiatives includes:
This initiative will use the collections in new ways that address the key challenges of our time: Society and Identity (addressing political extremism, racism and inequality); Health and Wellbeing (addressing declining physical, mental and emotional health in the population); Environment and Sustainability (addressing biodiversity loss and unsustainable living).
Transforming health outcomes and wellbeing through Precision Health.
Precision Health Initiative identifies the key areas for high impact research, enables collaborative research in this field, and forms an inclusively coherent community.
The Quantum and Advanced Materials technologies for a Sustainable Society (QAMSS) Strategic Research Initiative (SRI) will bring together Cambridge minds to synthesise a coherent vision to facilitate collaboration across disciplines, improve Cambridge visibility, and coordinate large strategic grants.
It will investigate emerging business opportunities, policy implications, and ethical considerations.
It will explore the impact of these technologies on art, from new techniques to redefinitions.
Strategic Research Networks aim to link and promote activities amongst a cross-School academic community.
Our current portfolio of Strategic Research Networks includes:
Engaging researchers across the University in developing shared priorities for research themes in digital humanities, and in extending the IT infrastructure and training for digital humanities research and research tools.
Bringing together the community of immunologists working in and around Cambridge, whose work ranges from discovery of the basic molecular mechanisms underpinning the immune response through to applications relevant to the clinic, to industry and to global health.
Developing an interdisciplinary research community working on scientific, health and social aspects of metabolic diseases, and promoting collaboration to increase impact, efficiency and access to resources.
Enquiries about the Strategic Research Initiatives and Networks scheme may be addressed to Dr Rosalyn Gregory , Research Strategy Office.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research/research-at-cambridge/interdisciplinary-research-centres:
The University’s Interdisciplinary Research Centres are established cross-School initiatives that have demonstrated a critical mass of academic support in at least three Schools and have the explicit endorsement of the University’s Research Policy Committee.
They extend the research priorities and strategies of the individual Schools by tackling cross-disciplinary challenges and creating a shared cross-School vision in key thematic areas.
An Interdisciplinary Research Centre generally builds on the aims and achievements developed by a Strategic Research Initiative over a period of six years.
Our current portfolio of Interdisciplinary Research Centres includes:
Bringing together established areas of research excellence across a wide range of disciplines to drive the underpinning research base of data science and address challenging economic and societal issues.
Promoting collaborations at the interface between disciplines by bringing together researchers from the University and the Cambridge region (affiliated institutes, Addenbrooke’s Hospital and the biotech community) whose work has current or potential application to cancer research.
Harnessing excellence in multi-disciplinary cardiovascular research and clinical services to deliver improved therapies, disease management, healthcare and preventive strategies.
Connecting world-leading academic and industry expertise to drive therapeutic development and support the education and training of the next generation of world-leading researchers.
Delivering transformational approaches to understanding and conserving biodiversity through collaborative research, education, policy and practice, based on a unique partnership between the University and leading biodiversity conservation organisations.
Tackling grand technical and intellectual challenges in energy by leveraging University expertise across formal departmental and discipline boundaries from technology, physical and life sciences to the humanities and social sciences, business and management.
Delivering sustainable and socially acceptable new technologies through transformational research, interdisciplinary exchange and open technologies for innovation
Enhancing the contribution of University of Cambridge research towards addressing the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals through cross-disciplinary research and innovation programmes, founded on a properly localised understanding of the needs and contexts where impact is sought.
Integrating scientific and technological innovation in food quality, yield and sustainability with interdisciplinary approaches to understanding the behavioural, social and political conditions of food security.
Promoting programmes of research collaboration and capacity building to meet the challenges of infectious diseases in both developed and developing countries, with particular emphasis on global health.
Connecting language science researchers and practitioners across the humanities, social sciences, biology, medicine, computer science and engineering, spanning University Departments, affiliated research institutes, the University Library and Cambridge Assessment.
Connecting multidisciplinary neuroscience research and teaching across the University of Cambridge and affiliated Institutes, to increase our fundamental understanding of brain function and enhance quality of life.
Working together across the University and its regional health partners to create a sustainable infrastructure and interdisciplinary skills base for research that will improve population health and wellbeing at the international, national and local levels.
Facilitating cross-disciplinary research to offer fresh perspectives on a broad range of issues relating to reproduction from global policies to those which affect individuals, families and population.
Creating a world-leading centre for stem cell biology and medicine that focuses on harnessing the genetic and biochemical mechanisms that control cell fate to enable advances in disease modelling, drug discovery and regenerative medicine.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research/research-at-cambridge/culture:
A positive research culture is one where all staff working in research, whether in academic, technical or support roles, feel welcomed, supported and able to give of their best.
That is what we aspire to at Cambridge.
We know that the current research culture in Cambridge is not perfect.
Some of the challenges we face are specific to our own institution, while others are complex, systemic issues found in research communities across the world.
Research culture describes the environment in which research happens, and includes the norms in behaviours, expectations, attitudes and values of our research communities.
- Royal Society, 2018
The Research Culture team brings together colleagues from academia, HR, research management, and ED&I to develop a strategy for improving our research culture.
The team also includes researchers working on practical initiatives that individuals and departments can use to make positive changes.
Many studies, reports and surveys point to issues in the culture surrounding academic research.
These issues include:
These problems lead to a loss of talent and diversity from the sector.
They also lead to a loss of quality and creativity in research through researchers suffering stress, anxiety and mental health issues.
We have established four priority areas for research culture work at Cambridge.
We are engaging widely across the University to discuss these priority areas.
We are proposing concrete activities that will help to address them.
Cambridge's research culture priorities:
How do we address the issues created by fixed-term contracts in early research careers?
Who gets to do research?
Can everyone fully participate as is expected of them?
How do we support researchers who are struggling with difficult research dynamics?
How do we support leaders to change?
How do we ensure people have the time and space to embody and enact good research culture?
The Research Culture Steering Committee is chaired by Professor Julian Rayner, and led by Head of Research Culture Liz Simmonds.
It is a cross-institutional committee which reports to the University HR Committee.
The Committee oversees the work of the Research Culture Operational Group.
It represents functional leads from key programmes within the research culture work.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research/research-at-cambridge/nobel-prize:
125 Nobel Prizes have been awarded to members of the University of Cambridge for significant advances.
"The Nobel committee has voted to award you a Nobel Prize."
Every year a group of men and women will hear these words minutes before the news is announced to the world.
They will join almost a thousand Nobel Laureates since 1901.
These are people who, in the words of Alfred Nobel "have conferred the greatest benefit to humankind".
Nobel was a Swedish chemist, inventor, entrepreneur, businessman, poet and writer.
He left a large share of his fortune to establish the Nobel Prize .
These are awarded in Physics, Chemistry, Physiology or Medicine, Literature and Peace.
In 1968, Sweden’s central bank established the Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel.
We meet some of our recent Laureates to find out what it's like to receive the Nobel Prize.
Our list includes:
We have not included informal positions, non-academic positions and honorary positions.
We have omitted several Laureates where there is insufficient information available to confirm their connection with the University.
Awarded the Nobel Prize in Chemistry for developing an AI model to solve a 50-year-old problem: predicting the complex structures of proteins.
With their AI model, AlphaFold2, they were able to predict the structure of virtually all the 200 million proteins that reseachers have identified.
Jointly awarded the Nobel Prize in Physics for foundational discoveries and inventions that enable machine learning with artificial neural networks.
Geoffrey Hinton used a network invented by John Hopfield (Princeton University) as the foundation for a new network: the Boltzmann machine.
Awarded the Nobel Prize in Physics for the discovery that black hole formation is a robust prediction of the general theory of relativity.
Awarded the Nobel Prize in Physics with Michel Mayor from the University of Geneva for the first discovery of an exoplanet orbiting a solar-type star (the other half of this prize was awarded to James Peebles, Princeton University, for his work on the evolution of the Universe).
Jointly awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for discoveries of how cells sense and adapt to oxygen availability.
Awarded Nobel Prize in Chemistry with George P Smith from the University of Missouri, USA, for the phage display of peptides and antibodies (the other half of this prize was awarded to Frances H Arnold, California Institute of Technology, USA, for the directed evolution of enzymes).
Awarded one half of the Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel for integrating climate change into long-run macroeconomic analysis.
The other half of the Prize was awarded to Paul Romer for integrating technological innovations into long-run macroeconomic analysis.
Awarded Nobel Prize in Chemistry, with Jacques Dubochet from the University of Lausanne, Switzerland, for developing cryo-electron microscopy for the high-resolution structure determination of biomolecules in solution
Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel for his contributions to contract theory
Nobel Prize in Physics for theoretical discoveries of topological phase transitions and topological phases of matter
Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel for his analysis of consumption, poverty, and welfare
Awarded one half jointly of the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine with Satoshi Ōmura for their discoveries concerning a novel therapy against infections caused by roundworm parasites.
The other half of the Prize was awarded to Tu Youyou for her discoveries concerning a novel therapy against Malaria.
​Nobel Prize in Chemistry for the development of multiscale models for complex chemical systems
Nobel Prize in Medicine for the discovery that mature cells can be reprogrammed to become pluripotent
Nobel Prize in Medicine for the development of in vitro fertilization
Nobel Prize in Economics for analysis of markets with search frictions
Awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature for his cartography of structures of power and his trenchant images of the individual's resistance, revolt, and defeat.
Nobel Prize in Chemistry for studies of the structure and function of the ribosome
Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for the discovery of how chromosomes are protected by telomeres and the enzyme telomerase
Nobel Prize in Chemistry for the discovery and development of the green fluorescent protein GFP
Nobel Prize in Medicine for discoveries of principles for introducing specific gene modifications in mice by the use of embryonic stem cells
Nobel Prize in Economic Sciences for having laid the foundations of mechanism design theory
Nobel Prize in Chemistry, for the development of the metathesis method in organic synthesis
Nobel Prize in Medicine for discoveries concerning genetic regulation of organ development and programmed cell death
Nobel Prize in Medicine for discoveries of key regulators of the cell cycle
Nobel Prize in Economics for analyses of markets with asymmetric information
Nobel Prize in Medicine for discoveries concerning signal transduction in the nervous system
Nobel Prize in Chemistry for the discovery and development of conductive polymers
Awarded the Nobel Peace Prize for his work for democracy and human rights in South Korea and in East Asia in general, and for peace and reconciliation with North Korea in particular.
Nobel Prize in Chemistry for the development of computational methods in quantum chemistry
Nobel Prize in Economics for his contributions to welfare economics
Nobel Prize in Chemistry for studying how a spinning enzyme creates the molecule that powers cells in muscles
Nobel Prize in Economics for studying behaviour in the absence of complete information
Awarded jointly the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine with Christiane Nüsslein-Volhard and Eric Wieschaus for their discoveries concerning the genetic control of early embryonic development.
Nobel Prize in Economics for having renewed research in economic history by applying economic theory and quantitative methods in order to explain economic and institutional change
Nobel Prize in Literature for impassioned writing with wide horizons, characterized by sensuous intelligence and humanistic integrity
Nobel Prize in Physics for developing the separated field method
Nobel Prize in Chemistry for the development and use of molecules with structure-specific interactions of high selectivity
Nobel Prize in Literature for an all-embracing authorship, imbued with clarity of thought and poetic intensity
Nobel Prize in Literature for 'in a wide cultural perspective and with poetic overtones fashion[ing] the drama of existence'
Nobel Prize in Economics for developing a national income accounting system
Nobel Prize in Medicine for developing a technique for the production of monoclonal antibodies
Nobel Prize in Physics for the evolution and devolution of stars
Nobel Prize in Economics for reforming the theory of general equilibrium
Nobel Prize in Chemistry for the structure of biologically active substances
Nobel Prize in Chemistry for the theory of nucleotide links in nucleic acids
Nobel Prize in Physics for electromagnetic and weak particle interactions
Nobel Prize in Medicine for developing CAT scans
Nobel Prize in Physics for inventing the helium liquefier
Nobel Prize in Chemistry for the energy transfer processes in biological systems
Nobel Prize in Physics, for the behaviour of electrons in magnetic solids
Nobel Prize in Economics for contributions to the theory of international trade
Nobel Prize in Economics for consumption analysis, monetary history and theory and the complexity of stabilization policy.
Nobel Prize in Physics for the discovery of pulsars
Nobel Prize in Physics for the invention of aperture synthesis
Nobel Prize in Physics for the tunnelling in superconductors and semiconductors​
Nobel Prize in Literature for an epic and psychological narrative art
Nobel Prize in Economics for the equilibrium theory
Nobel Prize in Medicine for the chemical structure of antibodies
Awarded one half jointly of the Nobel Prize in Chemistry with William Stein for their contribution to the understanding of the connection between chemical structure and catalytic activity of the active centre of the ribonuclease molecule.
The other half of the Prize was awarded to Christian Anfinsen for his work on ribonuclease, especially concerning the connection between the amino acid sequence and the biologically active conformation.
Awarded Nobel Prize in Chemistry for his discovery of sugar nucleotides and their role in the biosynthesis of carbohydrates.
Nobel Prize in Physics for the classification of elementary particles and their interactions
Awarded Nobel Prize in Chemistry for the discovery of the reciprocal relations bearing his name, which are fundamental for the thermodynamics of irreversible processes.
Awarded jointly the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine with Robert Holley and Marshall Nirenberg for their interpretation of the genetic code and its function in protein synthesis.
Nobel Prize in Chemistry for the study of fast Chemical reactions
Awarded jointly the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine with Ragnar Granit and Haldan Keffer Hartline for their discoveries concerning the primary physiological and chemical visual processes in the eye.
Awarded jointly the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine with François Jacob and Jacques Monod for their discoveries concerning genetic control of enzyme and virus synthesis.
Nobel Prize in Chemistry for the structure of compounds used to fight anaemia
Nobel Prize in Medicine for the transmission of impulses along a nerve fibre
Nobel Prize in Chemistry for determining the structure of haemoproteins
Nobel Prize in Medicine for determining the structure of DNA
Nobel Prize in Peace for work towards global disarmament
Nobel Prize in Chemistry for the structure of the insulin molecule
Nobel Prize in Chemistry for work on nucleotides
Nobel Prize in Physics for fundamental research into quantum mechanics
Nobel Prize in Medicine for discovering the citric acid cycle
Nobel Prize in Chemistry for developing partition chromatography
Nobel Prize in Physics for using accelerated particles to study atomic nuclei
Nobel Prize in Physics for photography of nuclear processes
Nobel Prize in Literature for A History of Western Philosophy (1946)
Nobel Prize in Physics for nuclear physics and cosmic radiation
Nobel Prize in Physics for discovering the Appleton Layer
Nobel Prize in Medicine (with Alexander Fleming) for the discovery of penicillin and its curative effect in various infectious diseases
Nobel Prize in Physics for interference in crystals irradiated by electrons
Nobel Prize in Medicine for combustion in biology
Nobel Prize in Medicine for the chemical transmission of nerve impulses
Nobel Prize in Physics for discovering the neutron
Nobel Prize in Physics for quantum mechanics
Nobel Prize in Medicine for work on the function of neurons
Nobel Prize in Medicine for discovering growth stimulating vitamins
Nobel Prize in Physics for creating Richardson's Law
1927
Nobel Prize in Physics for inventing the cloud chamber
Nobel Prize in Physics for discovering wavelength change in diffused X-rays
Nobel Prize in Peace for work on the Locarno Pact (1925)
1922
Nobel Prize in Physics for investigating atomic structure and radiation
Nobel Prize in Chemistry for work on mass spectroscopy
Nobel Prize in Medicine for work on heat production in the muscles
Awarded the Nobel Prize in Chemistry for the synthesis of ammonia from its elements.
Nobel Prize in Physics, for discovering the characteristics of X-radiation
Nobel Prize in Physics for analysing crystal structure using X-rays
Nobel Prize in Chemistry for atomic structure and radioactivity
Nobel Prize in Physics for investigating the electrical conductivity of gases
Nobel Prize in Physics for discovering Argon
Back to Research at Cambridge
125 affiliates of the University of Cambridge have been honoured with a Nobel Prize.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research/research-at-cambridge/open-access:
The University of Cambridge is committed to disseminating its research and scholarship as widely as possible.
In keeping with that commitment, it supports its staff in making their research outputs freely available.
The University's research repository houses a wide range of research outputs, ranging from published articles and conference papers, through to datasets, theses, videos and molecular structures.
Browse the exciting range of our Open Access research outputs:
Open Access at the University of Cambridge is managed by two dedicated support services: Open Access and Research Data Management .
These groups assist the University's researchers and research students in making their research outputs freely accessible in the public domain.
The University’s Open Access Project Board oversees these activities.
The Open Access team provides advice and guidance on making research publications freely available in the public domain.
Cambridge researchers upload their author accepted manuscripts to the open access team as soon as their research article is accepted for a publication.
The team makes manuscripts available in the University repository , respecting publisher copyright restrictions, and provides guidance on article processing charges and appropriate licensing, according to the funder's policy and the Cambridge Open Access policy framework .
The Research Data team helps with all aspects of research data management - from experimental design, organising and backing up research data, to data deposition and sharing.
Please browse through this website for guidance on research data management , to see the University of Cambridge Research Data Policy Framework, to find information about your funder's requirements , or to see available options for data deposition and sharing .
If you have any questions about research data management, please do not hesitate to contact the Research Data Management team directly.
The Open Access Project Board is composed of senior members of the University of Cambridge and it oversees the activity of the Open Access and Research Data Management teams.
The Open Access Project Board publishes minutes from its regular meetings.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research/research-at-cambridge/horizons-magazine:
Horizons, the University of Cambridge's research magazine, was published between 2006 and 2020.
Issue 40 Research Horizons - Spotlight: Reproduction
Issue 39 Research Horizons - Spotlight: Sustainable Earth
Issue 38 Research Horizons - Spotlight: East of England
Issue 37 Research Horizons - Spotlight: Children
Issue 36 Research Horizons - Spotlight: Work
Issue 35 Research Horizons - Spotlight: Artificial intelligence
Issue 34 Research Horizons - Spotlight: Material culture
Issue 33 Research Horizons - Spotlight: Future therapeutics
Issue 32 Research Horizons - Spotlight: Africa
Issue 31 Research Horizons - Spotlight: Digital Society
Issue 30 Research Horizons - Spotlight: Future of cities
Issue 29 Research Horizons - Spotlight: Neuroscience
Issue 28 Research Horizons - Spotlight: India
Issue 27 Research Horizons - Spotlight: Big data
Issue 26 Research Horizons - Spotlight: Imaging
Issue 25 Research Horizons - Spotlight: Stem cells
Issue 24 Research Horizons - Spotlight: Advanced materials
Issue 23 Research Horizons - Spotlight: Migration
Issue 22 Research Horizons - Spotlight: Sustainability & the environment
Issue 21 Research Horizons - Spotlight: Digital humanities
Issue 20 Research Horizons - Spotlight: Infectious diseases
Issue 19 Research Horizons - Spotlight: Risk and Uncertainty
Issue 18 Research Horizons - Spotlight: Public Health
Issue 17 Research Horizons - Spotlight: Biodiversity conservation
Issue 16 Research Horizons - Spotlight: Language sciences
Issue 15 Research Horizons - Spotlight: Food security
Issue 14 Research Horizons - Spotlight: The world in Cambridge
Issue 13 Research Horizons - Spotlight: International development
Issue 12 Research Horizons - Spotlight: Building the future
Issue 11 Research Horizons - Spotlight: Cancer
Issue 10 Research Horizons - Spotlight: Energy & Environment
Issue 09 Research Horizons - Spotlight: Darwin
Issue 08 Research Horizons - Spotlight: Reproductive Health
Issue 07 Research Horizons - Spotlight: Bioengineering and Materials
Issue 06 Research Horizons - Spotlight: China
Issue 05 Research Horizons - Spotlight: The Thinking Machine?
Issue 04 Research Horizons - Spotlight: Energy in Cities and Ageing in the 21st century
Issue 03 Research Horizons - Spotlight: Foodomics
Issue 02 Research Horizons - Spotlight: Novel sensor technologies and applications
Issue 01 Research Horizons - Spotlight: Neuroscience
Download issue 40 (PDF)

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research/research-at-cambridge/energy-sector-partnerships:
Carefully chosen partnerships with energy sector companies allow academics to achieve impact at scale and help the University to fulfil its mission to contribute to society through the pursuit of research at the highest international standards of excellence.
In 2024 the University’s Council approved a policy relating to funding from fossil fuel companies.
Decision-making on such funding sits with the University’s Committee on Benefactions and Legal and External Affairs.
Under the policy, the University will not accept research or philanthropic funding from fossil fuel companies whose business models do not align with net zero 2050 targets, unless there are exceptional circumstances.
You can read the full policy on the Reporter .
No funding has been approved since the new process came into force.
We want to be transparent about these partnerships and so on this page we describe:
In October 2020, the University adopted guidelines for decision-making on accepting research funding and donations in relation to its commitment to address climate change through a transition to a zero-carbon world.
This enhanced what was already a rigorous due diligence process.
Since October 2020, all new funding has been subject to climate-specific due diligence and scrutiny, including funding from the energy sector.
In June 2021, the University created an enhanced set of criteria for energy companies.
These include a RED AMBER GREEN (RAG) scale , which is applied to energy firms to determine their alignment with the University’s climate change guidelines, and a written assessment from non-conflicted experts on whether the purpose of the proposed collaboration contributes meaningfully to the energy transition.
The RAG categories are summarised as follows:
Since the introduction of these new guidelines, the University has only accepted funding from energy companies where it was sure that the resulting collaboration would help the industry and UK and global society move to renewable or decarbonised energy.
University of Cambridge academics are working with Shell on the use of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to advance gas-to-liquids (GTL) technologies.
The research will help better understand the fundamental chemistry and physics of the conversion processes.
GTL technology has been used recently by Shell to create sustainably produced synthetic fuel (kerosene) from CO2, water and renewable energy.
This has been used to partly fuel an international flight by a passenger jet – a world first.
This pilot project produced a small amount of fuel.
However, steps to increase synthetic aviation fuel (SAF) production represent incremental innovation in the sector and are one of a range of technologies being explored to deliver zero-carbon aviation.
In recent years, staff working with traditional energy companies led a strategic shift away from research on fossil fuel extraction and towards sustainable energy resources and new green technologies, even before the University adopted central guidelines.
Although, historically, there are some legacy oil and gas projects, over time an increasing proportion have focused on developing next-generation power and heating systems and carbon capture and storage.
The processes put in place in October 2020 ensure that our academic-led strategic shift is now permanent.
These tables disclose funding from companies that have major fossil fuel activities and that have contributed more than a cumulative total of £1M over the last three years.
The first table shows research funding by project.
While the University primarily conducts fundamental research, the column on the right of the table discloses the expected potential application of the research.
The second table presents non-prescriptive donations by intended gift destination.
Gifts donated for research are used by Cambridge academics to make advances on sustainability goals.
Award Date
Award band
Project start year
Project end year
Funder Name
Project title
Potential application of the research
24/04/2021
£10K - £49K
2021
2025
BP
Optimisation of EV battery charging 2
Green technologies
£250K - £499K
Optimisation of EV battery charging 1
25/02/2021
2024
Shell
Developing electrolytes in cost-effective batteries for large scale energy storage (redox flow batteries) 2
21/01/2021
£1M - £2.4M
2020
2023
Developing cost-effective batteries for large scale energy storage (redox flow batteries)
21/12/2020
Developing catholytes in cost-effective batteries for large scale energy storage (redox flow batteries) 1
17/12/2020
£100K - £249K
Improving energy efficiency in heating and ventilating convenience stores
Hydrogen storage in the subsurface for long term energy storage
Understanding the effect of geological strata variations for permanently storing carbon underground
Understanding the effect of geological structure (faults and fractures) variations for permanently storing carbon underground
Comparative modelling of alternative systems to use geothermal energy
04/12/2020
Developing membranes in cost-effective batteries for large scale energy storage (redox flow batteries)
16/11/2020
Using chemical methods to remove and recycle heavy metals from waste water
07/09/2020
Sustainable and resource efficient design of batteries
21/04/2020
2018
Support for the Centre for Doctoral Training in Data Intensive Science
02/10/2019
2019
2028
Contribution to the EPSRC Centre for Doctoral Training in Future Infrastructure and Built Environment: Resilience in a Changing World (FIBE2 CDT).
BP contributes to the projects: - District energy system optimisation under uncertainty - Digitising industrial facilities - Prioritising interventions in infrastructure design and operations for lower carbon energy assets - Remote sensing for the monitoring of dynamic behaviour impacting sustainable development
13/08/2019
2018 top-up to a project that started in 2016
The effects of additives (such as in drilling fluids) on rock permeability and rock strength
Potential fossil fuel applications
13/11/2018
Studies of anti-wear additives to engine oil
Dual use or transitional technologies (E.g.
reducing carbon intensity of fossil fuel applications)
23/10/2018
Developing materials to efficiently separate methane from higher hydrocarbons.
17/09/2018
£500K - £749K
2022
Fundamental studies of the deep Earth, particularly how the crust and the mantle interact
07/08/2018
2017
Developing molecules to produce new cost-effective batteries (sodium ion batteries)
02/07/2018
Materials studies to produce new cost-effective batteries (sodium ion batteries)
08/02/2018
Novel chemical methods to protect steel surfaces
02/02/2018
Improving digital methods to scan buildings, optimising construction and maintenance
01/02/2018
Studies of interaction between oil and rock at the molecular scale
12/12/2017
2016
Fundamental molecular studies of hydorcarbons
Using advanced imaging techniques to improve chemical processes, especially to produce low carbon fuels.
01/12/2017
Developing chemical methods to protect infrastructure surfaces in demanding environments, such as offshore windfarms or oil rigs.
This would reduce the cost and environmental impact of frequent maintenance
22/09/2017
Advancing methods to develop new cost-effective batteries (sodium ion batteries)
03/08/2017
£50K - £99K
Using machine learning to understand the physical properties of hydrocarbons to improve lubricants
27/07/2017
Investigating chemical mechanisms for enhanced oil recovery
<£10K
Using data mining to automate chemical process selection
25/05/2017
Sequestration of carbon dioxide in the subsurface
05/04/2017
Understanding fuel degradation in combustion engines to reduce emissions
08/11/2016
Developing Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) techniques to understand how gases and liquids flow through model porous media and rocks
01/11/2016
Understanding how fluids (including oil) interact with and flow over different mineral surfaces
07/09/2016
Understanding how different fluids interact at mineral surfaces and how they interact with the mineral surfaces
* All data is taken at a snapshot in time and will be updated periodically.
* Award date column shows the date the funding is received by the University.
The review process and approval of funding took place prior to the award date.
* Table discloses funding data from traditional energy sector firms that have given more than £1M in funding over the last three years.
Gift Date
Gift Band
Donor Name
Gift destination
17/08/2020
Miscellaneous, e.g.
student prizes, student support, unrestricted department support, etc
06/11/2019
£5M - £7.4M
Support for the Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) research
03/10/2018 - 08/08/2019
11/04/2019
£1M - £4.9M
BP Institute Trust Fund: support for a new digital laboratory
26/02/2019
13/03/2018
24/11/2017
21/04/2017
13/12/2016 - 08/03/2017
Support for the Magnetic Resonance Imaging Research Centre (Core Infrastructure)
*All data is taken at a snapshot in time and will be updated periodically.
* Table discloses funding data from traditional energy sector firms that have given more than £1M in funding over the last three years.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research/impact:
From the Arctic to Zambia, explore how research carried out by Cambridge and its partners is having a positive impact around the world.
Or take a closer look at some of the ways that our research benefits the UK – locally, regionally and nationally.
Use the plus (+) or minus (-) keys to zoom and arrow keys or drag to move the map.
Hover over dots to see the number of examples featured for each country, and click to view.
Research with impact in more than 70 countries is listed under worldwide.
Browse our latest news and features
Helping more women survive complications of birth at one of the world’s busiest maternity hospitals.
Tracking the worldwide spread of coronavirus variants at the UK’s SARS-CoV-2 genomics capability.
Highlighting the threat of global sea level rise using custom-built drones flown over the Greenland Ice Sheet.
Improving the design of millions of new houses being built for former slum-dwellers in India.
Uncovering the secrets of meerkat society in an unprecedented thirty-year-study.
Revealing astonishing archaeological details of an entire Roman city in Italy – without any digging.
Combatting coronavirus conspiracy theories and misinformation, using a new online game, in a bid to save lives.
Discovering a revolutionary DNA sequencing technology that has phenomenal benefits to society.
Keep up to date with the University’s latest news, features, podcasts and videos with our email newsletter, the Cambridge Digest.
Confirm you’re happy to receive our emails, enter your email address and then select ‘Subscribe’.
The University of Cambridge will use your email address to send you our Cambridge Digest newsletter up to three times weekly.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research/news/cambridge-to-host-cutting-edge-total-body-pet-scanner-as-part-of-nationwide-imaging-platform:
This is an exciting new technology that will transform our ability to answer important questions about how diseases arise and to search for and develop new treatments
The scanner, funded through a £5.5m investment from the UKRI Medical Research Council (MRC), will form part of the National PET Imaging Platform (NPIP), the UK’s first-of-its-kind national total-body PET imaging platform for drug discovery and clinical research.
Positron emission tomography (PET) is a powerful technology for imaging living tissues and organs down to the molecular level in humans.
It can be used to investigate how diseases arise and progress and to detect and diagnose diseases at an early stage.
Total-body PET scanners are more sensitive than existing technology and so can provide new insights into anatomy that have never been seen before, improving detection, diagnosis and treatment of complex, multi-organ diseases.
Current PET technology is less sensitive and requires the patient to be repositioned multiple times to achieve a full-body field of view.
Total-body PET scans can achieve this in one session and are quicker, exposing patients to considerably lower doses of radiation.
This means more patients, including children, can participate in clinical research and trials to improve our understanding of diseases.
Supplied by Siemens Healthineers, the scanner will also be the focus of the ANGLIA network, comprising three universities, each paired with one or more local NHS trusts: the University of Cambridge and Cambridge University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust; UCL and University College London Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust; and the University of Sheffield with Sheffield Teaching Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust.
The network, supported by UKRI, is partnered with biotech company Altos Labs and pharmaceutical company AstraZeneca, both with R&D headquarters in Cambridge, and Alliance Medical, a leading provider of diagnostic imaging.
Franklin Aigbirhio, Professor of Molecular Imaging Chemistry at the University of Cambridge, will lead the ANGLIA network.
He said: “This is an exciting new technology that will transform our ability to answer important questions about how diseases arise and to search for and develop new treatments that will ultimately benefit not just our patients, but those across the UK and beyond.
“But this is more than just a research tool.
It will also help us diagnose and treat diseases at an even earlier stage, particularly in children, for whom repeated investigations using standard PET scanners were not an option.”
The scanner will be located in Addenbrooke’s Hospital, Cambridge, supported by the National Institute for Health and Care Research (NIHR) Cambridge Biomedical Research Centre, ensuring that the discoveries and breakthroughs it enables can be turned rapidly into benefits to patients.
It will expand NHS access to PET services, particularly in underserved areas across the East of England, and support more inclusive trial participation.
Patrick Maxwell, Regius Professor of Physic and Head of the School of Clinical Medicine at the University of Cambridge, said: “The ANGLIA network, centred on the Cambridge Biomedical Campus and with collaborations across the wider University and its partners, will drive innovations in many areas of this key imaging technology, such as new radiopharmaceuticals and application of AI to data analysis, that will bring benefits to patients far beyond its immediate reach.
Its expertise will help build the next generation of PET scientists, as well as enabling partners in industry to use PET to speed up the development of new drugs.”
Roland Sinker, Chief Executive of Cambridge University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, which runs Addenbrooke’s Hospital, said: “I am pleased that our patients will be some of the first to benefit from this groundbreaking technology.
Harnessing the latest technologies and enabling more people to benefit from the latest research is a vital part of our work at CUH and is crucial to the future of the NHS.
“By locating this scanner at Addenbrooke’s we are ensuring that it can be uniquely used to deliver wide ranging scientific advances across academia and industry, as well as improving the lives of patients.”
It is anticipated that the scanner will be installed by autumn 2026.
Professor Franklin Aigbirhio
The co-location of the total-body PET scanner with existing facilities and integration with systems at the University of Cambridge and Addenbrooke’s Hospital will also enhance training and research capacity, particularly for early-career researchers and underrepresented groups.
The ANGLIA network will provide opportunities to support and train more by people from Black and other minority ethnic backgrounds to participate in PET chemistry and imaging.
The University of Cambridge will support a dedicated fellowship scheme, capacity and capability training in key areas, and strengthen the network partnership with joint projects and exchange visits.
Professor Aigbirhio, who is also co-chair of the UKRI MRC’s Black in Biomedical Research Advisory Group, added: “Traditionally, scientists from Black and other minority ethnic backgrounds are under-represented in the field of medical imaging.
We aim to use our network to change this, providing fellowship opportunities and training targeted at members of these communities.”
Funded by UKRI’s Infrastructure Fund, and delivered by a partnership between Medicines Discovery Catapult, MRC and Innovate UK, NPIP provides a critical clinical infrastructure of scanners, creating a nationwide network for data sharing, discovery and innovation.
It allows clinicians, industry and researchers to collaborate on an international scale to accelerate patient diagnosis, treatment and clinical trials.
The MRC funding for the Cambridge scanner will support the existing UKRI Infrastructure Fund investment for NPIP and enables the University to establish a total-body PET facility.
Dr Ceri Williams, Executive Director of Challenge-Led Themes at MRC said: “MRC is delighted to augment the funding for NPIP to provide an additional scanner for Cambridge in line with the original recommendations of the funding panel.
This additional machine will broaden the geographic reach of the platform, providing better access for patients from East Anglia and the Midlands, and enable research to drive innovation in imaging, detection, and diagnosis, alongside supporting partnership with industry to drive improvements and efficiency for the NHS.”
Dr Juliana Maynard, Director of Operations and Engagement for the National PET Imaging Platform, said: “We are delighted to welcome the University of Cambridge as the latest partner of NPIP, expanding our game-changing national imaging infrastructure to benefit even more researchers, clinicians, industry partners and, importantly, patients.
“Once operational, the scanner will contribute to NPIP’s connected network of data, which will improve diagnosis and aid researchers’ understanding of diseases, unlocking more opportunities for drug discovery and development.
By fostering collaboration on this scale, NPIP helps accelerate disease diagnosis, treatment, and clinical trials, ultimately leading to improved outcomes for patients."
Siemens Healthineers Biograph Vision Quadra Total-Body PET Scanner
Credit: Siemens Healthineers

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research/news/artificial-heart-valve-found-to-be-safe-following-long-term-test-in-animals:
A research team, led by the Universities of Bristol and Cambridge, demonstrated that the polymer material used to make the artificial heart valve is safe following a six-month test in sheep.
Currently, the 1.5 million patients who need heart valve replacements each year face trade-offs.
Mechanical heart valves are durable but require lifelong blood thinners due to a high risk of blood clots, whereas biological valves, made from animal tissue, typically last between eight to 10 years before needing replacement.
The artificial heart valve developed by the researchers is made from SEBS (styrene-block-ethylene/butyleneblock-styrene) – a type of plastic that has excellent durability but does not require blood thinners – and potentially offers the best of both worlds.
However, further testing is required before it can be tested in humans.
In their study, published in the European Journal of Cardio-Thoracic Surgery, the researchers tested a prototype SEBS heart valve in a preclinical sheep model that mimicked how these valves might perform in humans.
The animals were monitored over six months to examine potential long-term safety issues associated with the plastic material.
At the end of the study, the researchers found no evidence of harmful calcification (mineral buildup) or material deterioration, blood clotting or signs of cell toxicity.
Animal health, wellbeing, blood tests and weight were all stable and normal, and the prototype valve functioned well throughout the testing period, with no need for blood thinners.
“More than 35 million patients’ heart valves are permanently damaged by rheumatic fever, and with an ageing population, this figure is predicted to increase four to five times by 2050,” said Professor Raimondo Ascione from the University of Bristol, the study’s clinical lead.
“Our findings could mark the beginning of a new era for artificial heart valves: one that may offer safer, more durable and more patient-friendly options for patients of all ages, with fewer compromises.”
“We are pleased that the new plastic material has been shown to be safe after six months of testing in vivo,” said Professor Geoff Moggridge from Cambridge’s Department of Chemical Engineering and Biotechnology, biomaterial lead on the project.
“Confirming the safety of the material has been an essential and reassuring step for us, and a green light to progress the new heart valve replacement toward bedside testing.”
The results suggest that artificial heart valves made from SEBS are both durable and do not require the lifelong use of blood thinners.
While the research is still early-stage, the findings help clear a path to future human testing.
The next step will be to develop a clinical-grade version of the SEBS polymer heart valve and test it in a larger preclinical trial before seeking approval for a pilot human clinical trial.
The study was funded by a British Heart Foundation (BHF) grant and supported by a National Institute for Health and Care Research (NIHR) Invention for Innovation (i4i) programme Product Development Awards (PDA) award.
Geoff Moggridge is a Fellow of King's College, Cambridge.
Reference: Raimondo Ascione et al.
‘ Material safety of styrene-block-ethylene/butylene-block-styrene copolymers used for cardiac valves: 6-month in-vivo results from a juvenile sheep model ’.
European Journal of Cardio-Thoracic Surgery (2025).
DOI: 10.1093/ejcts/ezaf266/ejcts-2025-100426
Adapted from a University of Bristol media release.
SEBS polymer artificial heart valve prototype
Credit: Professor Raimondo Ascione, University of Bristol

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/mexico-cave-maya-drought:
By Sarah Collins Published 13 August 2025
‘Dome of the Cathedral’, the largest chamber in the Grutas Tzabnah cave system (Yucatán, Mexico).
Credit: Mark Brenner
A detailed analysis of oxygen isotopes in the stalagmite allowed a team of researchers, led by the University of Cambridge, to determine rainfall levels for individual wet and dry seasons between 871 and 1021 CE, which overlaps with the Terminal Classic period of Maya civilisation.
This is the first time it has been possible to isolate rainfall conditions for individual wet and dry seasons during the Terminal Classic, the time of societal decline historically referred to as the Maya collapse.
During the Terminal Classic, limestone Maya cities in the south were abandoned and dynasties were ended, as one of the ancient world’s great civilisations shifted north and lost much of its political and economic power.
The data contained within the stalagmite, from a cave in the Yucatán, showed there were eight wet-season droughts that lasted for at least three years during this period, with the longest drought lasting for 13 consecutive years.
This climate data aligns with existing historical and archaeological evidence: construction of monuments and political activity at several major northern Maya sites, including the famous city of Chichén Itzá, stopped at different times during this period of climate stress.
The accurately and precisely dated droughts provide a new framework for fine-grained analysis of the timing and dynamics of human-climate interactions in the region.
The research team at the Maya site of Labna in the Puuc region (Yucatán, Mexico).
“This period in Maya history has been a cause of fascination for centuries,” said lead author Dr Daniel H.
James, who conducted the research while a PhD student at Cambridge’s Department of Earth Sciences.
“There have been multiple theories as to what caused the collapse, such as changing trade routes, war or severe drought, based on the archaeological evidence the Maya left behind.
But in the past few decades, we’ve started to learn quite a lot about what happened to the Maya and why, by combining the archaeological data with quantifiable climate evidence.”
Starting in the 1990s, researchers began to piece together climate records with those left by the Maya, such as the dates they recorded on key monuments, to show that a series of droughts during the Terminal Classic was a likely contributor to the massive socio-political upheaval in Maya society.
Now, James and his co-authors from the UK, US and Mexico have used the chemical fingerprints contained in stalagmites from a cave in the northern Yucatán to bring those droughts into much sharper focus.
Stalagmites form when water drips from the ceiling of a cave, and the minerals contained in the water grow into large deposits on the cave floor.
By dating and analysing the layers of oxygen isotopes within the stalagmite, the researchers extracted highly detailed information about the climate in the Terminal Classic period.
Earlier research has measured the oxygen isotopes contained in lake sediment to determine the severity of drought, but lake sediment does not contain enough detail to pinpoint climate conditions in any given year at a particular site.
“It hasn’t been possible to directly compare the history of individual Maya sites with what we previously knew about the climate record,” said James, who is now a postdoctoral researcher at University College London (UCL).
“Lake sediment is great when you want to look at the big picture, but stalagmites allow us to access the fine-grained detail that we’ve been missing.”
Earlier research on stalagmites has determined annual average rainfall amounts during the Terminal Classic, but the Cambridge-led team have now been able to go further, and isolate information from individual wet and dry seasons, thanks to relatively thick (about 1mm) annual layers in the stalagmite used in this study.
The specific oxygen isotopes in each layer are a proxy for wet-season drought.
Daniel H.
James installs a drip rate monitor in Grutas Tzabnah (Yucatán, Mexico).
Credit: Sebastian Breitenbach
“Knowing the annual average rainfall doesn’t tell you as much as knowing what each individual wet season was like,” said James.
“Being able to isolate the wet season allows us to accurately track the duration of wet season drought, which is what determines if crops succeed or fail.”
According to the information contained in the stalagmite, there were eight wet-season droughts lasting for at least three years between 871 and 1021 CE.
The longest drought of the period lasted for 13 years.
Even with the water management techniques that the Maya had, a drought that long would have had major impacts on society.
The climate information contained in the stalagmite lines up with the dates inscribed by the Maya on their monuments.
In periods of prolonged and severe drought, date inscription at sites such as Chichén Itzá stopped entirely.
El Castillo, or Kulkulcan Pyramid, Chichén Itzá .
“This doesn’t necessarily mean that the Maya abandoned Chichén Itzá during these periods of severe drought, but it’s likely that they had more immediate things to worry about than constructing monuments, such as whether the crops they relied on would succeed or not,” said James.
The researchers say that stalagmites from this and other caves in the region could be vital in putting the puzzle of the Terminal Classic period together.
“In addition to what stalagmites can tell us about this period in Maya history, they might also be able to tell us about the frequency and severity of tropical storms, for instance,” said James.
“As a case study for fine-grained comparisons between climate and historical data, it’s exciting being able to apply methods usually associated with the deeper past to relatively recent history.”
The research was supported in part by the National Geographic Society and the Leverhulme Trust.
Reference: Daniel H.
James et al.
‘ Classic Maya response to multiyear seasonal droughts in Northwest Yucatán, Mexico .’ Science Advances (2025).
DOI: 10.1126/sciadv.adw7661
Image credits (top-bottom): 1.
‘Dome of the Cathedral’, the largest chamber in Grutas Tzabnah (Yucatán, Mexico).
Credit: Mark Brenner 2.
The research team at the Maya site of Labna in the Puuc region (Yucatán, Mexico), which was most likely abandoned during the Terminal Classic.
James installs a drip rate monitor in Grutas Tzabnah (Yucatán, Mexico) as part of the wider cave monitoring campaign.
Credit: Sebastian Breitenbach 4.
Credit: CHeitz The text in this work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research/news/glowing-algae-reveal-the-geometry-of-life:
In a study published in the journal Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences (PNAS ) , a team of British and German scientists revealed the structure of the extracellular matrix in Volvox carteri, a type of green algae that is often used to study how multicellular organisms evolved from single-celled ancestors.
The extracellular matrix (ECM) is a scaffold-like material that surrounds cells, providing physical support, influencing shape, and playing an important role in development and signalling.
Found in animals, plants, fungi and algae, it also played a vital part in the transition from unicellular to multicellular life.
Because the ECM exists outside the cells that produce it, scientists believe it forms through self-assembly: a process still not fully understood, even in the simplest organisms.
To investigate, researchers at the University of Bielefeld genetically engineered a strain of Volvox in which a key ECM protein called pherophorin II was made fluorescent so the matrix’s structure could be clearly seen under a microscope.
What they saw was an intricate foam-like network of rounded compartments that wrapped around each of Volvox’s roughly 2,000 somatic, or non-reproductive, cells.
Working with mathematicians at the University of Cambridge, the team used machine learning to quantify the geometry of these compartments.
The data revealed a stochastic, or randomly influenced, growth pattern that shares similarities with the way foams expand when hydrated.
These shapes followed a statistical pattern that also appears in materials like grains and emulsions, and in biological tissues.
The findings suggest that while individual cells produce ECM proteins at uneven rates, the overall organism maintains a regular, spherical form.
That coexistence – between noisy behaviour at the level of single cells and precise geometry at the level of the whole organism – raises new questions about how multicellular life manages to build reliable forms from unreliable parts.
“Our results provide quantitative information relating to a fundamental question in developmental biology: how do cells make structures external to themselves in a robust and accurate manner,” said Professor Raymond E Goldstein from Cambridge’s Department of Applied Mathematics and Theoretical Physics, who co-led the research.
“It also shows the exciting results we can achieve when biologists, physicists and mathematicians work together on understanding the mysteries of life.”
“By tracking a single structural protein, we gained insight into the principles behind the self-organisation of the extracellular matrix,” said Professor Armin Hallmann from the University of Bielefeld, who co-led the research.
“Its geometry gives us a meaningful readout of how the organism develops as it grows.”
The research was carried out by postdoctoral researchers Dr Benjamin von der Heyde and Dr Eva Laura von der Heyde and Hallmann in Bielefeld, working with Cambridge PhD student Anand Srinivasan, postdoctoral researcher Dr Sumit Kumar Birwa, Senior Research Associate Dr Steph Höhn and Goldstein, the Alan Turing Professor of Complex Physical Systems in Cambridge’s Department of Applied Mathematics and Theoretical Physics.
The project was supported in part by Wellcome and the John Templeton Foundation.
Raymond Goldstein is a Fellow of Churchill College, Cambridge.
Reference: B von der Heyde, A Srinivasan et al.
‘ Spatiotemporal distribution of the glycoprotein pherophorin II reveals stochastic geometry of the growing ECM of Volvox carteri ,’ Proceedings of the National Academy of Science (2025).
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2425759122
Volvox.
The isolated magenta circles are individual somatic cells, surrounded by green compartments, while the larger magenta circles are daughter spheroids
Credit: von der Hyde et al.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/colleges-and-departments/department-a-z:
The University of Cambridge has more than 100 Departments, Faculties and institutes.
If you are looking for information about a specific Department, you can find links to their web pages below.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/colleges-and-departments/college-a-z:
The University of Cambridge has 31 Colleges.
All undergraduate students at Cambridge join a College where they live, eat and socialise.
The Colleges provide academic and pastoral support to undergraduates and postgraduates.
Each College maintains its own information on the web.
All are represented in the Undergraduate Admissions and the Postgraduate Admissions web pages.
The undergraduate Open Days calendar covers all open days for future undergraduates, in both Colleges and Departments.
The postgraduate Open Days are listed separately.
(founded 1505)
St Andrew's Street, Cambridge CB2 3BU (Open in University map)
Visit the Christ's College website
(founded 1960)
Storey's Way, Cambridge CB3 0DS (Open in University map)
Visit the Churchill College website
(founded 1326)
Trinity Lane, Cambridge CB2 1TL (Open in University map)
Visit the Clare College website
(founded 1965)
Herschel Road, Cambridge CB3 9AL (Open in University map)
Visit the Clare Hall website
(founded 1352)
Trumpington Street, Cambridge CB2 1RH (Open in University map)
Visit the Corpus Christi College website
(founded 1964)
Silver Street, Cambridge CB3 9EU (Open in University map)
Visit the Darwin College website
(founded 1800)
Regent Street, Cambridge CB2 1DQ (Open in University map)
Visit the Downing College website
(founded 1584)
St Andrew's Street, Cambridge CB2 3AP (Open in University map)
Visit the Emmanuel College website
(founded 1869)
Storey's Way, Cambridge CB3 0DG (Open in University map)
Visit the Fitzwilliam College website
Huntingdon Road, Cambridge CB3 0JG (Open in University map)
Visit the Girton College website
(founded 1348)
Trinity Street, Cambridge CB2 1TA (Open in University map)
Visit the Gonville & Caius College website
(founded 1768)
Hills Road, Cambridge CB2 8PH (Open in University map)
Visit the Homerton College website
(founded 1885)
Mortimer Road, Cambridge CB1 2EW (Open in University map)
Visit the Hughes Hall website
(founded 1496)
Jesus Lane, Cambridge CB5 8BL (Open in University map)
Visit the Jesus College website
(founded 1441)
King's Parade, Cambridge CB2 1ST (Open in University map)
Visit the King's College College website
Lady Margaret Road, Cambridge CB3 0BU (Open in University map)
Visit the Lucy Cavendish College website
(founded 1428)
Magdalene Street, Cambridge CB3 0AG (Open in University map)
Visit the Magdalene College website
(founded 1954, formerly New Hall)
Huntingdon Road, Cambridge CB3 0DF (Open in University map)
Visit the Murray Edwards College website
(founded 1871)
Sidgwick Avenue, Cambridge CB3 9DF (Open in University map)
Visit the Newnham College website
(founded 1347)
Trumpington Street, Cambridge CB2 1RF (Open in University map)
Visit the Pembroke College website
(founded 1284)
Trumpington Street, Cambridge CB2 1RD (Open in University map)
Visit the Peterhouse website
(founded 1448)
Silver Street, Cambridge CB3 9ET (Open in University map)
Visit the Queens' College website
(founded 1979)
Grange Road, Cambridge CB3 9AN (Open in University map)
Visit the Robinson College website
(founded 1882)
Grange Road, Cambridge CB3 9DQ (Open in University map)
Visit the Selwyn College website
(founded 1596)
Sidney Street, Cambridge CB2 3HU (Open in University map)
Visit the Sidney College website
(founded 1473)
Trumpington Street, Cambridge CB2 1RL (Open in University map)
Visit the St Catharine's College website
(founded 1896)
Mount Pleasant, Cambridge CB3 0BN (Open in University map)
Visit the St Edmund's College website
(founded 1511)
St John's Street, Cambridge CB2 1TP (Open in University map)
Visit the St John's College website
(founded 1546)
Trinity Street, Cambridge CB2 1TQ (Open in University map)
Visit the Trinity College website
(founded 1350)
Trinity Lane, Cambridge CB2 1TJ (Open in University map)
Visit the Trinity Hall website
Barton Road, Cambridge CB3 9BB (Open in University map)
Visit the Wolfson College website

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/about-the-university/cambridge-at-a-glance:
The University of Cambridge was founded in 1209.
Cambridge is the fourth-oldest university in the world.
Hinc lucem et pocula sacra
(From this place, we gain enlightenment and precious knowledge).
Undergraduates : 12,910
Postgraduates: 12,010
Total students: 24,912 ( 2024-2025 figures )
13,113 members of staff employed in academic, academic-related, contract research, technical and administrative roles.
As of December 2024, Cambridge had more than 333,629 living alumni, with significant numbers in the UK, the USA, Germany, Canada, Australia, the People's Republic of China, France, Hong Kong SAR, Singapore, India, Switzerland and Italy.
The University is made up of 31 constituent Colleges.
21,445 people applied for around 4,550 undergraduate places in 2023 .
Over 70% of our UK applicants came from state schools.
Chancellor: The Lord Sainsbury of Turville
Vice-Chancellor: Professor Deborah Prentice ​​
Among our alumni and affiliates we have 125 Nobel Prize Laureates , 47 Heads of State, 217 Olympic medallists.
91% of working graduates from Cambridge are in high-skilled employment (Graduate Outcomes Survey 2021/22).
Cambridge is a globally diverse institution.
Our students come from 142 different countries .
Our researchers collaborate with colleagues worldwide.
The University has established partnerships in Asia, Africa, the Americas and Europe.
Find out more about our global partnerships
The University of Cambridge sits at the heart of one of the world’s largest technology clusters.
The Cambridge cluster is home to over 5,000 knowledge-intensive companies.
It is the birthplace of 24 businesses valued at more than $1 billion (£800 million).
Cambridge promotes the interface between academia and business, and has a global reputation for innovation.
Explore our overview of operations of the University of Cambridge

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/about-the-university/how-the-university-and-colleges-work/people:
Academic, research and professional services staff work throughout the University and Colleges.
They are crucial to the University’s success and reputation.
For the day-to-day management of the University, there is a central senior administrative team.
The Chancellor of the University is The Right Honourable Lord Smith of Finsbury.
The Chancellor is elected by the Senate, for a non-renewable term of ten years, as the formal and ceremonial head of the University.
In modern times, the main public role is now largely ceremonial, but this represents only a small aspect of their continuous involvement with the University.
In the UK university system, the office of Chancellor is held by a distinguished individual, from academia or public life.
They are not usually resident and do not hold any other University office.
The Chancellor of the University of Cambridge is elected by the Senate.
The Chancellor has various responsibilities under the Statutes of the University.
They have powers to ensure University officers 'duly perform their duties'.
They are responsible for adjudicating in certain disputes.
The statutes of several Cambridge Colleges make the Chancellor their Visitor, ex officio.
The Chancellor also presides at major ceremonies.
The best known being the annual ceremony for the conferment of Honorary Degrees .
The Vice-Chancellor is Professor Deborah Prentice.
The Vice-Chancellor is the main academic and administrative officer of the University.
They are appointed for a period of up to 7 years.
They chair the Council of the University, the General Board of the Faculties and the Finance Committee of the Council.
Among the main tasks of the Vice-Chancellor are to:
Five Pro-Vice-Chancellors are appointed to support the Vice-Chancellor.
The Vice-Chancellor and the University Council determine their responsibilities.
These responsibilities currently include planning and resources, research and education.
The office of Pro-Vice-Chancellor is limited to 6 years.
The Registrary is the principal administrative officer of the University.
They are Head of the Unified Administrative Services and Secretary of the University Council.
The Registrary reports to the Vice-Chancellor.
They are responsible for ensuring the University's business is properly conducted.
Two Proctors are elected annually on the nomination of the Colleges.
They are primarily disciplinary and ceremonial officers.
They are responsible for maintaining good order in the University.
Four Pro-Proctors support the Proctors.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/about-the-university/how-the-university-and-colleges-work/people/chancellor:
The Chancellor of the University of Cambridge is The Right Honourable Chris Smith, Lord Smith of Finsbury.
The Senate elected Lord Smith in July 2025 .
Lord Smith has been the Master of Pembroke since 2015 and stepped down at the end of July 2025.
He is a former Secretary of State for Culture, Media and Sport, and later Chairman of the Environment Agency.
Born in 1951, Lord Smith was educated in Edinburgh and then Pembroke College, Cambridge, achieving a double first in English (and later a PhD on Wordsworth and Coleridge) and was also a Kennedy Scholar at Harvard.
He began his political career as a Labour Councillor for the London Borough of Islington, becoming MP for Islington South and Finsbury in 1983.
In 1992 he joined the Shadow Cabinet and held a number of frontbench posts before Labour came to power in 1997.
He served as Secretary of State for Culture, Media and Sport until 2001 when he returned to the back benches, standing down from the Commons in 2005.
Immediately afterwards he was made a life peer.
He chaired the Environment Agency from 2008 to 2014; from 2007 to 2017 he was also Chairman of the Advertising Standards Authority.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/about-the-university/how-the-university-and-colleges-work/people/vice-chancellor:
Professor Deborah Prentice became the University of Cambridge’s 347th Vice-Chancellor on 1 July 2023.
An eminent psychologist, Professor Prentice carried out her academic and administrative career at Princeton University, which she first joined in 1988.
At Princeton, she served for twelve years as Head of the Department of Psychology, three years as Dean of the Faculty, and six years as Provost, with primary responsibility for all academic, budgetary, and long-term planning issues.
She was also the Alexander Stewart 1886 Professor of Psychology and Public Affairs and taught in both the psychology department and the policy school.
Her academic expertise is in the study of social norms and specifically how norms function as inhibitors and facilitators of behaviour change.
She continues to lecture on this topic in Cambridge and elsewhere.
As Vice-Chancellor, Professor Prentice serves on the boards of Cambridge University Health Partners, Cambridge Ahead, and the Russell Group, among others.
She chairs the University Council, and represents the University on several international bodies, including the League of European Research Universities and the International Alliance of Research Universities.
Professor Prentice did her first degree in Human Biology and Music at Stanford University and her PhD in Psychology at Yale University.
The University Council nominated Professor Prentice for appointment as Vice-Chancellor in September 2022, and her appointment was subsequently approved by the Regent House.
The Vice-Chancellor is the principal academic and administrative officer of the University.
The main tasks of the Vice-Chancellor are to:
Correspondence Secretary to the Vice-Chancellor
Executive Assistant to the Head of the Vice-Chancellor’s Office
vco.ceremonial@admin.cam.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/about-the-university/how-the-university-and-colleges-work/people/vice-chancellor/former-vice-chancellors:
The role of Vice-Chancellor has evolved throughout the history of the University.
Until 1504, the Statutes of the University required the Chancellor to be resident in Cambridge.
The Vice-Chancellors were appointed as the Chancellor's deputy, to act only in his absence.
In the early 16th century, the Chancellorship became a non-residential position.
The Vice-Chancellorship became an annually elected position.
The Vice-Chancellors were elected from among the Heads of Colleges within the University.
From 1587 to 1992, the post was held concurrently with the headship of a College.
Since 1992, the Vice-Chancellorship is a full-time position.
Vice Chancellors are appointed for a period of at least five years.
They are chosen from an international pool of candidates.
The Vice Chancellor can no longer hold a College Headship or other University post at the same time.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/about-the-university/how-the-university-and-colleges-work/people/vice-chancellor/speeches:
The annual address of the Vice-Chancellor to the University , 1 October 2024
The annual address of the Vice-Chancellor to the University , 2 October 2023
Inaugural address , 5 July 2023
The annual address of the Vice-Chancellor to the University , 1 October 2022
University matters?
The University of Cambridge in an increasingly complex world , Homerton College, 8 June 2022
The annual address of the Vice-Chancellor to the University , 1 October 2021
The annual address of the Vice-Chancellor to the University , 1 October 2020
The annual address of the Vice-Chancellor to the University , 1 October 2019
The role of Universities as dynamic catalysts for change , Cambridge Conservation Research Institute, 30 May 2019
Keynote address , Peking University, China, 24 March 2019
The role of universities in fostering social change , CCI Seminar, Cambridge, 6 March 2019
Keynote address , Ashoka University, India, 13 February 2019
Making the case for universities: how do we best tell our story?
Council for the Defence of British Universities, 31 January 2019
Speech at Let’s Talk About Race event , 17 October 2018
The annual address of the Vice-Chancellor to the University , 1 October 2018
Keynote address , Aga Khan Centre, London, 29 September 2018
Knowledge capital and development for all , China Development Forum, 24 March 2018
Inaugural speech , 2 October 2017
“Putting new wine into old bottles”, Vice-Chancellor’s farewell reception, 3 July 2017
The Cambridge of Tomorrow , Inaugural Kate Pretty Lecture, 17 Feb 2017
Response to 4 October 2016 Nature editorial , 11 October 2016
A global community , the annual address of the Vice-Chancellor to the University, 1 October 2016
Contributing to society: excellence, trust and the public good , Keynote address to the Times Higher Education World Academic Summit, University of California, 27 September 2016, Berkeley
Global collaboration in the face of global challenges , Speech by Vice-Chancellor of the University of Cambridge Indian Institute of Science, 16 September 2016
Closing Ceremony , College of Europe, Natolin Campus, Warsaw Fryderyk Chopin Promotion, 2015/16 Academic Year, 16 June 2016
Advancement of Science in Africa Through Education , Opening Remarks, NEF Global Gathering, Dakar, Senegal Plenary Panel 3, “Advancement of Science in Africa Through Education”, 9 March 2016
We are international; but we are European first , Closing keynote address delivered at the International Higher Education Forum 2016, 1 March 2016
Partnership , the annual address of the Vice-Chancellor to the University, 1 October 2015
Keynote address , The International Exhibition and conference on higher education, 16 April 2015
The role and responsibilities of universities in Europe's revival , 13 March 2015
Responsibility , the annual address of the Vice-Chancellor to the University, 1 October 2014
Choices and responsibility , the annual address of the Vice-Chancellor to the University, 1 October 2013
Universities and the poorest billion , Richard Larkins Oration, Monash University, 11 April 2013
The Scale of our Ambition , the annual address of the Vice-Chancellor to the University, 1 October 2012
The research university of the future , League of European Research Universities (LERU) 10th Anniversary Conference, Barcelona, 10 May 2012
The New Imperatives , the annual address of the Vice-Chancellor to the University, 1 October 2011
What can Europe expect of its universities?
, EU Ministerial Conference on the European Research Area, Sopot, Poland, 20 July 2011
Shared Values and Visions , Inaugural address to the University, 1 October 2010
Deliberate Diversity: Cambridge and the UK Higher Education System , Annual Address to the Regent House, 1 October 2009
Masters and Scholars: Cambridge, community, and the evolving role of former students , Annual Address to the Regent House, 1 October 2008
Quality, Talent and Diversity in the UK university system , Speech to open the Universities UK Annual Conference in Cambridge, 10 September 2008
The Distant Fen: Cambridge in the World , Annual Address to the Regent House, 1 October 2007
The Well-educated Undergraduate , Annual Address to the Regent House, 2 October 2006
Public and Private: Universities, Government, and Society , Annual Address to the Regent House, 1 October 2005
High Ambition , Annual address to the Regent House, 1 October 2004
Values, Leadership and Change , Inaugural address to the Regent House, 1 October 2003

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/about-the-university/how-the-university-and-colleges-work/people/pro-vice-chancellors:
There are 5 Pro-Vice-Chancellors at the University of Cambridge.
Their role is to work in partnership with senior administrators to help drive strategy and policy development.
The Pro-Vice-Chancellors also support the Vice-Chancellor in providing academic leadership to the University.
Pro-Vice-Chancellor for Education and Environmental Sustainability
Email address: ProVCEducation@admin.cam.ac.uk
Professor Bhaskar Vira FAcSS is Pro-Vice-Chancellor for Education and Environmental Sustainability, and Professor of Political Economy at the Department of Geography, a Fellow of Fitzwilliam College, and an Honorary Fellow of St John's College.
Pro-Vice-Chancellor for University Community and Engagement
Email address: kamal.munir@admin.cam.ac.uk Telephone: (3)39655
Professor Kamal Munir is Pro-Vice-Chancellor for University Community and Engagement, and Professor of Strategy and Policy.
He is a Fellow of Homerton College, Cambridge and Academic Director of the Centre for Strategic Philanthropy.
Pro-Vice-Chancellor for Innovation
Email address: ProVCInnovation@admin.cam.ac.uk Telephone: (3)39664
Dr Diarmuid O’Brien is the Pro-Vice-Chancellor for Innovation.
He is also a Bye-Fellow at Emmanuel College.
Diarmuid is also acting as the Chief Executive of Cambridge Enterprise.
This company exists to support the University's innovators, experts and entrepreneurs.
It helps them to make their ideas more commercially successful.
Pro-Vice-Chancellor for Research
Email address: ProVCResearch@admin.cam.ac.uk Telephone: (7)65694
Professor Sir John Aston FRS is the Pro-Vice-Chancellor for Research at the University of Cambridge.
He is the Harding Professor of Statistics in Public Life and a Fellow of Churchill College.
Pro-Vice-Chancellor Resources and Operations
Email address: ProVCOperations@admin.cam.ac.uk Telephone: (7)65695
Professor Anna Philpott is the Pro-Vice-Chancellor for Resources and Operations.
She is a Fellow of Clare College.
Elaine Mortimer
Operations Manager (GCD)
Victoria Hall
Amara Howell
Nicola Gillam
Teresa Wiseman
Mel Muchechetere

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/about-the-university/how-the-university-and-colleges-work/governance:
The University is governed through central bodies, principally the Regent House, the Council and the General Board of the Faculties.
These bodies include representatives from across the University.
The Regent House is the University’s governing body.
It comprises over 7,200 members of the academic, senior research and senior administrative staff of the University and the Colleges.
The Regent House is charged with approving certain acts or decisions of the University.
For example, making changes to University legislation and approving major building projects.
The Senate was the governing body of the University until 1926.
It consists of all holders of the Cambridge MA or other higher degree and all current members of the Regent House.
The Senate now elects the Chancellor and the High Steward, the high officers of the University.
The Council is the principal executive and policy-making body of the University.
It reports to the Regent House.
It has overall responsibility for the administration of the University, planning its work and managing its resources.
It also deals with relations between the University and the Colleges.
The Council includes 16 elected academic members, four external members and three student members.
The Vice-Chancellor is chair of the Council.
The Council has many standing committees.
These include the Finance Committee and the Planning and Resources Committee.
The principal duty of the General Board is to advise the University on educational policy and to control resources.
It is responsible for maintaining a high standard of teaching and research.
The governance of the University is overseen by the Board of Scrutiny.
This is a watchdog which includes Proctors, Pro-Proctors and eight elected members of the Regent House.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/about-the-university/how-the-university-and-colleges-work/processes:
The University Reporter is the official journal of the University.
It publishes a comprehensive record of University business.
This includes Graces, Reports, Notices and Discussions.
These constitute the main processes by which the University is governed.
Read the University Reporter
The Council presents a Grace or motion for decision to the Regent House.
If no objection or amendment is made by at least 25 members of Regent House within 10 days, the Grace is deemed to have been approved.
Complex proposals are presented in Reports, which are first put up for Discussion (open debate) in the Senate House.
The body responsible for originating the recommendation considers remarks made and advises Council on a response.
The Council’s response to remarks made in a Discussion is given in a Notice published in the Reporter.
A Notice normally ends with the submission of a Grace to the Regent House, incorporating any amendments made following the Discussion.
Discussions are the forum where University members can comment publicly on University business.
They take place on Tuesdays at 2pm and are usually held by videoconference.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/about-the-university/how-the-university-and-colleges-work/processes/honorary-degrees:
The University confers higher doctorates in Divinity (DD), Law (LLD), Science (ScD), Medical Science (MedScd), Letters (LittD) and Music (MusD).
These are either:
Other doctorates, such as the PhD, are conferred only by submission and assessment.
When higher doctorates are conferred honoris causa the recipients are individuals of outstanding national, or usually international, achievement in their field.
Normally no more than eight honorary degrees are conferred in a year.
Recipients can be of any nationality.
Occasionally the Master of Arts degree (MA) is also conferred as a titular honorary degree.
This degree is for those who have made exceptional and direct contributions to the life of the University or the City of Cambridge.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/about-the-university/how-the-university-and-colleges-work/processes/honorary-degrees/the-nomination-and-approval-process:
The University Council's Honorary Degree Committee manages nominations for honorary degrees.
Only staff (and retired staff) of the University and its Colleges, students and alumni of the University of Cambridge may nominate persons for consideration.
Before making proposals, qualified nominators are asked to bear in mind the high standard indicated by previous recipients .
To propose a nomination for an Honorary Doctorate please complete this online Honorary Doctorate nomination form .
To propose a nomination for an Honorary Master of Arts Degree please complete this Honorary MA nomination form .
If preferred, complete and submit the downloadable Honorary Doctorate form or the downloadable MA form by email to honorarydegrees@admin.cam.ac.uk .
A nomination may remain under consideration for several years.
Feedback on the progress of nominations, other than the acknowledgement of receipt, is not given.
There is no deadline for nominations for honorary degrees.
We consider them on a rolling basis throughout the year.
Please note that the following will not be considered:
All proposals are considered first by the Committee.
If supported by the Committee, they go on to the full Council.
Once agreed by the Council, they go before the Regent House, the University’s governing body, for final and public approval.
Strict confidentiality must be observed until a proposal is published and submitted to the Regent House for approval at a Congregation.
By regulation, honorary degrees cannot be conferred in absence.
If a proposal succeeds and an offer is made, the inability or unwillingness of the intended recipient to attend a Congregation for admission may prevent conferral.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/about-the-university/how-the-university-and-colleges-work/processes/honorary-degrees/selected-honorands:
Past figures honoured have included Albert Einstein, Max Planck, General Eisenhower and Field Marshal Montgomery, and more recently Mother Teresa, Barbara Castle and Nelson Mandela.
HM Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother was the first woman to be honoured, in 1948.
In more recent years, recipients have included:
Exceptionally, degrees formally conferred in absence but then celebrated ceremonially in 2022
No degrees conferred

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/about-the-university/how-the-university-and-colleges-work/processes/honorary-degrees/the-ceremony:
The Chancellor of the University usually confers honorary doctorates at a special Congregation.
The special Congregation is in June each year.
When an honorary MA degree is conferred, however, the Vice-Chancellor does this at the start of an ordinary Degree Congregation.
On the day of the Honorary Degree Congregation, flags fly and the bells of the University Church are rung.
The Chancellor gives a celebratory luncheon in a College.
In the early afternoon the Chancellor’s Procession makes its way from the College to Senate-House Yard.
Two Esquire Bedells with the University’s silver maces lead the procession.
This procession includes the honorary graduands and the principal University officers.
At the same time another procession forms in the Yard, consisting of Heads of Colleges, professors and higher doctors of the University, the University’s Librarian, the Director of the Fitzwilliam Museum, and members of the University Council.
Unless there is heavy rain, both processions walk around the Yard before entering the Senate House.
Their arrival is greeted with a fanfare of trumpets.
The gowns worn by the honorary graduands and by other higher doctors present are scarlet, with silk linings and facings of different colours according to the degree concerned, apart from the MusD robe, which is cream damask with cherry-red linings and facings.
Round bonnets are worn, of black velvet with gold cords and tassels, apart from the DD degree, which has a special square cap in black velvet.
Recipients of an honorary MA degree at an ordinary Degree Congregation wear a black gown and the normal square cap.
Honorary graduands do not wear hoods to graduate.
The day of the Honorary Degree Congregation in June is a 'scarlet day', when Cambridge doctors wear their scarlet 'festal' gowns instead of black ones.
All matriculated members of the University, including students and alumni, wear academical dress at the ceremony, with hoods if they are graduates.
The Congregation is a formal meeting of the Regent House, the governing body of the University, on whose authority all degrees, whether full or honorary, are conferred.
In addition to members of the Regent House, other members of the University community (all staff or retired staff of the University and the Colleges, students and alumni) may also apply for tickets.
The University also invites certain County and City dignitaries to attend.
Proceedings are in Latin.
They start when the two Proctors, the elected officers of the Regent House, announce the business of the day - to confer honorary doctorates.
Authority for the degrees has already been obtained at another Congregation several months beforehand, so there is no possibility of a challenge or vote at this stage.
The Registrary, the University’s chief administrative officer who witnesses and records all formal acts of the University, then presents the Chancellor with a copy of the detailed programme for the occasion.
The Vice-Chancellor sits alongside the Chancellor throughout but does not play an active part in the proceedings.
After a short recital, usually by a student or students holding instrumental performance awards, each honorand is led forward in turn to stand in front of the Chancellor.
Honorary degrees cannot be conferred in absence, so if the approved recipient is absent, no degree is conferred.
The University’s Orator makes a speech in Latin marking the achievements of the honorand.
At the end of each speech the recipient goes forward to the Chancellor.
The Chancellor stands, takes them by the right hand, and confers the degree using the prescribed formula.
There is then an opportunity for applause, but no other speeches are made.
The new graduate then sits to the Chancellor’s right.
After all the honorary graduands have been admitted, there is a short recital by a choir, usually drawn from one or more of the Colleges, and finally the National Anthem is sung.
The Bedells then lead the Chancellor and his procession, including the new honorary graduates, back into the Yard.
The Chancellor retires to change from the State Robe of black damask and gold lace with a train and a gold-tasselled square cap to a scarlet doctoral gown with velvet bonnet.
Afterwards they return to the Yard to host a garden party on the lawn for all those present.
During the garden party the Chancellor makes a brief speech and proposes a toast to the new graduates.
One of the graduates then replies with another short speech and a toast to the University.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/about-the-university/how-the-university-and-colleges-work/mission-and-core-values:
The mission of the University of Cambridge is to contribute to society through the pursuit of education, learning and research at the highest international levels of excellence.
The University's core values are as follows:
Our education vision builds on this.
It is a set of principles to inform our approach to education.
Read our education vision

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/about-the-university/how-the-university-and-colleges-work/the-universitys-mission-and-core-values/our-education-vision:
Our education vision articulates a set of principles that inform the collegiate University’s approach to education.
It should be read alongside the University’s mission and core values .
It is an outcome of a Review of Teaching , with a primary focus on full-time undergraduate education.
Many of these principles apply to all forms of education offered at Cambridge.
The ways in which these are realised will vary between the courses we offer, their level, format and discipline.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/about-the-university/how-the-university-and-colleges-work/culture-of-welcome:
The University of Cambridge has a long-standing tradition of welcoming people from around the world, including those from conflict zones and the persecuted.
The University aims to contribute to society through the pursuit, dissemination, and application of knowledge.
In February 2024, the University signed the pledge to become a University of Sanctuary .
We promote a culture of welcome within the collegiate University for those seeking sanctuary.
The University provides support for its students and academics.
The University is part of the Council for At Risk Academics network.
This provides support for academics in immediate danger and helps them find a safe place to continue their work, with their families too.
On the research side the Cambridge Refugee Hub advances research, practice and policy at the University.
They also host Cambridge Refugee Week .
Cambridge University Help for Ukraine was launched in 2022 to support academics and students which included fully funded residential placements, in a wide range of subjects, for them to continue their studies and research in Cambridge, clinical placements for medical students, and help for academics still working in Ukraine.
The University and Colleges are committed to widening participation in higher education.
We want to attract and support all students in applying to and studying at the University of Cambridge.
To support this, we run many initiatives each year.
These initiatives include:
The University launched the Humanitarian Response Fund to support students impacted by conflict or humanitarian crises.
This fund supports living costs up to £5,000 in addition to hardship grants in addition to any College awards and the University's standard financial assistance award of £3000 for the academic year 2024–25.
There are scholarships available to open pathways to Cambridge for students.
These provide support to students to enable them to benefit from the educational and research opportunities offered at the University.
The Cambridge Trust manages scholarships including the Rowan Williams Cambridge Studentship .
This is for those from an area of instability or zone of conflict and/or who have been at risk of discrimination, persecution, suffering, violence or other abuse of their human rights.
Other outreach scholarships are available, such as the Stormzy Scholarship .

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/about-the-university/how-the-university-and-colleges-work/the-university-as-a-charity:
The University of Cambridge is an exempt charity subject to regulation by the Office for Students (OfS) under the Charities Act 2011.
The University is a common law corporation, being a corporation by prescription consisting of a Chancellor, Masters, and Scholars who from time out of mind have had the government of their members and enjoyed the privileges of such a corporation.
By Act of Parliament 13 Elizabeth Cap.
29 passed in the year 1571 the incorporation of the University and all privileges then held under charter or by prescription were duly confirmed.
As an exempt charity the University has charitable status but is not a registered charity and does not have a registered charity number.
As a common law corporation it is not incorporated under the Companies Acts and does not have a company number.
The University does not have a Royal Charter and has no Charter number.
The corporate title of the University is The Chancellor, Masters, and Scholars of the University of Cambridge but it is more commonly referred to as the University of Cambridge.
The correspondence address is: University of Cambridge, The Old Schools, Trinity Lane, Cambridge CB2 1TN.
The University's main constitutional documents are its Statutes and Ordinances .
You can view our Reports and Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024 (PDF) and previous years .
For information about the members of the University's Council, visit our Council membership page.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/about-the-university/how-the-university-and-colleges-work/cambridge-university-endowment-fund:
Founded in 2008, the Cambridge University Endowment Fund (“the Fund”) supports the University’s mission by investing donations which fund over 800 projects and programmes.
These include scholarships, bursaries, teaching and research into some of the most critical societal issues, such as life sciences, conservation, climate change and technology.
Over the last 10 years, the Fund has distributed nearly £1.2 billion to the University, Colleges and associated Charitable Trusts.
The Fund is managed by University of Cambridge Investment Management Limited (“UCIM”), a wholly owned subsidiary of the University.
More information about the Fund and case studies is available on the UCIM’s website.
Here is a selection of the programmes and activities that the Cambridge University Endowment Fund supports through its distributions.
Dr Natalia Buitron
Inspired by her undergraduate experiences and work with indigenous rights groups in the Department of Social Anthropology, in 2019, Cambridge alumna Jessica Sainsbury made a donation to fund a lectureship in the Anthropology of Amazonia.
The donation of £1.5 million is invested in the Cambridge University Endowment Fund.
Dr Natalia Buitron Lecturer in the Anthropology of Amazonia
“Indigenous approaches to managing forests, biodiversity, land, welfare and justice offer solutions for global crises like climate change and deforestation.
I think it is important that indigenous movements are pushing for participative governance that prioritises their well-being over economic gain.”
Fadia Bou-Dagher.
Image © University of Cambridge.
Established in 2019, thanks to a generous donation from David and Claudia Harding, it is the biggest single gift made to a university in the UK by a British philanthropist.
This endowed gift has so far funded a total of 167 scholarships in 63 subjects.
In the 2023-24 academic year, the programme awarded 49 scholarships.
Fadia Bou-Dagher PhD student, Medical Science
“I went to medical school because I wanted to make a difference to a patient’s life.
But I soon realised that, through research, you can make a difference to millions of lives.
Thanks to the Harding Scholarship, I’m able to spend three years studying for a PhD between my medical school years.
It has been a game changer.”
Watch a video of Fadia discuss her research .
Prof Paul Lane.
Image © John Davis Photo.
The Professorship was established in 2019 following a donation of £2.5 million from the Jonathan and Jennifer Oppenheimer Foundation.
The funding is fully invested in the Cambridge University Endowment Fund and is intended to cover the full costs of the Professorship in perpetuity.
Professor Paul Lane is the inaugural Jennifer Ward Oppenheimer Professor of the Deep History and Archaeology of Africa at the University of Cambridge.
Prof Paul Lane Professor of the Deep History and Archaeology of Africa
“Investing in African archaeology not only enhances our knowledge of the past but also fosters more equitable relationships with the continent in the future.”
Dr Sarah Pike
The Munby Fellowship offers access to unique University Library collections, including the Tower Collection, which features books and other items which are not typically part of scholarly collections, including fiction, instructional books, detective stories, and children’s books.
The Munby Fellowship was founded in memory of the late Alan Noel Latimer Munby, a greatly respected scholar in the field of bibliography, especially in the history of the book trade and of book-collecting.
Munby was Librarian of King’s College (1947–74) and generously gave his time and expertise to all who asked for his advice and help in pursuit of their research.
The Munby Fellowship Trust of over £1 million is fully invested in the Cambridge University Endowment Fund.
Dr Sarah Pyke Munby Fellow, 2023–2024
“The Fellowship provides a rare chance to explore these fascinating materials, offering valuable insights into popular culture and publishing trends which are often overlooked.”
Matthew Yoko.
Image © Martin Bond.
The Cambridge Trust awards around 600 scholarships annually to students from across the world.
Over the past 40 years, the Trust has awarded more than 22,000 scholarships.
The Cambridge University Endowment Fund (“CUEF”) manages the Trust’s main investments, with a value of £210 million (31st July 2024).
Matthew Yoko PhD Engineering
“Cambridge was my top and only choice due to its strength in my research area - fluid mechanics.
Being at Cambridge has been a dream, offering access to world experts, resources, and funding for conferences.
Winning the best paper award at a conference in Zurich was a highlight and has opened doors in both academia and industry.
Whether I stay in academia or return to industry, my future will undoubtedly remain in aerospace.”
Case studies written by Kate Coghlan

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/about-the-university/how-the-university-and-colleges-work/cambridge-university-endowment-fund/the-investment-advisory-board:
The Investment Advisory Board is a consultative body that provides feedback on investment strategy and portfolio management of the Cambridge University Endowment Fund (CUEF) to the Chief Investment Officer and investment team of University of Cambridge Investment Management (UCIM), the company that manages the CUEF.
The Investment Advisory Board is appointed by and consults with the Cambridge University Endowment Trustee Board (CUETB), which represents the University as trustee of the Endowment Fund.
The Investment Advisory Board is comprised of external, voluntary members, who have significant investment experience and deep knowledge across the full range of asset classes.
The University Vice-Chancellor, Chief Financial Officer, the Chair of the CUETB, CIO of UCIM and Chair of UCIM also attend Investment Advisory Board meetings.
Sarah has over 35 years’ experience in the investment management industry including numerous senior Risk Officer roles.
She is currently a Non-executive Director and Chair of the Audit Committee of asset management firm Arrowstreet Capital; Chair of JP Morgan’s £400 million-plus Global Emerging Markets Income Trust; Chair at venture capital trust Baronsmead Second Venture Trust; and a Trustee Director of the Wellcome Trust Pension Plan and that of its subsidiary Genome Research.
She is also Chair of the Investment Committee of Capital Generation Partners, a high net worth family wealth management office and a Non-executive Director of Quilter Investors.
Sarah has an MA in Natural Sciences from Girton College, Cambridge and an MSc (Distinction) in Management from London Business School.
Suranga is a General Partner at Balderton Capital.
He was previously an entrepreneur and engineer.
Suranga was the founder and CEO of blinkx, the intelligent search engine for video, a company he led for eight years and took public.
Before blinkx, Suranga was an early employee at Autonomy Corporation, where he ultimately served as the company’s US Chief Technology Officer in San Francisco.
He is a Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering, serves on the Prime Minister’s Council for Science and Technology and was granted an OBE for his services to technology and engineering.
Suranga read Computer Science at the University of Cambridge.
Jim is head of EMEA Alternatives and co-head of Real Estate within Goldman Sachs Asset Management.
In this role, he is responsible for the oversight of EMEA Alternatives as well as implementation of the division’s real estate investment strategy.
Andrew K.
Golden has served as president of the Princeton University Investment Company (“Princo”) since January 1995.
Golden joined Princo from Duke Management Company, where he was an investment director.
Prior to that, he was a senior associate in the Investments Office at Yale University.
Golden holds a BA in philosophy from Duke University and an MPPM from the Yale School of Management.
He has earned the Chartered Financial Analyst designation and is a member of the New York Society of Security Analysts.
He served as a founding member of the Investors’ Committee of the President’s Working Group on Financial Markets and was previously a member of the Board of Directors of the NAB Asset Corporation, a publicly-traded commercial loan workout specialist.
He currently serves on fund advisory boards for several hedge fund, private equity and venture capital managers.
David A Novak is Co-President of private equity firm Clayton, Dubilier & Rice (CD&R), and is based in London.
He joined the firm in 1997 and is responsible for CD&R’s European business and is a member of the firm’s Executive and Investment committees.
Prior to CD&R, he worked at Morgan Stanley in the private equity and investment banking divisions.
David currently serves as the Chair of the Board of Trustees of the American School in London, is a member of the Amherst College Board of Trustees, and on the Board of the Valerie Fund, which supports children with cancer and blood disorders.
He is also an Advisor to Ahren Innovation Capital.
David holds a BA in Economics from Amherst College and is a graduate of Harvard Business School.
Mark is Chairman and Chief Investment Officer of Slater Investments, a specialist UK equity fund manager he co-founded in 1994.
The company manages money for institutional, high net worth and retail investors.
Mark and the funds managed by Slater Investments have won many industry awards.
Mark has served on the boards of four public companies and a number of private companies.
He has also served on the investment committees of two prominent families, one since 1997 and the other since 2012.
Mark read History at the University of Cambridge.
Kristen is Global Head of Sustainable Investing, BlackRock Alternatives.
Prior to BlackRock, Kristen’s roles include Global Head of ESG and Impact Investing at Partners Capital and a Member of Executive Group at Louis Dreyfus Company, where she was responsible for early-stage venture investing and forming strategic downstream partnerships.
From 2004 to 2017, Kristen was on the hedge fund (BAAM) investment team at Blackstone, culminating in the role of Senior Managing Director and Co-Head of London.
Prior to joining Blackstone, Kristen worked at JPMorgan in both New York and London on the corporate swaps and commodity derivatives desks.
Kristen holds a degree in finance and international business from Georgetown University and a Masters of Science in Leadership and Strategy (Sloan Fellows) from London Business School.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/about-the-university/how-the-university-and-colleges-work/central-bodies-and-committees-calendar:
This combined calendar shows dates for the University's central bodies and main associated committees.
If the calendar on this page displays as blank, please ensure you are logged in to a Google account in your browser.
Add any of the following calendars to your own Google Calendar by using the links below.
All University members now have automatic access to Google G Suite, which includes Google Calendar.
For further information, visit the UIS page about G Suite .
Add any of the following Cambridge calendars to your own calendar app by using the iCal links below.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/about-the-university/history/legacies-of-enslavement:
In 2019, the University of Cambridge began an investigation into its links to the history of enslavement.
The 2022 report of that investigation marked the beginning of a new phase of engagement with these legacies, accompanied by a series of initiatives aimed at recognising past and addressing present injustices.
In response to the 2022 Report, Professor Stephen J Toope, then Vice-Chancellor of the University, wrote:
A society’s historical baggage and its modern-day challenges are inextricable.
Understanding our past and shaping our future are not separate projects.
The University of Cambridge is exceptionally well placed to undertake both of them.
The legacies of enslavement form a part of who we are today, and inform what we wish to achieve.
We can never rewrite history, or do away with our heritage, but we can try to address prevailing inequalities.
This process begins through greater self-knowledge and self-reflection.
Professor Stephen J Toope Vice-Chancellor, 2017-2022
Since 2019, many other institutions across collegiate Cambridge have begun to examine their links to slavery and colonialism and embarked on projects informed by these histories.
The Fitzwilliam Museum, one of the University's principal points of public engagement, has produced and hosted two major exhibitions addressing the Museum and Cambridge's connections to enslavement - Black Atlantic, People, Power and Resistance (2023-2024) and Rise Up!
Resistance, Revolution, Abolition (2025).
Across the university many students, scholars and staff continue to research this history and work actively to address the inequalities inherited from the system of slavery.
Understanding our past, reflecting on its implications and tackling present-day injustices are not finished tasks, but must be part of a continued and sustained commitment.
For this reason, the University has created a Legacies of Enslavement Special Initiative to take forward the recommendations of the 2022 report and its spirit of reflection and engagement.
The Special Initiative began its work in the spring of 2025 and will connect and support projects, events and actions related to Legacies of Enslavement work with the following areas of focus:
i) Research and institution building : facilitating and promoting research into Cambridge's legacies of enslavement, both by University members and international colleagues and partners, with a particular focus on those from the African diaspora;
ii) engaging with Black British communities and those from the wider African diaspora and supporting their participation in all aspects of the University's mission and;
iii) fostering equitable, collaborative and sustained partnerships with institutions and students from those countries most affected by the institution of slavery and which continue to bear its legacies.
The Special Initiative is being hosted by the School of Humanities and Social Sciences, but will work across the University.
Professor Pedro Ramos Pinto, from the Faculty of History, has been appointed as its convenor and is being supported by a co-ordinator and the wider School team.
All those interested in or wishing to contribute to this topic are invited to join the Legacies of Enslavement Special Initiative Network, which will share information on events and initiatives and facilitate contributions from its members,
The Network is open to students, staff, and academics – please sign up .
Alumni and anyone from outside the university who wishes to join should contact the co-ordinator for more information: legaciesnetwork@admin.cam.ac.uk
The Legacies Special Initiative is developing a new website that will connect the many strands of legacies work across the University and will become a hub for its work.
More soon...!

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/about-the-university/history/legacies-of-enslavement/vice-chancellors-response-to-the-report-of-the-legacies-of-enslavement-advisory-group:
I welcome the findings of the Legacies of Enslavement inquiry.
This report represents an important step in improving our understanding of the University of Cambridge’s historical connections to enslavement.
In conducting this inquiry, Cambridge has followed in the footsteps of various British institutions – including the Church of England, the Bank of England, the National Trust and other universities – that have investigated and acknowledged their own historical connections to enslavement.
It is, to quote His Majesty Charles III, addressing Commonwealth Heads of Government earlier this year: “a conversation whose time has come”.
A university as long-established as Cambridge would inevitably have benefitted from what was, until the 19th century, a widely accepted system of exploitation.
This report helps us better appreciate the nature of those links.
It also offers a glimpse into some of the ways in which individuals with links to the University had a part in promoting, knowingly or unknowingly, some of the ideas that underpinned the practice of enslavement.
The inquiry set out to add to the sum of our historical knowledge, working on the principle that as a mature, research-driven university, Cambridge is better off knowing than not knowing about its past.
This includes offering a more nuanced view of the role of members of the University who campaigned for the abolition of slavery.
By illustrating how they fought deep-rooted attitudes and practices, the findings of the inquiry make abolitionists’ efforts seem even more remarkable.
The University of Cambridge is not responsible for the atrocities of slavery but, like many historic British institutions, it was by no means impervious to the economic and ideological systems that sustained them.
It is not in our gift to right historic wrongs, but we can begin by acknowledging them.
Having unearthed our university’s links to an appalling history of abuse, the report encourages us to work even harder to address current inequalities – particularly those related to the experiences of Black communities.
The Legacies of Enslavement inquiry, and the Advisory Group’s report, do not stand in isolation.
They are part of our collegiate University’s wider process of reflection about its role in a changing society.
This process includes considerations about how Black and minority ethnic communities are represented and truly included within Cambridge; about what and how we teach; about how best to manage, curate and display collections in our museums; about how we engage most productively with academic institutions in other countries, and with Black and minority ethnic communities across the United Kingdom.
Though the report shines a light on the University’s past, our greatest obligation is to the collegiate University’s future.
The report and its recommendations are not ends in themselves.
Instead, I hope they will enable some of the conversations and decisions needed to make the Cambridge of tomorrow more self-reflective, more equitable and more open to all talent.
The University will begin the implementation of the report’s recommendations by committing £1.5 million of seed funding for the creation of a Cambridge Legacies of Enslavement Fund.
As the report notes, implementation of some of these recommendations will require further work and consultation across the University.
I am pleased to announce that Professor Kamal Munir, Pro-Vice-Chancellor for University Community and Engagement, will set up and lead a group to develop and rapidly implement agreed proposals.
The resource to support this initiative will come from non-operational funds, in the first instance.
The University will seek additional funding from philanthropic and collegiate sources to supplement this initial investment.
This funding will be put towards the research, community engagement and partnership activities proposed in the report, and outlined below.
The report calls for the creation of a Cambridge Legacies of Enslavement Research Centre to continue the investigations initiated by the inquiry as well as to encompass global Black British histories.
There are opportunities for such a centre to build upon existing interdisciplinary activities and work will now begin on developing formal proposals for the centre, drawing on seed-funding from the Legacies of Enslavement Fund.
The Collegiate University is determined to develop a more inclusive environment for all staff and students, building on the success of initiatives such as the 'Get In' campaign and the Stormzy Scholarships.
The Collegiate University has made significant progress over the past few years in its recruitment and support of under-represented cohorts, including British Black, Pakistani and Bangladeshi students.
Today Cambridge has more British Black undergraduate students than ever in its history.
A Black Advisory Hub was established as part of the University’s efforts to improve Black students' experiences at Cambridge.
To build on this progress the University will:
Black academic and professional services staff are poorly represented across the University, particularly at senior levels.
The University’s senior leadership team, including Heads of Schools, is already engaged in, and will step up, efforts to help recruit, retain, mentor and more generally support the professional advancement of Black members of staff.
Funding will be made available to enhance research partnerships in West Africa and the Caribbean, building on existing ties with universities in both regions.
Full details will be worked out in consultation with the partner universities involved.
The University has received a generous philanthropic donation to commission a Black British artist to undertake a public work of art memorialising Black Cambridge scholars or graduates, to be located on the University estate.
This funding is separate from the Legacies of Enslavement Fund.
The University will also commission and install an explanatory plaque that identifies and contextualises statues of individuals, including Tobias Rustat, housed in the Old Schools’ internal courtyard.
The University will seek to name some streets and public spaces in Phases 2 and 3 of its North-West Cambridge development, and in the new West Cambridge Innovation District, after prominent Black Cambridge graduates as well as after notable abolitionists.
Recognising the link between education, research and representation, as noted in the report, the University is committing further financial support to the Black Cantabs Research Society, to enable the collection, curation, digitisation and publication of records on the history of Black graduates at Cambridge.
I am grateful to all members of the Legacies of Enslavement Advisory Group, and in particular to its Chair, Professor Martin Millett; to the postdoctoral researchers who, despite severe constraints imposed by the pandemic, have given us insights into the history of the University, and whose full, peer-reviewed research will be published by Cambridge University Press in due course; to the experts, both at Cambridge and at other universities, who offered advice, mentorship and academic oversight as the Advisory Group prepared its report; to the fellows and staff of the many Cambridge Colleges who opened their archives and libraries to the researchers, and undertook similar inquiries of their own.
This has been a truly collaborative scholarly endeavour.
I hope it represents only the beginning of a continuing dialogue about how we acknowledge, and build on, this complex and difficult aspect of Cambridge’s past.
Professor Stephen J Toope Vice-Chancellor 2018–22

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/about-the-university/history/the-coat-of-arms:
The University was granted its arms in 1573 by Robert Cooke, Clarenceux King of Arms and a graduate of St John's College.
It is for use by the Chancellor, Masters, Fellows and Scholars as a corporate body.
The arms Cooke granted are officially described in heraldic terminology as:
Gules on a Cross Ermine between four Lions passant guardant Or a Bible fesswise Gules clasped and garnished Or the clasps in base.
This means:
We have no right to change our coat of arms without Royal Authority.
Our motto is not an official part of the original grant.
It can be used under or around the coat of arms.
Latin : Hinc lucem et pocula sacra English : Literal: From here, light and sacred draughts Non-literal : From this place, we gain enlightenment and precious knowledge.
The University’s Coat of Arms, and by association our logo, represents more than 800 years of excellence.
It is an international symbol of the University’s reputation for high quality and standards.
Our logo consists of the coat of arms and the University name.
See the University logo

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/about-the-university/history/cambridge-glossary:
This is a glossary of some Cambridge words that you may see on the website or in other materials.
For a more detailed list of Cambridge terminology, see the University Library's glossary .
This extends from 1 October to 30 September.
It is divided into three Terms , two vacations and the Research Period.
Undergraduate students are selected and admitted by the Colleges, through the agency of the Cambridge Admissions Office.
Graduate students apply through the Graduate Admissions Office, which helps to arrange admission to a College.
A meeting of the Regent House for the formal conduct of certain items of University business, principally admission of degrees.
Congregations take place in the Senate House regularly throughout the year.
They take place on Tuesdays at 2pm and are usually held in the Senate House.
A term applied to a Vice-Chancellor, Professor, Reader or holder of certain other senior positions, who has retired after the age of 60.
In Cambridge, the term is not conferred as an individual mark of distinction.
Two officials whose duties are ceremonial.
They have certain important responsibilities at congregations.
The Senior Esquire Bedell has a general responsibility for the correct formulation and wearing of academical dress.
A senior member of a College, elected to a particular position of authority and responsibility in relation to the academic work and government of the College.
The central portion of each Term during which teaching takes place.
Members of the University are normally expected to be in residence during Full Term.
Congregations held towards the end of June each year are termed ‘Days of General Admission to Degrees’.
These are the occasions on which the majority of undergraduates who have completed their final year proceed in person to their first degrees.
Degrees are also conferred at eight other congregations in the course of the year.
The three Terms are separated by vacations during which undergraduate teaching is suspended.
These vacations are Christmas, Easter and the Long Vacation.
The Long Vacation is also known as the Research Period.
In most UK universities, the Master of Arts is a degree awarded by examination.
At Cambridge, the MA is conferred by right on holders of the BA degree of the University and on certain other senior members.
It is not available as a postgraduate qualification.
New students of the University matriculate (or join the roll) when they enrol or register at their College.
This involves signing a declaration that they will obey the University regulations.
There has been no formal University ceremony since 1962.
The Council’s response to remarks made in a Discussion is given in a Notice published in the Reporter .
The University Statutes allow the University to make regulations for the proper conduct of its affairs.
These regulations are known as Ordinances.
They are made either by Regent House, the Senate or the General Board.
Most students and academic staff are required to be in residence during each period of Full Term.
Staff and students must live within a prescribed radius of Great St Mary's Church unless specially exempted.
Students may not generally proceed to their degrees unless their Colleges certify that they have 'kept terms' by being in residence.
Days on which Doctors of the University are required to wear in public their festal or scarlet gowns.
The permanent list of such days is defined by Ordinance.
The Vice-Chancellor may prescribe additional scarlet days.
For example, these could be days of national rejoicing or celebration, or of special importance to the University.
The Senate elects the Chancellor and the High Steward.
It consists of all those holding the degree of Master of Arts or any other higher degree.
Membership confers senior status and certain privileges such as borrowing books from the University Library.
Until 1926, the Senate was the governing body of the University.
The academic year is divided into three Terms .
Michaelmas term is from October to early December.
Lent term is from January to early March.
Easter term is from April to mid-June.
A University examination, passing which qualifies a candidate partly or wholly for admission to an Honours Degree.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/about-the-university/annual-reports/2023-24-highlights:
The University of Cambridge is one of the world’s leading universities, with a rich history of radical thinking dating back to 1209.
Its mission is to contribute to society through the pursuit of education, learning and research at the highest international levels of excellence.
The University reports annually on the ways in which it has delivered charitable purposes for the public benefit.
Here are some of this year's highlights.
The Group’s income has increased by £112m (up 4%) compared to the prior year, due primarily to a continued strong performance from Cambridge University Press & Assessment, and increased tuition fees and education contracts, donations and endowments, and investment income.
The Group’s net assets totalled £7,991m at 31 July 2024 (2023: £7,168m).
The increase in net assets substantially reflects non-cash credit adjustments of £344m relating to the USS pension scheme deficit recovery provision, £346m of net investment gains, and £13m relating to the fair value revaluation of the Group’s CPI-linked bond, combined with actuarial gains of £99m on the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes.
The Group generated a reported surplus for the year of £726m (2023: £199m).
After adjusting for the fair value revaluation, the CPI index-linked Bond, change in USS pension deficit recovery provision, donations, endowments and capital grant income, and the CUEF income on a distribution basis, the underlying ‘adjusted operating deficit’ was £16m (2023: £10m).
The University considers this to be a meaningful, consistent measure of underlying recurrent operating performance.
Cambridge’s world-leading research and education play a key role in developing sustainable solutions and future leaders who are equipped to tackle global environmental challenges such as climate breakdown and biodiversity loss.
The University recognises the need to deliver its academic activities in an environmentally responsible way and is taking action on a number of fronts to improve its environmental sustainability performance across its estate, supply chain and investments.
The University has adopted a number of commitments to reduce carbon emissions across its operations.
From an estates perspective, the University is committed to reducing energy-related emissions from its operational estate by 75% against 2015–16 levels by 2030–31, and to absolute zero by 2048.
Over the past year a major focus has been on exploring opportunities to utilise the existing estate more efficiently and effectively in support of the University’s academic mission.
The ‘Reshaping our Estate’ programme has identified opportunities to deliver an estate that costs less to run, has lower carbon emissions and is more biodiverse, whilst providing high-quality spaces that support collaboration and academic excellence.
These findings will now inform the development of a Strategic Estates Framework, with environmental sustainability at its core.
Alongside this, there has been a continued focus on decarbonising the University’s supply of heat, with a number of heat decarbonisation projects moving forward, including at the Whittle Laboratory, Keynes House and Donald McIntyre building.
The University continues to work on pathways towards its absolute zero by 2048 commitment.
Energy-related emissions from the operational estate in 2023–24 are shown in the table below.
The University reports more fully on the environmental performance of its estate in an annual Environmental Sustainability Report.
The 2023–24 report will be available in early 2025.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (‘PwC’) has performed an Independent Limited Assurance engagement on selected balances within the 2023–24 data, shown with the footnotes, in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (Revised) ‘Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information’ and International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3410 ‘Assurance engagements on greenhouse gas statements’, issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board.
The Independent Limited Assurance Report can be found on our sustainability webpages along with our Methodology Statement – the basis on which the balances are calculated and a description of the limited assurance given.
In 2024, the University recruited its first Biodiversity Manager, who will play a pivotal role in embedding biodiversity improvements across the management of the estate and, longer term, across the University’s supply chain, helping to deliver against the pledge to become a Nature Positive University.
With regard to procurement, the University has introduced a new Supplier Code of Conduct, which sets out the minimum sustainability and environmental standards and expectations that University suppliers are required to meet.
The University is working in collaboration with other universities and its suppliers to improve the data it holds on the carbon impact of its supply chain, with an initial focus on the highest carbon categories of expenditure.
Alongside this, the University has developed new procurement and purchasing training for its staff, with a focus on environmental sustainability to help staff make informed decisions.
University of Cambridge Investment Management Limited (UCIM) is the investment organisation that manages the Cambridge University Endowment Fund (CUEF).
UCIM’s sustainable investment strategy, in place since 2020, is focused on:
UCIM is committed to working with the University and all stakeholders towards its ambition that the Endowment Fund will be ‘net zero’ of greenhouse gas emissions by 2038.
In 2023, UCIM started measuring its own greenhouse gas emissions and the organisation was awarded Gold in the University’s Green Impact Awards in 2024.
As at 30 June 2024, the CUEF’s exposure to conventional energy was 1.6% of the portfolio; a reduction of 0.6% since 30 June 2023.
UCIM continues to actively engage with its core fund management partners to support them to decarbonise their portfolios, including delivering a bespoke executive education programme, in partnership with Cambridge Institute for Sustainability Leadership, to provide them with frameworks and tools to reach net zero.
UCIM provides regular updates to investors in the CUEF and other University stakeholders on progress against its sustainable investment strategy.
Further information is available on UCIM's website .
The University’s Banking Engagement Forum, established in 2022, has enabled the Collegiate University to use its combined influence as a customer or potential customer with banks and asset managers to help mitigate climate change.
This year its work has included launching a collaboration of over 70 higher education institutions on a request for proposals for cash products (deposits and money market funds) that do not contribute to the financing of fossil fuel expansion; commissioning an environmental rating of UK banks; and hosting several client-service provider engagement meetings with banks and asset managers in which senior University and College personnel have pressed for the cessation of financing of fossil fuel expansion.
In July 2024, the University Council announced its plans to strengthen leadership on environmental sustainability across the University’s academic and operational activities.
A comprehensive body of work is underway and the University will publish a new operational environmental sustainability strategy and plan in 2025.
Cambridge University Press & Assessment is focusing on climate education by offering resources and expertise in teaching and learning for nature, the environment and climate in partnership with students, teachers, and education ministries.
It is creating the skills and understanding required for adapting to climate change by embedding understanding of climate issues and sustainability into its education programmes, publishing, assessment, and research.
This year, the Press & Assessment launched an online climate literacy course in India, developed in partnership with Cambridge Zero, to give students the skills and knowledge to tackle climate change in a flexible and accessible way – and at scale.
The Press & Assessment is committed to reaching carbon zero on its energy-related emissions by 2048.
The organisation is a proud signatory of the UN Global Compact, the world’s largest corporate sustainability initiative, and reports annually on its progress.
This reporting year, the Press & Assessment reduced its scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions by 9% across its UK operations and remains on track to meet its science-based target to reduce energy-related emissions.
For more information, see the Press & Assessment's carbon report .
Work will begin soon on a new hospital that will transform how we diagnose and treat cancer.
It’s the culmination of decades of excellence in cancer research and care at Cambridge.
Planning permission has been granted for a new Cambridge Cancer Research Hospital.
The hospital will treat patients across the East of England, but the research that takes place there promises to change the lives of cancer patients across the UK and beyond.
Cambridge is one of the world’s leading centres for cancer research and cancer care.
It has long been a recipient of major funding from Cancer Research UK.
Together with our partners at Cambridge University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, we have transformed how we understand and treat cancer.
This year, our Early Cancer Institute received an £11 million donation in honour of Hong Kong-based philanthropist Sir Ka-shing Li and the enduring partnership between his charitable foundation and our University.
The Institute is dedicated to finding radical new ways to detect cancer early so that it can be treated more easily.
Its Director, Professor Rebecca Fitzgerald, has already pioneered a capsule sponge being trialled across the NHS to detect Barrett's oesophagus, a precursor to oesophageal cancer.
Our researchers are developing kinder, more effective treatments.
A chance discovery in 2005 by Professor Sir Steve Jackson led to the development of so-called PARP inhibitor drugs.
One of these, Olaparib, has been used to treat over 140,000 patients globally, changing the outlook for people with breast, ovarian, prostate and pancreatic cancers.
Professor Jean Abraham leads the Precision Breast Cancer Institute, which will be housed in the new Hospital.
It will use cutting-edge genome technology to examine tumour DNA faster than ever and tailor treatments to the patient as well as to their cancer.
None of our work would be possible without the involvement of patients.
They are vital to every single step of the process, helping from planning research priorities, to developing clinical trials, to designing the new Hospital.
ai@cam – the University’s flagship mission to drive AI innovation that benefits science, citizens and society – has launched 5 ‘AI-deas’ challenges.
The challenges will apply AI to major societal issues, including fertility, climate change, language and communication barriers, mental health, and how local authorities deploy AI.
Each project exemplifies the public value ai@cam champions in AI research, by being interdisciplinary, grounded in real world need, and involving external stakeholders such as affected communities, public sector, industry and NGOs.
Neil Lawrence, chair of ai@cam, said: “There’s a vibrant community of researchers across all career levels who are passionate about connecting AI to public interest.
AI has the potential to drive progress on the things that actually matter to people.”
One project, led by Professor Zoe Kourtzi, will use AI to better understand brain health and disease.
This year, she showed that AI is better than clinical tests at predicting whether people with early signs of dementia will remain stable or develop Alzheimer’s disease.
Cambridge has become host to the UK’s fastest AI supercomputer, Dawn, which will vastly increase the country’s AI and simulation compute capacity for both fundamental research and industrial use.
Dawn will harness the power of both AI and high-performance computing to tackle some of the world’s most challenging and pressing problems, including healthcare, green fusion energy development and climate modelling.
The supercomputer has been co-designed by the University of Cambridge Research Computing Services together with the UK Atomic Energy Authority and global tech leaders Intel and Dell Technologies, supported by UK Research and Innovation.
A major new Netflix documentary revealed the face of a 75,000-year-old female Neanderthal whose flattened skull was discovered and rebuilt from hundreds of bone fragments by a team led by Cambridge archaeologists and conservators.
The team excavated the Neanderthal, known as Shanidar Z, in 2018 from inside a cave in Iraqi Kurdistan, where the species had repeatedly returned to lay their dead to rest.
New analysis strongly suggests that this individual was an older female, perhaps in her mid-forties – a significant age to reach so deep in prehistory.
Lead conservator Dr Lucía López-Polín pieced over 200 bits of skull together freehand to return it to its original shape, including upper and lower jaws.
The rebuilt skull was surface scanned and 3D-printed, forming the basis of a reconstructed head created by world-leading palaeoartists and identical twins Adrie and Alfons Kennis, who built up layers of fabricated muscle and skin to reveal a face.
‘Secrets of the Neanderthals’, produced for Netflix by BBC Studios Science Unit, followed the Cambridge team as they returned to Shanidar Cave to continue excavations.
A Cambridge-led study has shown why many women experience nausea and vomiting during pregnancy – and why some women become so sick they need to be admitted to hospital.
Until recently, the cause of pregnancy sickness – known as hyperemesis gravidarum – was entirely unknown.
The culprit, it turns out, is a hormone produced by the fetus: a protein known as GDF15.
Professor Sir Stephen O’Rahilly and colleagues showed that how sick the mother feels depends on a combination of how much of the hormone is produced by the fetus and how much exposure the mother had to this hormone before becoming pregnant.
Mice exposed to acute, high levels of GDF15 showed signs of loss of appetite, suggesting that they were experiencing nausea – but mice treated with a long-acting form of GDF15 did not show similar behaviour when exposed to acute levels of the hormone.
The discovery points to a potential way to prevent pregnancy sickness by exposing mothers to GDF15 ahead of pregnancy to build up their resilience.
An artificial pancreas that enables people living with type 1 diabetes to manage their condition has been approved by the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE).
CamAPS FX app, which was developed by Cambridge researchers and controls the artificial pancreas, has been described as “a godsend” by Ian Haigh, father of nine-year-old Eddie, who has type 1 diabetes.
It has meant an end to the relentless cycle of finger-pricking, injections and sleepless nights, meaning Eddie can now learn without interruption, spend time with his friends and play sport.
The device has also been granted approval by the USA’s Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for use by individuals with type 1 diabetes aged two and older, including during pregnancy.
Cambridge astronomers have used data from the James Webb Space Telescope to discover methane and carbon dioxide in the atmosphere of K2-18 b, an exoplanet in the habitable ‘Goldilocks zone’.
This is the first time that carbon-based molecules have been discovered in the atmosphere of an exoplanet in this zone.
The results could be signs of an ocean-covered surface underneath a hydrogen-rich atmosphere, providing a glimpse into a planet unlike anything else in our Solar System.
Intriguingly, the researchers also identified another, weaker signal that could be signs of dimethyl sulphide.
On Earth, this molecule is only produced by life, primarily microbial life such as marine phytoplankton.
Could this mean there is biological activity on K2-18 b?
Over 100 letters sent to French sailors by their fiancées, wives, parents and siblings – but never delivered – have been opened and studied for the first time since they were written in 1757–8.
The messages were seized by Britain’s Royal Navy during the Seven Years’ War, taken to the Admiralty in London, but never opened.
The letters, now held at the National Archives in Kew, were finally opened and read by Professor Renaud Morieux from Cambridge’s History Faculty.
They offer extremely rare and moving insights into the loves, lives and family quarrels of everyone from elderly peasants to wealthy officers’ wives.
First broadcast in 1984, Spitting Image changed the cultural landscape of the UK and beyond forever.
Almost 40 years later, Cambridge University Library – home to the programme’s archive – presented a full retrospective exhibition of the TV phenomenon.
Spitting Image: A Controversial History explored the history and legacy of the satirical puppet show and its impact on British politics, culture and celebrity, for good and ill.
On display were puppets including Princess Diana, Margaret Thatcher and the Queen Mother, as well as never-before-seen sketches, caricatures and other memorabilia – even letters of complaint and Mrs Thatcher’s handbag – drawn from the archive.
Sandi Toksvig, award-winning author, broadcaster, entertainer and founder of the Women’s Equality Party, was awarded the inaugural Qantabrigian Fellowship by the LGBTQ+ research programme.
The Q+ Fellowship is dedicated to recognising the many extraordinary achievements of Cambridge’s LGBTQ+ alumni over many centuries and across the globe.
It enables distinguished LGBTQ+ alumni to spend time at the University to conduct a research project or incubate a new idea.
As part of her Fellowship, Sandi worked on a new Mappa Mundi project, with the aim of creating a three-dimensional, interactive view of the globe from a female perspective.
The resource will document women’s positions, achievements and struggles across the globe.
King's College, an independent College and associated body of the University, completed work on a year-long conservation of its Chapel roof and began installation of 438 new solar panels.
Restoration of the Chapel roof had become increasingly urgent once its lead roof covering exceeded its natural lifespan, meaning it was no longer watertight.
The College recognised a once-in-a-generation opportunity to both completely restore the roof and install photovoltaic panels.
Panels have been installed on each of the north and south slopes of the Chapel roof, generating an anticipated 123,000 kilowatt hours per year to feed into the College’s electricity supply.
They will reduce the College’s carbon emissions by more than 23 tonnes each year, the equivalent of planting 1090 trees.
Cambridge rowers achieved double success in the 2024 Boat Race, winning both the Men’s and Women’s races in a thrilling day of action on the Thames.
In the 78th Women’s Race, Oxford took an early lead, but Cambridge caught up and overtook Oxford.
In the 169th Men’s Race, Cambridge took an early lead but slowed towards the end, managing to hold on for what was in the end a comfortable victory.
Vice-Chancellor Professor Deborah Prentice, who was watching her first Boat Race after joining in July 2023, described it as “utterly brilliant – everything I expected and more.”
The first students from the University’s pre-degree foundation year began their degrees after successfully completing the one-year programme.
The Cambridge Foundation Year is aimed at talented students who have experienced disadvantage in their education and have not had the opportunity to realise their potential – including students who have experienced the care system, estrangement from parents and low levels of household income.
The programme offers a fully funded route to undergraduate study at Cambridge for eligible students who demonstrate the academic potential to succeed in a degree in the arts, humanities, or social sciences.
Forty-seven students joined the first cohort, of whom 39 successfully completed the course and 31 are now Cambridge undergraduates.
Teenagers from across the East of England began their A-level studies at the new Cambridge Maths School, a specialist sixth form created by the Eastern Learning Alliance, in collaboration with the University of Cambridge.
The state-funded School focuses on pioneering learning and increasing diversity in the field of mathematics.
It joins a nationwide network of maths schools, one for every region of England, announced by the UK Government.
The School offers 16 to 19-year-olds with an exceptional aptitude and passion for maths-related subjects a unique environment in which to learn, and an innovative curriculum that will include talks from Cambridge lecturers.
Cambridge Enterprise Limited (Cambridge Enterprise) is the University’s innovation arm, providing the resources, expertise and networks needed to translate Cambridge research into life-changing outcomes with world-changing impact.
It plays a vital role in activating and enhancing the globally-recognised Cambridge innovation ecosystem.
Last year was another successful year for Cambridge Enterprise, supporting over 1,000 academics, researchers, staff and students in the development and licensing of technologies, academic consultancy services and venture creation.
Consultancy services supported over 400 University members, building strong relationships with industry and extending the reach of Cambridge expertise.
The Cambridge Enterprise Ventures team invested £6.5m into 37 companies, including 25 new spinouts and start-ups.
Enabling and investing in companies that tackle the sustainability crisis is a core goal.
Since 2020, £7m has been invested in such companies across 28 investments.
This portfolio now includes 15 companies delivering a growing range of critical solutions, from battery technologies, carbon reduction, new materials, semiconductors and beyond.
Cambridge is recognised among UK universities for its culture of fostering and enabling university entrepreneurship.
To further support this, Cambridge Enterprise has developed additional innovation services for the University, making it easier than ever to create new businesses.
Founders at the University of Cambridge, an initiative to support new founders and to help new companies scale rapidly by connecting them to capital, mentoring and an acceleration programme, completed its inaugural START cohort, with further programmes planned.
The Technology Investment Fund, established to de-risk and accelerate technologies to market, has committed to invest over £1.5m across 15 projects in its first 9 months, covering a range of areas including supercharged cancer immunotherapy, novel drug delivery devices and transformative plastic waste handling processes.
On behalf of the University Enterprise Network, Cambridge Enterprise initiated and now delivers IE Cambridge, a gateway and easy navigation aid to the wealth of innovation and entrepreneurship support at Cambridge.
In partnership with the University and Cambridge Innovation Capital, Cambridge Enterprise is leading Innovate Cambridge, an ambitious initiative defining and delivering an inclusive innovation future for the Cambridge ecosystem.
In October 2023, the Innovate Cambridge strategy was unveiled at an innovation summit with over 400 leaders in attendance.
Echion Technologies, the world’s leading supplier of niobium-based anode materials, has entered the market with its next-generation XNO® battery technology at scale.
Spinning-out from the University's Department of Engineering in 2017, Echion Technologies has devised, tested, and patented a product line of niobium-based anode materials, XNO®.
XNO® enables lithium-ion batteries to fast charge safely in less than 10 minutes whilst maintaining high energy density and a cycle life of more than 10,000 cycles.
This combination of performances is well suited to applications that demand the highest up-time, lowest total cost of ownership and highest safety.
It uniquely positions XNO® as a key technology to achieve global decarbonisation through widespread electrification of commercial and industrial sectors.
Cambridge Enterprise has supported the company and its co-founders Jean de la Verpilliere and Dr Alex Groombridge since its earliest stages.
As one of the first investments in our growing sustainability portfolio, Cambridge Enterprise Ventures has participated in all rounds from pre-seed to its most recent £29 million Series B round in June 2024.
Cambridge University Press & Assessment continued to grow its global impact across education, assessment and academic publishing, reaching more than 100 million learners worldwide.
Combining excellence in academic research and pedagogy, the Press & Assessment works to make high quality education, exams, and scholarly work available in more than 170 countries.
The Press & Assessment’s financial success – generating more than £1 billion in revenue this year – is reinvested into progressing the Cambridge mission: to contribute to society through the pursuit of education, learning and research at the highest international levels of excellence.
The Press & Assessment’s English group is a leading provider of English language education and assessment across schools, higher education, adult and migration contexts.
This year, a total of 7 million assessments were taken and close to 28,000 organisations worldwide now recognise our English exams.
The group made particular progress in developing more flexible digital and blended-learning approaches, including through Cambridge English Qualifications Digital, which launched in March 2024.
The International Education group delivers materials, resources and services to teachers and learners, and is the world’s largest provider of international education programmes and qualifications for 5- to 19-year-olds.
The group reported significant growth this year, focusing on building the world’s most trusted teaching, learning and assessment community.
The Cambridge IGCSE is the world’s most popular international qualification for 14 to 16-year-olds.
The 2024 June exam series was the largest ever run in terms of entries, enabling over one million students to progress.
Cambridge successfully delivered assessments across 6 different time zones in 160 countries.
The group’s community of more than 10,000 international schools continues to grow at pace.
Through the Partnership for Education, the Press & Assessment offers education reform across curriculum, assessment, learning and teacher materials.
The Partnership for Education’s work supporting policymakers to lead impactful tech transformations in education systems across the world was a finalist in the Transformational Impact category of the 2024 Bett Awards.
The UK Education group operates OCR (Oxford, Cambridge, and RSA Examinations) – a leading UK awarding body which provides a wide range of general and vocational qualifications to help students achieve their full potential.
It also incorporates the Centre for Evaluation and Monitoring, which offers formative assessments for children of all ages, from early years to post 16.
This year, OCR successfully delivered A levels, GCSEs, Cambridge Technicals and Cambridge Nationals for hundreds of thousands of students.
The group advanced efforts to deliver outstanding customer service, innovating for students and teachers, and leading reform in the sector.
Surveys show OCR is the highest rated exam board for customer support in England.
Work to prepare exams for the future continued this year with further trials and analysis of digital assessment, in preparation for OCR’s development of a fully digitally assessed GCSE in Computer Science.
The Academic group creates university-level research and teaching materials, publishes more than 400 peer-reviewed academic journals, thousands of books, and monographs.
Online growth continues apace, with 125 million downloads of scholarly research, including book chapters and research papers.
The innovative online Cambridge Elements programme, which combines the best features of academic books and journals, continues to grow.
The 1,000th in the series, Great Gatsby and the Global South: Intergenerational Mobility, Income Inequality, and Development, was published in October 2023.
Cambridge University Press published over 1,500 new books last year on a wide range of topics, many garnering awards and critical acclaim, such as Byron: A Life in Ten Letters and Resilience: The Science of Mastering Life’s Greatest Challenges.
The majority of papers in the 400 Cambridge-published research journals are now published open access.
The group continues to explore the future of open access transformation, spotlighting equity issues and engaging closely with its communities.
The Press & Assessment offers resources and expertise in teaching and learning for nature, the environment and climate in partnership with students, teachers, and education ministries.
Climate education equips young people with the knowledge and skills to understand the complexities of climate change and encourages them to become active participants in tackling this global challenge.
The Press & Assessment’s sustainability framework is an integrated part of its overall organisational strategy, which aims to reduce carbon emissions, cut the use of resources, reduce waste, source sustainably and create a more sustainable supply chain.
Since 2018–19 it has reduced its energy-related emissions by 35%.
The Press & Assessment is continually working to ensure it reflects the more than 100 million people it serves already around the world and the many more it wants to reach.
In December 2023, the organisation set out its position on equality, diversity, inclusion and belonging, and will continue to assess its impact.
Next page in this section: financial statements for the year ending 31 July 2024

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/about-the-university/annual-reports/financial-statements-for-the-year-ending-31-july-2024:
The consolidated financial statements provide an overview of the finances and operations of the University of Cambridge Group.
This information is available in other formats upon request.
Email: communicationsresources@admin.cam.ac.uk
Archive copies of the University of Cambridge Group's annual report and financial statements are available to view online or download as PDFs.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/about-the-university/annual-reports/previous-reports-and-financial-statements:
Find archive copies of the University Group's annual report and financial statements below.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/about-the-university/civic-engagement:
The University of Cambridge is proud to be part of the local community.
We are committed to supporting the region by.
Our staff and students work closely with local people, schools, hospitals, councils, community groups and businesses.
Together we are tackling local challenges, improving health, and helping reduce inequality.
We are proud of what we’ve done so far, but we know there’s more to do.
That’s why we are continuing to invest in long-term partnerships that bring lasting benefits to the community.
We will share our learning as we go.
We are keen to hear from local communities.
If you would like to find out more email us at civic@admin.cam.ac.uk .
If you come to Cambridge to study for a degree, there are a wealth of student societies you can join depending on your interests.
They range from the cultural and political to the sporting and...
The University of Cambridge is committed to developing and improving our sustainable transport initiatives for staff, students and the local community.
For many sixth formers, pursuing an Extended Project Qualification (EPQ) is their first opportunity to undertake independent research on a subject of their choosing.
The idea of hosting an online book club came in late 2020, during the COVID-19 lockdowns.
Dance with the Museums engages residents with artifacts and their stories to inspire learning, connectivity, dance, and movement.
See all our stories in Cambridge and the East of England
Visit the University’s buildings, collections and public spaces
We host a wide variety of events open to the city and local communities.
Find out What’s On at the University .
Collaborate on research, join membership schemes and volunteer with us
Discover the story of the University and how it functions today
Explore jobs currently available at the University

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research/news/cambridge-researchers-play-key-role-in-evidence-leading-to-approval-of-new-treatment-for-hereditary:
The National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) has today announced the approval of a new treatment for a form of hereditary blindness for use on the NHS in England.
Cambridge researchers played a pivotal role in providing the evidence that led to this important development.
This will bring hope to those who have experienced significant visual loss from this mitochondrial genetic disorder
Leber hereditary optic neuropathy (LHON) affects around 2,500 people in the United Kingdom.
It causes rapidly progressive loss of vision in both eyes.
Within weeks of onset, an affected individual reaches the legal threshold to be considered as severely sight impaired (blind).
The condition tends to affect young men, with a peak age of onset between the ages of 15 and 35 years old, but women can also be affected and the loss of vision can occur at any age.
The prognosis is poor, with only around one in 10 affected individuals experiencing some spontaneous visual improvement, which is invariably partial.
LHON is caused by the loss of retinal ganglion cells, specialised nerve cells in the innermost layer of the retina.
The projections, or ‘axons’, from these cells converge to form the optic nerve, the cable that transmits visual information from the eye to the brain.
Once these retinal ganglion cells are lost, the damage becomes irreversible.
LHON is primarily caused by genetic defects within the mitochondrial genome, which is transmitted down the maternal line.
In 2011, the journal Brain published the results of a landmark randomised placebo-controlled trial of the drug idebenone to treat LHON .
The RHODOS trial was led by Patrick Chinnery, at the time a researcher at Newcastle University and now Professor of Neurology at the University of Cambridge.
It found some potential benefit in a subgroup of patients.
However, treatment with idebenone was only given for six months, and it was not clear whether there was any benefit in treating individuals who had been affected for more than one year.
“At the time, we had only anecdotal evidence that idebenone would work for patients with LHON,” said Professor Chinnery.
“Our clinical trial was the first strong evidence that it could help stabilise vision in some patients.
It was an important step towards providing a new treatment.”
One of Professor Chinnery’s collaborators on the RHODOS trial was Patrick Yu-Wai-Man, Professor of Ophthalmology at the University of Cambridge, who led the follow-up LEROS trial .
This assessed the efficacy and safety of idebenone treatment in patients with LHON up to five years after symptom onset and over a treatment period of 24 months.
This second trial found that the drug can help stabilise vision in some patients and, in certain cases, may even lead to improvement when treatment is provided within five years of vision being affected.
These studies provided crucial evidence to support the use of idebenone to treat LHON patients.
The drug was licensed for limited use by patients in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland and it has now been approved by NICE for use in patients aged 12 years and over in England.
Professor Yu-Wai-Man said: “LHON causes devastating visual loss and it is a life-changing diagnosis for the affected individual and their family.
England is now in line with the rest of the United Kingdom with idebenone now available through the NHS.
This will come as a great relief to the LHON community in this country bringing hope to those who have experienced significant visual loss from this mitochondrial genetic disorder.”
The development has been welcomed by charities that have been arguing for idebenone to be made available across the UK.
A LHON Society spokesperson said: “This is a critical step towards full access to idebenone for patients, that may alleviate some of the impacts of LHON.”
Katie Waller, Head of Patient Programmes at The Lily Foundation, a charity that supports patients affected by mitochondrial diseases, said: “This is a huge win for the mito community and we’re proud to have been a key stakeholder throughout the process.
While it isn’t a cure, this treatment offers real potential for patients to preserve or improve vision, giving the chance to regain independence, confidence and a better quality of life.”
Idebenone will not work for everyone, and responses vary from person to person.
LHON patients are encouraged to speak with the healthcare professional responsible for their care to understand whether idebenone is the right treatment for them.
Man undergoing an eye examination
Credit: PeopleImages (Getty)

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research/news/long-term-exposure-to-outdoor-air-pollution-linked-to-increased-risk-of-dementia:
An analysis of studies incorporating data from almost 30 million people has highlighted the role that air pollution – including that coming from car exhaust emissions – plays in increased risk of dementia.
Tackling air pollution can deliver long-term health, social, climate, and economic benefits
Dementias such as Alzheimer's disease are estimated to affect more than 57.4 million people worldwide, a number that is expected to almost triple to 152.8 million cases by 2050.
The impacts on the individuals, families and caregivers and society at large are immense.
While there are some indications that the prevalence of dementia is decreasing in Europe and North America, suggesting that it may be possible to reduce the risk of the disease at a population level, elsewhere the picture is less promising.
Air pollution has recently been identified as a risk factor for dementia, with several studies pointing the finger at a number of pollutants.
However, the strength of evidence and ability to determine a causal effect has been varied.
In a paper published in The Lancet Planetary Health, a team led by researchers at the Medical Research Council (MRC) Epidemiology Unit, University of Cambridge, carried out a systematic review and meta-analysis of existing scientific literature to examine this link further.
This approach allowed them to bring together studies that on their own may not provide sufficient evidence, and which sometimes disagree with each other, to provide more robust overarching conclusions.
In total, the researchers included 51 studies, including data from more than 29 million participants who had been exposed to air pollutants for at least one year, mostly from high-income countries.
Of these, 34 papers were included in the meta-analysis: 15 originated in North America, 10 in Europe, seven in Asia, and two in Australia.
The researchers found a positive and statistically-significant association between 3 types of air pollutant and dementia.
These were:
According to the researchers, for every 10 micrograms per cubic metre (μg/m³) of PM 2.5 , an individual’s relative risk of dementia would increase by 17%.
The average roadside measurement for PM 2.5 in Central London in 2023 was 10 μg/m³.
For every 10 μg/m3 of NO2, the relative risk increased by 3%.
The average roadside measurement for NO 2 in Central London in 2023 was 33 µg/m³.
For each 1 μg/m³ of soot as found in PM 2.5 , the relative risk increased by 13%.
Across the UK, annual mean soot concentrations measured at select roadside locations in 2023 were 0.93 μg/m³ in London, 1.51 μg/m³ in Birmingham and 0.65 μg/m³ in Glasgow.
Senior author Dr Haneen Khreis from the MRC Epidemiology Unit said: “Epidemiological evidence plays a crucial role in allowing us to determine whether or not air pollution increases the risk of dementia and by how much.
Our work provides further evidence to support the observation that long-term exposure to outdoor air pollution is a risk factor for the onset of dementia in previously healthy adults.
“Tackling air pollution can deliver long-term health, social, climate, and economic benefits.
It can reduce the immense burden on patients, families, and caregivers, while easing pressure on overstretched healthcare systems.”
Several mechanisms have been proposed to explain how air pollution may cause dementia, primarily involving inflammation in the brain and oxidative stress (a chemical process in the body that can cause damage to cells, proteins, and DNA).
Both oxidative stress and inflammation play a well-established role in the onset and progression of dementia.
Air pollution is thought to trigger these processes through direct entry to the brain or via the same mechanisms underlying lung and cardiovascular diseases.
Air pollution can also enter circulation from the lungs and travel to solid organs, initiating local and wide-spread inflammation.
The researchers point out that the majority of people included in the published studies were white and living in high-income countries, even though marginalised groups tend to have a higher exposure to air pollution.
Given that studies have suggested that reducing air pollution exposure appears to be more beneficial at reducing the risk of early death for marginalised groups, they call for future work to urgently ensure better and more adequate representation across ethnicities and low- and middle-income countries and communities.
Joint first author Clare Rogowski, also from the MRC Epidemiology Unit, said: “Efforts to reduce exposure to these key pollutants are likely to help reduce the burden of dementia on society.
Stricter limits for several pollutants are likely to be necessary targeting major contributors such as the transport and industry sectors.
Given the extent of air pollution, there is an urgent need for regional, national, and international policy interventions to combat air pollution equitably.”
Further analysis revealed that while exposure to these pollutants increased the risk of Alzheimer's disease, the effect seemed stronger for vascular dementia, a type of dementia caused by reduced blood flow to the brain.
Around 180,000 people in the UK are thought to be affected by this type of dementia.
However, as there were only a small number of studies that examined this difference, the researchers did not class it as statistically significant.
Joint first author Dr Christiaan Bredell from the University of Cambridge and North West Anglia NHS Foundation Trust said: “These findings underscore the need for an interdisciplinary approach to dementia prevention.
Preventing dementia is not just the responsibility of healthcare: this study strengthens the case that urban planning, transport policy, and environmental regulation all have a significant role to play.”
The research was funded by the European Research Council under the Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and from the European Union’s Horizon Europe Framework Programme.
Best Rogowski, CB, & Bredell, C et al.
Long-term Air Pollution Exposure and Incident Dementia: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis.
Lancet Planetary Health; 24 July 2025; DOI: 10.1016/S2542-5196(25)00118-4
Traffic jam
Credit: joiseyshowaa

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research/news/placenta-and-hormone-levels-in-the-womb-may-have-been-key-driver-in-human-evolution:
The placenta and the hormones it produces may have played a crucial role in the evolution of the human brain, while also leading to the behavioural traits that have made human societies able to thrive and expand, according to a new hypothesis proposed by researchers from the Universities of Cambridge and Oxford.
Our hypothesis puts pregnancy at the heart of our story as a species
Dr Alex Tsompanidis, senior researcher at the Autism Research Centre in the University of Cambridge, and the lead author of this new study, said: “Small variations in the prenatal levels of steroid hormones, like testosterone and oestrogen, can predict the rate of social and cognitive learning in infants and even the likelihood of conditions such as autism.
This prompted us to consider their relevance for human evolution.”
One explanation for the evolution of the human brain may be in the way humans adapted to be social.
Professor Robin Dunbar, an Evolutionary Biologist at the University of Oxford and joint senior author of this new study said: “We’ve known for a long time that living in larger, more complex social groups is associated with increases in the size of the brain.
But we still don’t know what mechanisms may link these behavioural and physical adaptations in humans.”
In this new paper, published today in Evolutionary Anthropology , the researchers now propose that the mechanism may be found in prenatal sex steroid hormones, such as testosterone or oestrogens, and the way these affect the developing brain and behaviour in humans.
Using ‘mini-brains’ – clusters of human neuronal cells that are grown in a petri dish from donors’ stem cells – other scientists have been able to study, for the first time, the effects of these hormones on the human brain.
Recent discoveries have shown that testosterone can increase the size of the brain, while oestrogens can improve the connectivity between neurons.
In both humans and other primates such as chimpanzees and gorillas, the placenta can link the mother’s and baby’s endocrine systems to produce these hormones in varying amounts.
Professor Graham Burton, Founding Director of the Loke Centre of Trophoblast Research at the University of Cambridge and coauthor of the new paper, said: “The placenta regulates the duration of the pregnancy and the supply of nutrients to the fetus, both of which are crucial for the development of our species’ characteristically large brains.
But the advantage of human placentas over those of other primates has been less clear.”
Two previous studies show that levels of oestrogen during pregnancy are higher in human pregnancies than in other primate species.
Another characteristic of humans as a species is our ability to form and maintain large social groups, larger than other primates and other extinct species, such as Neanderthals.
But to be able to do this, humans must have adapted in ways that maintain high levels of fertility, while also reducing competition in large groups for mates and resources.
Prenatal sex steroid hormones, such as testosterone and oestrogen, are also important for regulating the way males and females interact and develop, a process known as sex differentiation.
For example, having higher testosterone relative to oestrogen leads to more male-like features in anatomy (e.g., in physical size and strength) and in behaviour (e.g., in competition).
But in humans, while these on-average sex differences exist, they are reduced, compared to our closest primate relatives and relative to other extinct human species (such as the Neanderthals).
Instead, anatomical features that are specific to humans appear to be related more to aspects of female rather than male biology, and to the effects of oestrogens (e.g., reduced body hair, and a large ratio between the second and fourth digit).
The researchers propose that the key to explain this may lie again with the placenta, which rapidly turns testosterone to oestrogens, using an enzyme called aromatase.
Recent discoveries show that humans have higher levels of aromatase compared to macaques, and that males may have slightly higher levels compared to females.
Bringing all these lines of evidence together, the authors propose that high levels of prenatal sex steroid hormones in the womb, combined with increased placental function, may have made human brains larger and more interconnected.
At the same time, a lower ratio of androgens (like testosterone) to oestrogens may have led to reductions in competition between males, while also improving fertility in females, allowing humans to form larger, more cohesive social groups.
Professor Simon Baron-Cohen, Director of the Autism Research Centre at the University of Cambridge and joint senior author on the paper, said: “We have been studying the effects of prenatal sex steroids on neurodevelopment for the past 20 years.
This has led to the discovery that prenatal sex steroids are important for neurodiversity in human populations.
This new hypothesis takes this further in arguing that these hormones may have also shaped the evolution of the human brain.”
Dr Tsompanidis added: “Our hypothesis puts pregnancy at the heart of our story as a species.
The human brain is remarkable and unique, but it does not develop in a vacuum.
Adaptations in the placenta and the way it produces sex steroid hormones may have been crucial for our brain’s evolution, and for the emergence of the cognitive and social traits that make us human.”
Tsompanidis, A et al.
The placental steroid hypothesis of human brain evolution.
Evolutionary Anthropology; 20 June 2025; DOI: 10.1002/evan.70003
Models of a fetus in the womb and of the brain
Credit: Nadzeya Haroshka (Getty Images)

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/news/cambridge-phd-student-heading-to-cern-for-the-international-famelab-final:
Earlier this month, Cambridge PhD student Spatika Jayaram was crowned the winner of the FameLab 2025 UK final at this year’s Cheltenham Science Festival.
After winning a nail-biting East of England final, which was held as part of the Cambridge Festival in April 2025, Spatika went on to represent the East of England in the UK final with her presentation on Time Travel with Your Brain.
She will now go on to represent the UK in the International Final taking place live at CERN Science Gateway in Switzerland to mark the 20-year anniversary of the competition.
“I was so surprised I won!”, said Spatika.
“The other communicators were fantastic and we travelled through so many topics from planets to parasites and more!”.
Spatika took part in FameLab because she enjoyed talking about science to non-scientists and bringing some meaning to the complex work taking place in the labs.
“I wanted a chance to bring humour into the science, because most of the times science is presented in professional environments, it’s all very serious”, added Spatika.
“I would recommend FameLab for anyone who’s even a tiny bit interested in knowing what happens to science when it’s let out in the wild!”
Claudia Antolini, Public Engagement Manager at the University of Cambridge said, “We are delighted for Spatika to represent the UK at the International FameLab final.
Both at the East of England regional competition and the UK final Spatika gave outstanding performances, scientifically accurate but also extremely engaging with wise-cracking humour.
We wish her the best of luck and we look forward to cheering her on for the International Final.”
The FameLab final will be streamed live from CERN on YouTube .
Spatika Jayaram is a PhD student and Gates Cambridge Scholar in the Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience and Magdalene College.
In her research, she looks at social and emotional behaviours emerging across development, and how regions within the prefrontal cortex contribute to their regulation.
Her supervisor is Professor Angela Roberts.
FameLab was created by Cheltenham Festivals in 2005 and is the largest science communication competition and training programme in the world.
Participants have just 3 minutes to convey a scientific concept of their choice to an audience and expert panel of judges with no presentations and limited props.
Credit: Still Moving Media for Cheltenham Festivals

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/about-the-university/contact-the-university/for-the-media:
All of our news stories are available to read on the University's news pages .
To sign up to receive embargoed copies of our press releases, email communications@admin.cam.ac.uk .
Please specify your areas of interest, for example: undergraduate education, postgraduate education, student life, research, etc.
To find an expert who can help with your enquiry contact the External Affairs and Communications team.
Email: communications@admin.cam.ac.uk Out of hours: +44 (0)7879 116949
If you would like to film within any of our Colleges you will need to obtain permission from that College.
Colleges will typically not allow any filming during term time.
Similarly, if you wish to film inside any of our Departments or Faculties , you will need to get in touch with them directly.
You can film Colleges and Departments from the public highway without needing permission from the University.
Find out about filming in Cambridge (Cambridge City Council)
To contact the University's Media team, please email communications@admin.cam.ac.uk .
For urgent and out-of-hours calls only, phone +44 (0)7879 116949.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/subjects/neuroscience:
06 April 2022
An international team of researchers has created a series of brain charts spanning our entire lifespan – from a 15 week old fetus to 100 year old adult – that show how our brains expand rapidly in early life and slowly shrink as we age.
Earlier this month, Cambridge PhD student Spatika Jayaram was crowned the winner of the FameLab 2025 UK final at this year’s Cheltenham Science...
Scientists have developed a new technique that has enabled ultra-powerful MRI scanners to identify tiny differences in patients’ brains that cause...
People suffering from severe alcohol and opioid addiction are to be offered a revolutionary new technique involving planting electrodes in the brain...
A ‘chasm of misunderstanding and miscommunication’ is often experienced between clinicians and patients, leading to autoimmune diseases such as lupus...
Cambridge researchers are developing implants that could help repair the brain pathways damaged by Parkinson’s disease.
Interactions with friends and family may keep us healthy because they boost our immune system and reduce our risk of diseases such as heart disease...
Researchers have developed a mindfulness therapy tailored specifically to appeal to teenagers to help them cope with increasing levels of depression...
A team from across the Cambridge life sciences, technology and business worlds has announced a multi-million-pound, three-year collaboration with the...
Damage to the brainstem – the brain’s ‘control centre’ – is behind long-lasting physical and psychiatric effects of severe Covid-19 infection, a...

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/subjects/brain:
Paul Bays is a Professor of Computation and Cognition in the Department of Psychology at the University of Cambridge.
He investigates the nature of the internal representations our brains construct and sustain to interact with the world and the computations performed on them to achieve behavioural goals.
Aspirations for the ability of AI to transform society couldn’t be higher.
Realising this potential will require bridging the gap between AI development and public value.
Cambridge's AI-deas initiative aims to do just that.
Sex differences in brain structure are present from birth, research from the Autism Research Centre at the University of Cambridge has shown.
A ‘one of a kind’ fossil discovery could transform our understanding of how the unique brains and intelligence of modern birds evolved, one of the most enduring mysteries of vertebrate evolution.
A team from across the Cambridge life sciences, technology and business worlds has announced a multi-million-pound, three-year collaboration with the Advanced Research and Invention Agency (ARIA), the UK government’s new research funding agency.
Damage to the brainstem – the brain’s ‘control centre’ – is behind long-lasting physical and psychiatric effects of severe Covid-19 infection, a study suggests.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/people/tamar-makin:
Cambridge researchers have shown that members of the public have little trouble in learning very quickly how to use a third thumb – a controllable, prosthetic extra thumb – to pick up and manipulate objects.
Contrary to the commonly-held view, the brain does not have the ability to rewire itself to compensate for the loss of sight, an amputation or stroke, for example, say scientists from the University of Cambridge and Johns Hopkins University.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/affiliations/school-of-clinical-medicine:
Users of the NHS Active 10 app, designed to encourage people to become more active, immediately increased their amount of brisk and non-brisk walking upon using the app, according to researchers from the University of Cambridge.
Cambridge scientists have developed and tested a new drug in mice that has the potential to reduce damage to the brain when blood flow is restored following a stroke.
High levels of a hormone found in cells in the gut could underlie many cases of chronic diarrhoea and help explain up to 40% of cases of patients with irritable bowel syndrome with diarrhoea, according to a new study led by scientists at the University of Cambridge.
A joint University and AstraZeneca course is helping to meet the UK’s need for specialist training in clinical pharmacology and pharmaceutical medicine.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/affiliations/mrc-cognition-and-brain-sciences-unit:
One of the first studies in this area to use clinical-level diagnoses reveals a range of differences between young people with and without mental health conditions when it comes to social media – from changes in mood to time spent on sites.
From social media to AI, online technologies are changing too fast for the scientific infrastructure used to gauge their public health harms, say two leaders in the field.
Estherina Trachtenberg is a Blavatnik Postdoctoral Fellow in the Cognition and Brain Sciences Unit, University of Cambridge and is currently working in the lab of Prof.
Duncan Astle.
She studies social connectedness and its impact on health, cognition, and the underlying brain networks.
Cambridge researchers are leading the first phase of a new research project that will lay the groundwork for future studies into the impact on children of smartphone and social media use.
Five Cambridge experts share their top tips on ways to boost your body and mind, backed up by their own research
Geoffrey Hinton, an alumnus of the University of Cambridge, was awarded the 2024 Nobel Prize in Physics, jointly with John Hopfield of Princeton University.
Six academics from the University of Cambridge have been made Fellows of the prestigious British Academy for the humanities and social sciences.
Two Cambridge Fellows are among the new Academy of Medical Sciences Fellows announced today.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/external-affiliations/wellcome:
A teenager who has lost family members including her mother because of a rare genetic hereditary illness has become the first patient in the UK and Europe to have a new treatment developed by Cambridge researchers and approved for use on the NHS.
Metformin, a widely used and affordable diabetes drug, could prevent a form of acute myeloid leukaemia in people at high risk of the disease, a study in mice has suggested.
Further research in clinical trials will be needed to confirm this works for patients.
Modern humans descended from not one, but at least 2 ancestral populations that drifted apart and later reconnected, long before modern humans spread across the globe.
Vaccinations alone may not be enough to protect people with compromised immune systems from infection, even if the vaccine has generated the production of antibodies, new research from the University of Cambridge has shown.
Monoclonal antibodies – treatments developed by cloning a cell that makes an antibody – could help provide an answer to the growing problem of antimicrobial resistance, say scientists.
Children diagnosed with type 1 diabetes are at significantly higher risk of a number of mental health issues, including mood and anxiety disorders, a study from a team in the UK and the Czech Republic has found.
What excites Steve Jackson is understanding how biology works and why it sometimes goes wrong.
But what galvanises him is knowing there are people alive today as a result of his discovery of how to create a cancer drug.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/external-affiliations/medical-research-council:
Endoscopies could be replaced by far less invasive capsule sponge tests for half of all patients with Barrett’s oesophagus, a known precursor to oesophageal cancer.
Fifty years since its discovery, scientists have finally worked out how a molecular machine found in mitochondria, the ‘powerhouses’ of our cells, allows us to make the fuel we need from sugars, a process vital to all life on Earth.
Scientists have developed a new technique that has enabled ultra-powerful MRI scanners to identify tiny differences in patients’ brains that cause treatment-resistant epilepsy.
It has allowed doctors at Addenbrooke’s Hospital, Cambridge, to offer the patients surgery to cure their condition.
People suffering from severe alcohol and opioid addiction are to be offered a revolutionary new technique involving planting electrodes in the brain to modulate brain activity and cravings and improve self-control.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/external-affiliations/national-institutes-of-health:
A study of more than 22,000 people with multiple sclerosis has discovered the first genetic variant associated with faster disease progression, which can rob patients of their mobility and independence over time.
Mathematical model could help in physical therapy and shed light on learning more generally.
A unique residential study has concluded that, contrary to perceived wisdom, people with eating disorders do not lose self-control – leading to binge-eating – in response to stress.
The findings of the Cambridge-led research are published today in the Journal of Neuroscience .
Dolutegravir, the current first-line treatment for HIV, may not be as effective as hoped in sub-Saharan Africa, suggests new research published on World AIDS Day.
The study finds that this so-called ‘wonder drug’ may be less effective in patients resistant to older drugs.
The world’s first licensed, downloadable artificial pancreas app for people with type 1 diabetes launches today, based on over a decade of research by Professor Roman Hovorka at the University of Cambridge and Cambridge University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust.
Women who experience pregnancy loss and do not go on to have children are at greater risk of cardiovascular disease, such as heart disease and stroke, compared with women who have only one or two children, according to new research from the University of Cambridge and the University of North Carolina.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/news/co-founder-of-billion-dollar-ai-for-autonomous-driving-company-and-cambridge-alumnus-wins-princess:
Alex Kendall, CEO and Co-Founder of Wayve, a billion-dollar UK company that uses deep learning to solve the challenges of self-driving cars, has been presented with the Princess Royal Silver Medal, one of the Royal Academy of Engineering’s most prestigious individual awards.
Wayve is one of the UK’s most valuable deep-tech startups, backed by more than $1 billion (about £730 million) in funding.
Alex Kendall co-founded the company in 2017 following his PhD at the University of Cambridge, where he pioneered a contrarian approach to self-driving cars.
At a time when the industry relied heavily on rule-based systems, maps and multiple sensors, he proposed a different vision powered by deep learning – where a single neural network could learn to drive from raw data without human intervention.
Wayve’s approach creates a general-purpose driving intelligence that can adapt to new environments.
Its models are trained on tens of petabytes of real-world data from its team of safety drivers.
Wayve tests its models in both real-world driving settings and in simulation.
Real-world testing exposes AI to diverse conditions, while simulation enables efficient, large-scale validation.
Synthetic data on rare or unseen scenarios are used to train their technology to safely navigate the real world.
Wayve tests these safety-critical scenarios, such as near collisions or unpredictable pedestrian behaviour, using a cutting-edge generative world model.
Wayve’s autonomous cars have been navigating the complex streets of London since 2019, overseen by legally required safety drivers.
Last year they expanded to San Francisco and have also been testing these cars in Stuttgart, and Japan.
The company plans to license its technology to car manufacturers, with Nissan set to integrate Wayve’s AI to support driver assistance into its vehicles by 2027.
The engineering team have also built the first language-driving model tested on public roads.
LINGO opens up communication with the robot and can narrate its driving and answer questions.
That means Wayve’s engineers (and eventually passengers) can communicate with the AI and ask it to explain decisions or drive in a certain way.
He sees autonomous driving as a launchpad for a broader revolution in embodied AI, with applications in robotics, manufacturing, and healthcare.
“Bringing AI into the physical world in a way that it can interact with us, is real – is tangible,” explains Kendall, “I think it’s going to be the biggest transformation we go through in our lifetimes.”
Adapted from a Royal Academy of Engineering press release .
Wayve autonomous car
Credit: Wayve

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/climate-challenge-2025:
By Annie Mckenzie
Climate Challenge Finalists outside King's College, Cambridge.
A PhD candidate in synthetic biology and an early career researcher in aerospace engineering topped a field of four other teams to win the 2025 Cambridge Zero Climate Challenge for developing a method of turning waste into sustainable fuel for airplanes.
Neela Biotech beat other pitches for water purification, African education combined with solar power installation, an app for tracking personal carbon footprints and a scheme for growing insulation from fungus.
“The Cambridge Climate Challenge has been an incredible learning experience, particularly the insightful weekly sessions led by exceptional speakers,” said Neela Biotech co-founder Dr Deepanshu Singh.
He said he and co-founder Friederike Nintzel (final-year Cambridge PhD candidate in synthetic biology) have already agreed to spend the winning £1500 cash prize on incorporating the company, to ensure a business plan can be taken forward.
Co-Founder, Dr Deepanshu Singh, during his pitch.
Carbon13 Founder, Dr Nicky Dee, presenting 1st prize to Neela Biotech.
Co-Founder Dr Deepanshu Singh pictured receiving the award.
Co-Founder of Neela Biotech Dr Deepanshu Singh , and attendee Connor Farrell .
“Our fifth Climate Challenge saw Cambridge students representing a range of disciplines, highlighting how we can all contribute towards a green future,” said organiser Will Crook, Cambridge Zero’s Student Engagement Coordinator.
Aviation is the most emissions-intensive mode of transport, producing up to 50 times more emissions than trains and five times more than cars.
According to the International Energy Agency , the sector is significantly off track from achieving net zero by 2050.
Neela Biotech takes on aviation’s emissions challenge by enhancing the natural process of arrested anaerobic digestion, transforming it into Controlled Microbial Upcycling (CMU) to produce carbon-negative Sustainable Aviation Fuel (SAF).
This innovative approach converts waste from municipal, agricultural, and aquaculture sources.
Unlike traditional bio-SAF - which displaces food production because it is grown on arable land - CMU eliminates competition for food, land, and water while reducing production costs.
Targeting the $391 billion global jet fuel market, Neela Biotech aims to establish a 100,000-tonne SAF plant within two years.
Dr Amy Munro-Faure, Head of Education and Student Engagement at Cambridge Zero , introducing the judging panel.
Five competitors took to the stage in the final round, judged by a panel of four climate innovation experts, including Dr Nicky Dee, Founder of climate-focused venture capital group Carbon13, Kamiar Mohaddes, Director and Co-founder of the King’s E-Lab, Dr Tara Love, CTO and Co-Founder of NANOPLUME, and James Cole, Chief Innovation Officer at Cambridge Institute for Sustainability Leadership (CISL).
H20Kline Founders Hauwa Busari and Maureen Abel during the judges' Q&A.
H20Kline Runners-Up Hauwa Busari and Maureen Abel , pictured with Kamiar Mohaddes, Kings E-Lab Director and Co-Founder.
H20Kline Runners-Up Hauwa Busari and Maureen Abel .
The runners-up for the prize included H20Kline , pitching for the use of activated charcoal as a means of water purification along the Niger Delta, and MPowered , pitching STEM education and off-grid solar electrification programs in rural East Africa.
Their innovations were each awarded £750.
All prizes were sponsored by Moda Living, and the event was made possible by organisers Cambridge Zero and partners: Carbon13, Cambridge Enterprise, Maxwell Centre, Energy IRC, CISL, Kings E-Lab, and King’s College.
H20Kline introduced a ground-breaking innovation for water purification using activated charcoal derived from date pits, an underutilised agricultural waste product found in large quantities along the Niger Delta.
Co-founder Maureen Abel, who grew up near the Niger Delta, used her deep understanding of the region’s environmental and socio-cultural challenges to ensure the project is grounded in local realities and community needs.
Meanwhile, Hauwa Busari, pursuing an MPhil in Architectural and Urban Studies, contributed her technical expertise to drive the project forward.
Audience choice winners and runners-up MPowered, offered a social enterprise aligned to address the stark reality of energy poverty in East Africa.
While interacting with school children through her work, founder Sally Musonye was often reminded of her childhood growing up and using a kerosene lamp for studies.
To this day, only 65.5% of the total population has access to electricity.
MPowered is empowering women and girls across rural Kenya, intending to ease the burden of electricity access and improve literacy levels for the local communities.
Jockim Kamalha , Digital Curriculum and Community Engagement Lead at MPowered.
Dr Nicky Dee and Dr Tara Love presenting Jockim Kamalha , and Sally Musonye with the runners-up award.
Dr Amy Munro-Faure pictured on the right.
87% of interviewed students were inspired to engage in further climate-related action or learning.
Other contestants included My ClimPact , with an innovative mobile app that empowers individuals to take meaningful climate action by tracking their carbon footprint through self-reported data and automated tools like location and bank integration.
It provides personalised climate ratings, tailored suggestions to reduce emissions, and insights into the environmental impact of companies, encouraging greener choices.
The app promotes corporate accountability, drives real-world action, and fosters a community of climate-conscious individuals.
Anna Winter of My ClimPact said: “The people taking part had so much energy and genuine passion, I loved creating those connections.”
My ClimPact pitching their innovative mobile app: Laurie Hill , and Anna Winter .
Laurie Hill during the judges Q&A.
The final pitch saw MySealium address the UK’s insulation crisis by offering an affordable, bio-inspired solution.
It uses fungal mycelium, grown on a bio-waste substrate to create insulating panels with low embodied carbon, saving about 4kg CO₂ per panel.
Targeting under-insulated homes, MySealium offers free or discounted installation through a pay-as-you-save model, where smart meters are in place to calculate savings.
This approach reduces emissions, promotes sustainability, and increases public engagement in climate action while lowering energy bills.
MySealium's pitch: James Longstaff , Hanna Szafranska and Tom Myers .
Interested students can keep up to date with these and other Cambridge Zero opportunities via our student mailing list .
James Longstaff.
Attendee and Anna Winter during the refreshment break.
Clockwise: Anna Winter , Laurie Hill , James Longstaff , James Cole , Tom Myers , Dr Tara Love , Dr Deepanshu Singh , Will Crook , Kamiar Mohaddes , Dr Nicky Dee , Maureen Abel , Hauwa Busari , Jockim Kamalha , Hanna Szafranska , Sally Musonye , Dr Amy Munro-Faure .
Published 1 April 2025
Images: Annie McKenzie

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/climate-challenge-2024:
Meet the student team using cancer research to make sustainable nylon
By Ellie Austin
An enzyme inspired by brain cancer DNA that has the potential to slash greenhouse gas emissions from the production of nylon won the 2024 Cambridge Climate Challenge.
Benign, a team of Cambridge students, have developed a start-up business model that can drastically reduce the environmental impact of producing nylon for everything from stockings to swimwear.
The idea from a team of Cambridge master's students is the culmination of 10 years of cancer research leading to a paper in nature's communications biology journal on the discovery of the enzyme.
“ There isn't really anything good to say about cancer, except possibly this , ” said Benign CEO, Kevin Tu , an MPhil student in Medical Science at Churchill College.
Applying their research to the world of business, they plan to reduce the environmental impact of nylon to produce more sustainable clothing.
The winning team, featuring Kevin Tu , Karen Copeland and Tyler Colenbrander alongside judge panellist Nicky Dee , Founder and CEO of Carbon13
During the 2024 Climate Challenge, Tu joined forces with fellow Churchill chums, Public Policy MPhil student Karen Copeland and Physics MPhil student Tyler Colenbrander , to turn cancer on its head into a climate solution.
" It started with my mentor, Dr Zack Reitman at Duke [University School of Medicine], who did the leg work in discovering the enzyme.
I've just taken up the torch in the last year to make it a more scalable, market-viable product ," said Tu.
Benign CEO, Kevin Tu : "there's no actual cancer in our product, we're just taking some inspiration from its chemistry"
Chemical manufacturing relies heavily on processing petrochemicals, which leads to toxic by-products and greenhouse gas emissions.
“ Two-thirds of emissions from the fast fashion industry are from the production aspect ,” said Copeland.
Nylon manufacturing currently produces large amounts of nitrous oxide, a greenhouse gas 300 times more potent than carbon dioxide.
Benign's patented technology slashes the emissions of nitrous oxide and adapts the manufacturing process to occur at room temperature, reducing the need for high temperatures powered by fossil fuels.
“ One of the biggest problems we have with [manufacturing] is the high temperatures needed…so you’ve made a very good innovation ,” said judging panellist Okello Gabriel, Prince of Wales Global Sustainability Fellow at Cambridge Institute for Sustainability Leadership (CISL), to the winning team during their pitch.
Finalist pitching team, Armadillos for NetZero featuring Ruby Haji Naif (pictured) and Noah Berrada
Finalist pitching team ZeroC featuring Manjari Gupta and Prakash Gupta
Audience Choice Award winners, MenstruVive, featuring Parul Chugh (pictured) and Nga Chan
Finalist pitch: Seeds of Resilience, featuring Nima Tavasoli Roudsari and PEI JIANG (pictured).
Runner-up: Terracotta Cooling - featuring Jerrell Ong , Eric Tay and Sebastian Lindner-Liaw.
Carbon13 Founder, Dr Dee, pictured on the right.
Runner-up: Thermalytics, featuring Guillaume Bigot , Aline Van Driessche and Camilla Billari.
" Decarbonising fashion, recycling hygiene products, enlisting satellites to find heat loss...Our fourth annual Climate Challenge really demonstrates the global scale and ambition of Cambridge students ," Cambridge Zero Student Engagement Coordinator Elizabeth Simpson said.
Out of 23 applications, eight ventures headed to a finalist pitching competition to face a panel of climate innovation experts, including Dr Nicky Dee, Founder of climate-focused venture capital group Carbon13, Sebastian Dunnett, Nature Scientist at UNEP-WCMC, Okello Gabriel, Prince of Wales Global Sustainability Fellow at Cambridge Institute for Sustainability Leadership (CISL), and Frankie Fox, Co-Founder and CEO of FoodSquared.
The runners up included Thermalytics , pitching for the use of satellite data to assess heat loss from commercial properties, and Terracotta , pitching for the use of terracotta-based cooling systems around data centres.
The audience choice award went to MenstruVive, pitching  a novel recycling technology for menstrual products.
“ It takes courage for women to come out and talk on this topic ,” said Parus Chugh from the MenstruVive team.
The 2024 Climate Challenge follows two particularly successful years of competitions, where winners produced “elegant” solutions such as using algae to tackle methane emissions in the Global South and employing AI and drone technology to capture carbon credits for peatland regeneration projects.
“ This programme helped me to rethink my research from a practical way of what the real world problems are ,”
Pei Jiang, Geography PhD student and Climate Challenge Finalist pitching for Seeds of Resilience, a sustainable agriculture educational game.
The Climate Challenge is an eight-week innovation competition for early career researchers, designed to give young academics the skills to scale-up their own climate solutions into successful and impactful businesses.
“ We need to challenge the status quo ,” said Dr Dee.
The competition is run in partnership with CISL Canopy, Carbon13, Energy IRC, Cambridge Enterprise, the Maxwell Centre and sponsored by Moda Living .
“ Researchers at Cambridge are producing ground-breaking solutions to climate change ,” said Dr Amy Munro-Faure , Head of Education and Student Engagement at Cambridge Zero.
“ We’re  giving young academics the skills to scale-up their solutions into successful and impactful businesses .”
The competition launched at the start of Lent term with guest speaker Dr Shima Barakat, the Director for the Entrepreneurship for Sustainability Programme at the University of Cambridge, instructing students to “ go and shake things up .”
Interested students can keep up to date with these and other opportunities with Cambridge Zero via our student mailing list .
Image credit: Hattie Mellor, Carbon13
Published 04 April 2024
Images: Ellie Austin

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/quantum-leap:
By Sarah Fell
WHO?
Founder and CEO of Cambridge spinout, Nu Quantum , Carmen Palacios-Berraquero, has a PhD in physics from Cambridge and is the recipient of numerous accolades, including the Jocelyn Bell Burnell Medal and Prize for exceptional early-career contributions to physics by a female physicist.
She is also a founding member and Director of UKQuantum, the voice of the UK’s quantum industry and a member of the Technical Advisory Group to UKRI's National Quantum Computing Centre.
WHAT?
Building the quantum networking infrastructure essential to scaling quantum computers.
WHY?
" Quantum computing is going to be the defining technology of this century.
It’s a privilege to be in this moment of time, developing this technology which is going to change everything."
Why did your parents decide to educate you in a British School in Madrid?
Both my parents are medical doctors.
My dad in particular has always done cancer research but he struggled with having to learn English later on in life.
It was always front of mind for him that he wanted his daughters not to have to worry about that.
From a very early age, I knew I wanted to study physics - and to do so abroad.
Having had a British education made me think of applying to Imperial for my first degree.
Did you always want to do a PhD?
It was pretty clear to me that I would do one.
After my degree, I was accepted into two PhD programmes – one here and one in Oxford.
I chose Cambridge, joining the Nanotechnology Centre for Doctoral Training (CDT).
That meant doing a master's before starting the PhD.
That first year was great: I had a lot of fun and it gave me a chance to understand how research works, the kinds of things people research and what my options might be.
Even though I was part of the Nanotechnology CDT, quantum physics was always my favourite subject so that's where I ended up.
My supervisor, Professor Mete Atatüre, said: "There’s this new thing - 2D materials and quantum optics - do you want to do it?" It sounded perfect, a new field, ripe for research.
My PhD was very successful.
I published two highly cited first author papers and filed a patent.
At this point, did you think you were on a conventional academic career path?
By the time I got to Cambridge, I definitely thought I would pursue an academic career, become a professor and all that.
What changed your mind?
I became disillusioned with academia.
I didn’t really feel like I wanted to carry on and apply for a postdoc position.
For a while, I continued to work on a really challenging experimental project but Cambridge Enterprise (the University's technology transfer arm) kept asking me what I was planning to do with the patent I had filed during my PhD.
They suggested that I go on the University's Impulse programme.
By the time the programme finished, everything started to snowball.
I began to understand more about the quantum industry.
2018 felt transitional - it was, in fact, when the majority of quantum start-ups were founded: it seemed like the moment when research leaves academia and goes out into the real world.
I was asked to pitch at an event in London.
An investor saw me and invited me to join an accelerator programme, even though it was for Series A companies and I didn’t even have a piece of paper with the company name on it.
In September 2018, I incorporated the company just so that I could go on that programme.
I started to work with the entrepreneur in residence there, applied for a small grant and was given £20k by Cambridge Enterprise.
I suddenly realised that this is quite fun and I’m quite good at it.
It sounds as if you had to be persuaded that founding a company was a good idea?
Kind of.
I gradually became less sceptical over time.
Now, I absolutely love it!
Can you explain - in simple terms - what Nu Quantum does?
We believe quantum computing is going to be transformational, the defining technology of this century, much like classical computers were in the last one.
Instead of the binary logic we are used to in computing - zeros and ones - in quantum, we have qubits (short for quantum bits).
These qubits can be entangled together creating multi-qubit superposition states.
Essentially, in very simplified terms, this could mean that you are able to explore an exponentially large number of solutions to a problem at the same time.
The problem is that it’s really hard to build these computers.
A qubit is embodied in an object such as a single atom: assembling and controlling them is difficult as quantum states are very fragile.
Qubits need to be completely isolated from everything and their interactions controlled super-precisely which is why we need advanced infrastructure such as an array of fridges, lasers and ultra-high vacuum systems.
And because qubits are not perfect we need many of them - around a million - to make the kind of calculations we think will be life-changing.
At the moment, we are managing around 100 qubits in one machine.
We think we can get to thousands per machine in the next five years.
But that’s still orders of magnitude from where we need to be.
So we need to think about a modular approach, with many computers connected together.
The analogy is with high-performance compute clusters which are also modular, with many, many computing cores all connected together.
A quantum network extends the entanglement that exists inside each individual quantum computing unit, and creates entanglement so that all the modules can work together to carry out a larger computation.
This is what we are doing, building these quantum computing networks so that we can scale quantum computers.
Unsurprisingly, it’s very hard to do.
How do you think quantum computing is going to change our lives?
In lots of ways but some of the most exciting applications are likely to be in designing new materials and optimising drugs in ways, and at speeds, which are out of reach today.
What are you most excited about?
Everything.
We are one of the only quantum networking companies in the world.
Without this technology the world won’t be able to build quantum computers.
We are designing how to inter-connect quantum computers, what the different parts of a modular architecture are, what they are called and how the protocols work.
It’s a privilege to be in this moment in time, developing this technology.
How have you found growing the team?
It's been great.
We have tripled in size in the last 12 months.
Nine months ago, hiring was the number one risk because we had several new projects and contracts and so we had to grow fast and that’s hard to do but we’ve done it.
We’ve hired an amazing team.
Has being in Cambridge helped with that?
For sure.
Half of our technical team are physics and quantum PhDs and the other half are industry engineers.
Some of our scientists come from the University and they are very international.
Our engineers, on the other hand, tend to come from other great technology companies around Cambridge.
Cambridge and the UK more widely is an attractive place for people to move to, which really helps.
You clearly love physics and quantum.
Are you getting enough of that now that you’re  growing so fast?
I do a bit of everything.
It's been a long time since I did any deep, detailed implementation of the technology in the lab but I’m involved in all functions of the business at the right level.
My role is understanding where the company needs to go to be successful commercially and ensuring that we are all rowing in the same direction.
It’s about understanding both the industry and the technology.
I’m very lucky with my management team.
Everyone in my team is an expert in their field.
I trust them – and they trust me.
How competitive is the UK's quantum industry?
The UK is one of the top countries in terms of funding, the number of patents, the number of companies and the level of government support.
The other big players are the US, China, Canada, and Europe.
The US is very strong with big tech companies investing in quantum like Cisco, Google, IBM and Intel but the UK has the opportunity to have some world-leading players and I hope Nu Quantum will be one of them.
Who’s influenced or inspired you?
I learn from my management team every day as well as from my investors.
What are you most proud of?
The team and the strategy.
We didn’t start out on this path – we've had a major pivot.
We had seen something that no-one else had seen, we moved there early and we are now doing the work of creating this category.
What about setbacks?
Pre-pivot it was hard for many reasons, not least during the pandemic when all our labs were closed.
And it continues to be hard.
There are always going to be problems.
What have you learnt?
So much.
It turns out that I’m way more commercially minded than I thought and now what I bring is the commercial strategy and building partnerships.
I’ve also learnt that there are constant problems to solve but also constant successes: it’s not like you ever arrive at a steady state.
What would your colleagues say is your greatest strength?
Maybe something to do with drive or energy?
Also that I enjoy problem-solving on a massive scale.
What about weaknesses?
The other side of the coin is that I can be too driven, which may spill over into impatience.
Do you have a piece of advice for someone who is interested in starting a business?
Give it a go!
What do you like doing in your spare time?
Dancing and spending time with my friends and family
Optimist or pessimist?
Optimist.
People or ideas?
It has to be people.
On time or running late?
Roughly on time which is maybe five minutes late.
The journey or the destination?
The journey.
Team player or lone wolf?
Team player.
Novelty or routine?
Novelty.
Big picture or fine detail?
Big picture.
Do you have to be lucky or make your own luck?
Make your own luck.
Work, work, work or work-life balance?
Work-life balance.
I like to have fun.
Enterprising Minds has been developed with the help of Bruno Cotta , Visiting Fellow & Honorary Ambassador at the Cambridge Judge Business School.
Published 21 March 2024
All photography: StillVision
The text in this work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License .

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/subjects/entrepreneurship:
A biology PhD candidate and an early career aerospace engineer researcher won the 2025 Cambridge Zero Climate Challenge for turning waste into sustainable jet fuel
Meet the brilliant founder and CEO of Nu Quantum, a Cambridge spinout paving the way for a new era of quantum computing.
Meet Umaima Ahmad, co-founder and CEO of a Cambridge spinout that aims to keep chemotherapy patients safe from infection while sparing them unnecessary hospital visits.
Thanks to the work of two Cambridge researchers, businesses and policymakers alike can see how the Cambridge Cluster continues to thrive and what steps they should take to ensure a sustainable future.
A team of student entrepreneurs who see algae as a potential business solution for reducing methane emissions from landfill and waste-water sites won the 2023 Cambridge Zero Climate Challenge after a nail-biting competition.
An organisation that seeks to boost Arab leadership in Israel, Kav Mashve, in cooperation with Edmond de Rothschild Foundation, brought 12 MBA students to Cambridge for an immersive Executive Education programme at Cambridge Judge Business School.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/people/kamiar-mohaddes:
Researchers from the University of Cambridge and Boston Consulting Group (BCG) offer a strong case for investing in climate mitigation and adaptation to avoid damage to the global economy.
Cambridge researchers are investigating the economic consequences of climate change and biodiversity loss, and identifying ways to drive a more sustainable global economy.
The 2024 Mastercard Foundation Scholars Program at the University of Cambridge Entrepreneurship Prize Competition recognises innovative ideas in agriculture, women’s health and digital technology.
Social media engagement with climate policy events is vital to reducing building emissions and ensuring environmental justice, research led by Cambridge suggests
From pollinators to profits, food to fires, here's what Cambridge experts say about the impacts of water scarcity – and what it signals about our changing climate.
What will it take to make the high-stakes United Nations climate summit a success?
We spoke with some of our researchers and asked them what they want to see at COP26, what some of the biggest challenges are in getting to zero carbon, and what gives them hope.
Cambridge economists add climate science to Standard & Poor’s global credit formula and find that 63 nations face downgrades by 2030 unless action is taken to reduce emissions.
Study uses 40 years of quarterly data to forecast a lengthy global recession resulting from coronavirus, with the manufacturing bases of China and East Asia predicted to fare better than most Western economies.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/people/gerard-grech:
Academics and staff associated with the University of Cambridge feature in the 2024 list, which recognises the achievements and service of people across the UK, from all walks of life.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/people/jim-glasheen:
Of the UK’s top three universities for spinouts – Oxford, Cambridge and Imperial - Cambridge saw the most growth in 2024, according to a new report on trends in UK academic spinouts.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/affiliations/king%27s-entrepreneurship-lab:
As the world grapples with rising temperatures and the challenge this brings, a Mastercard Foundation Scholar has devised a novel way of keeping buildings cool.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/affiliations/founders-at-university-of-cambridge:
Cambridge and AstraZeneca are developing talent and innovation through mentoring programmes, business accelerators and careers support for students.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/cambridge-maths-school-open:
By Stephen Bevan Published: 15th September 2023
New students with, from left, Ryan Kelsall (Deputy CEO, ELA), Professor Julia Gog, and Headteacher Clare Hargraves.
The new Cambridge Maths School has welcomed its first-ever students at the start of the new academic year.
Teenagers from across the Eastern region began their A-level studies at the specialist sixth form, which has been created by multi-academy trust the Eastern Learning Alliance, in collaboration with the University of Cambridge.
It will focus on pioneering learning and increasing diversity in the field of maths.
The state-funded School offers 16-19-year-olds with an exceptional aptitude and passion for maths-related subjects a unique environment in which to learn, and an innovative curriculum that will include talks from University of Cambridge lecturers.
All students will study maths and further maths, and then choose from physics, chemistry, biology or computer science A-Levels.
The School – in Cambridge’s Mill Road – joins a nationwide network of maths schools, one for every region of England, announced by the government.
Clare Hargraves, Head of School
The principal aim of maths schools is to help prepare more of the UK’s most mathematically able students to succeed in maths and related scientific disciplines at top universities, regardless of background, and address the UK’s skills shortage in science, technology, engineering and maths (STEM) subjects.
Clare Hargraves, Head of School at Cambridge Maths School, said: “We are delighted to be opening the doors of Cambridge Maths School to our inaugural student cohort this week.
Providing the opportunity for young people with a true passion for mathematics to work collaboratively every day in pursuit of excellence has always been our mission, and it’s been great to see our students immerse themselves in our challenging curriculum from day one.
“Our expert staff are just as excited to start our journey together, and we are so pleased to continue working alongside the University of Cambridge as we embark on the academic year ahead.
It is a true privilege to be the headteacher of this remarkable school, and we look forward to a really successful first year together.”
"We will be helping students to develop the essential skills needed to make the step from school to university, and truly think like a mathematician."
- Professor Colm-cille Caulfield
Among the first cohort at the School, A-level student Hawin said: “The Maths School has been a great opportunity to access super-curricular activities that I would not otherwise have been able to experience, and to nurture my passion for STEM subjects alongside others.”
Fellow student Mahir added: “Maths schools are amazing places to make friends and be surrounded by like-minded people.”
The Cambridge Maths School has been developed in partnership with the University of Cambridge, with Cambridge academics supporting the School in creating its curriculum, and sharing their experience in widening participation and outreach work, through the Millennium Mathematics Project .
Professor Colm-cille Caulfield, Head of the Department of Applied Mathematics & Theoretical Physics at the University of Cambridge (DAMTP), said: “Education is transformative, and this School can do enormous good – particularly in encouraging more students from underrepresented groups, including girls, to study maths post-16.
One of our key focuses will be helping students to develop the essential skills needed to make the step from school to university, and truly think like a mathematician.”
Professor Julia Gog
Professor Julia Gog, Professor of Mathematical Biology, who will be one of the School’s governors, said: “It’s hugely exciting to see Cambridge Maths School open in Mill Road, and it was great to have a chance to meet some of its very first cohort.
It’s clear there is already a real buzz here, with great excitement from staff and students alike.
We’re looking forward to working with them all!”
Professor Bhaskar Vira, Pro-Vice-Chancellor for Education at the University of Cambridge, said: “The University was delighted to support the creation of the Cambridge Maths School, and its opening is a truly exciting moment.
This collaboration with the Eastern Learning Alliance builds on our work with schools around the country, to support teachers and pupils through outreach and learning, and create further bridges between academia and the wider community - local, regional and national.”

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/news/summer-school-aims-to-inspire-more-girls-to-pursue-careers-in-mathematics:
The Girls Enjoy Maths Summer School – a partnership between Cambridge Maths School , the University of Cambridge, and Raspberry Pi – saw 45 students get hands-on learning and real-world insight into the mathematical sciences.
Over three days, the students were offered a unique blend of academic exploration, including interactive workshops on maths in biology, chemistry, and physics at Cambridge Maths School, where they also had the opportunity to speak with current students and staff about A-level maths and further maths.
They also spent a day at the University, including sessions at St John’s and Queens’ Colleges, a punting trip along the River Cam, and a walk across the iconic Mathematical Bridge.
They heard from the University’s Dr Zoe Wyatt and Professor Julia Gog OBE, who shared their experiences as female mathematicians and discussed the impact of mathematics in research and society.
During a visit to Raspberry Pi, the students also explored the creative side of coding and artificial intelligence.
Founded in association with the University of Cambridge, the new Cambridge Maths School welcomed its first-ever students in 2023 .
The specialist sixth form, led by multi-academy trust the Eastern Learning Alliance , focuses on pioneering learning and increasing diversity in the field of maths.
It works to encourage more students from underrepresented groups, including girls, to study maths post-16.
“The GEM Summer School was a celebration of curiosity, creativity, and community,” said a spokesperson from Cambridge Maths School.
“Thanks to the dedication of our inspiring staff and the invaluable support of our partners, we were able to create a truly empowering experience that sparked curiosity, built confidence, and celebrated the joy of mathematics.”
The programme was free to attend, with lunch provided and financial support available for travel.
Priority was given to students from backgrounds traditionally underrepresented in the mathematical sciences.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/about-this-site:
The homepage and core pages of the University of Cambridge’s website are operated by the University of Cambridge.
This includes our news and research pages.
Aside from the www.cam.ac.uk website, the University hosts over 600 different websites.
These cover Colleges, Departments, Faculties, Schools, research groups and the central administrative service.
Our University search engine covers all of these sites.
The University's registered address is The Old Schools, Trinity Lane, Cambridge CB2 1TN, United Kingdom.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/about-this-site/access-keys:
Access keys and skiplink are available on sections of our website built using our web templates since 2008.
Most browsers support jumping to specific links by typing keys defined on the web site.
On Windows, you can press ALT + an access key (in Internet Explorer you need to then press Enter); on Macintosh, you can press Control + an access key.
The access keys used are as follows:
There is a link at the top of our old templates which is hidden from graphical browsers, but which will be spoken or available via assistive technologies such as JAWS or VoiceOver.
It links directly to the start of the page content, after the navigation, so that users have direct access.
Feedback about the accessibility of our websites is greatly appreciated.
For feedback or other comments, or reports of difficulties you encounter with accessing information on the website, please contact us .

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/about-this-site/cookies:
The core pages of cam.ac.uk will set cookies on your device (either because they are necessary to make the site work and keep it secure, or if you give your consent).
The core pages mostly begin www.cam.ac.uk but also include:
www.festival.cam.ac.uk www.opencambridge.cam.ac.uk map.cam.ac.uk search.cam.ac.uk
Cookies are small files that sit on your computer, phone or tablet.
This information is collected by the University of Cambridge to record and store information about how you use cam.ac.uk and the University’s other core pages.
Information is shared within the University of Cambridge, and in limited cases, with our third-party providers.
Below is more detail about the cookies we use, what they record, how you may choose which cookies you’re happy for us to use and with whom the information is shared.
Necessary cookies maintain the security of our website’s connection to you.
They also make our site work.
They always need to be on.
Unless you opt in to receive ‘site usage measurement’ cookies, we will not set these cookies on your device.
Site usage measurement cookies allow us to analyse anonymised navigation patterns, to learn how people use our website and to make it better for our users.
Unless you opt in to receive ‘personalisation’ cookies, we will not set these cookies on your device.
Personalisation cookies allow you to tailor your experience on our website.
Unless you opt in to receive ‘social and marketing’ cookies, we will not set these cookies on your device.
Social and marketing cookies on our site connect to third-party providers, such as Spotify, Vimeo and YouTube.
These cookies will be set when you take an action, such as watching an embedded video.
Data will be passed back to the third-party provider, allowing that organisation to record how you use their service on our site and show you relevant content, including advertising.
Your web browser will have an option you may select that will block cookies.
Below are links to information about popular web browsers and how to block cookies using them.
Firefox
Google Chrome
Microsoft Edge
Safari
Other web browsers – see the Information Commissioner's Office's website
Page last updated: 12 August 2025

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/public-engagement/public-events:
Public engagement
There are hundreds of events at the University that are open to the public and the majority of these are free-of-charge.
Discover events on throughout the University through the What’s On page.
Sign up for our monthly email round-up using the subscription form on the right.
Our new, interdisciplinary Cambridge Festival (replacing the Cambridge Science Festival and the Cambridge Festival of Ideas) takes place in the Spring of each year.
The festival enables researchers from the University, and our partner organisations, to engage with the public through a variety of in-person and digital events & activities.
At the Festival there remains strong and distinct platforms for the sciences and the arts, humanities, and social sciences.
And the new festival includes a uniquely Cambridge eclectic mixture of over 350 events and activities: from panel discussions, film premieres, and self-guided walking tours, to ‘try this at home’ activities for the whole family in our Festival Zine.
Topics cover the breadth of Cambridge research and will be presented across the Festival’s four themes: Society, Health, Environment and Discovery!
For further information about the Festival please subscribe to our mailing list via our Festival website .
Find out more and join us as a contributor .
Cambridge opens its doors each September giving everyone opportunities to discover the local history and heritage of their own community.
Open Cambridge is part of the national Heritage Open Days Scheme .
The Hay Festival is one of the most prestigious cultural and literary events in the world.
The University of Cambridge has partnered with the Festival for over ten years to deliver The Cambridge Series which gives a taste of the research being conducted at the University.
What's On lists events at the University that are open to members of the public.
I wish to receive monthly 'What's on' emails, listing events for the public from the University.
The University of Cambridge will use your email address to send you our monthly 'What's on' events listings.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/brand-resources:
The University is built of many unique parts ranging from academic departments and research centres to museums and hospitals, all engaging with a variety of audiences.
The University’s strength lies in each of our entities working alongside one another with similar goals in mind.
Embracing global challenges, finding innovative solutions and discovering ground breaking advancements.
On this site you will find guidance on the use of the University's logo, our visual identity and resources for producing correctly branded materials.
Use these elements in a consistent way to build and enhance the University’s reputation.
Every piece of communication adds to our brand in some way.
Use these branded templates consistently to build and enhance the University's reputation.
Our photographic style centres around people.
It is candid and captures real moments.
Access the University photo library, or find out about creating your own photography.
Consider both strategic and practical issues when thinking about setting up a social networking site for a department.
The University website templates are designed and managed by University Information Services (UIS).
Email us: brand@admin.cam.ac.uk Office of External Affairs and Communications University of Cambridge The Old Schools Trinity Lane Cambridge CB2 1TN To report any unauthorised use of the University name or logo please email: brand@admin.cam.ac.uk
brand@admin.cam.ac.uk
University of Cambridge Office of External Affairs & Communications The Old Schools Trinity Lane Cambridge CB2 1TN​
To report any suspected unauthorised use of the University name or logo email: brand@admin.cam.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/cambridge-nobel-laureates:
Updated October 2024
Every year a group of men and women will hear these words just minutes before the news is announced to the wider world.
They will join almost a thousand Laureates since 1901 who, in the words of Alfred Nobel “have conferred the greatest benefit to humankind”.
He left a large share of his fortune to a series of prizes in Physics, Chemistry, Physiology or Medicine, Literature and Peace.
In 1968, Sveriges Riksbank (Sweden’s central bank) added to the annual accolades by establishing The Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel.
A total of 125 affiliates of the University of Cambridge have been honoured with a Nobel Prize.
We meet some of them here – and find out what it's like to become a Nobel Laureate.
On 8 October 2019, Professor Didier Queloz won the Nobel Prize in Physics for his contributions to our understanding of the evolution of the universe and Earth's place in the cosmos with Professor James Peebles (Princeton University) and Professor Michel Mayor (University of Geneva).
The Prize celebrated his work leading to the first confirmation of an exoplanet – a planet that orbits a star other than our Sun.
Twenty-five years previously he'd been a PhD student with Mayor at the University of Geneva when he spotted that a light emitted from a star 50 light years from Earth was wobbling.
It was as if something big was getting in the way.
That something was an exoplanet.
“Back then, exoplanet research was a very small field.
I think there were about 50 of us and we were seen as weirdos,” says Didier, who moved to the Cavendish Laboratory at the University of Cambridge in 2013.
The discovery changed the way we understand the universe and our place within it.
But, he says, it took a few years of hard work convincing the world that his discovery wasn’t a data glitch but instead a gas-giant planet the size of Jupiter orbiting its star 51-Pegasi every four days.
More than 5,000 exoplanets have since been added to the list, including 300 discovered by Queloz himself, and space missions are being planned to discover more about the massive super-Earths, super-Jupiters, gas giants, rocky giants and mini-Neptunes.
“Finding the exoplanet offered a new window in astrophysics,” he says.
“There are so many questions you can start to ask that will have an impact on us – questions about life, about why are we are like we are – and they become something we can tackle, starting with the nature and atmosphere of these planets.”
“To tell the truth, people have been mentioning the Nobel Prize to me since early on and in a strange way you get used to hearing this.
But you also know there are so many great discoveries elsewhere that are deserving of a Nobel Prize.
Thinking about it tends to fade away.”
On 8 October, the morning had started badly with a flat tyre on his bike.
He was running a scientific meeting, so had ignored a call from an unknown Stockholm number – a call, it turned out, from the Nobel Prize Committee.
But when a Cambridge number came up on his phone, he picked it up, assuming it to be about a contract that needed to be signed in order for his research to move ahead.
“It was the University of Cambridge press office asking if I’d heard the news.
My first reaction was that it was a joke.
And then I couldn’t think at all.
My mind had a complete black-out for a couple of minutes because emotionally it was extremely intense.”
Later that day he was asked whether he thought the Prize would change his life.
“I hope not too much,” he said.
“I feel like a scientist.
I really want to continue being a scientist.”
“You know, it's such a high privilege to be awarded a Nobel Prize.
It takes a bit of time for reflecting and thinking about what to do with that.”
The first thing he noticed was that he become known outside of his field.
He’d had a hint of this in 2019 on the train home from London after a press conference with the world’s media, when a passenger asked if he was the same person he was reading about in the news.
Yes, he said.
Applause erupted up and down the carriage.
“Nowadays, I can start talking with people out of my field and they seem to listen to me.”
And something else happened.
He began to take note of the broader vision of Alfred Nobel to bequeath his fortune “to those who benefited humanity” through science, literature and peace.
He took the conscious decision to reduce his research by half.
This has given him more time “to establish new ideas, promote research, generate interest, raise funds – all with the end point of trying to engage more people with the societal benefits of knowledge.
I feel so fortunate to be a scientist – I had already lived with that passion for science for over 40 years when I won the Nobel Prize.
I can certainly give a bit of that back if it can help the future of science.”
Queloz likens the process of science to building a cathedral “when you do an experiment to increase the sum of knowledge it’s like adding a brick, taking gradual steps towards something bigger.
Cathedrals took generations to build.
Having won a Nobel Prize, it feels like I can build a bit faster and maybe with a bigger impact on society.
So yes, it was a turning point in my life.
It changed the way I see my work.”
He now does a lot of public engagement “to explain what science is and what science is not, and why we need knowledge and truth.
I'm trying to do this as best as I can,” he says, with his characteristic enthusiasm and beaming smile.
And he still leads a research group at the Cavendish Laboratory: “we are always moving towards new territory and every time you do something you are surprised – that’s the fascination of the field – it’s just that now my research has moved from detecting a planet to questions about life in the universe .
I feel the same excitement today as I had as a PhD student.
There are still so many more things to discover.”
Watch the film to find out more about the research behind the prize.
*What does affiliate mean?
Alumni, academics who carried out research at the University in postdoctoral or faculty positions, and official appointments such as visiting fellowships or lectureships.
The list doesn't include informal positions, non-academic positions and honorary positions.
We've also omitted several Laureates where there is insufficient information available to confirm their connection with the University.
Chemistry (2018)
"Work on something important that matters to you but also most preferentially will matter to other people as well"
Physiology or Medicine (2009)
“The way you do science should have an intrinsic beauty to it”
Literature (1986)
”In a number of my works, I am just narrating a tale for whoever is interested”
Sir Demis Hassabis (Queens' College, 1994, and honorary fellow) and Dr John Jumper (St Edmund's College, 2011)
Nobel Prize in Chemistry for developing an AI model to solve a 50-year-old problem: predicting the complex structures of proteins.
With their AI model, AlphaFold2, they were able to predict the structure of virtually all the 200 million proteins that researchers have identified.
Geoffrey Hinton (King's College, 1967) and John Hopfield (Guggenheim Fellow, 1968-1969)
Nobel Prize in Physics for foundational discoveries and inventions that enable machine learning with artificial neural networks.
Hinton used a network invented by Hopfield as the foundation for a new network: the Boltzmann machine.
Sir Roger Penrose (St John's College, 1952, and honorary fellow) Nobel Prize in Physics for the discovery that black hole formation is a robust prediction of the general theory of relativity.
Didier Queloz (Trinity College) Nobel Prize in Physics with Michel Mayor from the University of Geneva for the first discovery of an exoplanet orbiting a solar-type star (the other half of this prize was awarded to James Peebles, Princeton University, for his work on the evolution of the Universe).
Sir Peter Ratcliffe (Gonville & Caius, 1972) Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine, with William G.
Kaelin Jr (Harvard Medical School, Boston, USA) and Gregg L.
Semenza (Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, USA), for discoveries of how cells sense and adapt to oxygen availability.
Sir Gregory Winter (Trinity College alumnus and Master), MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology Nobel Prize in Chemistry with George P Smith from the University of Missouri, USA, for the phage display of peptides and antibodies (the other half of this prize was awarded to Frances H Arnold, California Institute of Technology, USA, for the directed evolution of enzymes).
William Nordhaus (Senior Visitor, 1970-1971) Awarded one half of the Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel for integrating climate change into long-run macroeconomic analysis.
Richard Henderson (Corpus Christi College and Darwin College) and Joachim Frank , former Cavendish senior research associate Nobel Prize in Chemistry, with Jacques Dubochet from the University of Lausanne, Switzerland, for developing cryo-electron microscopy for the high-resolution structure determination of biomolecules in solution.
Oliver Hart (King's College 1966)​ Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel for his contributions to contract theory.
David Thouless (Trinity Hall 1952), Duncan Haldane (Christ’s College 1970) and Michael Kosterlitz (Gonville and Caius College 1962) Nobel Prize in Physics for theoretical discoveries of topological phase transitions and topological phases of matter.
2015
Angus Deaton (Fitzwilliam College)​​ Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel for his analysis of consumption, poverty and welfare.
William Campbell (visiting researcher in the laboratory of Lord Soulsby, Baron of Swaffham Prior) Awarded one half jointly of the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine with Satoshi Ōmura for their discoveries concerning a novel therapy against infections caused by roundworm parasites.
The other half of the Prize was awarded to Tu Youyou for her discoveries concerning a novel therapy against malaria.
2013
Michael Levitt (Gonville and Caius College and Peterhouse) ​Nobel Prize in Chemistry for the development of multiscale models for complex chemical systems.
2012
John Gurdon (Churchill College and Magdalene College), Emeritus Professor in Cell Biology Nobel Prize in Medicine for the discovery that mature cells can be reprogrammed to become pluripotent.
2010
Robert G Edwards (Churchill College), Emeritus Professor of Human Reproduction Nobel Prize in Medicine for the development of in vitro fertilisation.
Peter Diamond (Churchill College) Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel for analysis of markets with search frictions.
Mario Vargas Llosa (former Simón Bolívar Professor, 1977-1978) Nobel Prize in Literature for his cartography of structures of power and his trenchant images of the individual's resistance, revolt and defeat.
2009
Venki Ramakrishnan (Trinity College) Nobel Prize in Chemistry for studies of the structure and function of the ribosome.
Elizabeth H Blackburn (Darwin College 1971) Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for the discovery of how chromosomes are protected by telomeres and the enzyme telomerase.
2008
Roger Y Tsien (Churchill College and Gonville and Caius College) Nobel Prize in Chemistry for the discovery and development of the green fluorescent protein GFP.
2007
Martin Evans (Christ's College) Nobel Prize in Medicine for discoveries of principles for introducing specific gene modifications in mice by the use of embryonic stem cells.
Eric Maskin (Jesus College) Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel for having laid the foundations of mechanism design theory
2005
Richard R Schrock Nobel Prize in Chemistry for the development of the metathesis method in organic synthesis.
2002
Sydney Brenner (King's College) Nobel Prize in Medicine for discoveries concerning genetic regulation of organ development and programmed cell death.
John Sulston (Pembroke College) Nobel Prize in Medicine for discoveries concerning genetic regulation of organ development and programmed cell death.
2001
Tim Hunt (Clare College) Nobel Prize in Medicine for discoveries of key regulators of the cell cycle.
Joseph Stiglitz (Gonville and Caius College) Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel for analyses of markets with asymmetric information.
2000
Paul Greengard Nobel Prize in Medicine for discoveries concerning signal transduction in the nervous system.
Alan McDiarmid (Sidney Sussex College) Nobel Prize in Chemistry for the discovery and development of conductive polymers.
Kim Dae-jung (Visiting and Honorary Fellow of Clare College) Nobel Peace Prize for his work for democracy and human rights in South Korea and in East Asia in general, and for peace and reconciliation with North Korea in particular.
1998
John Pople (Trinity College) Nobel Prize in Chemistry for the development of computational methods in quantum chemistry.
Amartya Sen (Trinity College) Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel for his contributions to welfare economics.
1997
John Walker (Sidney Sussex College) Nobel Prize in Chemistry for studying how a spinning enzyme creates the molecule that powers cells in muscles.
1996
James Mirrlees (Trinity College) Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel for studying behaviour in the absence of complete information.
1995
Edward Lewis (Rockefeller Foundation Fellow, 1947-1948) Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine with Christiane Nüsslein-Volhard and Eric Wieschaus for their discoveries concerning the genetic control of early embryonic development.
1993
Robert Fogel (Pitt Professor of American History and Institutions) Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel for having renewed research in economic history by applying economic theory and quantitative methods in order to explain economic and institutional change.
1990
Octavio Paz (Simón Bolívar Professor) (Churchill College) Nobel Prize in Literature for impassioned writing with wide horizons, characterised by sensuous intelligence and humanistic integrity.
1989
Norman Ramsey (Clare College) Nobel Prize in Physics for developing the separated field method.
1987
Jean-Marie Lehn (Alexander Todd Visiting Professor of Chemistry) Nobel Prize in Chemistry for the development and use of molecules with structure-specific interactions of high selectivity.
Joseph Brodsky (Clare Hall) Nobel Prize in Literature for an all-embracing authorship, imbued with clarity of thought and poetic intensity.
1986
Wole Soyinka (Churchill College, Overseas Fellow in 1973) Nobel Prize in Literature for 'in a wide cultural perspective and with poetic overtones fashion[ing] the drama of existence'.
1984
Richard Stone (Gonville and Caius College and Fellow of King's College) Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel for developing a national income accounting system.
Georges Kohler and Cesar Milstein (Fellow of Darwin College and Fitzwilliam College) Nobel Prize in Medicine for developing a technique for the production of monoclonal antibodies.
1983
Subrahmanyan Chandrasekhar (Trinity College) and William Fowler (Pembroke College) Nobel Prize in Physics for the evolution and devolution of stars.
Gerard Debreu (Churchill College, Overseas Fellow 1972) Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel for reforming the theory of general equilibrium.
1982
Aaron Klug (Trinity College) Nobel Prize in Chemistry for the structure of biologically active substances.
1980
Walter Gilbert (Trinity College) and Frederick Sanger (St John's College and Fellow of King's College) Nobel Prize in Chemistry for the theory of nucleotide links in nucleic acids.
1979
Abdus Salam (St John's College) Nobel Prize in Physics for electromagnetic and weak particle interactions.
Allan Cormack (St John's College) Nobel Prize in Medicine for developing CAT scans.
1978
Pyotr Kapitsa (Trinity College) Nobel Prize in Physics for inventing the helium liquefier.
Peter Mitchell (Jesus College) Nobel Prize in Chemistry for the energy transfer processes in biological systems.
1977
Philip Anderson (Churchill College) and Nevill Mott (Gonville and Caius College and St John's College) Nobel Prize in Physics for the behaviour of electrons in magnetic solids.
James Meade (Christ's College and Trinity College) Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel for contributions to the theory of international trade.
1976
Milton Friedman (Gonville and Caius College) Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel for consumption analysis, monetary history and theory and the complexity of stabilisation policy.
1974
Antony Hewish (Gonville and Caius College and Churchill College) Nobel Prize in Physics for the discovery of pulsars.
Martin Ryle (Trinity College) Nobel Prize in Physics for the invention of aperture synthesis.
1973
Brian Josephson (Trinity College) Nobel Prize in Physics for the tunnelling in superconductors and semiconductors.​
Ivar Giaever (Clare Hall) Nobel Prize in Physics for the tunnelling in superconductors and semiconductors​.
Patrick White (King's College) Nobel Prize in Literature for an epic and psychological narrative art.
1972
Kenneth J Arrow (Churchill College) and John Hicks (Gonville and Caius College) Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel for the equilibrium theory.
Rodney Porter (Pembroke College) Nobel Prize in Medicine for the chemical structure of antibodies.
Stanford Moore Awarded one half jointly of the Nobel Prize in Chemistry with William Stein for their contribution to the understanding of the connection between chemical structure and catalytic activity of the active centre of the ribonuclease molecule.
1970
Luis Leloir (Postdoctoral Researcher in the Department of Biochemistry, 1936-1937) Nobel Prize in Chemistry for his discovery of sugar nucleotides and their role in the biosynthesis of carbohydrates.
1969
Murray Gell-Mann (Churchill College) Nobel Prize in Physics for the classification of elementary particles and their interactions.
1968
Lars Onsager (Fulbright Scholar with David Schoenberg at the Mond Laboratory) Nobel Prize in Chemistry for the discovery of the reciprocal relations bearing his name, which are fundamental for the thermodynamics of irreversible processes.
Har Gobind Khorana Awarded jointly the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine with Robert Holley and Marshall Nirenberg for their interpretation of the genetic code and its function in protein synthesis.
1967
Ronald Norrish (Emmanuel College) and George Porter (Emmanuel College) Nobel Prize in Chemistry for the study of fast chemical reactions.
George Wald (Guggenheim Fellow, 1963-1964) Awarded jointly the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine with Ragnar Granit and Haldan Keffer Hartline for their discoveries concerning the primary physiological and chemical visual processes in the eye.
1965
André Lwoff Awarded jointly the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine with François Jacob and Jacques Monod for their discoveries concerning genetic control of enzyme and virus synthesis.
1964
Dorothy Hodgkin (Newnham College and Girton College) Nobel Prize in Chemistry for the structure of compounds used to fight anaemia.
1963
Alan Hodgkin (Trinity College) and Andrew Huxley (Trinity College) Nobel Prize in Medicine for the transmission of impulses along a nerve fibre.
1962
John Kendrew (Trinity College) and Max Perutz (Peterhouse) Nobel Prize in Chemistry for determining the structure of haemoproteins.
Maurice Wilkins (St John's College) Nobel Prize in Medicine for determining the structure of DNA.
Francis Crick (Gonville and Caius College and Churchill College) and James Watson (Clare College) Nobel Prize in Medicine for determining the structure of DNA.
1959
Philip Noel-Baker (King's College) Nobel Prize in Peace for work towards global disarmament.
1958
Frederick Sanger (St John's College and Fellow of King's College) Nobel Prize in Chemistry for the structure of the insulin molecule.
1957
Alexander Todd (Christ's College) Nobel Prize in Chemistry for work on nucleotides.
1954
Max Born (Gonville and Caius College) Nobel Prize in Physics for fundamental research into quantum mechanics.
1953
Hans Krebs Nobel Prize in Medicine for discovering the citric acid cycle.
1952
Richard Synge (Trinity College) Nobel Prize in Chemistry for developing partition chromatography.
Archer Martin (Peterhouse) Nobel Prize in Chemistry for developing partition chromatography.
1951
John Cockcroft (St John's College and Churchill College) and Ernest Walton (Trinity College) Nobel Prize in Physics for using accelerated particles to study atomic nuclei.
1950
Cecil Powell (Sidney Sussex College) Nobel Prize in Physics for photography of nuclear processes.
Bertrand Russell (Trinity College) Nobel Prize in Literature for A History of Western Philosophy (1946).
1948
Patrick Blackett (Magdalene College and King's College) Nobel Prize in Physics for nuclear physics and cosmic radiation.
1947
Edward Appleton (St John's College) Nobel Prize in Physics for discovering the Appleton Layer.
1945
Ernst Chain (Fitzwilliam College) and Howard Florey (Gonville and Caius College) Nobel Prize in Medicine (with Alexander Fleming) for the discovery of penicillin and its curative effect in various infectious diseases.
1937
George Thomson (Trinity College) Nobel Prize in Physics for interference in crystals irradiated by electrons.
Albert Szent-Gyorgyi (Fitzwilliam College) Nobel Prize in Medicine for combustion in biology.
1936
Henry Dale (Trinity College) Nobel Prize in Medicine for the chemical transmission of nerve impulses.
1935
James Chadwick (Gonville and Caius College) Nobel Prize in Physics for discovering the neutron.
1933
Paul Dirac (St John's College) Nobel Prize in Physics for quantum mechanics.
1932
Lord Edgar Adrian (Trinity College) and Charles Sherrington (Gonville and Caius College) Nobel Prize in Medicine for work on the function of neurons.
1929
Frederick Hopkins (Trinity College and Emmanuel College) Nobel Prize in Medicine for discovering growth stimulating vitamins
1928
Owen Richardson (Trinity College) Nobel Prize in Physics for creating Richardson's Law.
Charles Wilson (Sidney Sussex College) Nobel Prize in Physics for inventing the cloud chamber.
Arthur Holly Compton Nobel Prize in Physics for discovering wavelength change in diffused X-rays.
1925
Austen Chamberlain (Trinity College) Nobel Prize in Peace for work on the Locarno Pact (1925).
Niels Bohr (Trinity College) Nobel Prize in Physics for investigating atomic structure and radiation.
Francis Aston (Trinity College) Nobel Prize in Chemistry for work on mass spectroscopy.
Archibald Hill (Trinity College) Nobel Prize in Medicine for work on heat production in the muscles.
1918
Fritz Haber Awarded the Nobel Prize in Chemistry for the synthesis of ammonia from its elements.
1917
Charles Barkla (Trinity College) Nobel Prize in Physics for discovering the characteristics of X-radiation.
1915
Lawrence Bragg (Trinity College) and William Bragg (Trinity College) Nobel Prize in Physics for analysing crystal structure using X-rays.
1908
Ernest Rutherford (Trinity College) Nobel Prize in Chemistry for atomic structure and radioactivity.
1906
JJ Thomson (Trinity College) Nobel Prize in Physics for investigating the electrical conductivity of gases.
1904
Lord Rayleigh – John William Strutt , 3rd Baron Rayleigh (Trinity College) Nobel Prize in Physics for discovering Argon.
Published 30 September 2022 Written by Louise Walsh Archival fact checking by Charis Goodyear Banner image by Alison Fair
Photography Nobel Prize Medal: by kind permission of the Nobel Foundation.
The Nobel Prize Medal is a registered trademark of the Nobel Foundation.
Didier Queloz: Craig Brierley Greg Winter: Nick Saffell Elizabeth Blackburn: This file is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 Unported license.
Attribution: © Prolineserver 2010, Wikipedia/Wikimedia Commons ( cc-by-sa-3.0 )

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/public-engagement/get-involved/do-try-this-at-home:
Learn something new or explore your favourite subjects with online resources from across the University and from our Festival partners.
We’ve split them into different sections for different age/education level categories:
Web pages from the Department of Archaeology dedicated to children (ages 7 – 11), teachers and schools.
Here you will uncover a time capsule of ancient Egyptian daily life at the archaeological site of Amarna from the time of the Pharaoh Akhenaten and find insights into fascinating stories linked to the archaeology of Amarna.
Explore our free resources to access information, activity worksheets and films.
You don't have to come into the Museum to make the most of our exciting collection - check out some of these online resources to bring the Cast Gallery into your home - there's something for everyone, from printable colouring sheets to Key Stage 2 learning resources about the Ancient Greeks.
Science and Plants for Schools (SAPS) creates opportunities for teachers and students to find out more about plants and to become more interested in plant science.
Follow the link for lots of resources for students at primary and secondary school levels and beyond.
What is DNA?
What is a gene?
What views do people hold about genomics and genetics research?
You’ll find answers to these questions and more on this fact-filled website, produced by the Public Engagement team at the Wellcome Genome Campus.
Online resource with Life Science materials developed for students and teachers, including classroom activities and experiments to try at home.
Online resources from the MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology with activities to do at home, primary school teachers hoping to bring science into the classroom, or scientists wanting to run public engagement activities – there is something for everyone.
Resources on vaccines and the coronavirus as well as activities to try at home including the secret life of snot , which was due to feature at the festival!
In the twin villages of Great and Little Snackington, much like communities everywhere, food is an important part of everyday life.
But does where we live, work and play shape what we eat?
Includes the game and lots of information on the science that underpins this activity.
Bad News Junior
From fake news to chaos!
How bad are you?
Take part in this online game where you play the role of propaganda producers to help you identify real world disinformation and increase your “psychological resistance” to fake news.
Produced by Dr Sander van der Linden and the team at the Cambridge Social Decision-Making Laboratory , Department of Psychology .
Suitable for ages 8-11.
Check out Bad News if you are 15+!
The Raspberry Pi Foundation is a UK-based charity that works to put the power of computing and digital making into the hands of people all over the world.
Check out their online learning courses, maker projects and code club resources.
Find out how volcanos teach us about the movement of magma in the Earth's crust, rift zone dynamics and the structure of the Earth itself through videos, articles and activities to do at home.
Try your hand as a geologist aboard HMS Beagle or find out more about the Wenlock Reef, one of the museums most famous fossil collections.
Visit Deep Earth Explorers and explore what is happening in the earth's mantle and core.
Celebrate the new Dawn of the Wonderchicken online exhibition by Daniel Field, learn about different types of bird and how they are adapted to the environment they live in.
Follow the How to build a bird sheet and use the information sheets to help you 'Build a Bird'.
MMP is a maths education and outreach initiative for ages 3 to 19 and the general public.
The focus of the project is on increasing mathematical understanding, confidence and enjoyment, developing problem-solving skills, and promoting creative and imaginative approaches to maths.
The project consists of a family of complementary programmes, including the NRICH website, Plus online mathematics magazine.
This site contains a wealth of maths resources, puzzles and videos.
Katie Steckles, Ben Sparks and Matt Parker are regularly contributors to this site and have all been part of the Cambridge Science Festival in previous years.
Simple, fun physics experiments you can try at home, with the help of Marvin and Milo (and detailed instructions!) New experiments are uploaded monthly.
The Institute of Astronomy are offering a series of online public astronomy talks via their YouTube channel and the chance to 'Skype a Scientist' and be connected with an astronomer for a space-related chat, a Q+A session, or just to discover new images and videos.
Complete an expedition diary as part of a home school challenge, discover more about Antarctica through films and activities and explore our exceptional collection of material related to Sir Ernest Shackleton.
Cambridge Science Centre is a fun space for discovery, a place where children and young people can get their hands on science, try stuff out and learn.
Access to online exhibitions and new Look, Think, Do activities which have been designed as a starting point for looking, talking and doing together.
New resources are added throughout the week and are designed both for families at home and for teachers as part of curriculum linked online learning resources.
The Hay Festival have made author talks from their Schools Programme free online.
There are 55 fun filled and inspiring events to choose from including '100 things to know about space' and discussions with STEMettes on inspiring and supporting young women into Science, Technology, Engineering and Maths.
Learn all about Charles Darwin, evolution, practical science, and life in the 19th century through these free, fascinating and fun downloadable activities for children ages 7-11 and 11-14 years.
Find out how Darwin himself worked by exploring the objects in his study, or watching videos about his specimen collections, his journey round the world, and how he developed his ideas.
Are you ready to make a scientific breakthrough in one of the biggest research facilities in the world?
Created by Dr Matthew Dunstan from the University of Cambridge and Dr Mark Basham and Dr Claire Murray from Diamond Light Source, this board game puts you, your family and friends in the role of a researcher at the Diamond Light Source, visiting different beamlines to make progress in projects in Physics, Chemistry, Cultural Heritage, and more.
Free, online interactive 3D model from The Gurdon Institute that enables students to explore sub-cellular structures and processes (e.g.
cell division) in detail.
The website also contains student worksheets.
Suitable for A-level or advanced GCSE students.
Activities and collection links designed to compliment science teaching in the classroom and at home.
Incudes Nature Classroom, resources specifically geared toward the KS1 and KS2 science curriculum, Evolution: the hungry birds game where you play the game as a bird, 'eating' as many non-toxic butterflies as possible to stay alive and the Museum blog which includes animal related craft activities and research stories about the collections and the people working to better understand and protect the natural world.
This year the I'm a Scientist Disease Detectives Zone is supported by the Wellcome Genome Campus.
Teacher registration is open and, once registered, students will be able to ask questions to, and chat online with researchers and find out how we study DNA to understand disease.
New ideas and resources for secondary teachers teaching chemistry from home.
Includes on-screen experiments and ideas on how to teach practical chemistry remotely (free registration required).
A closer look at the chemical compounds we come across on a day-to-day basis, explaining them with easy-to-understand graphics.
Includes infographics for all 118 elements, developed as part of IYPT2019.
This is a code-based music creation and performance tool that could be used as part of Computer Science or Music lessons.
It enables you to learn to code creatively by composing or performing music in an incredible range of styles from classical and jazz to grime and EDM.
Follow the How to sheet and use the Information sheets to help you 'Build a Bird'.
And, although the museum is closed to visitors, they are still open online if you have a rock or fossil that needs identifying!
Over 300 problems adapted from A Level maths and physics papers and 200 more difficult problems designed to reflect some of the challenges in university engineering interviews and courses.
Includes video tutorials and a “confused” button for when you get stuck!
For GCSE level, Maths Builders teaches maths problem solving skills and for GCSE and A level, Wired is a puzzle-platform game that teaches about electricity.
MMP a maths education and outreach initiative for ages 3 to 19 and the general public.
Engaging and fun videos about maths by James Grime, who is a frequent contributor to the Science Festival and was due to give a talk about the Enigma Machine in 2020.
Physics insight and understanding comes through doing physics, in particular solving problems.
Isaac is designed to offer support and activities in physics problem solving to teachers and to students transitioning from GCSE, through Sixth Form, to university.
The Department of Psychology's research goes from how groups of neurones in our brains interact with each other, to how groups of whole individuals can behave very differently from when we are on our own.
These studies include a diversity array of populations, including different cultures, personalities, genders and age groups.
Psychology is truly a subject about and for, everyone!
Bad News
Suitable for ages 15+.
Check out Bad News Junior if you are a bit younger!
Popular science podcast.
Based at Cambridge University's Institute of Continuing Education (ICE ), the Naked Scientists are a team of scientists, doctors and communicators whose passion is to help the general public to understand and engage with the worlds of science, technology and medicine.
A home for the discovery of digitised material and research outputs from the University of Cambridge and beyond.
Covers a huge variety of subject areas, and all resources have been produced by Cambridge postgraduate students or academics, designed specifically for Year 12 students.
A YouTube channel of science poems combined with doodles to explain the story behind important research.
The content is created by Dayana Hristova, a Cambridge PhD student in pathology.
Explore our STEM learning resources for 11-14-year olds.
Students can pursue their interests in Archaeology, Assyriology, Biological Anthropology and Egyptology in advance of making an application or while waiting to start their degree.
This suggested reading list is for prospective undergraduates, with a selection of books and online resources, including podcasts, blogs, and videos.
A free 3-part toolkit for teaching or learning about epigenetics, designed by A-level teachers for A-level students.
Includes printable worksheets along with an interactive animation enabling students to consolidate knowledge and develop scientific skills and literacy.
Resources include previous puzzles from the Year 12 Cambridge Chemistry Challenge and extension materials developed by academics working with HE+ to extend the knowledge of interested and able students.
Politics has never been more unpredictable, more alarming or more interesting: Talking Politics is the podcast that tries to make sense of it all.
Every week David Runciman and Helen Thompson talk to the most interesting people around about the ideas and events that shape our world: from history to economics, from philosophy to fiction.
New episode uploaded every Thursday morning.
A new series by David Runciman in which he explores some of the most important thinkers and prominent ideas lying behind modern politics - from Hobbes to Ghandi, from democracy to patriarchy, from revolution to lock down.
David also discusses crises - revolutions, wars, depressions, pandemics - that generated these new ways of political thinking.
A new podcast series from the History Faculty that puts past and present into dialogue.
This podcast series is produced by Cambridge's Centre for Science and Policy (CSaP) and focuses on Science, Policy and Pandemics.
It is created in partnership with Cambridge Infectious Diseases and the Cambridge Immunology Network to discuss the COVID-19 response.
A weekly (term-time) podcast, featuring discussions about current research with presenters from the Cambridge American History Seminar.
A podcast series from the Centre for Governance and Human Rights, exploring contemporary debates about politics and human rights.
What do intellectual historians currently investigate?
And why is this relevant for us today?
These are some of the questions this podcast series, led by graduate students at Cambridge, seeks to explore.
It aims to introduce intellectual historians and their work to everyone with an interest in history and politics.
Rich resources for teaching A level mathematics, enabling all students to explore the connections that underpin mathematics.
This site has a huge variety of maths videos, puzzles and resources by Tom Crawford.
Tom has been a speaker at the Cambridge Science Festival for many years.
Videos about maths with topics ranging from historical discoveries to the latest breakthroughs.
Many of the speakers have previously been part of the Cambridge Science Festival.
In addition to videos, there is also a podcast with longer-form interviews.
Hosted by Professor Sir David Spiegelhalter, conversations with the world’s top experts in risk and evidence communication addressing urgent, practical challenges including Coronavirus: Understanding the Numbers
These studies include a diversity array of poulations, including different cultures, personalities, genders and age groups.
Cambridge University (student-run) Science Magazine - issues are available to read online and there is an associated podcast (also available through the main web link)
Learn more about the subjects offered at the University of Cambridge: a selection of suggested reading lists and resources from departmental and College websites, other universities and sources on the internet.
Produced by a collective of staff and students from the Cambridge Department of Social Anthropology, this podcast is broadcasted regularly during term time.
It includes interviews with visiting speakers, as well as audio pieces representing aspects of research or things that interest anthropology researchers about daily life.
The Arch and Anth Podcast aims to provides entertaining and educational content about archaeology and anthropology.
The show is hosted by Dr Michael B.
C.
Rivera, an expert in the study of human biology, human behaviour and human societies worldwide, from the earliest beginnings to modern times.
Learn about the incredible working parts inside every living cell through the craft of crochet.
Beginner and advanced-level instructions are provided for free alongside explanations about each cell part, based on current research!
Neural Knitworks is a collaborative project about mind and brain health.
Whether you’re a whiz with yarn, or just discovering the joy of craft, now you can crochet wrap, knit or knot—and find out about neuroscience.
Neurons can be created at home, at work or at school.
No knitting experience is required and all ages can participate.
Hosted by Professor Sir David Spiegelhalter, conversations with the world’s top experts in risk and evidence communication addressing urgent, practical challenges including Coronavirus: Understanding the Numbers.
Mind over Chatter is the Cambridge University Podcast.
One series at a time we break down complex issues into simple questions and ask our researchers to answer them.
The Polar Museum
The University of Cambridge has partnered with the Festival for 11 years to deliver The Cambridge Series which gives a taste of the research being conducted at the University.
To watch and listen to more content from the Hay Festival, for free, visit the Hay Player here or check out their weekly podcast .
This exhibition by Judy Goldhill and Fay Ballard explores personal belongings as 'travelling companions to life' that unlock thoughts, feelings and memories, and the notion of the skies and stars as travelling companions to explorers navigating their passage across the globe.
Released in digital format these range from representations of self, of home, of someone loved, to more practical things that the individual can’t travel without, these objects both expand on ideas in the exhibition and form a reminder that none of us travels empty-handed.
Explore a wealth of online resources from the Colleges of Cambridge.
From virtual tours and choir performances to online exhibitions and even College pets!
There's something for everyone.
Academics at the Cambridge Creative Writing Centre, based at the University's Institute of Continuing Education, talk to authors about what they're writing, what inspires them, and their tips and ideas.
If you're a writer or you'd like to write, or if you're a curious reader, this podcast is for you!

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/women-at-cambridge:
Professor Dame Athene Donald has been awarded a lifetime achievement award for her work on gender equality.
Churchill Archives Centre shares digitised treasures to celebrate 50 years
Letters sent to Winston Churchill by his wife are among an array of fascinating historic papers and recordings which can now be explored via the Archive...
The Classicist who wants the ancient world to have a radical future
Here come the girls: getting more women into STEM
Ahead of International Day of Women and Girls in Science, Professor Dame Athene Donald sat down to speak about her trial blazing career.
The Meaning of Success brings together the stories and life experiences of women from across the collegiate University.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/study-at-cambridge/executive-and-professional-education/submit-bespoke-enquiry:
Please note that your enquiry will be sent to several providers of Executive and Professional Education at the University of Cambridge, so you may receive multiple replies.
By submitting this form, you are consenting to provide us with your personal details.
We gather this information so that we can address your enquiry in the most appropriate manner, with your consent which you can withdraw at any time.
We will hold your data for one year from the date of submission, to enable us to gather appropriate details about the interest in our courses and the support that we provide.
This will be held in accordance with our Privacy policy .

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research/news/why-common-blood-pressure-readings-may-be-misleading-and-how-to-fix-them:
High blood pressure, or hypertension, is the top risk factor for premature death, associated with heart disease, strokes and heart attacks.
However, inaccuracies in the most common form of blood pressure measurement mean that as many as 30% of cases of high blood pressure could be missed.
The researchers, from the University of Cambridge, built an experimental model that explained the physics behind these inaccuracies and provided a better understanding of the mechanics of cuff-based blood pressure readings.
The researchers say that some straightforward changes, which don’t necessarily involve replacing standard cuff-based measurement, could lead to more accurate blood pressure readings and better results for patients.
Their results are reported in the journal PNAS Nexus .
Anyone who has ever had their blood pressure taken will be familiar with the cuff-based method.
This type of measurement, also known as the auscultatory method, relies on inflating a cuff around the upper arm to the point where it cuts off blood flow to the lower arm, and then a clinician listens for tapping sounds in the arm through a stethoscope while the cuff is slowly deflated.
Blood pressure is inferred from readings taken from a pressure gauge attached to the deflating cuff.
Blood pressure is given as two separate numbers: a maximum (systolic) and a minimum (diastolic) pressure.
A blood pressure reading of 120/80 is considered ‘ideal’.
“The auscultatory method is the gold standard, but it overestimates diastolic pressure, while systolic pressure is underestimated,” said co-author Kate Bassil from Cambridge’s Department of Engineering.
“We have a good understanding of why diastolic pressure is overestimated, but why systolic pressure is underestimated has been a bit of a mystery.”
“Pretty much every clinician knows blood pressure readings are sometimes wrong, but no one could explain why they are being underestimated — there’s a real gap in understanding,” said co-author Professor Anurag Agarwal, also from Cambridge’s Department of Engineering.
Previous non-clinical studies into measurement inaccuracy used rubber tubes that did not fully replicate how arteries collapse under cuff pressure, which masked the underestimation effect.
The researchers built a simplified physical model to isolate and study the effects of downstream blood pressure — the blood pressure in the part of the arm below the cuff.
When the cuff is inflated and blood flow to the lower arm is cut off, it creates a very low downstream pressure.
By reproducing this condition in their experimental rig, they determined this pressure difference causes the artery to stay closed for longer while the cuff deflates, delaying the reopening and leading to an underestimation of blood pressure.
This physical mechanism — the delayed reopening due to low downstream pressure — is the likely cause of underestimation, a previously unidentified factor.
“We are currently not adjusting for this error when diagnosing or prescribing treatments, which has been estimated to lead to as many as 30% of cases of systolic hypertension being missed,” said Bassil.
Instead of the rubber tubes used in earlier physical models of arteries, the Cambridge researchers used tubes that lay flat when deflated and fully close when the cuff pressure is inflated, the key condition for reproducing the low downstream pressure observed in the body.
The researchers say that there are a range of potential solutions to this underestimation, which include raising the arm in advance of measurement, potentially producing a predictable downstream pressure and therefore predictable underestimation.
This change doesn’t require new devices, just a modified protocol.
“You might not even need new devices, just changing how the measurement is done could make it more accurate,” said Agarwal.
However, if new devices for monitoring blood pressure are developed, they might ask for additional inputs which correlate with downstream pressure, to adjust what the ‘ideal’ readings might be for each individual.
These may include age, BMI, or tissue characteristics.
The researchers hope to secure funding for clinical trials to test their findings in patients, and are looking for industrial or research partners to help refine their calibration models and validate the effect in diverse populations.
Collaboration with clinicians will also be essential to implement changes to clinical practice.
The research was supported by the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC), part of UK Research and Innovation (UKRI).
Anurag Agarwal is a Fellow of Emmanuel College, Cambridge.
Reference: Kate Bassil and Anurag Agarwal.
‘ Underestimation of systolic pressure in cuff-based blood pressure measurement .’ PNAS Nexus (2025).
DOI: 10.1093/pnasnexus/pgaf222.
Nurse checking a patient's blood pressure
Credit: MoMo Productions via Getty Images

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research/news/astronomers-find-new-evidence-for-planet-around-our-closest-solar-twin:
Astronomers using the NASA/ESA/CSA James Webb Space Telescope have found strong evidence of a giant planet orbiting a star in the stellar system closest to our own Sun.
At just four light-years away from Earth, the Alpha Centauri triple star system has long been a target in the search for worlds beyond our solar system.
Visible only from the Southern hemisphere, the system is made up of the binary Alpha Centauri A and Alpha Centauri B, both Sun-like stars, and the faint red dwarf star Proxima Centauri.
Alpha Centauri A is the third brightest star in the night sky.
While there are three confirmed planets orbiting Proxima Centauri, the presence of other worlds surrounding Alpha Centauri A and Alpha Centauri B has proved difficult to confirm, because the stars are so bright, close, and move across the sky quickly.
Now, observations from Webb’s Mid-Infrared Instrument (MIRI) are providing the strongest evidence to date of a gas giant orbiting Alpha Centauri A.
The results, from an international team including researchers from the University of Cambridge, have been accepted for publication in two papers in The Astrophysical Journal Letters .
If confirmed, the planet would be the closest to Earth that orbits in the habitable zone of a Sun-like star.
However, because the planet candidate is a gas giant, scientists say it would not support life as we know it.
Several rounds of observations by Webb, analysis by the research team, and computer modelling helped determine that the source seen in Webb’s image is likely to be a planet, and not a background object (like a galaxy), a foreground object (a passing asteroid), or another image artefact.
“Webb was designed and optimised to find the most distant galaxies in the universe.
The team had to come up with a custom observing sequence just for this target, and their extra effort paid off spectacularly,” said Charles Beichman, NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory and the NASA Exoplanet Science Institute at Caltech, co-first author on the new papers.
The first observations of the system took place in August 2024.
While extra brightness from the nearby companion star Alpha Centauri B complicated the analysis, the team was able to subtract out the light from both stars to reveal an object over 10,000 times fainter than Alpha Centauri A, separated from the star by about two times the distance between the Sun and Earth.
While the initial detection was exciting, the research team needed more data to come to a firm conclusion.
However, additional observations of the system in February 2025 and April 2025 did not reveal any objects like the one identified in August 2024.
“We were faced with the case of a disappearing planet!
To investigate this mystery, we used computer models to simulate millions of potential orbits, incorporating the knowledge gained when we saw the planet, as well as when we did not,” said co-first author Aniket Sanghi of the California Institute of Technology.
In these simulations, the team took into account both the 2019 sighting of a potential exoplanet candidate by the European Southern Observatory’s Very Large Telescope, the new data from Webb, and considered orbits that would be gravitationally stable in the presence of Alpha Centauri B, meaning the planet wouldn’t get flung out of the system.
The researchers say a non-detection in the second and third round of observations with Webb wasn’t surprising.
“We found that in half of the possible orbits simulated, the planet moved too close to the star and wouldn’t have been visible to Webb in both February and April 2025,” said Sanghi.
In addition to these simulations, the Cambridge members of the research team analysed the Webb data to search for any signs of a type of cosmic dust, known as exozodiacal dust, around Alpha Centauri A.
This cloud of dust, produced by objects such as comets and asteroids breaking apart, forms a faint, glowing disc around a star.
“Exozodiacal dust helps us learn about the architecture and evolution of planetary systems,” said co-author Professor Mark Wyatt from Cambridge’s Institute of Astronomy.
“But it’s also important when searching for rocky planets, since dust in the habitable zone of a star can obscure or mimic planetary signals.”
No dust was detected in these observations, however, the team showed they were sensitive to dust levels an order of magnitude lower than any previous measurement, which could be valuable for future planet searches around this star.
“This observation shows how deeply Webb can probe the dust environment of the nearest Sun-like stars,” said co-author Dr Max Sommer, also from Cambridge’s Institute of Astronomy.
“We can now explore exozodiacal dust at levels not much higher than those in our own Solar System, tapping into a whole new way of looking at other star systems.”
Based on the brightness of the planet in the mid-infrared observations and the orbit simulations, the researchers say it could be a gas giant approximately the mass of Saturn orbiting Alpha Centauri A in an elliptical path varying between one to two times the distance between Sun and Earth.
If confirmed, the potential planet seen in the Webb image of Alpha Centauri A would mark a new milestone for exoplanet imaging efforts.
Of all the directly imaged exoplanets, this would be the closest to its star seen so far.
It’s also the most similar in temperature and age to the giant planets in our solar system, and the nearest to Earth.
“Its very existence in a system of two closely separated stars would challenge our understanding of how planets form, survive, and evolve in chaotic environments,” said Sanghi.
The James Webb Space Telescope is an international programme led by NASA with its partners, ESA (European Space Agency) and CSA (Canadian Space Agency).
Reference: Charles Beichman, Aniket Sanghi et al.
‘ Worlds Next Door: A Candidate Giant Planet Imaged in the Habitable Zone of α Cen A.
I.
Observations, Orbital and Physical Properties, and Exozodi Upper Limits’ .
The Astrophysical Journal Letters (in press).
arXiv:2508.03812v1
Aniket Sanghi, Charles Beichman et al.
‘ Worlds Next Door: A Candidate Giant Planet Imaged in the Habitable Zone of  α Cen A.
II.
Binary Star Modeling, Planet and Exozodi Search, and Sensitivity Analysis’ .
arXiv:2508.03812
Adapted from a NASA press release.
Artist's impression of a gas giant orbiting Alpha Centauri A.
Credit: NASA, ESA, CSA, STScI, Robert L.
Hurt (Caltech/IPAC)

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research/news/cicadas-sing-in-perfect-sync-with-pre-dawn-light:
In a study published in the journal Physical Review E , researchers have found that these insects begin their loud daily serenades when the sun is precisely 3.8 degrees below the horizon: a consistent marker of early morning light known as civil twilight.
The research, carried out by scientists from India, the UK and Israel, analysed several weeks of field recordings taken at two locations near Bangalore in India.
Using tools from physics typically applied to the study of phase transitions in materials, the team uncovered a regularity in how cicadas respond to subtle changes in light.
“We’ve long known that animals respond to sunrise and seasonal light changes,” said co-author Professor Raymond Goldstein, from Cambridge’s Department of Applied Mathematics and Theoretical Physics.
“But this is the first time we’ve been able to quantify how precisely cicadas tune in to a very specific light intensity — and it’s astonishing.”
The crescendo of cicada song — familiar to anyone who has woken up early on a spring or summer morning — takes only about 60 seconds to build, the researchers found.
Each day, the midpoint of that build-up occurs at nearly the same solar angle, regardless of the exact time of sunrise.
In practical terms, that means cicadas begin singing when the light on the ground has reached a specific threshold, varying by just 25% during that brief transition.
To explain this level of precision, the team developed a mathematical model inspired by magnetic materials, in which individual units, or spins, align with an external field and with each other.
Similarly, their model proposes that cicadas make decisions based both on ambient light and the sounds of nearby insects, like individuals in an audience who start clapping when others do.
“This kind of collective decision-making shows how local interactions between individuals can produce surprisingly coordinated group behaviour,” said co-author Professor Nir Gov from the Weizmann Institute, who is currently on sabbatical in Cambridge.
The field recordings were made by Bangalore-based engineer Rakesh Khanna, who carries out cicada research as a passion project.
Khanna collaborated with Goldstein and Dr Adriana Pesci at Cambridge’s Department of Applied Mathematics and Theoretical Physics.
“Rakesh’s observations have paved the way to a quantitative understanding of this fascinating type of collective behaviour,” said Goldstein.
“There’s still much to learn, but this study offers key insights into how groups make decisions based on shared environmental cues.”
The study was partly supported by the Complex Systems Fund at the University of Cambridge.
Raymond Goldstein is the Alan Turing Professor of Complex Physical Systems and a Fellow of Churchill College, Cambridge.
Reference: Khanna, RA, Goldstein, RE, Pesci, AI, and Gov, NS.
‘ Photometric Decision-Making During the Dawn Choruses of Cicadas .’ Physical Review E (2025).
DOI: 10.1103/4y4d-p32q
Annual cicada
Credit: UA-Visions via Getty Images

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/public-engagement/public-engagement-at-cambridge:
The mission of the University of Cambridge is to contribute to society through the pursuit of education, learning and research at the highest international levels of excellence.
Public engagement in its broadest sense fulfils the University’s mission by creating bridges between the academic community and the public, locally, regionally, nationally and internationally.
The University defines public engagement as the many ways in which we share expertise, knowledge gained, resources and collections to both inform and inspire those we interact with, whilst creating opportunities for experts beyond academia to collaborate on research.
The University of Cambridge as an institution values public engagement as an important aspect of academic endeavour.
We enable and support an environment across the University of Cambridge where high-quality public engagement with research can flourish.
We follow the National Coordinating Centre for Public Engagement definition of public engagement in our work with two-way, mutually beneficial engagement at its centre:
Public engagement describes the myriad of ways in which the activity and benefits of higher education and research can be shared with the public.
Engagement is by definition a two-way process, involving interaction and listening, with the goal of generating mutual benefit.
We acknowledge the diversity of engagement channels, which are as diverse as our research and our communities of interest, place or practice and their key external stakeholders (publics).
We embrace and support a range of engagement typologies from dissemination to coproduction and participatory methods.
We believe what matters the most is for researchers and their publics to find the most appropriate format to engage effectively and collaboratively.
We provide an extensive training portfolio for researchers and professional staff to build skills and confidence, funding schemes to facilitate projects and opportunities and platforms for researchers to engage with members of the public to develop their PE skills and understanding.
We provide advice and support to enable researchers to lead their own PE projects, believing that this engaged research practice best enriches research and enhances the University’s impact on, and contribution to, society.
Get in touch to find out how we can support you
We also maintain a network of community contacts to nurture charitable, educational and voluntary partnerships between the University and its communities.
If you are interested in working with the University to benefit the community, we would like to hear from you .

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/public-engagement/get-involved/volunteer-with-us:
Thousands of people visit the Cambridge Festival each year to discover the ground-breaking research that takes place here.
We simply could not deliver events on this scale without the help of our volunteers who donate their time, energy and expertise to the festivals.
Volunteering can help you gain a range of skills such as teamwork, evaluation, effective communication, crowd management and many more.
The Festival takes place in March/April every year.
On weekdays we need volunteers to be able to support us between 5pm and 9pm.
On weekends volunteers are usually required between 9am and 5 pm and are usually needed volunteer for the whole day.
The role is based at University and partner organisation sites.
It is in and around Cambridge and will be accessible by public transport.
Assisting the public with site directions, greeting attendees, ticket checking, managing queues.
Supporting Question and Answers sessions by taking a microphone into the audience.
Supporting Festival staff, venue staff and event speakers to run the event.
Assisting with set-up at the venue such as putting up Festival banners, flags and notices.
Engagement with high-profile organisations.
Supporting sharing of up-to-date research with the public.
Access to high-profile, stimulating Science, Arts and Humanities events.
Making a difference to those attending events.
Information sessions take place ahead of the Festival to answer your questions and to help you decide if you would like to volunteer.
These usually take place each year in January.
Risk assessments and briefing documents are sent out ahead of events.
We ask that you read these in advance and confirm you have read them when you sign in on the day of the event.
You will receive an induction, including a health and safety briefing, on the day of the event.
All volunteers are asked to wear a Festival T-shirt during a volunteering shift to help attendees identify you as a point of information.
The event coordinator will greet you at each event, this will be a member of Staff from the University of Cambridge Public Engagement Team.
They will give you clear information as to what you are required to do.
They will also provide you with a venue health and safety briefing.
Friendly, approachable people with good listening skills.
An empathic nature.
Ambassadors for the University
Ability to travel within Cambridge by public transport, on foot or by cycle.
Sound like you?
Get in touch at cambridgefestival@admin.cam.ac.uk .
We'd love to hear from you if you would like to contribute a talk or activity to the Festival.
You can find further details of how to offer your event on the Festival coordinators page , or to discuss your event idea with the Festival team, please contact: cambridgefestival@admin.cam.ac.uk .
The Cambridge Festival is the Public Engagement team’s most regular opportunity for volunteering.
If you are looking for opportunities outside of March/April or more regular volunteering with the University of Cambridge, please check out the University of Cambridge Museums’ opportunities .
The Careers Service has a comprehensive list of local, national and international volunteering opportunities , as well as advice on how to present volunteering experience when job hunting.
Some of these opportunities are specifically for University students, while others are available to anyone.
Many areas of the university need participants to take part in studies and research, for example, the Autism Research Centre , Centre for Speech, Language and the Brain , Cambridge Psychology and the Cognition and Brain Sciences Unit .
You can also join the Patient and Public Involvement Panel at Cambridge University Hospitals.
If you would like to know how the University of Cambridge is working with the wider region and how you can get involved, please visit our Civic Engagement pages .

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/public-engagement/get-involved/connecting-communities:
Could your ideas help guide new opportunities and collaborations?
Join us to share your ideas and expertise.
We are building a group of advisors to help shape Community Engagement at the University of Cambridge.
We would love to hear from members of the local community as well as researchers committed to working with communities.
Please consider applying : applications are open until 5 September 2025.
Interested in putting on an event during the Cambridge Festival 2026 but don’t have the resources?
You can apply for funding to support your ideas and activities.
Contact the Festival Team to chat through your idea, and visit the Cambridge Festival webpage for more details.
We've been busy over the last couple of years responding to ideas from local communities and exploring new ways of working together.
Read about the projects we have been supporting and our hopes for the future in this blog .
Please get in touch if you would like to connect with us at communityengagement@admin.cam.ac.uk .
Communities are too often excluded from research that affects them.
Increasingly research is expected to include communities in meaningful ways to improve its impact and outcomes.
At the University of Cambridge we are are developing resources, opportunities, and support for communities and researchers to work together.
In 2022 we commissioned an external report into our community engagement .
Its insights and recommendations have given us much to reflect on, learn from, and act on.
We will be working together with communities to improve our engagement in research with the help and guidance of our new Community Engagement Advisory Board.
We are committed to working in new ways to make our activities and programmes more accessible and inclusive.
In the early stages of our work, we reached out to local communities and researchers.
We invested time and care into relationships, and learnt what people want and need from research collaborations.
We are now beginning to put what we learnt into practice.
We are identifying the changes we can make within our own programmes and working with colleagues across the University to collectively make a difference.
This includes working closely with our colleagues in Civic Engagement .
We are connecting with and learning from communities, peers, and experts in this area to inform and improve what we do.
We are excited about what we will achieve working together in partnership.
We will be sharing what we learn as we go and are keen to hear from you.
If you would like to find out more, please email us at communityengagement@admin.cam.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/public-engagement/get-involved/connecting-communities/community-engagement-advisory-board:
Community engagement at the University of Cambridge is working in new ways - and we want you to be a part of it.
We are setting up a Community Engagement Advisory Board to shape how we connect and collaborate with local and global communities.
If you are interested in making research and engagement more inclusive, responsive and impactful, we'd love to hear from you.
As a member of this board, you will put community knowledge at the heart of our work.
Our aim is to support community-led ideas and develop opportunities for collaboration between communities and University researchers.
As a member of the Board you will guide and inform this work.
We actively encourage applications from underrepresented groups and will work to make sure that the recruitment processes are as inclusive as possible.
This includes making adjustments for accessibility, and we are happy to talk through any support you might need.
Please contact us at communityengagement@admin.cam.ac.uk for more information on adjustments and accessibility.
The board has two working groups.
Please apply to the one that suits you best:
If you are interested in finding out more, we would love to hear from you.
Applications to join the Community Engagement Advisory Board close at 23:59 on 5 September 2025.
We are the Public Engagement Team at the University of Cambridge.
We commit to the principles of collaboration.
We will listen and engage with the feedback and recommendations you provide.
The lead convenor of the Community Knowledge Working group is Beth Elliott, the Community Engagement Manager.
The lead convenor of the Festival Working Group is David Cain, the Cambridge Festival Manager.
Beth, David, and their administrator will be your main points of contact.
They are responsible for communicating with you and planning meetings.
They will respect the conclusions of the Board, and the contributions of each member.
You will be able to contact them with any questions, comments, or constructive feedback at any point during the process.
They will make changes where necessary and possible.
Being a member of the Board does not constitute paid employment.
However, we value the time and expertise you contribute and will pay you for your participation:
This level of payment is based on the NIHR payment guidelines which are a nationally recognised standard used by multiple organisations to determine pay for public contributors.
As a member of the Community Engagement Advisory Board you will also get free membership of the University Library .
This will allow you to access library books and spaces.
We thank our colleagues at the University Library for supporting this.
Applications open.
Want to talk things through before applying?
You’re welcome to book a chat with us.
Email communityengagement@admin.cam.ac.uk to book meetings with:
Submit your application by 23:59 on 5 September .
If you are shortlisted, we will invite you for an informal chat in the week starting 6 October.
You can choose to meet online, in-person at the Old Schools (where the Public Engagement Team is based), or in-person at a café in Cambridge city centre.
Let us know if this incurs costs for you, and we can pay these directly or as an expense claimed with receipts.
We will use email to let you know if you have been invited to be a member of the board or if you were unsuccessful this time.
Selected candidates will receive an information pack that will include details on payment options for you.
We aim to hold the first official meetings of the Working Groups in January 2026.
The date will be decided in consultation with members.
If you have any questions about the Board or the application process, please contact us at communityengagement@admin.cam.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/public-engagement/get-involved/connecting-communities/community-engagement-advisory-board/community-knowledge-working-group:
We’re creating a Community Knowledge Working Group and would love for you to be a part of it.
We are recruiting 6 to 9 members through an open application process.
We would love a mix of people with different areas of expertise, knowledge and lived experiences from:
As a member you will serve one year on the board, with the option to extend this twice.
A member can therefore serve a maximum of 3 years.
As a member of the Community Knowledge Working Group, you will have 2 main roles:
In both cases we commit to listen to your guidance and will put in place your suggestions and changes in practice when these fall within our remit and align with funder requirements.
As a member of the Community Knowledge Working Group you will need to do some preparation for, attend, and contribute to meetings.
We will design the schedule with you to enable all members to take part as fully as possible.
We are happy to discuss flexible participation options.
We aim to hold 4 meetings each year:
You will provide guidance on strategic approaches to community engagement and advise the Community Engagement Manager.
You will discuss and decide which community research projects to fund.
You will meet up with the Festival Working Group as part of the full Community Engagement Advisory Board .
This meeting is an opportunity for creative thinking, to reflect, and share working group activity over the year.
The University of Cambridge is a world-leading centre of learning and research.
But knowledge is never created in a vacuum.
It is shaped by the experiences and perspectives of those who produce it.
That is why it is essential to involve a wide range of people in research.
Cambridge is also a city marked by deep inequality.
For many locals the University can feel distant and disconnected from everyday life.
At Public Engagement, we want to work with you to help change that.
We believe that expertise does not just come from academic study.
It also comes from lived experience and exists within communities.
That belief is at the heart of the new Community Knowledge Working Group, part of the Community Engagement Advisory Board.
This group is part of our commitment to strengthen relationships with both local and global communities, and to support collaborative research that values community knowledge.
By doing so, we aim to make research more relevant, more impactful, and more inclusive, benefitting both communities and the University.
Apply to join the Community Knowledge Working Group .
We would love to hear from you.
If you have questions or need help with the application, please email us at communityengagement@admin.cam.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/public-engagement/get-involved/connecting-communities/community-engagement-advisory-board/festival-working-group:
We're creating a Festival Working Group and would love for your to be a part of it.
You could be a:
Members will serve one year on the board, with the option to extend this twice.
A member can therefore serve a maximum of 3 terms.
As a member of the Festival Working Group, you will have 2 main roles:
As a member of the Festival Working Group, you will need to do some preparation for, attend, and contribute to meetings.
We will design the schedule with you to enable all members to participate as fully as possible.
The Cambridge Festival takes place in March and April each year.
As a result, no meetings will be scheduled during these months.
You will provide guidance and input to the Cambridge Festival, and discuss funding applications.
You will meet up with the Community Knowledge Working Group as part of the full Community Engagement Advisory Board .
The Cambridge Festival is the University of Cambridge’s main public engagement event and is organised by the Public Engagement Team .
Each year we offer a range of events for adults, families, and schools.
Through this, we share research and build connections with the community.
The festival also gives us the opportunity to think about the relationship between the city and the University.
Strengthening this connection is a key aim for us, and the Festival Working Group plays an important role in achieving it.
To deliver the festival we work with a range of partners including community organisations and Anglia Ruskin University.
These partnerships help us to improve the Cambridge Festival each year.
The Festival Working Group provides a formal space to support and develop these relationships.
Apply to join the Festival Working Group .
We'd love to hear from you.
If you have questions or need help with your application, please email us at communityengagement@admin.cam.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/public-engagement/get-involved/connecting-communities/community-engagement-advisory-board/application-details:
This page will provide you with more information on the recruitment process for the Community Engagement Advisory Board .
The Board is made of 2 Working Groups:
Please apply to just one of these Groups.
Applications close at 23:59 on 5 September 2025 .
We are excited to hear from you and look forward to receiving your application.
We are committed to making this process welcoming and inclusive.
If you need support accessing or submitting the application, please email us at communityengagement@admin.cam.ac.uk .
If you have any questions about the application process or the Board, please email communityengagement@admin.cam.ac.uk .
If you would like to have a chat with us before submitting your application, you can contact communityengagement@admin.cam.ac.uk to book meetings with:
You can choose to meet online, in person at the Old Schools (where the Public Engagement Team is based), or in person at a café in Cambridge city centre.
Let us know in advance if this incurs costs for you, and we can pay these directly or as an expense claimed with receipts.
Pick the application format that suits you best:
In your application please only include responses to the following questions:
Whichever method you choose to apply, please name your file like this: SURNAME_FESTIVAL if you are applying to the Festival Working Group, or SURNAME_COMMUNITY if you are applying to the Community Knowledge Working Group.
Please send your document as an attachment to an email to communityengagement@admin.cam.ac.uk .
Please include your full name.
Record your voice note and attach it to an email.
Please send it with your full name to us at communityengagement@admin.cam.ac.uk .
Record your video.
As the file will be too big to send as an email attachment, please upload it to our folder on Google Drive.
Follow these steps:
The deadline for all applications is 23:59 on 5 September 2025 .

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/public-engagement/get-involved/cambridge-festival-coordinators:
View our frequently asked questions
We send out a regular newsletter to all festival contributors.
If you would like to receive this then sign up for the newsletter mailing list
All coordinators must submit their events into our Event Management System (EMS).
We have created a full user guide to EMS to help with your submission - Please read the user guide before submitting your event.
We must have all details confirmed by this date for inclusion in the PDF programme.
If you are unable to provide final details by the deadline date above, your event will only appear on the website.
External organisations should contact the Festival Managers as soon as possible to discuss their involvement in the Festival.
Please adhere to the University of Cambridge editorial house style when entering content to the EMS.
Deadlines
Dates
Contributors first meeting (online and recorded)
Second contributors meeting (online and recorded)
14 November 2025
Press and PR launch
Programme and bookings open
16 February 2026
20 February 2026
Cambridge Festival 2025
It is vital we have good images for all events to attached the public and make them want to attend.
We cannot promote your event without an image.
The size required for EMS is 590x290 pixels.
If you are struggling for an image, there are a number of royalty-free image websites available to use:
Unsplash
Pixabay
NASA
Cambridge Digital Library
Wiki Commons
Cambridge University Hospitals Stock Library
British Library
British Museum
Creative Commons
You need to include an alt text description for accessibility reasons and ensure credit if appropriate and required.
If you do not have image resizing software, there a number of free sites that can do this for you: Wix , Adobe Express , PicResize , Simple Image Resizer
You are in charge of finding a suitable venue for your event this can be either online, internal to the University via the booker system below or an external venue.
Booker is a room booking system that has been designed for the University.
Many departments are already using the system to manage their own rooms, and administrators have been very positive about its user-friendly interface and features.
It is available for any University department to adopt, free of charge, and with full training and support from the service team based at UIS (University Information Services).
https://www.em.admin.cam.ac.uk/what-we-do/estate-operations/workplace-services/room-bookings
All University staff are entitled to sign up for a Booker account, which enables them to search and discover a growing number of rooms.
To request an account, please contact roombookingsystem@uis.cam.ac.uk .
You can use Accessable to check the accessibility of your venue.
We hope you will plan to collect feedback on your activity.
You can use the example message below if you are sending emails.
We will be creating a survey in Qualtrics which we can share with you in due course.
Thank you for attending this event as part of the Cambridge Festival.
We are keen to learn about your experience of the Festival to help us develop plans for the future and bring you the best possible events and activities.
To help us do this, could you please complete a very short survey?
This survey is completely optional and should take no more than 5 minutes of your time.
Thank you for your help!
You can download our DOUBLE SIDED - Adult and Child Consent Release Form that we are planning to use for anyone appearing in our core programmed events or for any direct event photography.
Please feel free to use this for your events too.
You can also use this perimeter signage if you plan to film/photograph our event/s.
Download the event preparation checklist .
You are welcome to use this to help contributors prepare for a live online event (although many of the tips will also apply to pre-recorded videos too).
Please adhere to our branding guidelines .
Contact us for a copy of the Cambridge Festival logo.
Please adhere to guidelines on copyright compliance in any materials related to your event.
If you are internal to the University of Cambridge, information can be found on the Copyright Compliance page in the Guidance Section of the Legal Services website .
Please submit your documents via the link we provided in our contributors mailing, if you have not received this, please get in touch .
These must be with us by 24 February 2025.
The following risk assessment templates have been developed by the Festival team for you to use for online events , in person talks and in person exhibition/demo .
You can also use the general university template .
You are strongly encouraged to update it so it is relevant to your own event(s).
Please ensure your organisational/department safety officer approves your risk assessment(s) before submitting to the Festival team.
We cannot accept any risk assessments that have not been approved by your department’s or organisation’s safety officer.
If you are based in a college or if your organisation is external to the University, you will also need to supply a copy of your Public Liability Insurance (PLI) when submitting your risk assessment.
The Festival team has also created a Code of Conduct which will apply to all Festival events and which is referenced in the risk assessment template provided above.
You can also use our filming preparation document if you wish, to help with live and/or pre-recorded events.
The Cambridge Festival aims to be an inclusive and safe space for people of all backgrounds, races and ethnicities, ages, genders, and abilities to engage with our research.
We know there are persistent structural barriers to equality in many areas of society and there is a lot of work to be done in breaking those down.
We hope to help make a step in the right direction by striving for diversity in our speakers, the topics explored, the event and activity formats used and by encouraging and enabling discussion about systemic inequalities such as racism, sexism, and ableism from multiple perspectives.
We are committed to making the Cambridge Festival productive, supportive and inclusive and have prepared a Code of Conduct .
This is to ensure that the Festival is a positive experience for everyone of all gender identities and expressions, sexual orientations, with any disability and of all races, ethnicities, nationalities, religions/beliefs and other protected identities based on the UK’s 2010 Equality Act.
By attending Festival events, you are confirming that you will abide by this Code of Conduct in all interactions throughout the Festival.
Everyone is welcome at the Cambridge Festival and we are committed to making our online content as accessible as possible.
Guidance for creating accessible online content for the Festival .
The University uses its best efforts to ensure that all its Cambridge Festival web content is accessible and can be used by as many people as possible.
If a member of the public is unable to access your Festival content, please review and, please be prepared to provide it in alternative formats where possible.
You also should be aware that the University has under the Equality Act 2010 a legal duty to provide reasonable adjustments for disabled people, which includes making web-based content accessible for them.
Our filming partners Cambridge Filmworks have put together a document with some handy hints when undertaking remote filming.
View the filming tips .

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/public-engagement/get-involved/cambridge-festival-coordinators-page/coordinators-faq:
Frequently asked questions about Cambridge Festival 2025.
Yes, though once your proposal has been accepted in EMS you will no longer be able to make the changes yourself and will need to contact us with any updates.
Yes.
Please upload your event as normal and highlight that it is a drop-in event in the description.
This will depend on the platform you use to stream and what type of feedback you are hoping to collect for your event.
The Festival team is developing an evaluation toolkit that you can use to collect feedback from different types of events and activities.
We will share more information on this as soon as we have it.
We will no longer be printing a physical programme of events for a number of reasons.
We will once again but having a PDF version of the online programme which people can download and print at home if they wish.
For events to be included in this we must have ALL details confirmed by the submission deadline.
Any details recieved after this will not be able to be updated or changed.
Ideally these should be submitted by the deadline.
If you cannot provide your booking like by then, it will need to be submitted by 20 December at the latest.
Please include your registration link in the booking tab in ‘URL’ and select recommended or required at the top.
Every department will have someone who is ultimately in charge of safety for the department.
Please check with your department/institution administration or central office in the first instance.
You risk assessment will be returned if it is not signed.
Themes will be the same year-on-year: Society, Health, Environment, and Discovery!
When you submit your event, be sure to specify which theme (up to two) that your event sits within.
You can still choose any topic/research subject area for your event, and then indicate which theme it sits within.
Yes
Yes, the Cambridge Festival website.
Yes, you can find lots of helpful examples and information on our coordinators web page bit.ly/camcoords .
We have also created a digital space where coordinators can share tips, tricks and best practice of digital engagement.
You can also view events from the 2021 , 2022 , 2023 and 2024 Festival on our YouTube.
Yes, it is fine to ‘recycle’ previously hosted events for the Festival.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/public-engagement/information-for-staff-and-students:
The team offers a range of training programmes for staff and students at all levels of experience, as well as operating an awards scheme to recognise and reward excellence in public engagement.
We are here to help and support you in your public engagement work.
From finding funding, to advising on the approach, to offering you opportunities to engage, we are the people to talk to.
We also have a number of resources to inform and support you in developing your public engagement activities.
We are always looking for speakers to give talks at our Festivals, people to help organise activities or volunteer stewards for our events.
To find out more about the public engagement opportunities you might like to get involved with, sign up to our Public Engagement bulletin – use the subscription form on this page.
Would like more information from us?
Sign up to our email list and we'll send news, opportunities, funding schemes and other bits and bobs of interest!
Sign up to our email list

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/public-engagement/information-for-staff-and-students/support-for-professional-staff:
We are here to support you to support the researchers in your department!
Contact us by email: publicengagement@admin.cam.ac.uk
Our Public Engagement Network for professional staff is centrally organised but community owned.
We meet termly and members are welcome to propose themes, lead discussions and share ideas, experience and best practice.
Get in touch if you have an idea you would like to discuss at one of our meetings.
We run a public engagement conference to provide a space for learning and skills sharing and to create a supportive community of practice.
We invite leaders from within the public engagement community both internally and externally to contribute, including those from other HEI’s, UKRI, NCCPE, Wellcome, Cambridge City Council, our Museums, our professional colleagues and our Public Engagement Award winners.
Sign up using the public engagement email list here .
And of course, follow us on twitter too, we are @CamUniEngage
All our Engaged Researcher Training is open to professional staff.
We run masterclasses for staff through our network so if there are specific areas you would like to discuss, please let us know.
If you're a University of Cambridge researcher or PE person, we're here for advice, to signpost to information and act as a sounding board for your ideas.
Interested?
Book a 30 min slot and start a conversation with us!
Our annual VC Awards recognise the commitment of University professional staff in working with researchers and academics to facilitate research impact and engagement.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/public-engagement/information-for-staff-and-students/engaged-researcher-training:
The University of Cambridge Public Engagement Team provides a portfolio of transferable skill training and support for PGR students, researchers and professional staff.
Engaged Researcher training covers all areas of public engagement with research by combining expert led practical workshops and taught sessions.
No Public Engagement story is the same and this is reflected in the diversity of the training programme offered.
Sessions will give you the support needed to organise, develop, deliver, communicate, publish and evaluate your Public Engagement activities.
Starting with our core training in October, Introduction to Public Engagement, Planning your Public Engagement, Evaluate your Public Engagement and DEI in Public Engagement.
Following on from these we offer training which will focus on building your research narratives through creative writing, storytelling, animation or creating your personal brand.
Our working with specific audiences' theme will introduce you to Policy Engagement, working within museums and schools.
Training with various forms of media will also help you to navigate those first steps of creating a podcast, writing for the media and of course finding your way through social media and which platforms work for you.
For any other queries about Public Engagement, please email publicengagement@admin.cam.ac.uk .
All courses can be booked individually, so as participants can choose the trainings that match their needs and career profile, and combine them into a personal training suite.
If you would like to receive recognition for your commitment to develop your public engagement skills, you can also obtain a 'Training Certificate' by completing the following steps:
To attend mandatory sessions of the 'Introduction to Public Engagement' course, which is offered multiple times every year;
To attend all the mandatory sessions of any 3 courses of your choice within the Engaged Researcher series;
Once you have fulfilled the first two criteria please contact the training administrator, engaged.researcher@admin.cam.ac.uk to receive an application form for the certificate.
The form will guide you through a short reflection on your public engagement training journey, and will ask you to summarize the outputs that you generated during the practical sessions of the courses or inspired by the courses which you have attended.
The sessions will run either online (on Microsoft Teams or Zoom) or in-person and are open to all postgraduate research students, academic and professional staff of the University.
Please note that there are limited spaces available, so please book early to avoid disappointment but please remember to cancel if you are no longer able to attend.
Please contact us to discuss your public engagement training requirements.
We can provide introductory and bespoke training courses in public engagement and communication skills.
If you're a University of Cambridge researcher or PE person, we're here for advice, to signpost to information and act as a sounding board for your ideas.
Book a 30min slot and start a conversation with us.
Please get in touch with our administrator at engaged.researcher@admin.cam.ac.uk with any training related queries.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/public-engagement/cambridge-awards:
for Research Impact and Engagement
View of Cambridge's Colleges.
Bdsklo / iStock / Getty Images Plus via Getty Images
University of Cambridge student working with scientific equipment at the Maxwell Centre (Cav lab).
Copyright: University of Cambridge (June 2023)
University students doing a live practical at the Department of Pathology.
Copyright: University of Cambridge (November 2024)
Two University students working in a meeting room at the Department of Pathology.
Two University of Cambridge students looking at statues at the Museum of Classical Archaeology.
This category exemplifies the best of what Cambridge’s newer generations of researchers can achieve in impact and engagement.
Open to PhD students, postdoctoral researchers, or research fellows, applicants must show significant achievements in research impact and engagement with the potential to become future champions in these areas.
Candidates must be based at the University of Cambridge University at the point of submission and a strong link to research conducted at the University must be evidenced.
Open to academic staff (excluding PhD students, postdoctoral researchers, and research fellows) who have demonstrated excellence in impact and engagement as an integral part of their research career.
A strong link to research conducted at the University of Cambridge must be evidenced.
This category includes awards for both individual academics and for research teams.
This award recognises the commitment and excellence of University professional services staff in facilitating and supporting researchers and academics in research impact and engagement activities.
Staff with Public Engagement and Impact in their job description are also eligible to apply.
This category welcomes applications from teams and partnerships engaged in impact and engagement activity.
Teams can be composed of members from all career stages and external partners.
Winner: Professor Sander van der Linden , Department of Psychology, School of Biological Sciences and Churchill College and his team at the Cambridge Social Decision-Making Lab.
Runner up: - Professor Gillian Carr (Institute of Continuing Education/Department of Archaeology and St Catharine’s College, Individual application) Highly commended: - Dr Carmel McEniery (Department of Medicine, School of Clinical Medicine and Churchill College, Team application)
Joint Winners: - Dr Gabriel Okello , Cambridge Institute for Sustainability Leadership, School of Technology, Murray Edwards College.
Runners up: - Dr Kirsty Ferguson (Stem Cell Institute, School of Clinical Medicine) - Dr Nik Petek-Sargeant (McDonald Institute For Archaeological Research, School of Humanities and Social Sciences) - Stanley Jachike Onyemechalu (Cambridge Heritage Research Centre, Department of Archaeology, School of Humanities and Social Sciences) Highly commended: - Emma Houiellebecq (Faculty of Engineering, School of Technology, St John's College)
Winner: Representing psychosis in video games: Communicating clinical science and tackling stigma.
Lead: Prof Paul Fletcher (Department of Psychiatry, School of Clinical Medicine, Clare College) Dr Dervila Glynn (Cambridge Neuroscience IRC) Dominic Matthews (Ninja Theory Ltd) Sharon Gilfoyle (Cambridgeshire and Peterborough NHS Foundation Trust)
Runners up: - Connections Through Collections: Project led by Dr David Farrell Banks (Fitzwilliam Museum, Non-School Institution) - Including public voices in policy through a public dialogue on stem cell-based embryo models: Project led by Christina Rozeik (Cambridge Reproduction)
Winner: Professor William Sutherland , Director of Research and formerly Miriam Rothschild Chair of Conservation Biology, Department of Zoology and team
Runners up: - Professor Tolullah Oni , Clinical Professor, MRC Epidemiology Unit, School of Clinical Medicine.
(Individual submission) - Dr Nazia Habib , Founder and Director, Centre for Resilience and Sustainable Development, Department of Land Economy, School of Humanities and Social Sciences (Submitted on behalf of the research team)
Joint Winners: - Stephen Ajadi , PhD Researcher, Department of Land Economy, School of Humanities and Social Sciences and President Cambridge Initiative for African Urbanism - Dr Barry Coughlan , British Academy Fellow, Clinical Medicine, Department of Public Health and Primary Care, School of Clinical Medicine
Winner: UK Citizens' Jury on Human Embryo Editing - Project led by Professor Anna Middleton, Director Kavli Centre for Ethics, Science, and the Public, Faculty of Education, School of Humanities and Social Sciences.
Runners up: - Social Robots for Assessing and Promoting Mental Wellbeing (SORO4Wellbeing): Project led by Professor Hatice Gunes, Professor of Affective Intelligence and Robotics (AFAR), Head of the AFAR Lab, Department of Computer Science and Technology, School of Technology - Bringing the natural world into the primary mathematics classroom: Project led by Dr Ems Lord, Director of NRICH, Faculty of Mathematics, School of Physical Sciences
Winner: Charles Agbor Emogor Department of Zoology School of Biological Sciences
Runners up: - Dr Ems Lord, NRICH, Faculty of Mathematics, School of Physical Sciences - Dr Sophia Cooke, Department of Geography, School of Humanities and Social Sciences.
Winner: Dr Jenny Molloy Department of Chemical Engineering and Biotechnology School of Technology
Runners up: - Professor Khaled Soufani, Cambridge Judge Business School, School of Technology - Dr Jodi Gardner, Faculty of Law, School of Humanities and Social Sciences
Winner: Dr Marla Fuchs Department of Plant Sciences School of Biological Sciences
Runners up: - Rebecca Leam and Owen Garling Bennett Institute for Public Policy, Department of Politics and International Studies, School of Humanities and Social Sciences
Winner: Professor Stefan Scholtes The Cambridge Centre for Health Leadership and Enterprise Judge Business School School of Technology
Runners up: - Dr Lara Mani, Centre for the Study of Existential Risk, School of Arts and Humanities - Professor Tony Kouzarides, Milner Therapeutics Institute, School of Biological Sciences - Dr Johannes Lenhard, Max Planck Cambridge Centre for Ethics, Economy and Social Change, Department of Social Anthropology, School of Arts and Humanities
Winner: Professor Daniela De Angelis MRC Biostatistics Unit School of Clinical Medicine
Runners up: - Dr Fiona Mayne, Education, School of Humanities and Social Sciences - Professor Tony Kouzarides, Gurdon Institute, Biological Sciences - Dr Alessandro Launaro, Faculty of Classics, School of Arts and Humanities
Winner: Dr Jan van der Scheer The Healthcare Improvement Studies (THIS) Institute Department of Public Health and Primary Care School of Clinical Medicine
Runners up: - Dr Kate Noble, The Fitzwilliam Museum, Arts and Humanities - Professor Ewan St.
John Smith, Department of Pharmacology, Biological Sciences - Dr Ebele Mogo, MRC Epidemiology Unit, Technology
Winner: Professor Howard Griffiths Department of Plant Sciences School of Biological Sciences
Runners up: - Professor Duncan McFarlane, Institute for Manufacturing / Department of Engineering, School of Technology - Professor Robert N.
M.
Watson, Computer Science and Technology, School of Technology - Dr Raghib Ali, MRC Epidemiology Unit, School of Clinical Medicine
Winner: Dr Duncan Astle MRC Cognition and Brain Sciences Unit School of Clinical Medicine
Runners up: - Dr Joseph Webster, Faculty of Divinity, School of Arts and Humanities
Winner: Dr Chioma Achi Veterinary Medicine School of Biological Sciences
Runners up: - Emma Soneson, Department of Psychiatry, School of Clinical Medicine - Dr Naures Atto, Asian and Middle Eastern Studies/Middle Eastern Studies, School of Arts and Humanities - Dr Nicki Kindersley, Faculty of History, School of Humanities and Social Sciences
Winner: Professor Michael Weekes and Dr Steven Baker Cambridge Institute for Medical Research /Cambridge Institute for Therapeutic Immunology and Infectious Disease School of Clinical Medicine
Runners up: - Dr Victoria Avery, Dr Melissa Calaresu and Dr Miranda Stearn, Fitzwilliam Museum, Applied Arts / Faculty of History / Fitzwilliam Museum, Learning and Engagement Non-School Institution, School of Humanities and Social Sciences
Winner: Professor Michael Ramage Department of Architecture School of Arts and Humanities
Runners up: - Centre for Geopolitics, Department of Politics and International Studies, School of Humanities and Social Sciences
Winner: Dr Rosalyn Wade Museum of Zoology School of Biological Sciences
Runners up: - Dr Ems Lord, NRICH, Faculty of Mathematics, School of Physical Sciences - Dr Sophia Cooke, Department of Geography, Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences
Runners up: - Rebecca Leam and Owen Garling, Bennett Institute for Public Policy, Department of Politics and International Studies, School of Humanities and Social Sciences
Winner: Professor Michael Weekes and Dr Steven Baker Cambridge Institute for Medical Research/Cambridge Institute for Therapeutic Immunology and Infectious Disease School of Clinical Medicine
Guidance and application forms for award categories
Before you start completing the application forms we recommend looking at the PDF document of the applications so that you can prepare your answers and documents in advance.
Only start filling the online form once you are ready to submit.
We recognise that excellence in research impact and engagement spans a broad range of audiences and types of activity.
Applicants are encouraged to include the full breadth of their impact and engagement activity in their submission.
Engaging stakeholders and beneficiaries in original and inventive ways helps reach new audiences.
We encourage applications which can demonstrate either impactful long-term collaborations or imaginative approaches that have secured the participation of new beneficiaries and partners.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/public-engagement/information-for-staff-and-students/public-engagement-with-research-awards/2017-public-engagement-with-research-award-winners:
Professor Catherine Barnard is a Professor of the European Union Law at the Faculty of Law.
Catharine has developed a range of outputs to explain key issues at stake of the UK membership to the EU including migration, which forms the basis of her research, in addition to the wider EU law remit.
Harnessing the timeliness of the political climate, Catherine’s videos, online articles, radio and TV interviews have supported her engagement across 12 town hall events from Exeter to Newcastle, an open prison and round-table discussions with various public groups.
She has also provided a number of briefing sessions to major political party MPs and peers.
She has become a trusted public figure, and researcher, on the EU law, Brexit and surrounding issues, ensuring that the voices of those key to the research process are heard and listened to.
Dr Frank Waldron-Lynch is a globally trained Physician-Scientist at the University of Cambridge, where he leads an a multifunctional Experimental Medicine Team that develops novel immunotherapeutic strategies to treat and ultimately prevent autoimmune diseases in patients.
The aim of the CAM-T1D programme is to accelerate the development of immunotherapies targeted to genetically validated human disease pathways in type 1 diabetes and other autoimmune diseases.
Miss Jane Kennet is a research co-ordinator and nurse for the JDRF/Wellcome Trust Diabetes and Inflammation Laboratory.
Miss Katerina Anselmiova is a part time research nurse working on many of the adult type 1 clinical research studies.
Together as CAM-T1D members, they have developed a public engagement programme to engage participants, patients, families, funders, colleagues, institutions, companies and the community with the aim of ensuring that their research remains relevant to stakeholder needs.
Amongst their outputs, the team has formed a patient support group in addition to developing an online engagement strategy through social media platforms.
Most recently, they have collaborated with GlaxoSmithKline to offer patients the opportunity to participate in clinical studies at all stages of their disease.
Dr Neil Stott is a member of the Senior Faculty in Management Practice, Judge Business School and a co-Director of the Cambridge Centre for Social Innovation.
Miss Belinda Bell is a Programme Director at Cambridge Social Ventures.
Neil and Belinda have established Cambridge Social Ventures to embed research around social innovation into a practical workshop to support emerging social entrepreneurs.
Since the first workshop in 2014, they have reached almost 500 people wanting to create social change by starting and growing a business.
The team goes to considerable efforts to reach out to participants from non-traditional backgrounds and to ensure workshops are inclusive and accessible to a wide range of the public by incorporating online engagement with work in the community.
Dr Elisa Laurenti is currently a Wellcome Trust and Royal Society Sir Henry Dale Research Fellow at the Department of Haematology.
Elisa has engaged over 2,500 people, at 6 separate events, with her Stem Cell Robots activity.
She has collaborated with a researcher in educational robotics to produce this robot-based activity which maps a stem cell’s differentiation to become a specific cell type.
The activity has provided a platform for children, families and adults to discuss ethics and clinical applications of stem cell research.
Dr Nai-Chieh Liu is currently a Clinical Research Associate at the Brachycephalic Obstructive Airway Syndrome (BOAS) research group at the Cambridge Veterinary School, Department of Veterinary Medicine.
Nai-Chieh has developed a non-invasive respiratory function test for short-skulled dog breeds, including French bulldogs and pugs, which suffer from airway obstruction.
She has engaged with dog owners by attending dog shows, dog club meetings and breeders’ premises to break down barriers between public and veterinarians working to improve the health of these dogs.
As a result of this engagement, the UK French bulldog club and the Bulldog based Breed Counsel have adopted health testing schemes based on Nai-Chieh’s research.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/public-engagement/information-for-staff-and-students/v-c-awards-for-research-impact-and-engagement/2018-public-engagement-with-research-award-winners:
Dr Spatis and Dr Barclay are both Associate Specialty Directors in Palliative Medicine working to design and deliver undergraduate palliative care education at the University of Cambridge.
Dr Spatis has a particular interest in the management of cancer-related fatigue, and is currently undertaking an MD investigating fatigue in teenagers and young adults with cancer.
Dr Barclay's research focuses on Palliative and End of Life Care in Primary Care, with a particular interest in General Practitioner and District Nurse provision of care, end of life care conversations in cancer and non-cancer illness, decision-making concerning treatment cessation in advanced disease and medical student education in Palliative Care.
Fatigue, an extreme tiredness that affects the mind as well as the body, is the single most common and distressing symptom experienced by teenagers and young adults with cancer.
The researchers worked with these young patients to co-design a treatment for fatigue that meets their unique needs.
Ragnhild Dale is a PhD student at the Scott Polar Institute.
She has worked at the intersection of academia and the performing arts since 2010 with a particular interest in relationships between art, anthropology, resource politics and social change.
Her research is concerned with how conflict and consent around extractive industries is created and performed in the Barents Region, with a view across sectors from public policy and business to civil society and activism.
She put together a three-day staging of the Norwegian 'climate lawsuit', after Greenpeace and Nature and Youth sued the government for allowing Arctic oil exploration.
Inviting expert witnesses from academia, industry and NGOs to testify in the production in Kirkenes, she brought the question directly to the people who live and work in the north.
Charlotte Payne is a PhD student in the Department of Zoology.
Her research interests include the potential impacts of farming insects for human food.
Her PhD addresses the claims that 1) farming insects could greatly reduce the greenhouse gas emissions and the pressure on land use 2) insects as food may have health benefits that rival traditional livestock and 3) insect farming has the potential to aid socio-economic mobility.
Working together with farmers and scientists at every stage, she developed a participatory research project on the sustainable use of edible caterpillars in southwestern Burkina Faso.
The methodology, aims and results were shared with public audiences of all ages and backgrounds.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/public-engagement/information-for-staff-and-students/v-c-awards-for-research-impact-and-engagement/2020-research-impact-and-engagement-award-winners:
Dr Duncan Astle, MRC Cognition and Brain Sciences Unit, School of Clinical Medicine
Established Academic Award
Breaking barriers to learning in the classroom
Between 14-30% of children and adolescents worldwide experience cognitive and behavioural barriers to learning that vary widely in scope and impact (Department for Education, 2019; National Centre for Education Statistics, 2019).
There is a growing appetite for robust evidence that can equip teachers in helping young people overcome these barriers.
For the past 8 years, in partnership with children’s charities, local education authorities, academy chains, and local schools, I have undertaken an extensive engagement programme to provide front-line professionals with a robust evidence base to help them make impactful changes in young people’s learning.
Chioma Achi, Veterinary Medicine, School of Biological Sciences
Early Career Researcher Award
Strengthening participation of poultry farmers in the fight against antimicrobial resistance.
My project is about leaving no one behind and engaging farmers in the fight against antimicrobial resistance.
The World Health Organisation estimates 10million deaths from Antimicrobial-Resistance (AMR) by year 2050.
While interacting with farmers in Nigeria during my fieldwork, I gathered that awareness around resistance to antimicrobials and its impact on animal and human health was low; this was evident in number of resistant bacteria that I got from my lab analysis.
Burdened by the fact that the world is running out of effective antibiotics and the knowledge that AMR is no respecter of geographical boundaries, I knew inaction was no option.
This led me to organising a statewide engagement-program on AMR bringing together stakeholders in Nigeria.
Rosalyn Wade, Museum of Zoology, School of Biological Sciences
Professional Services Award
Learning and Public Programme of the Museum of Zoology: blending contemporary zoological research with active and online learning experiences for public audiences.
Roz Wade leads the learning and public programme of the Museum of Zoology, showcasing the Museum, and research and activities from the Department of Zoology and Cambridge Conservation Initiative through events, workshops, and collaborative projects.
The lockdown and closure of the Museum necessitated a new way of working.
Roz was the driving force behind the reimagined online public programme.
She designed and released a new blog only 3 weeks after lockdown and developed an innovative online festival (Zoology Live!) to engage audiences with the Museum and the natural world, providing new platforms for researchers to engage audiences with their work.
Dr Michael Weekes and Dr Steven Baker, Cambridge Institute for Medical Research/Cambridge Institute for Therapeutic Immunology and Infectious Disease, School of Clinical Medicine
Collaboration Award
A comprehensive COVID-19 screening programme for Cambridge University Hospitals healthcare workers, Cambridge University staff and students.
Mike Weekes and Stephen Baker collaborated to establish a comprehensive rapid turn-around COVID-19 testing platform.
This setup was developed quickly in response to the COVID-19 pandemic as insufficient national capacity existed to test Cambridge University Hospitals (CUH) staff.
Of >1,000 staff members screened at work during April 2020, 3% tested positive for COVID-19, triggering the immediate isolation of staff and screening of their contacts, limiting viral transmission around CUH.
Baker/Weekes expanded their screening programme, preventing CUH becoming a ‘hub’ of COVID-19 transmission, making CUH a safe working environment and enabling testing of symptomatic staff and students from Cambridge University.
Dr Michael Ramage and team, Department of Architecture, School of Arts and Humanities
Online and Remote Engagement Award The HappyShield project has developed, tested, and disseminated novel open-source medical face shield designed in response to the severe personal protective equipment shortages caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, focussing in particular on production in Low and Middle Income Countries.
Responding to the diverse needs and manufacturing capabilities of LMIC contexts, and to enable rapid co-creation by a global team of specialists, the project has been digital, online, and open-source from inception.
The HappyShield project is bringing together a growing community of DIY makers, established manufacturers, medical professionals, and academics to tackle an urgent global challenge through collaborative design.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/public-engagement/information-for-staff-and-students/v-c-awards-for-research-impact-and-engagement/2021-research-impact-and-engagement-award-winners:
Professor Daniela De Angelis, MRC Biostatistics Unit, School of Clinical Medicine
Real-time monitoring of the SARS-COV2 pandemic
Daniela De Angelis directs the Cambridge team of statisticians working on Real time monitoring of the SARS-COV2 pandemic.
This has provided the official Public Health England real time estimates and projections of the state of the pandemic in England, including: the R numbers; the risk of death after infection; the daily number of current and future infections and deaths; and the total number of currently infected individuals, by age group and England region.
These regular outputs are fed directly to the SAGE sub-group, Scientific Pandemic Influenza sub-group on Modelling and have been key to the government’s management of the pandemic.
Dr Jan van der Scheer, The Healthcare Improvement Studies (THIS) Institute, Department of Public Health and Primary Care, School of Clinincal Medicine
Building solutions together: improving management of maternity emergencies during COVID-19
Jan van der Scheer, a researcher at The Healthcare Improvement Studies Institute, found a way to mobilise the ingenuity and expertise of NHS staff to adapt established processes for COVID scenarios.
Developing new online methods for working collaboratively and at scale to build solutions together, Jan used THIS Institute’s Thiscovery platform to bring together over 100 maternity unit staff, human factors specialists, and infection control experts.
The resulting video and other resources have been endorsed and shared by royal colleges, NHS bodies and professional societies, helping to improve quality and safety of care and to produce a replicable methodology.
Howard Griffiths, Department of Plant Sciences, School of Biological Sciences
TIGR2ESS (Transforming India’s Green Revolution by Research and Empowerment for Sustainable food Supplies): UK-India Collaboration is Driving High-level Policy Engagement and Positive Outcomes for Rural Communities in India
TIGR2ESS is a collaborative research programme led by the University of Cambridge, comprising more than 20 organisations and over 30 early career researchers.
We are working to find sustainable ways forward for Indian agriculture through engagement with rural communities, female empowerment, academic exchanges, and policy translation.
Our research is identifying practical solutions to tackle issues such as depleting groundwater, reduced crop resilience, inadequate nutrition, and limited market opportunities for smallholder farmers.
We have shaped policy to support more than 2 million farmers to access markets in Punjab and saved 58 billion litres of water through more efficient irrigation practices.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/public-engagement/information-for-staff-and-students/public-engagement-starter-fund:
The fund supports novel projects based on contemporary research at the University of Cambridge which aim to do one or more of the following:
Applicants can apply for grants up to £4,000.
Proposed projects can take a variety of formats, provided a clear rationale is given regarding the appropriateness of the method of engagement adopted, and how the necessary resources and expertise will be secured.
This variety of formats includes (but is not limited to):
The judging panel for this year's edition is composed by:
Applications will be assessed by a selection committee.
Research students and postdocs should receive permission from their supervisors before applying.
College researchers are fully eligible to apply.
Successful applicants will be supported by the University Public Engagement team with advice and training, and must submit an interim and concluding report including thorough evaluation upon completion of the project.
Please read the application guidelines before applying for the Starter Fund.
You can contact the Public Engagement team with further questions by emailing starterfund@admin.cam.uk .
If you experience issues filling in the form, or if you require reasonable accommodations, please get in touch with us.
You can book an introductory session to learn more about the Starter Fund.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/public-engagement/information-for-staff-and-students/public-engagement-starter-fund/projects-funded-through-the-public-engagement-starter-fund:
Communicating an integrated modelling framework in early warning forecasting tools for wheat-disease management for policy makers in sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia.
Hundreds of thousands of smallholder farmers depend on wheat for their livelihoods in Ethiopia, Kenya, Tanzania, Zambia, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Nepal, and Pakistan.
Production is under increasing pressure from outbreaks of virulent strains of wheat diseases that threaten entire harvests.
Cambridge modellers work with partners at the UK Met Office, CIMMYT, and national agricultural research institutes and extension agencies to develop and implement the Wheat Disease Early Warning and Advisory System (DEWAS) for predicting regions where crops are threatened and communicating these results to agencies and farmers who can take actions to mitigate risks.
The DEWAS partnership is currently exploring ways to operationalise the early warning system for long-term resilience against new disease strains and extend the farming regions that can be protected.
A persistent challenge lies in explaining how these specialist technologies contribute to food security and trade protection.
To bridge this gap, Cambridge researchers and partners will co-produce a set of short films which will serve as accessible tools for conveying the capabilities of the epidemiological models which underpin the early warning systems, to government agencies in the region.
Child Criminal Exploitation: Listening To Young People's Voices
Play in Hospital Awareness Week in Mexico (Semana del Juego Intrahospitalario en Mexico//Semana JIM)
Kazakhstan's heritage for children: sharing resources for engagement in museums.
Stakeholder's Uptake of Early warning surveillance system for Rift Valley fever disease in Isingiro District, Uganda
Dr Stefanie Buckner
Dr Lorna Dillon
Professor Andrea Foreman
Dr Tiffany Harte
Dr Philippa Hoskin
Swetha Kannan
Yufei Li
‘Manchuria Nostalgia’ is a shared virtual atlas designed for the local communities to discover, record and engage with the narratives and cultural heritage of Northeast China.
The project proposes a public place-making exercise of the historic Manchuria in its current urban regenerations, by engaging locals in walking tours and sharing their observations on interactive maps.
In an era when the material cities are changing drastically whilst history and memories are falling apart, we believe the use of visuals and writings to re-initiate the conversations about our transforming neighbourhood, and to rebuild the place in collective narratives as our live chorography.
Qian Liu
ACTalk (All about Children’s Talk) is based on Qian Liu and Yun Long’s PhD research findings.
The project aims to foster Chinese and British pupils' engagement in solving global challenges based on the UN's Sustainable Development Goals through intercultural dialogue.
ACTalk intends to develop online dialogue supported by interactive technologies.
The project will develop an international partnership with several interested schools, provide teacher workshops and launch a designed global challenge.
In addition, pupils will video their solutions and share their insights via social media and at the Cambridge Festivals.
Lucy Lloyd
LBGTQ+ health: what our research tells us?
will engage the public in our research on the health of sexual minorities.
We have described how LGBTQ+ people experience more health challenges and more problems accessing healthcare than their heterosexual counterparts.
After five years of research, ten academic papers and a lot of help from our existing public involvement panel, we now want to widen engagement.
We will do this via: online briefing to bring our findings together in accessible form; forum to connect academics, policymakers, our public panel and healthcare providers; and a Cambridge Festival interactive event.
'Secrets of Nature: science and natural history films in interwar Britain'
‘Secrets of Nature’ ( https://secrets-of-nature.co.uk/ ) is an online resource created by Max Long as part of his PhD research at the History Faculty.
It is named after a popular series of nature films produced in the 1920s and 1930s in Britain.
The website offers historical context to these films and the people that made them.
It also features links to view the films, and original historical materials.
This project will develop and expand the website by working with teachers adapt it for classroom use.
This will involve creating a teaching pack which will be free and available to all.
Valentina Ndolo
Valentina Ndolo has been working directly with livestock farmers, animal health workers, district veterinary officers, academicians, and representatives from the Ugandan Ministry of Agriculture since 2019 to investigate anthrax occurrence patterns in Northern Uganda.
Anthrax affects animals, particularly grazing herbivores, and can also be transmitted to humans.
Her public engagement project seeks to create awareness about anthrax transmission and prevention via one-on-one sessions with livestock farmers, stakeholders, and collaborators.
She also aims to develop a farmer-led action plan involving the establishment of a collaboration between farmers to facilitate the implementation of a joint livestock vaccination campaign.
Creating community and stakeholder dialogue about active travel in Northstowe and Cambridgeshire
Our research team are planning to engage the public and policy stakeholders on our research in Northstowe about the role of financial incentives in promoting alternatives to the car.
The team will create a small exhibition for use at community events orientated towards families.
This aims to share information about the research we do with Cambridgeshire residents, to build curiosity about what’s going on to promote active travel in their area and what could be improved .
To engage, consult and create a dialogue with a range of stakeholders, a short video, written summary, and a podcast will be produced.
Education for togetherness and harmony; developing a community of practice (practitioners)
Jwalin's PhD and postdoctoral research focuses on philosophies and practices of holistic education stemming from the global south, particularly India.
He aims to develop a community of practice wherein teachers meet on regular basis to discuss and learn from each other.
Additionally, he plans to engage the teachers in a cocreation process to develop a website (and potentially an edited book) on pedagogies and practices for education for togetherness and harmony.
Furthermore, he hopes to conclude the series of discussions with an unconference.
These will allow for dissemination of my research findings and scope for bottom-up teacher-driven educational change.
Dr Joe Sutliff Sanders
Joe Sutliff Sanders and Jenny Gibson of the Faculty of Education have joined with the Lakes International Comic Art Festival (LICAF) to leverage academic research on comic books (Sanders) and autism (Gibson) with LICAF’s ongoing commitment to comics fans throughout the community.
Together, they will launch a workshop with adult autistic participants to explore how web-based technologies can improve communication and professional artistic pathways for autistic comics creators.
Dr Bethany Schmidt
Bethany, in collaboration with Healthier Democracies, will facilitate three workshops with prisoners to reflect on and document the democratic innovations they have developed whilst incarcerated.
Mixed media creative expressions around the meanings of ‘citizenship’ and ‘civil death’ produced from these sessions will be exhibited at the Institute of Criminology.
This adapted form of participatory photovoice has three primary aims: to illuminate an overlooked pain of imprisonment; to stimulate a public dialogue about political marginalisation and its social and democratic implications; and, to explore ways to promote and energise inclusive civic participation.
An interactive webforum will be developed to enable wide and sustained engagement.
Reetika Revathy Subramanian
Set against the backdrop of rising temperatures and changing rainfall patterns, Climate Brides is an evidence-based, conversational podcast that seeks to (un)tie the knots between early marriage and the climate catastrophe in South Asia.
Using the accessible format of conversations, with survivors, frontline workers, activists and academics in the region, this feminist collaborative project trains the spotlight on the historical compulsions and everyday negotiations of young women and girls confronting the biggest challenge of the 21st century.
Veronica (Jingyi) Wang
Academic Bird is an online channel that bridges academic debate in the social sciences to the Chinese general public, inspired by doctoral research on Chinese media and internet culture.
Using short videos of themed talks with scholars from different disciplines, the channel fills a gap for critical thinking platforms in the Chinese-speaking market.
These talks quickly gained traction through social media with over 1,000,000 views and 45,000 followers, with a strong presence on Weibo.
Purpose beyond Profit
Doroteya will engage with small companies, responsible entrepreneurs and start-ups to help them re-define the future post-crisis direction of their business.
Doroteya will design and produce an online workshop entitled “Purpose beyond Profit.” Building a business focused on purpose has never been a more urgent business strategy.
Strong purpose statements flow from the impact generated by the business through its products, services, and behaviours.
In this practical workshop, participants will follow a robust step-by-step approach to develop a clear purpose statement to help them secure support from critical stakeholders.
This online workshop stems from Doroteya’s research on sustainable business models and her in-person workshops.
Gender Studies (POLIS)
Sharmila will work with the Global Alliance Against Traffic in Women to produce and host at least ten episodes of video or audio podcasts that feature conversations with activists, scholars, and bureaucrats who work in anti-trafficking.
These conversations examine 20 years of anti-trafficking practice since the adoption of the UN Palermo Protocol, and explore issues such as upholding the safety of migrant workers using a rights-based framework, the effects of raids, rescues, and rehabilitation interventions on sex workers, and donor accountability.
Interviewees and other interested parties will be invited to reflect on these episodes in articles or blog posts.
Public Health & Primary Care
Clare Oliver-Williams and the artist Shady-Illustrations will further their partnership from Cambridge Creative Encounters to produce art depicting women with pregnancy complications having a greater risk of heart disease.
We will engage patients in the creation of images and a digital resource pack, that includes the images with text.
The images will be displayed in hospitals and in the Cambridge Festival.
The resource pack will be distributed to national organisations.
A concise and hopeful written message will be included with the artwork and in the resource pack providing guidance to women about how they can improve their heart health.
Divinity
Safet will develop an exhibition of anthropological photography, a public symposium and an interactive website to further our understanding of sacred environments shared by different religious communities.
Inaugurated during the UN World Interfaith Harmony Week in 2021, the exhibition will showcase diverse examples of co-orchestrated rituals, feasts and shared sacred spaces that speak of rich historical and present-day encounters in the polities increasingly partitioned along the lines of religious identity.
Building upon Safet’s ethnographic research of syncretic religion in the Mediterranean, the symposium will consider the importance of shared landscapes and their main obstacles in different contemporary contexts.
The project will also establish a partnership and knowledge exchange between the Cambridge Inter-Faith Programme (CIP) and the Cambridge Central Mosque.
University Library, Modern and Medieval Languages and Linguistics
Irene Fabry-Tehranchi and Nick White will organise a physical and online exhibition of caricatures of the Franco-Prussian War and the Paris Commune, 1870-71 at Cambridge University Library (May-June 2021).
We want to foster public engagement with the events and their significance by producing a film explaining and demonstrating illustration printing techniques set in the library historical printing rooms.
We will share the film with Cambridge History and Arts AS-level classes and invite them to visit the University Library’s historical presses, teaching them through primary historical sources, using historical games produced during the Commune.
Zoology
Charles will use art and science communication to raise awareness of the conservation status of the pangolin – simultaneously one of the world’s most trafficked, yet least known wild mammals.
This project will make his PhD work on the white-bellied pangolin in Nigeria more accessible to the public (primary/secondary school students in Nigeria and UK, and hunters in Nigeria).
Students will create and share pangolin art through dedicated channels.
Additionally, alongside hunters, students in Nigeria will be mobilised to celebrate 2021 World Pangolin Day.
These hands-on experiences will help mobilize support for pangolin conservation and ultimately contribute towards reducing pangolin decline.
Archaeology
Dr Carr seeks to collect material, through crowdsourcing, for an online, interactive map of Alderney (funded elsewhere) to showcase the multi-layered history of sites related to both the Nazi occupation during WWII and residents' experience of ‘Homecoming’ after the war.
We will invite islanders to submit their own stories and photos related to place, and we will add images and historical material about the Holocaust history of the Island to accompany this.
This will encourage residents to accept equally these two distinct histories of the Island while tying the sites into a global, critically important Holocaust memory.
Education
Mariam will work on a public engagement project that stems from the findings of her recent PhD.
It aims at promoting a whole societal re-think of the value and purpose of schooling in Egypt.
The project targets to promote awareness about the core essence of learning, thereby shifting the societal perception of the school mainly acting as a “certification institution”.
This target is to be achieved through local collaborative partnerships with schools and the media.
The aim is to raise awareness by triggering public debate amongst various platforms of engagement.
Psychiatry
Colleen will coordinate Sound and Vision, where local artists and patients with schizophrenia and Parkinson's disease will collaboratively create artworks on their hallucinatory experiences to catalyse conversations with the public about our perceptions of the world.
Artworks will be displayed at UK Science Festivals and as a digital (on-line) presentation with a variety of material explaining the current science on hallucinations.
The public will be encouraged to complete on-line surveys collecting structured information on their personal experiences.
This unique dataset will be the origin for exploration of the content of hallucinations across mental health and illness.
Chioma engaged with poultry farmers in Kaduna State, Nigeria, to enable them to gain better understanding of the dangers of antimicrobial resistance (AMR).
This aims at improving global public health.
The project leverages existing collaboration through the Poultry Association of Nigeria (PAN), and is based on ongoing research into the genome of AMR Salmonella.
Psychology
As part of the Cambridge Science Festival, Aude uses a neurosurgeon role play experience to visualise the complex ‘puzzle’ structure of the brain.
The brain is composed by interconnected regions, which all play a specific role, the alteration of which results in functional deficits manifested as the symptoms of neuropsychiatric disorders.
The hands-on activity help to increase the awareness of the importance of animal research in the development of new therapeutic strategies.
‘Under Our Feet’ stems from a concern that important aspects of the UK’s more distant past are overlooked due to a lack of signposting.
Archaeology destroys features in the act of digging them, and excavated materials often disappear into (publicly inaccessible) storage.
This can make us forget features of the past, as the space which they occupied is turned over to new uses.
Thomas engaged with Cambridge residents and tourists by using chalk drawings and boards to highlight spaces of history within the city.
English
Laura engaged with end-of-life/bereavement care practitioners as part of an inspiring one-day knowledge exchange event.
This enabled them to explore and directly co-create a text-based resource combining the professional practice and experience of end-of-life CARE practitioners with research on the enriching properties of death writing.
Our memory defines who we are.
Yet there are many open questions concerning how memories are formed and retained in the brain — how does it happen that some memories are stored only for a little while before they fade away, whereas others stay with us for a lifetime?
Tanja’s work focuses on Alzheimer’s disease (AD).
In close collaboration with relevant charities, Tanja created a short film that portrays research on the mechanisms of memory and how it relates to finding treatment strategies for AD.
Applied Mathematics and Theoretical Physics
Optics plays an essential role in our daily life, from our eyes to our cell phones.
Maziyar is using an optical system to visualize algae algal blooms, and their threat to global health.
Working with school teachers and children between the age of 5 and 17, Maziyar used Optics for All (OfA), a modular low-cost toolkit, to make optics education accessible, fun, and memorable for students and science teachers.
Catherine organised a panel discussion with fathers who are highly involved in childcare, which will be recorded live and turned into a podcast.
This helped to spark conversations about the roles of fathers in caregiving among expectant and new parents or those considering starting a family in the future.
Obstetrics & Gynaecology
Ulla hosted an informative, interactive and entertaining public engagement event at the Cambridge Science Festival to provide basic information about pregnancy and associated research.
In particular, she developed displays focusing on maternal health, placental function and fetal growth.
Archeology
Danika worked on voicing ‘untold histories’ from the perspective of minority communities living within Cambridge.
This built on decolonial and anti-racist research done at the collections at the University’s Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology (MAA).
Asian and Middle Eastern Studies
Teresa collaborated with church and women's networks in South Africa to identify ways in which local residents can be incentivised to consume less single-use plastic and donate their recyclable plastic.
Through participant observation, public forums and focus groups, Teresa and her collaborators will help establish the recycling initiative, identify challenges to plastic recycling in townships, and help develop best practice.
This was done with a view to cross-fertilising similar initiatives across Southern Africa, South East Asia and the Carribbean.
Plant Sciences
Hamish developed a freely downloadable, easily accessible app that lets users experience and retrace Hamish's research into crop plant breeding and pollination.
Users are prompted to make choices, try out different plant variations, let bees fly around between different plants - and thus learn about key challenges in the context of a worldwide decline in insect populations, but also about experimental research as conducted at Cambridge.
Erin and her collaborators from the Cambridge-based charity "Arts and Minds" delivered dance and poetry workshops for 15 young women (14-15 years old) encountering difficulties with confidence and negative body image.
By engaging the participants through dance and poetry, Erin aimed to make a positive contribution to their body image.
By enabling them as ‘choreographers’, she hopes to develop their confidence.
Rebecca engaged indigenous communities in Canada on the results of her research into their perceptions of cultural heritage in the face of climate change, in which these communities played a key role as interview partners.
Rebecca delivered a three-part workshop and produce an easily accessible booklet to communicate her findings and discuss their implications.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/public-engagement/information-for-staff-and-students/our-open-dialogue-academies:
Hope, fear, frustration,curiosity...
Emotions are everywhere when we bring together publics and communities with research.
How can we navigate and manage these emotional experiences?
and how do we develop a culture of care towards our participants, partners and ourselves within public engagement?
These questions stood at the heart of our Collaborative Futures Academy 2024, an international three day online space of learning and exchange.
We are very happy to now share with you the resulting Emotions in Engagement Tool Kit.
This practice guide collects insights, reflections and activities from contributors and participants of the Academy.
You will find case studies, practical methods, reading suggestions and even theatre scripts as a way to extend the conversation to our wider community.
A huge thanks go to all the contributors and participants for sharing their knowledge and experiences.
We invite you to have a look, experiment with the methods and follow up on examples and ideas.
Most of all, we hope the tool kit sparks conversations about how emotions matter in research engagement contexts.
If you have any thoughts or feedback, we'd love to hear them,
Collaborative Futures Academy 2024 was an intensive three day online training run in collaboration between the University of Cambridge Public Engagement team, Kavli Centre for Ethics Science and the Public at the University of Cambridge, Wellcome Connecting Science, the Berlin School of Public Engagement and Open Science (Museum für Naturkunde Berlin, Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin) and Stellenbosh University.
Are you a researcher or practitioner working to connect research and society?
Are you looking to challenge your practice, learn from peers and experts from across the world, and push your work to the next level?
Then join a passionate, diverse group of engagers from across the world online for the Collaborative Futures Academy 2023!
To create a meaningful and inclusive dialogue between research and society, engagement needs to build on an ethical foundation of care, participation and authenticity.
This starts with understanding our personal motivations and capacities as engagers, and it extends to interrogating the practices and power dynamics that shape our field.
How can we foster more equitable processes of engagement that bring in those often left out?
What are the tools that help us develop our own voice and drive change?
The Collaborative Futures Academy invites you to explore these questions and develop a bold, creative and innovative engagement practice with integrity and equity at its heart.
The CFA'23 took take place online 10-25 May 2023, with 2 weekly sessions on Wednesdays and Thursdays, 11am-2pm British Summer Time, plus an optional, informal networking 30 min before and after.
We'll be publishing our evaluation shortly and are planning CFA'24 already!
22-26 November 2021, international, interdisciplinary, online
Engaging the public with controversial issues is challenging, but important.
Listening to and engaging with different views, ideas and concerns can bring real long term benefits to research and its impact on society.
Researcher confidence is extremely important in fostering a successful culture of engagement and the Collaborative Futures Academy will provide the skills and confidence needed to connect with communities and to talk about difficult subjects.
This week-long masterclass supported early career researchers to develop skills, explore creative ideas for engagement, learn from experts and connect digitally with colleagues from all over the world.
We will focus on building capacity and capability and providing confidential networking spaces for researchers to plan, practice and reflect.
Each day will have a distinct theme, led by keynote speakers alongside workshops and discussion groups.
Watch our Academy film
Collaborative Futures Academy was an intensive week-long online training run in collaboration between the University of Cambridge Public Engagement team, Wellcome Connecting Science, and the Berlin School of Public Engagement and Open Science (Museum für Naturkunde Berlin, Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin).
In an era of increased uncertainty, pandemics, climate change and habitat loss, of unmitigated exploitation of natural resources amid conflict and poverty – how can we think about, plan and implement sustainable futures?
These complex problems require interdisciplinary responses.
Researchers, creative professionals and young people from Cambridge and Berlin have worked together to explore creative responses to a sustainable future.
Watch the online showcase event
The Sustainable Futures Academy (SFA) is a joint project between the University of Cambridge, the Berlin School of Public Engagement and Open Science, the Museum für Naturkunde and Humboldt Universität zu Berlin.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/public-engagement/information-for-staff-and-students/cambridge-creative-encounters:
Creative Encounters provides opportunities and funding to enable researchers to work with creative professionals and students through a variety of media including film, animation, photography, theatre, sculpture, performance, graphic design, illustration, and poetry to produce creative responses to their research.
Are you a University of Cambridge researcher looking for a creative adventure to boost your research, engage with new audiences or to get a fresh perspective on your work?
Or a freelance filmmaker, illustrator or animator interested in working with and getting inspired by research?
The University of Cambridge Public Engagement team supports creative projects.
The combined skills of researchers and creative professionals bring research at Cambridge to life.
Through these creative pieces, we hope to inspire and continue to reach wider audiences, to create opportunities for conversations and questions where we can each share our knowledge and understanding.
One of the long-term outcomes of the project has been continued collaboration between some of the researchers and filmmakers, films and animations have been screened in film festivals and researchers have used their outputs to reach new audiences including schools, charities, policy makers and patient groups.
Explore Cambridge Creative Encounters
The program has been paused for the current academic year.
If you have any queries please contact creativeencounters@admin.cam.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/public-engagement/information-for-staff-and-students/famelab:
Photo credit: Still Moving Media for Cheltenham Festivals
FameLab, created by Cheltenham Festivals, is the largest public facing science communication competition and training programme in the world and we are absolutely delighted to host the Regional Hub for the East of England.
Researchers have just three minutes to communicate their research to their audience and an expert panel of judges.
The winner is the speaker who best demonstrates FameLab’s three C’s – Content, Clarity and Charisma.
The International Final for FameLab will take place at CERN this year on the 25 November, where the winner of the National FameLab final, Spatika Jayaram, will represent the UK.
Spatika qualified at the East of England hub final during the Cambridge Festival.
Applications for next year will open on the 1 October 2025.
FameLab aims to:

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/public-engagement/information-for-staff-and-students/stem-ambassador-support-group:
The STEM Ambassador programme is a national scheme run through STEM Learning with over 30,000 volunteers giving their time to work with young people in schools and communities to bring STEM subjects to life.
Becoming a STEM Ambassador brings a lot of personal benefits to you and also has a positive impact on the lives of young people.
Discover more about the scheme and how to apply to join on the STEM Ambassador website .
There are lots of STEM Ambassadors across the University.
This informal networking group aims to share ideas and resources and for mutual support!
This initiative does not have a budget but by sharing what we know and what we do, we can become better STEM Ambassadors and have more fun!
To join the University of Cambridge Stem Ambassadors network, please email: outreach-officer@eng.cam.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/public-engagement/collaborative-futures-academy-2025-the-place-of-engagement:
What is a place?
The space around us...
An event location...
Somewhere we feel connected too...
A community of people...
A site of contested histories...
Where we feel at home?
In this year’s Collaborative Futures Academy (CFA), we take a deep dive into how places shape how we work.
Over three days, a global cohort of engaged researchers and practitioners will come together in a unique online space to develop skills and learn from each other’s experiences.
We will hear personal stories from researchers and engagement professionals, investigate creative techniques that explore relationships to place and unpick some of the research that underpins place-based practice.
Read the full information below and apply by 6 May 2025 to join us for a vibrant professional development experience and help push the boundaries of Public Engagement practice.
Joining CFA'25 will give you the opportunity to:
CFA’25 will take place online 1 - 3 July 2025.
And will run from 9:30-15:30 UTC+1/BST (10:30-16.30 CEST/SAST) each day.
There will be optional mentoring and action learning sessions following the Academy.
The Academy is delivered as a live online learning community, and the working language is English.
Each day includes a dynamic mixture of case studies, group sharing, workshops and personal reflection.
We build on the expertise of participants, with input from international experts and practitioners.
Over the course of the Academy, we will jointly produce a published output that collects and catalogues experiences and practical tools from the group.
To get a feel for what it is like to take part in CFA, take a look back at the programme of last year’s Academy, and our collectively created resources from previous years
We place a lot of emphasis on learning from each Academy and looking at ways to improve our practice.
Read our CFA24 Evaluation Report for insights.
The Academy is primarily aimed at researchers who want to develop their engagement practice but have little opportunity to do so.
We also invite engagement practitioners who directly work with researchers and want to share and learn in this space.
We are specifically looking for an international cohort of applicants.
We welcome applications from researchers who:
And engagement practitioners who:
Places are funded by the host institutions and are therefore free of charge to participants.
In return, we ask all participants to fully commit to the Academy programme (see our applicant commitment), and share their learning back to their home institutions, colleagues and collaborators.
If you have any questions regarding the Academy or the application, contact the programme team: BerlinSchoolTraining@mfn.berlin
CFA is a collaboration between the Berlin School of Public Engagement and Open Science at the Museum für Naturkunde Berlin, the University of Cambridge Public Engagement team, Stellenbosch University, the Kavli Centre for Ethics, Science and the Public and Wellcome Connecting Science.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/public-engagement/contact-us:
The Public Engagement team work with researchers and professional staff across the University to support an environment where high-quality public engagement with research can flourish.
We are also the team behind What's On, the Cambridge Festival, Open Cambridge and more.
Email is the best way to contact the public engagement team: publicengagement@admin.cam.ac.uk .
For questions about the Cambridge Festival, please email: cambridgefestival@admin.cam.ac.uk or visit www.festival.cam.ac.uk .
+44 (0)1223 766766
Book a 30min slot with one of our Public Engagement experts and start a conversation with us.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/public-engagement/cabinet-of-curiosities:
Since his first internship as a wildlife conservation scientist, Charles has been engaging the public about endangered species.
Not afraid to ask for help, tirelessly fundraising, and hunting down engagement opportunities, Charles is now invited to engage people through the media and in schools...
Explore the science behind Cambridge - from Dorothy Hodgkin, who identified the structure of insulin to Alan Turning, who devised a theory of morphogenesis - in a new interactive trail.
Ewan wants to inspire people to pursue careers in science, increase their general scientific literacy, reassure them that money spent on research is worthwhile, and entertain them while having some fun himself!
Asking public engagement professionals for advice, and involving numerous people, Chioma is engaging Nigerian famers in the global fight against antimicrobial resistance.
From fortune-telling in an Assyrian-inspired fish costume at the Festival of Ideas when an undergrad, Alex is now a go-to person for outreach events on Egyptology in the Department of Archaeology and across many colleges and University projects.
Shining a light on the ancient world in school...
Since her PhD, Clare said yes to any opportunity to build her confidence and communication skills.
Collaborating with art professionals and supported by an enthusiastic network, she blazed her trail to deliver to women who experienced pregnancy complications the call to action arising from her...
At the age of thirteen Mona Jebril found herself stranded in Gaza, becoming a refugee for the second time in her life.
Her talent and determination brought her to Cambridge where she became the first Gates Cambridge Scholar from the Gaza Strip.
She completed her PhD in education in 2017.
Today...
We are delighted to win STEM Initiative of the Year 2019.
Huge thanks Cambridge Independent, our Festival partners and researchers and everyone who explores and discusses science with us.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/topics/advanced-materials:
The demand continues for materials that are stronger, cheaper, lighter, more conductive – simply better.
Researchers have advanced a decades-old challenge in the field of organic semiconductors, opening new possibilities for the future of electronics.
Researchers have developed a wearable ‘smart choker’ that uses a combination of flexible electronics and artificial intelligence techniques to allow...
Researchers have developed soft, stretchable ‘jelly batteries’ that could be used for wearable devices or soft robotics, or even implanted in the...
Researchers have found a way to super-charge the ‘engine’ of sustainable fuel generation – by giving the materials a little twist.
Researchers have developed a sensor made from ‘frozen smoke’ that uses artificial intelligence techniques to detect formaldehyde in real time at...
Researchers have discovered magnetic monopoles – isolated magnetic charges – in a material closely related to rust, a result that could be used to...
Fast data transmission could be delivered in homes and offices through light emitting diode (LED) bulbs, complementing existing communication...
Researchers have developed a new design for computer memory that could both greatly improve performance and reduce the energy demands of internet and...
Using X-rays to see inside the human body has revolutionised non-invasive medical diagnostics.
However, the dose of X-rays required for imaging is...
Researchers have developed next-generation smart textiles – incorporating LEDs, sensors, energy harvesting, and storage – that can be produced...
Professor Rachel Oliver and Professor Silvia Vignolini from the University of Cambridge have been awarded a Royal Academy of Engineering Chair in...
Researchers have discovered a potential new method for making the high-performance magnets used in wind turbines and electric cars without the need...

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/topics/africa:
Research finds that appetite for bushmeat – rather than the black market for scales to use in traditional Chinese medicine – may be driving West...
The Early Career Researcher winner for 2024 is Dr Gabriel Okello, Cambridge Institute for Sustainability Leadership, School of Technology, Murray...
The University's collections include an estimated 350,000 artefacts, alongside natural history specimens and human/ancestral remains, from Africa...
Multi-disciplinary archaeological survey at the site of Oued Beht, Morocco, reveals a previously unknown 3400–2900 BC farming society, shedding new...
The 2024 Mastercard Foundation Scholars Program at the University of Cambridge Entrepreneurship Prize Competition recognises innovative ideas in...
The charitable foundation awards £10.3 million for the continuation of 2 Cambridge projects mapping endangered archaeological heritage in South Asia...
A UK-funded programme to support out-of-school girls in low-income countries has significantly enhanced their learning, confidence, opportunities and...
Investment in ‘hydromet systems’ using technologies from AI to SMS would provide a nine-to-one ROI in saved lives and assets across African nations...
The tale of two charismatic species cooperating for mutual benefit has captivated naturalists for centuries – but evidence has been patchy...
Two interlinked studies, involving 8,000 primary pupils altogether, indicate children lost at least a third of a year in learning during lockdown.
Children in West Africa with cognitive difficulties are going undiagnosed because the tests used to assess their mental health are based on Western...
Scientists have released the first real-world data from Africa on the effectiveness of two doses of AstraZeneca/ChaAd0x-1 COVID-19 vaccination...

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/topics/artificial-intelligence:
From the climate crisis to personalised medicine, we are applying AI to the world’s major challenges, exploring its ethical dimensions and collaborating with industry to ensure that our research has the greatest impact.
13 January 2025
The Minister for AI and Digital Government, Feryal Clark MP, visited the University of Cambridge on the day the Government announced their new AI Action Plan.
Scientists have developed a low-cost, durable, highly-sensitive robotic ‘skin’ that can be added to robotic hands like a glove, enabling robots to...
An ‘AI scientist’, working in collaboration with human scientists, has found that combinations of cheap and safe drugs – used to treat conditions...
What is the best framework for the global governance of AI?
How do we respond to tech companies who argue against regulation?
Is our current pace of...
Meet our community and...
Rebalancing the planet must happen faster.
Cambridge researchers are using AI to help.
Anil...
AI will only be as good – or as bad – as the information fed into it, so we need to fix any bias that perpetuates inequality and marginalisation...

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/topics/big-data:
Cambridge researchers are to lead a £10 million project that could result in doctors being able to predict your individual chances of getting cancer...
An international team of scientists, including from the University of Cambridge, have launched a new research collaboration that will leverage the...
Researchers have determined how to build reliable machine learning models that can understand complex equations in real-world situations while using...
Biased artificial intelligence needs human help to avoid harmful climate action, Cambridge researchers say.
Cambridge scientists have set out principles for how computational science – which powers discoveries from unveiling the mysteries of the universe to...
As the climate emergency and cost-of-living crisis focus our minds on how to reduce energy, a group of scientists have highlighted the hidden...
BKwai, a construction data company that helps engineers develop smarter, more sustainable infrastructure, has raised £2.2 million in seed funding...
Climate change is causing plants in the UK to flower a month earlier on average, which could have profound consequences for wildlife, agriculture and...
In the heart of London there is a farm like no other.
It's subterranean, sustainable and energy smart.
It also has a digital twin looking out for its...
World-leading AI technology developed by the Cambridge Centre for AI in Medicine and their colleagues – some of which is being showcased this week at...
The University of Cambridge has joined a coalition of some of the world’s leading businesses and academic and tech institutions to launch The Trinity...
Wearable devices will play an important part in the healthcare delivery of the future.
Cambridge and Nokia Bell Labs are working together to build...

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/topics/biodiversity-conservation:
Life on Earth is at risk from an unprecedented rate of environmental change that threatens the natural resources on which we depend.
Researchers at Cambridge are leading conversations to make sure we embrace AI with eyes wide open.
Wildflowers growing on land previously used for buildings and factories can accumulate lead, arsenic and other metal contaminants from the soil...
A major review of over 67,000 animal species has found that while the natural world continues to face a biodiversity crisis, targeted conservation...
Camera traps and drones deployed by government authorities to monitor a forest in India are infringing on the privacy and rights of local women.
Suzano, one the world’s largest producers of bio-based raw materials, based in São Paulo, Brazil, establishes a long-term initiative with Jesus...
Find out how Cambridge's pioneering research in climate and nature is regenerating nature, rewiring energy, rethinking transport and redefining...
Specimens in a Cambridge museum will be brought to life through the power of Artificial Intelligence, by a team aiming to strengthen our connection...
Ambitious collaborations are bringing biodiversity back to the Scottish Highlands.
The Cambridge Conservation Initiative and the University of Cambridge Institute for Sustainability Leadership (CISL) co-hosted a panel discussion...
Inside the programme protecting Europe's land, sea and species.
Meet the team reintroducing large herbivores to the coldest place in Spain.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/topics/cancer:
We are are helping to end death and disease caused by cancer, saving more lives by detecting early and personalising treatments.
The experiences of patients and their families shape every stage of research and of plans for the Cambridge Cancer Research Hospital, as we work together to change the story of cancer.
15 July 2024
Find out about groundbreaking cancer research at Cambridge, including our planned new hospital, how we're studying the earliest stages of cancer, how AI is helping fight the disease, and the patients playing a key role in our work.
Thousands of women who undergo radiotherapy for low-risk breast cancer could be spared some of the side effects of treatment after a study confirmed...
Endoscopies could be replaced by far less invasive capsule sponge tests for half of all patients with Barrett’s oesophagus, a known precursor to...
NHS patients at Addenbrooke’s Hospital, Cambridge, will become the first in the UK and Europe to undergo incisionless ultrasound surgery using a...
Researchers in Cambridge are calling for additional scans to be added to breast screening for women with very dense breasts.
This follows a large-...
A combination of two drugs could improve outcomes and reduce the need for toxic chemotherapy for B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (B-ALL), the...
A new treatment approach significantly improves survival rates for patients with aggressive, inherited breast cancers, according to Cambridge...
Women diagnosed with breast cancer who carry particular BRCA1 and BRCA2 genetic variants are offered surgery to remove the ovaries and fallopian...
Fifty years since its discovery, scientists have finally worked out how a molecular machine found in mitochondria, the ‘powerhouses’ of our cells...
Metformin, a widely used and affordable diabetes drug, could prevent a form of acute myeloid leukaemia in people at high risk of the disease, a study...
Cambridge researchers have created a ‘metal detector’ algorithm that can hunt down vulnerable tumours, in a development that could one day...

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/topics/children:
Centre for Children's Gut Health aims to transform the physical and mental health of children and young people.
Findings from a major Cambridge-led study inspired psychologists to co-produce a picture book that helps parents develop a deeper understanding of...
Adolescents who sleep for longer – and from an earlier bedtime – than their peers tend to have improved brain function and perform better at...
Cambridge researchers are looking at ways that AI can transform everything from drug discovery to Alzheimer's diagnoses to GP consultations.
The Cambridge report argues that play should be a recognised component of children’s healthcare in the Government’s forthcoming 10-year plan for the...
Cambridge researchers are leading the first phase of a new research project that will lay the groundwork for future studies into the impact on...
A rare collection of 300-year-old petitions gives voice to the forgotten women who cared for England’s most vulnerable children while battling their...
Ongoing war in Gaza will set children and young people’s education back by up to 5 years, report suggests.
Four in ten children in Central London who travelled to school by car switched to more active modes of transport, such as walking, cycling, or public...
A study involving 900 students in 6 countries found that a short programme of empathy lessons led to measurable, positive changes in their conduct...
Major milestone for first specialist children’s hospital in the East of England.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/topics/digital-humanities:
Digital technologies are opening up new fields of study and generating research questions that breach traditional disciplinary boundaries.
A ten-year project to study and digitise some 80,000 cases recorded by two famous astrological physicians has opened a “wormhole” into the worries...
First digital map of the murders recorded by the city's Coroner in early 1300s shows Cheapside and Cornhill were homicide ‘hot spots’, and Sundays...
A complication of pregnancy that causes the mother’s blood pressure to rise – often fatally – is more common in women of African descent than any...
As a global population we are awash with conspiracy theories.
But what effect do these really have on the public as we go about our day-to-day lives...
Smartphones and social media have made it easy for accidental witnesses “in the wrong place at the wrong time” to capture and share violations and...
The e-book has made continued inroads into the publishing world but the printed book has defied predictions of its death.
Research by Professor John...
Researchers are using social media data to build a picture of the personalities of millions, changing core ideas of how psychological profiling works...
A new research project is compiling the largest database of plague imagery ever amassed, focusing on a pandemic that peaked in the early 20th century...
It was the conundrum that baffled some of the greatest and most eccentric experts of the 18th century - and captivated the British public during an...
A database of Welsh tweets is being used to identify the characteristics of an evolving language.
Maori paddles presented to Captain Cook’s crew on their first voyage of discovery capture the spirit of a first encounter between two cultures.
Research is combining film ‘archaeology’ with digital technology to create a new approach to ‘sites of memory’ for the London borough of Battersea...

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/topics/digital-society:
Rising numbers of houses and flats listed as short-term lets on Airbnb are associated with higher rates of crimes such as burglaries and street...
Research published today shows how digital providers are coming together to support the mental health needs of millions of users unable to access...
Increased working, learning and interacting online during the pandemic has widened the gap for those who lack digital skills or access, writes Gemma...
The coronavirus lockdown risks turning the problem of digital exclusion into a catastrophe of lost education and opportunity for the UK’s poorest and...
A new partnership between Aviva and Cambridge is asking what do advances in technology and data science mean for the future of insurance?
Members of collegiate Cambridge recognised for outstanding contributions to society in science, education, engineering and art
Today we begin a month-long focus on research related to artificial intelligence.
Here, four researchers reflect on the power of a technology to...
James Williams, a 35-year-old doctoral candidate researching design ethics at Oxford University, has been announced as the inaugural winner of the $...
More than 3 million people (three times previous estimates) are estimated to be actively using cryptocurrencies like bitcoin, finds the first global...
​Alexander Taylor provides a sensory snapshot of his fieldwork in high-security subterranean data centres exploring fears of technological failure in...

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/topics/east-of-england:
How research partnerships are offering innovative approaches to make the most of the East of England’s assets and tackle its more pressing challenges.
Per capita access to hospitals, mental health services, and further education facilities in German towns and cities – primarily in the former GDR –...
The Fens of eastern England, a low-lying, extremely flat landscape dominated by agricultural fields, was once a vast woodland filled with huge yew...
Professor John Miles from the Department of Engineering has been guiding a project looking at out-of-hours travel from city centres and employment...
A team of early-career researchers from the University of Cambridge are working with the county council to identify the best ways for Cambridgeshire...
People who live in areas of higher than average deprivation are more likely to be admitted to hospital and to spend longer in hospital, according to...
A Cambridge-led team seeks to revitalise languages in the UK with a series of interactive pop-up exhibitions and an online game designed to set...
Coprolites from the Must Farm archaeological excavation in East Anglia shows the prehistoric inhabitants were infected by parasitic worms that can be...
A vegetable-picking robot that uses machine learning to identify and harvest a commonplace, but challenging, agricultural crop has been developed by...
Two centuries of Isle of Ely court records illuminate the darkest corners of the region's past.
Some of the most deprived areas in England are located in the eastern region.
The New Horizons project has been helping those furthest away from the...
Faced with shifting demands on landscapes and a changing climate, how do you plan for a forest’s future?

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/topics/energy:
Research is tackling the need to reduce energy demand, maintain energy supply, increase the efficiency of energy-requiring processes, and develop policy and pricing strategies.
To find out more about our research in energy, visit the Energy Interdisciplinary Research Centre (IRC) website .
Researchers have developed a reactor that pulls carbon dioxide directly from the air and converts it into sustainable fuel, using sunlight as the...
National targets for solar and wind power will see reliance on natural gas plummet, reducing electricity price volatility across Europe, with major...
Tiny copper ‘nano-flowers’ have been attached to an artificial leaf to produce clean fuels and chemicals that are the backbone of modern energy and...
10 companies taking Cambridge ideas out of the lab and into the real world to address the climate emergency.
Responsible for 8% of world carbon emissions, can trucking clean up its act?
Professor Erwin Reisner and his team are developing prototype devices that convert waste, water and air into practical fuels and chemicals.
Professor Sam Stranks is developing next-generation solar cell technology, which could drive down renewable energy prices even further.
Cambridge researchers are working to solve one of technology’s biggest puzzles: how to build next-generation batteries that could power a green...
Our increasing demand for metals and minerals is putting over four thousand vertebrate species at risk, with the raw materials needed for clean...

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/topics/future-cities:
Researchers from the University of Cambridge have developed a method to produce very low-emission concrete at scale – an innovation that could be...
Researchers have developed an augmented reality head-up display that could improve road safety by displaying potential hazards as high-resolution...
Darwin College, Cambridge, has announced that Sanergy, one of its nominated solutions for the Earthshot Prize 2021, has been selected as one of 15...
Against a global backdrop of rising energy demands and finite resources, Rihab Khalid set out to understand how buildings can become more energy...
Researchers have developed the first LiDAR-based augmented reality head-up display for use in vehicles.
Tests on a prototype version of the...
The University of Cambridge Institute for Sustainability Leadership (CISL) has announced the start of works on its new visionary headquarters.
This...
The University of Cambridge and the Nanjing Municipal Government have broken ground on the Cambridge University-Nanjing Centre of Technology and...
The new joint centre will support innovative research into smart cities and fully integrated urban environments.
Trains are getting increasingly faster, but as Professor Hugh Hunt from the Department of Engineering explains, the 'super-fast hyperloop' could soon...
Cities exist in a state of constant flux: not always ‘smart’ and successful, they can be vulnerable, chaotic and seem on the edge of failure.
Nowhere...
The cities of today are built with concrete and steel – but some Cambridge researchers think that the cities of the future need to go back to nature...
The Centre for Smart Infrastructure and Construction is building on advances in sensing technology to learn everything possible about a city’s...

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/topics/future-therapeutics:
AI has the potential to transform health and medicine.
It won't be straightforward, but if we get it right, the benefits could be enormous.
Andres...
Cambridge scientists have grown ‘mini-guts’ in the lab to help understand Crohn’s disease, showing that ‘switches’ that modify DNA in gut cells play...
A baby girl born deaf can hear unaided for the first time, after receiving gene therapy when she was 11 months old at Addenbrooke’s Hospital in...
Researchers have discovered that misreading of therapeutic mRNAs by the cell’s decoding machinery can cause an unintended immune response in the body...
Studies of a ‘future-proof’ vaccine candidate have shown that just one antigen can be modified to provide a broadly protective immune response in...
In 2017, Ninja Theory, advised by Cambridge academic Professor Paul Fletcher, took the gaming world by storm with Hellblade, which accurately...
GE Healthcare, the University of Cambridge and Cambridge University Hospitals have agreed to collaborate on developing an application aiming to...
Cambridge scientists have identified 200 approved drugs predicted to work against COVID-19 – of which only 40 are currently being tested in COVID-19...
Three companies, Astex Pharmaceuticals, Eisai Ltd and Eli Lilly and Company, are joining forces with research scientists across Cambridge to explore...
Scientists have made a promising step towards developing a new drug for treating acute myeloid leukaemia, a rare blood disorder.
In a study published...
Scientists at the University of Cambridge have shown in animal studies that gene therapy may help repair some of the damage caused in chronic...

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/topics/global-food-security:
The task of ensuring affordable access to sufficient, safe and nutritious food for all is one of the major challenges of the 21st century.
A new tool that predicts the behaviour of desert locust populations will help national agencies to manage huge swarms before they devastate food...
Climate change will move and reduce the land suitable for growing food and timber, putting the production of these two vital resources into direct...
Farmers don’t have to choose between lowering environmental impact and improving welfare for their pigs, a new study has found: it is possible to do...
The public are being encouraged to eat more wild fish, such as mackerel, anchovies and herring, which are often used within farmed salmon feeds...
Cambridge Zero collaborates with Cambridge Global Food Security Interdisciplinary Research Centre (IRC) and the University of Cambridge...
Cambridge Zero symposium gathers researchers to examine the connections between planetary and public health.
Local communities are not incentivised to protect tropical forests that are hugely valuable for global climate regulation, a new study has found...
Study shows better adoption and implementation of company supply chain policies for Brazilian beef and leather could significantly reduce carbon...
Undernourished coastal communities in the tropics - where children’s growth can be stunted by a lack of micronutrients – can get the vitamins and...
More companies must make and implement zero-deforestation supply chain commitments in order to significantly reduce deforestation and protect diverse...
When Gates Cambridge Scholar Clara Ma participated in the Veganuary challenge she didn’t realise it would change the course of her PhD.
Today she’s...
Cristiane Derani argues that the war, and sanctions imposed, will spread a wave of food insecurity throughout the world.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/topics/imaging:
Offering patients with concussion a type of brain scan known as diffusion tensor imaging MRI could help identify the one in three people who will...
How photoacoustics could transform cancer detection and monitoring
Researchers have analysed the properties of an organic polymer with potential applications in flexible electronics and uncovered variations in...
Spin-off company Cambridge Raman Imaging Ltd.
and the Cambridge Graphene Centre will lead ‘CHARM’ project, recently awarded with €3.2 million
Researchers have made a tiny camera, held together with ‘molecular glue’ that allows them to observe chemical reactions in real time.
Researchers have used a technique similar to MRI to follow the movement of individual atoms in real time as they cluster together to form two-...

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/topics/india:
Around one in five (over 19%) of India’s deaf and hard-of-hearing children were out-of-school in 2014, according to a survey conducted for the Indian...
Chatterji wins for Shadows at Noon , her genre-defying history of South Asia during the 20th century.
Economist, researcher and educator, Bhaskar Vira is keeping faith with a life-long love for the natural world and a determination to tackle the...
Academics and staff from the University of Cambridge are featured in the King's Birthday Honours 2024, which recognises the achievements and service...
Foresters across the mountainous northeastern Indian state of Nagaland will help roll out a unique programme of environmental education, co-developed...
New research involving Cambridge University has found evidence — locked into an ancient stalagmite from a cave in the Himalayas — of a series of...
Heatwaves could slow or reverse India’s progress towards Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) without heat impact assessments.
A grammatical problem which has defeated Sanskrit scholars since the 5th Century BC has finally been solved by an Indian PhD student at Cambridge...
Technology that recognises people’s unique iris patterns is giving a means of identification to millions of individuals across the globe.
The severe outbreak of COVID-19 in Delhi, India, in 2021 showed not only that the Delta variant of SARS-CoV2 is extremely transmissible but that it...
The Government of India’s use of nudge theory in the first three months of the pandemic helped to tackle the virus on numerous fronts, a new study...
Simple, low-cost ventilation designs and configuration of wards can reduce the dispersal of airborne virus in emergency COVID-19 hospitals, say...

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/topics/infectious-diseases:
Combating infectious diseases and the threat of antimicrobial resistance remains one of the greatest global challenges.
Covid-19 showed us how vulnerable the world is to pandemics – but what if the next pandemic were somehow engineered?
How would the world respond –...
Vaccinations alone may not be enough to protect people with compromised immune systems from infection, even if the vaccine has generated the...
A new study has found that the composition of your gut microbiome helps predict how likely you are to succumb to potentially life-threatening...
Researchers have come up with a new way to identify more infectious variants of viruses or bacteria that start spreading in humans – including those...
Monoclonal antibodies – treatments developed by cloning a cell that makes an antibody – could help provide an answer to the growing problem of...
Artificial intelligence (AI) could be used to identify drug resistant infections, significantly reducing the time taken for a correct diagnosis...
Pseudomonas aeruginosa – an environmental bacteria that can cause devastating multidrug-resistant infections, particularly in people with underlying...
Researchers say it is vital that children born by caesarean section receive two doses of the measles vaccine for robust protection against the...
Vaccination not only reduces the severity of TB in infected cattle, but reduces its spread in dairy herds by 89%, research finds.
Cambridge mathematicians have developed a set of resources for students and teachers that will help them understand how maths can help tackle...
During the COVID-19 pandemic, genomic surveillance proved vital in helping understand the evolution and spread of the SARS-CoV-2 virus.
Now, an...

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/topics/innovation:
The application of new ideas, discoveries and inventions contributes to society and the economy nationally and globally.
The Ray Dolby Centre, the state-of-the-art new home of Cambridge’s Cavendish Laboratory and a major asset for the University, the city and the...
Researchers have developed a handheld device that could potentially replace stethoscopes as a tool for detecting certain types of heart disease.
A biology PhD candidate and an early career aerospace engineer researcher won the 2025 Cambridge Zero Climate Challenge for turning waste into...
Of the UK’s top three universities for spinouts – Oxford, Cambridge and Imperial - Cambridge saw the most growth in 2024, according to a new report...
Cambridge scientist launches free AI-enabled virtual reality platform that transforms users into skilled and confident public speakers.
In its 2024 Annual Review, Cambridge Enterprise, the University’s innovation arm, reports significant growth across a wide range of activities...

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/topics/language-sciences:
The importance of language is hard to overestimate, yet few of us are aware of the sheer breadth and diversity of language research.
Scientists have come a step closer to understanding how we’re able to understand spoken language so rapidly, and it involves a huge and complex set...
Researchers in Cambridge’s Faculty of Education are working with teachers to improve the experience of learning in the East of England – and boost...
Searching through the mountains of published cancer research could be made easier for scientists, thanks to a new AI system.
Multilingualism is the norm in India.
But rather than enjoying the cognitive and learning advantages seen in multilingual children in the Global...
‘Celebrity’ Twitter accounts – those with more than 10 million followers – display more bot-like behaviour than users with fewer followers, according...
It’s long been associated with anger and coarseness but profanity can have another, more positive connotation.
Psychologists have learned that people...
The capacity for language is what sets us apart from other animals.
Talk with Your Hands , the third of four Cambridge Shorts films, explores the...
The sounds of languages that died thousands of years ago have been brought to life again through technology that uses statistics in a revolutionary...
Wendy Ayres-Bennett (Department of Theoretical and Applied Linguistics) discusses the impact of the military's new language policy.
Regional diversity in dialect words and pronunciations could be diminishing as much of England falls more in line with how English is spoken in...
The UK Government needs to urgently adopt a new, comprehensive languages strategy if it is to keep pace with its international competitors and reduce...
The ability to understand language could be much better preserved into old age than previously thought, according to researchers from the University...

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/topics/material-culture:
The handwritten inventories had lain largely untouched for centuries.
Sand used to dry the ink still lay between the pages.
Written neatly inside...
Today, feathers are an extravagant accessory in fashion; 500 years ago, however, they were used to constitute culture, artistry, good health and even...
Objects unearthed in the Andes tell new stories of societies lacking hierarchical leadership in the time before the Inka Empire.
One man’s quest to create a library of everything, 500 years before Google Books was conceived, foreshadowed the challenges of ‘big data’ and our...
Rustic figurines of a resigned-looking Virgin clutching her child may have no obvious literary or artistic merit to us today.
But understanding what...
Things structure our lives.
They enrich us, embellish us and express our hopes and fears.
Here, to introduce a month-long focus on research on...
Every object in the Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology tells not just one but many stories.
The Museum’s collections chronicle two million years...
The journals and scrapbooks of Pierre de L’Estoile have for generations provided a vivid picture of France in a time of religious upheaval.
Now...
A chance discovery in the British Library has led to the discovery and reproduction of the earliest-known children’s adaptation of one of Japan’s...
When Reverend Kenred Smith captured moments of life in the Congo over 120 years ago, he couldn’t have imagined that the photos – now in Cambridge's...
The Enawenê-nawê people of the Amazon rainforest make beautifully engineered fishing dams.
Living alongside this indigenous community, Dr Chloe Nahum...
Beards are back in fashion.
But today’s hipster styles convey rather different messages to the hair men cultivated in the early modern period...

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/topics/migration:
Immigration and migration, and the issues that surround them, have become symbolic of the 21st century.
Some of the first human beings to arrive in Tasmania, over 41,000 years ago, used fire to shape and manage the landscape, about 2,000 years earlier...
Policies aimed at addressing the migrant crisis need to take into account the serious mental health issues faced by refugees and asylum seekers, say...
Hunnic peoples migrated westward across Eurasia, switched between farming and herding, and became violent raiders in response to severe drought in...
For the last three years, the RESPOND project has been investigating migration governance in 11 countries by foregrounding the insights of asylum-...
Employing displaced Syrian healthcare workers is a 'win-win' for both host communities and refugees as it would strengthen national health services...
Migrants arrested for tending plants in the flats, houses and attics where cannabis is grown in bulk are often victims of trafficking and 'debt...
What connects a series of volcanic eruptions and severe summer cooling with a century of pandemics, human migration and the rise and fall of...
First study to model the organisation behind trade in illegal border crossings shows no “Mafia-like” monopoly of routes from Africa into Europe via...
Cambridge criminologists are using emerging sources of information – from court records to Facebook groups – to analyse the networks behind one of...
The media are quick to criticise humanitarian organisations as inefficient and expensive, writes Corinna Frey (Cambridge Judge Business School), in...
In contrast to Western Europeans, new research finds contemporary East Asians are genetically much closer to the ancient hunter-gatherers that lived...

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/topics/public-health:
Putting public health research into practice has had major impacts worldwide, resulting in longer, healthier lives.
Cambridge researchers have shown that reducing the serving size for beer, lager and cider reduces the volume of those drinks consumed in pubs, bars...
A new cultural history of the 1970s wellness industry offers urgent lessons for today.
It reveals that in the seventies, wellness was neither...
School uniform policies could be restricting young people from being active, particularly primary school-aged girls, new research suggests.
Increases in symptoms of depression are associated with a subsequent increase in bodyweight when measured one month later, new research from the...
A healthy lifestyle that involves moderate alcohol consumption, a healthy diet, regular physical activity, healthy sleep and frequent social...
More than half of patients with auto-immune conditions experience mental health conditions such as depression or anxiety, yet the majority are rarely...
A study of the DNA of more than 55,000 people worldwide has shed light on how we maintain healthy blood sugar levels after we have eaten, with...
Trans and non-binary adults are more likely than the general population to experience long-term health conditions, including mental health problems...
The London Underground is polluted with ultrafine metallic particles small enough to end up in the human bloodstream, according to University of...
Cambridge researchers have developed a method for measuring overall fitness accurately on wearable devices – and more robustly than current consumer...

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/topics/reproduction:
From exploring ancient ideas of generation to understanding new frontiers in fertility, Cambridge researchers are working across disciplines to study reproduction from multiple perspectives.
20 November 2020
Professor Kathy Niakan talks about why it’s vital to take a multidisciplined approach to understanding the urgent challenges posed by reproduction today – and introduces our Spotlight on some of this work, highlighted in the latest issue of Cambridge's Horizons magazine.
A new study takes a tour of the history of research into human embryology and development to show the "cycles of attention" that led to major...
The University of Cambridge, in partnership with the Progress Educational Trust, has led work to create the first ever UK guidelines for the...
Scientists have grown ‘mini-placentas’ in the lab and used them to shed light on how the placenta develops and interacts with the inner lining of the...
A Cambridge-led study has shown why many women experience nausea and vomiting during pregnancy – and why some women, including the Duchess of...
Up to 3,500 first time mums are due to take part in a study led by Cambridge researchers to understand why some will develop pre-eclampsia and...
Cambridge scientists have created a stem cell-derived model of the human embryo in the lab by reprogramming human stem cells.
The breakthrough could...
The University of Cambridge has launched a project to develop the first governance framework for research involving stem cell-based human embryo...
Researchers have mapped the complete trajectory of placental development, helping shed new light on why pregnancy disorders happen.
New model embryo, using mouse stem cells, reaches a further point in development than has been achieved in any other stem cell-derived model.
Women who experience racial discrimination on the basis of their ethnicity, race or nationality are at increased risk of giving birth prematurely...
Researchers studying mice have found the first evidence of how a mother’s gut microbes can help in the development of the placenta, and the healthy...
Scientists have identified the biochemical signals that control the emergence of the body pattern in the primate embryo.
This will guide work to...

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/topics/risk-and-uncertainty:
From cybercrime to earthquakes, influenza to air travel, research on risk and uncertainty reflects issues that are of paramount importance.
Launched during Open Cambridge, a new self-guided trail, created by researchers at Cambridge’s Centre for the Study of Existential Risk (CSER), takes...
Researchers are developing a way to incorporate one of the most human of characteristics – uncertainty – into machine learning systems.
While funding is pumped into preventing low-probability scenarios such as asteroid collision, the far more likely threat of a large volcanic eruption...
As many as a half of all drinkers underestimated how drunk they were, judging themselves still safe to drive despite having exceeded the legal...
Is it risky to sing in a choir?
What are the risks of eating in a small restaurant?
How much difference does it make to open windows or clean...
A new study has shown that the airborne transmission of COVID-19 is highly random and suggests that the two-metre rule was a number chosen from a...
Researchers have developed a real-time approach that can help prevent incidents like the large-scale disruption at London’s Gatwick Airport in 2018...
Largest study to date analysing more than 40,000 COVID-19 cases finds a two-fold increased risk of hospitalisation from delta versus alpha variant...
Researchers call for a shift in focus away from risks of 'super-volcanic' eruptions and towards likelier scenarios of smaller eruptions in key global...
Researchers have identified two subgroups of adolescents who self-harm and have shown that it is possible to predict those individuals at greatest...

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/topics/stem-cells:
Stem cells, the 'building blocks' for every type of cell in the body, have tremendous potential to improve human health.
Researchers have discovered a way to extend the shelf life of blood stem cells outside the body for use in gene therapy, providing patients with...
A new augmented reality trail, launched as part of the Cambridge Festival, is showcasing the world leading research of the University of Cambridge in...
An international team has shown that the injection of a type of stem cell into the brains of patients living with progressive multiple sclerosis (MS...
Cambridge scientists have grown small blood vessel-like models in the lab and used them to show how damage to the scaffolding that supports these...
Neuroblastomas can be devastating to children and their families and the treatments can be harsh.
But thanks to scientists, some tadpoles and a...
The new ‘MN-predict’ platform will allow doctors and scientists to identify those at risk and to design new treatments to prevent them from...
Cambridge has been awarded two of Wellcome’s eight new Discovery Research Platforms, the global charitable foundation announced today.
Researchers have developed a new type of neural implant that could restore limb function to amputees and others who have lost the use of their arms...

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/topics/sustainable-earth:
The climate crisis and biodiversity losses are affecting the planet at an alarming pace.
Cambridge researchers are helping the response to these threats, building resilience, supporting the transition from fossil fuels to a zero-carbon future, and enabling us to act sustainably to protect the planet's precious resources and reduce waste.
26 February 2020
Sir David Attenborough, Dr Jane Goodall DBE and leading Cambridge University researchers talk about the urgency of climate crisis – and some of the solutions that will take us towards zero carbon.
Meet Rachael Garrett: land scientist, forest wanderer and Director of the Conservation Research Institute.
Meet the new leader of the Cambridge Conservation Initiative, Professor Melissa Leach CBE.
Lindsay Hooper wants to rewrite the rules of the global economy.
She leads the Cambridge Institute for Sustainability Leadership: a global network of...
Meet Emily Shuckburgh, Director of Cambridge Zero.
She’s been a figurehead of climate science for decades, bringing her prowess to the University...
A new survey highlights public expectations for fixing the climate crisis
New thinking from the University of Cambridge Institute for Sustainability Leadership (CISL) argues that we need to flip the ESG model on its head.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/topics/work:
19 June 2019
Latest research finds up to eight hours of paid work a week significantly boosts mental health and life satisfaction.
However, researchers found little evidence that any more hours – including a full five-day week – provide further increases in wellbeing.
Anxiety over income and unfair feedback dominates working lives of delivery riders, drivers and “digital labour” workers in UK’s gig economy – with...
When young adults start working, the amount of daily physical activity they do increases sharply, only to fall away again over the next few years...
An interconnected world of extended reality is coming that will reshape how we work, play and communicate – and expose us to new levels of risk.
What...
Employment levels for people with learning disabilities in the UK are 5 to 10 times lower than they were a hundred years ago.
And the experiences of...
Robots can be useful as mental wellbeing coaches in the workplace – but perception of their effectiveness depends in large part on what the robot...
Working a four-day week boosts employee wellbeing while preserving productivity, according to research on a major six-month trial in the UK.
The University of Cambridge's ThinkLab helped design and run a KPMG 'Future of Work' hackathon to find promising new ideas that will help transform...
New five-year partnership on the ‘Future of Work’ will examine the big issues affecting the modern workforce and offer practical, research-backed...
What do we want from work - and how can we get it?
Jennifer Howard-Grenville introduces the University's new partnership with KPMG on the future of...
Adapting remote and hybrid work policies to employees’ specific work-life situations can result in increased well-being and productivity, but many...
Promotion at work has greater emotional benefit for men than women, says a new study on gender and workplace emotion.
In National Apprenticeship Week, we ask some of our 127 apprentices what it’s like to study while you work.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/about-the-university/history/early-records:
When we first come across Cambridge in written records, it was already a considerable town.
The bridge across the River Cam or Granta, from which the town took its name, had existed since at least 875.
The town was an important trading centre before the Domesday survey was compiled in 1086, by which time a castle stood on the rising ground to the north of the bridge, and there were already substantial commercial and residential properties as well as several churches in the main settlement which lay south of the bridge.
Within the town, or very close to it, there were a number of other religious institutions.
There had been canons in the Church of St Giles below the castle before 1112, when they moved to a new site across the River Cam at Barnwell, and the Convent of St Radegund had existed since 1135 on the site which eventually became Jesus College.
There were also two hospitals, one reserved for lepers at Stourbridge, and a second, founded for paupers and dedicated to St John, which after 1200 occupied the site where St John's College now stands.
Seventeen miles north of the town was the great Benedictine house of Ely which, after 1109, was the seat of a Bishopric.
There was thus much to bring clerks (clergymen) to the town, but traders were also attracted to it.
After about 1100 they could reach Cambridge easily by the river systems which drained the whole of the East Midlands, and through Lynn and Ely they had access to the sea.
Much wealth accumulated in the town, and the 11 surviving medieval parish churches and at least one handsome stone house remain as evidence of this.
There were food markets before 1066, and during the 12th century the nuns of St Radegund were allowed to set up a fair on their own land at Garlic Lane; the canons of Barnwell had a fair in June (later Midsummer Fair), and the leper hospital was granted the right to hold a fair which developed into the well-known and long-lasting Stourbridge Fair.
By 1200, Cambridge was a thriving commercial community, which was also a county town and had at least one school of some distinction.
Then, in 1209, scholars taking refuge from hostile townsmen in Oxford migrated to Cambridge and settled there.
At first they lived in lodgings in the town, but in time houses were hired as hostels with a Master in charge of the students.
By 1226 the scholars were numerous enough to have set up an organisation, represented by an official called a Chancellor, and seem to have arranged regular courses of study, taught by their own members.
From the start there was friction between the town and the students.
Students, usually aged about 14 or 15, often caused disturbances; citizens of the town, on the other hand, were known to overcharge for rooms and food.
King Henry III took the scholars under his protection as early as 1231 and arranged for them to be sheltered from exploitation by their landlords.
At the same time he tried to ensure that they had a monopoly of teaching, by an order that only those enrolled under the tuition of a recognised master were to be allowed to remain in the town.
Read about the medieval University

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/about-the-university/history/the-medieval-university:
The students who flocked to Cambridge soon arranged their scheme of study after the pattern that had become common in Italy and France, and which they would have known in Oxford.
They studied first what would now be termed a 'foundation course' in arts - grammar, logic and rhetoric - followed later by arithmetic, music, geometry and astronomy, leading to the degrees of bachelor and master.
There were no professors; the teaching was conducted by masters who had themselves passed through the course and who had been approved or licensed by the whole body of their colleagues (the 'universitas' or university).
The teaching took the form of reading and explaining texts; the examinations were oral disputations in which the candidates advanced a series of questions or theses which they disputed or argued with opponents a little senior to themselves, and finally with the masters who had taught them.
Some of the masters, but by no means all, went on to advanced studies in divinity, canon and civil law, and, more rarely, medicine, which were taught and examined in the same way by those who had already passed through the course and become doctors.
The doctors grouped themselves into specific faculties.
It soon became necessary, to avoid abuse of the royal privileges conferred on scholars, to identify and authenticate the persons to whom degrees had been granted.
Enrolment with a licensed master was the first step towards this; it was called matriculation because of the condition that the scholar's name must be on the master's matricula or roll, but later the University itself assumed this duty.
It was also desirable to mark the stage in a scholar's progress by a ceremony of admission (graduation) to the different grades, or degrees, of membership.
These were conferred by the whole body of masters, with the Chancellor exercising the power on their behalf, as his deputy, the Vice-Chancellor, came to do later.
The grades of scholar became differentiated by a series of variations on the gown, hood and cap.
Reminders of these terms and practices survive today.
The Regent Masters, who were the teaching body, soon found that in addition to a ceremonial head they needed other representatives to speak and act for them.
The first of these were the two Proctors (literally representatives) whom they elected annually to negotiate on their behalf with the town and other lay authorities, to keep the accounts, to safeguard their treasures and books, to moderate in examinations, and to supervise all other ceremonies.
These duties were soon to be shared by other elected officers: Bedells, at first attached to the faculties, presided over ceremonies; and a Chaplain took charge of treasures and books.
By the sixteenth century a Registrary recorded matriculations, admissions to degrees, and decisions of the regent masters, while an Orator wrote ceremonial letters and addresses.
Most of these offices remain today, although in some cases for ceremonial purposes only.
A community of such complexity needed rules.
To this end, as problems arose, Statutes were adopted by the whole body of the University.
These were not at first arranged or codified, but were noted haphazardly in books kept by the Proctors.
The earliest known version of these decisions is a copy made in the mid-thirteenth century, which is now in the Biblioteca Angelica in Rome.
The University moves towards independence

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/about-the-university/history/moves-to-independence:
Most of the scholars of the University were at first clerks or clergymen, in holy orders of some sort, and expecting careers in the Church or in the Civil Service (as diplomats, judges or officers of the royal household).
To support them during their years of study, they looked for preferment in the Church (a benefice, a canonry, even a dignity in a cathedral), but as ordained clerks they were at first subject to the local ecclesiastical authorities, that is, the Archdeacon and the Bishop of Ely.
Before the end of the 15th century, however, they had freed themselves from this, and were independent of all ecclesiastical authority except the Pope's.
The Chancellor became an ecclesiastical judge in his own right, hearing all cases involving the morals or discipline of scholars, and proving the wills of all who died in residence.
At about the same period, the Chancellor also provided scholars with a secular court to which they could resort for the trial of all civil and criminal cases except those concerning major crimes.
The Crown added to the University's independence.
It introduced measures to protect scholars against exploitation by townspeople who had acquired market and toll rights that enabled them to raise the prices of food, fuel and candles.
To counter this, the University was granted the right to proceed at law against market profiteers, and to enforce the conduct of assizes, or tests, of bread and ale by the town.
The acquisition of these powers continued to be a source of friction between town and 'gown' (the University) until the 19th century.
More immediately, it is thought that the attacks on University property in the town in 1381 were partly inspired by resentment of this interference.
If this is so, the attack was ill judged, since as a result of a Royal inquiry into the disturbances, the University was granted a jurisdiction which allowed the Chancellor not only to prosecute the profiteers, but also those falsifying weights and measures, endangering public health by the adulteration of food and drink, interrupting the supplies of fresh water, or wilfully introducing infection during epidemics of 'plague'.
Further control of traders was allowed to the Chancellor with the grant of jurisdiction over law suits arising during markets and fairs.
The last vestiges of these rights did not disappear until the nineteenth century, and the University retains even today certain responsibilities in connection with policing and licensing.
Read about the first University buildings

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/about-the-university/history/the-first-university-buildings:
In its earliest days, the University had no premises of its own: it relied on parish churches, especially Great St Mary's and St Benedict's (or 'Bene't's') and on the premises of the religious orders, as sites for its public ceremonies.
Lectures, disputations and lodgings were found in private houses, which frequently changed hands or went out of use.
Soon a few groups of Regent Masters, lawyers and theologians, began to build or hire larger premises for teaching and lodging.
A few of the hostels survived until the 16th century when they were often acquired as part of the premises of Colleges.
Unlike the Colleges, hostels had few endowments and were always privately owned.
Meanwhile during the late-14th century and after, the University began to acquire property on the site today known as Senate House Hill, and to build on it a group of buildings called the 'Schools' – some of which survive today as the Old Schools.
Here were the teaching rooms of the higher faculties – the first building to be erected was the Divinity School – where lectures and disputations were held, the chapel, the library, and the treasury, with its chests and muniments.
Most of the land and buildings in the town was still in private hands, or in those of religious houses, although from the late-13th century much was already passing to the new institutions called Colleges.
Pious donors provided these Colleges in the first place for a small number of advanced students in law or divinity who would pray for the souls of their benefactors.
It was later that the Colleges housed the very young undergraduates who had previously been lodged in hostels or private houses.
The earliest College was St Peter's or 'Peterhouse', founded in 1284 by Hugh Balsham, Bishop of Ely.
King's Hall, 1317, was intended by its founder, Edward II, to provide recruits to the higher civil service.
Michaelhouse, Clare, Pembroke, Gonville Hall, Trinity Hall, Corpus Christi, King's, Queens' and St Catharine's followed during the next 100 years.
Three late foundations, Jesus, Christ's and St John's, emerged from the dissolution of small religious houses before 1520 and, like the King's Hall, provided for younger scholars as well as 'post-graduates'.
Before the middle of the 16th century, the Colleges began to play a decisive part in University life.
They now nominated the Proctors from among their own members for the annual term of office, and their heads often served with the Vice-Chancellor and senior doctors as members of an advisory council which was soon to be called the Caput Senatus.
From the 16th century until almost the end of the 20th century, the Head of one of the Colleges always held the office of Vice-Chancellor.
One of the key figures in Cambridge at this time was John Fisher, who was successively Master of Michaelhouse, Proctor, Vice-Chancellor, Chancellor (1509-35) and President of Queens'.
As adviser to King Henry VII's mother, Lady Margaret Beaufort, he was instrumental in the foundation of Christ's and St John's; equally importantly he evidently inspired the establishment of the first endowed university teaching post, the Lady Margaret Professorship of Divinity.
He also attracted to Cambridge a number of scholars - notably Erasmus of Rotterdam - who encouraged the 'new learning' in Greek and Hebrew, helping to clear the way for the half-theological, half-philosophical speculations which produced the reformation of the church and the dissolution of the monasteries.
Read about the University in the 16th century

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/about-the-university/history/sixteenth-century:
The effect of the early academic and religious changes of the century can be seen in the physical appearance of the town: a great new College, Trinity, was founded by Henry VIII from the two small houses of King's Hall and Michaelhouse; Dr Caius enlarged Gonville Hall to make it almost a new foundation, called Gonville and Caius College, which occupied a large site close to the Old Schools; Emmanuel absorbed the Dominican site, Sidney Sussex that of the Franciscans, and Magdalene absorbed the former Benedictine house of studies known as Buckingham College.
These new foundations were concerned with the education of men for the priesthood in the national church, but they, and Trinity especially, attracted for the first time large numbers of lay students.
The size of the official University greatly increased, but the total population of young men in the town included those who came to Cambridge, not so much with the intention of eventual graduation, but to profit from unofficial contacts and extracurricular activities, and who then went on for a year or so to an Inn of Court in London.
These lay students, their servants, and the tailors, fencing-masters, tennis-court-keepers, riding-masters and the like, who came to profit from them, put very great pressure on living accommodation and food-supplies in the town and created serious problems of public order.
This was a period when 'town and gown' relationships were very severely strained.
The changing character of the student body is reflected in the curriculum.
Henry VIII had issued a series of injunctions to the University in 1536 suppressing the Faculty of Canon Law and forbidding the study of scholastic philosophy.
The study of canon law declined, and the Greek and Latin classics, mathematics and Biblical studies now came to the fore.
The changes in the University were perpetuated by successive Royal interventions; the monarchs were concerned with the universities as producers of the future leaders of the reformed church, and the Statutes of 1570 ensured this.
They concentrated authority not, as previously, in the Regent Masters and the Proctors, but in the Vice-Chancellor and the Heads.
The endowment by Henry VIII of five professorships, the Regius professorships of divinity, Hebrew, Greek, physic and civil law, emphasised changes in teaching methods and set an example for private donors.
The national upheavals of 1640 to 1660, and to a lesser degree of 1688-89, led to disturbances in appointments and discipline, but Royal influence in the shape of Privy Council orders, and of requests for degrees for the court's nominees (mandate degrees) continued until the early-18th century.
Read about the University in the 17th and 18th centuries

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/about-the-university/history/the-georgianhanoverian-university:
Printing had been undertaken in Cambridge in the 1520s and a Royal charter in 1534 gave to the University the power to name (or license) three printers (stationers) who were to print and publish works which it approved.
Another 50 years were to pass before this privilege was regularly exercised and it eventually developed into the University Press.
From 1584, regular publication began under the University's privilege and continued more or less steadily but did not achieve real force until Richard Bentley's reorganisation in the last decade of the 17th century provided new premises and types.
These improvements allowed the University Press in due course to exploit more fully the monopoly of Bible printing which it shared with Oxford and the 'King's Printers', and to produce a steady stream of works essential to the development of its studies.
The Cambridge University Press (now part of Cambridge University Press and Assessment) continues to this day as one of the oldest and largest academic publishers in the world.
The mathematical work of the 17th century had developed its full flower in the career of Sir Isaac Newton (1643–1727), who with his followers pursued scientific investigations of all sorts.
This is reflected in the rapid establishment by the University and by private donors of a series of professorships for mathematics (the Lucasian), chemistry, astronomy (the Plumian), anatomy, botany, geology (the Woodwardian), astronomy and geometry (the Lowndean), and experimental philosophy.
The professors encouraged the provision of teaching aids within the University: this is the time when the Botanic Garden and the Woodwardian Museum of Fossils were established through private donations, and an Observatory was set up by Trinity College.
Parallel with this scientific activity, two professorships of Arabic (Sir Thomas Adams and the Lord Almoner's), moral philosophy (the Knightbridge), music, modern history (Regius), divinity (Norrisian) and law (Downing) were established to meet other needs.
The disputations and opponencies of the past were adapted to the new studies.
Those completing the first stages of their graduation were arranged in an order of merit, which was announced on Ash Wednesday.
Entertaining verses, sometimes satirical, were read at the graduation ceremony by a senior BA (or 'old bachelor') sitting on a three-legged stool or tripod.
In time, the graduation list came to be printed on the back of these Tripos verses, and became known as the Tripos list.
Despite the provision for natural sciences and arts, from the late-17th century, mathematics came to dominate studies in Cambridge, and eventually 'the Tripos' came to mean the examination in mathematics.
This was conducted in the Senate House, where candidates likely to do well took special papers of 'problems', at first dictated to them by the moderators but by 1800 appearing as a printed paper.
The University Library had expanded with the rest of the University during the late-17th century, and after the gift by George I of the manuscripts and books of Bishop John Moore, it outgrew its original quarters in the Old Schools.
Plans had already been suggested for the building of a Senate House in front of the Old Schools, and this was finally completed in 1730.
Between this date and 1758 a series of alterations and adaptations to the old buildings provided space and splendid fittings for the Library, which are familiar from Rowlandson's drawings: many of the cases survive in the present University Library.
Additions to the staple mathematical curriculum were only slowly made: an examination for the LLB in civil law appeared first in 1816, a classical Tripos began in 1824 and, after 1843, ordinands could take a voluntary examination in theology which was to develop into a theological Tripos.
These changes began during a time when the central administration of the University was strengthened and extended by a series of small reforms which were to be fundamental to future changes.
The Statutes, for example, were for the first time issued in a printed version in 1785, and the system of permanent or temporary committees (usually termed syndicates) expanded to cover the supervision of estates (which the endowments of the new professorships had greatly extended), and also of buildings and institutions such as the Botanic Garden, the Library and the Press.
Read about the University in the 19th and 20th centuries

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/about-the-university/history/nineteenth-and-twentieth-centuries:
Despite these developments, there was in the first half of the 19th century a continued call for change and reform in the University, which in part reflected the political movements of the country as a whole.
The election as Chancellor of Prince Albert the Prince Consort in 1847 is an indication of the strength of the movement for reform, and in 1850 a Royal Commission was appointed to inquire into the two ancient universities of Oxford and Cambridge.
The Commission's report resulted in the promulgation of new Statutes for Cambridge in the Cambridge University Act of 1856.
These Statutes have been much revised since their first appearance, but the form of government which they embodied has remained as a framework.
The ultimate authority in the University was at first the Senate, the whole body of graduates, together with the Chancellor, Vice-Chancellor, and doctors.
All important powers of this body came in time to be exercised by those of its members holding official positions in the University or Colleges (the Regent House), who in turn elect a proportion of members of the executive body, the Council.
Curriculum and the content of examinations were the responsibility of another elected body, the General Board of the Faculties (which began in 1882), while the Financial Board (now the Finance Committee of the Council) dealt with accounting and the management of the University's estate.
Committees or boards concerned with teaching within individual disciplines developed into systematic Faculties during the inter-war years.
Each Faculty has its own managing board and degree committee.
The introduction and examination of new studies – building partly upon Cambridge's ancient strength in mathematics – advanced very rapidly after the Royal Commission of 1850 had reported.
The natural sciences and moral sciences (now philosophical) Triposes were approved as early as 1851, and before 1900 Triposes in law, history, theology, Indian languages, Semitic (later oriental) languages, medieval and modern (European) languages, and mechanical sciences (later engineering) were all established.
To develop these new branches of learning a number of new or remodelled professorships were established by the University and by private benefactors, the earliest being the Disney Professorship of archaeology in 1851.
The numbers of other established teaching posts remained small, and most undergraduate teaching was done by lecturers, appointed and paid by the Colleges, or by private coaches.
As numbers of students grew during the last half of the century (matriculations increased from 441 in 1850 to 1,191 in 1910), much accommodation was added to existing Colleges, three entirely new institutions appeared during the century (Downing, Selwyn and St Edmund's), and a number of attempts were made to provide cheap non-collegiate hostels catering for poorer students.
Most of these hostels had disappeared before 1900 (the buildings of one, known as Cavendish College, are now occupied by Homerton), but a new non-collegiate society took over their work and later became Fitzwilliam College.
Resources for the study of art, architecture and archaeology had been provided, under the will of Sir Richard Fitzwilliam, by the establishment of the museum which bears his name.
An even more extensive series of premises was housed on the old site of the Botanic Garden which moved to Hills Road, leaving free a considerable area behind Free School Lane for the New Museums site.
This site came to house the Cavendish Laboratory for experimental physics, as well as departments of medicine, chemistry, zoology, anatomy, and engineering.
Meanwhile across the street some of the surplus land originally acquired for Downing College was sold to the University and provided on the Downing Site space for laboratories and museums for botany, geology, agriculture, physiology and archaeology and anthropology, and a law school.
The University Library, substantially enlarged on the Old Schools site during the 19th century, outgrew its original home and moved in 1935 to splendid new buildings west of the River Cam with the aid of a very substantial benefaction from the Rockefeller Foundation.
'Extension lectures' in provincial centres were an important feature of University activities in the late-19th century.
They were often associated with attempts to provide professional teaching and examinations for girls through the local examinations for schools provided by the University in conjunction with Oxford.
Training courses for male graduate teachers began in Cambridge at much the same time, but perhaps the most far-reaching effect of the movement was the establishment at Cambridge of two Colleges for women students (Girton in 1869 and Newnham in 1872).
From the first, these Colleges aimed to prepare their students for the Tripos, and the first women were in fact examined in 1882.
Attempts to make women full members of the University were repeatedly defeated until 1947.
From the 1860s, Colleges began slowly to permit their Fellows to marry.
This had a profound influence on Cambridge society and on the topography of the town when houses came to be built to accommodate the new families.
A few advanced students appeared in the University, especially in the laboratories, in the early-20th century but postgraduate degrees, chiefly the PhD, made a slow start after their introduction in 1921.
Organised sport came to play a notable part in the life of the Colleges and University after 1851.
The boat race between Oxford and Cambridge and the inter-university cricket matches had already begun as early as 1827, and became annual events in 1839.
Meanwhile, boat clubs, other athletic organisations and inter-collegiate competitions (Lents and Mays – named after the terms in which they took place – and Cuppers) became a well established feature of undergraduate life.
The Proctors continued, in conjunction with College officers, to supervise public order and maintain discipline and it should be noted that until 1970 gowns were worn on the streets after dark by all junior members, and Colleges closed their gates well before midnight.
In the First World War (1914–19), 13,878 members of the University served and 2,470 were killed.
Teaching, and the fees it earned, came almost to a stop and severe financial difficulties followed.
As a consequence the University first received systematic state support in 1919, conditional upon a further inquiry into its resources and organisation, and a Royal Commission appointed in 1920 recommended that the University (but not the Colleges) should receive an annual grant, and should be reorganised so as to take over responsibility for lectures and practical teaching.
The Colleges retained control of individual teaching of their students and this division of responsibility continues today.
Read about the University's history since 1945

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/about-the-university/history/the-university-after-1945:
This period has seen an accelerated rate of development in almost every direction.
The reputation of Cambridge scientists had already been established in the late-19th century by Clerk Maxwell and the Darwins among others and was maintained afterwards by J J Thomson, Lord Rayleigh and Lord Rutherford.
Work done by their pupils and associates during the Second World War greatly increased this reputation and large numbers of students anxious to use the laboratories flocked to the University and to the growing number of government-sponsored institutions established in the town (which was chartered as a city in 1951).
University departments and research institutes were established as new areas of study developed, and with them new teaching courses.
The 1950s and 1960s saw an unprecedented expansion of the University's teaching accommodation.
Some older departmental and faculty buildings were replaced - for instance, those for Chemistry and Engineering - and the growing arts faculties received permanent accommodation for the first time, notably in the complex of buildings on the Sidgwick Avenue Site.
Development of a huge new regional general hospital south of the city, eventually replacing the ancient Addenbrooke's Hospital in the city centre, provided the nucleus for a wide range of medically related departments and institutes, including a new School of Clinical Medicine.
The need for more space than could be made available on the cramped central sites led to dispersal of other departments, notably the Cavendish Laboratory to a spacious site west of Cambridge in the 1970s.
The west Cambridge expansion continues today, and the area now houses many facilities including the Computer Laboratory and the Centre for Nanoscience.
Social and cultural activities were not neglected, and in this period a permanent social centre for graduate students and staff - the University Centre - was established with funds provided by the Wolfson Foundation, a purpose-built music school and concert hall was built, again partly from benefactions.
The University Library was again extended, the modern art collection of Kettle's Yard was acquired and enlarged.
England's oldest University playhouse, the ADC, opened by the Amateur Dramatic Club in 1855, was leased by the University and refurbished as a centre for undergraduate drama.
Such developments as these showed an increasing awareness of the wider responsibilities of the University, both to its own members and to the community at large.
More directly related to its core activities was the development named 'the Cambridge Phenomenon', the rapid and successful growth of science-based industry in and around the city, much of it deriving from research conducted in University laboratories.
Crucial in this process was the establishment of the Cambridge Science Park by Trinity College, an innovation which has now grown vastly in size and which has been followed by other similar developments.
The University's own Industrial Liaison Office began in the 1970s with the support of the Wolfson Foundation, and has now developed into the Research Office.
Meanwhile the undergraduate numbers were increased after the war by the admission to full membership from 1947 of women students, by the foundation of a third women's College, New Hall (1954, now Murray Edwards College), as well as the foundation of Churchill (1960) and Robinson (1977).
More revolutionary steps were taken in the 1960s.
Four new Colleges were established to provide fellowships for some of the growing number of teaching and research staff, as well as more places for research students (Darwin, Wolfson, Clare Hall and Lucy Cavendish).
Some older foundations originally loosely connected with the University - Hughes Hall, St Edmund's and Homerton - were recognised as Colleges.
The older men's Colleges now began to admit women students and appoint women Fellows.
Now 'co-residence' is usual, but two Colleges admit women students only - Newnham and New Hall (now Murray Edwards College).

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/about-the-university/history/800th-anniversary:
In 2009, the University of Cambridge reached a special milestone – 800 years of people, ideas and achievements that continue to transform and benefit the world.
Celebrating the best of Cambridge’s rich history and looking forward to the future, the University reflected on the myriad achievements and world-changing ideas born within its walls, from the establishment of the fundamentals of physics to the discovery of the structure of DNA; from the transformative thinking of great Cambridge philosophers, poets and artists; to the groundbreaking work of its many Nobel Prize winners.
The 800th Anniversary was marked with a variety of events and projects throughout the year.
We invited staff, alumni, students, the local community and our fellow universities to celebrate with us during 2009.
The opening Ringing in the Year event attracted over 10,000 visitors to central Cambridge to watch a bespoke lightshow – a first for Cambridge.
In addition to this, the streets of Cambridge were adorned with banners depicting imagery and a selection of dates from the University, another first for the city.
By time of the Summer Garden Party in July, a train had been named by the Chancellor to commemorate the Anniversary, the lightshow had been repeated in China, the Science Festival had celebrated 800 years of science and hundreds of universities around the world, as well as local school children, were busy writing Letters to the Future.
The Garden Party attracted over 9,000 members of staff and their families.
Four days later, the Cambridge concert at the BBC Proms featuring Cambridge composers, musicians and singers from 16 Colleges was held in the presence of HRH The Prince of Wales.
By the autumn, several new events had taken place.
Highlights included: a specially commissioned play performed by local school children entitled 0-800 in 60 Minutes and a visit from HM The Queen, during which she conferred the new Regius Professorship of Botany.
Quentin Blake, the famous illustrator and alumnus, contributed a brand new series of works featuring well known figures from the University's past.
In December, the Empire State Building was lit up for a night in Cambridge blue.
On 18 January 2010, exactly one year on from our first event, the Anniversary was concluded with a bigger lightshow showcasing current University research.
The show incorporated King’s, Clare, and Gonville and Caius Colleges into a walking route that started at Senate House and attracted at least 20,000 people.
Two major strands of smaller-scale activity threaded through the year.
The first was the 2009 Fund, which was the main vehicle for 42 “bottom-up” partnership events.
Most of these were student-led; they included choral music in chapels, new print journals and educational websites, new theatre and a solar-powered eco-racing car that competed in Australia.
The second strand running through the year was Cambridge Ideas, a series of audio and video podcasts featuring Cambridge academics tackling major problems of today.
This was just one aspect of a major new presence in new media, including YouTube, developed specially for the 800th Anniversary but continuing as a legacy into the future.
In addition to the 800th Anniversary, Cambridge was also host of the Darwin Festival, at which the life and work of Charles Darwin was celebrated as 2009 marked 200 years since his birth and 150 years since the publication of ‘On the Origin of Species’.
The festival, which took place in the summer, featured talks, discussions, performances, workshops, exhibitions and tours.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/a-global-university/africa:
Global Cambridge
Hundreds of students from Africa, from more than 20 different countries, study at Cambridge every academic year.
Many are supported by scholarships and bursaries administered by the Cambridge Trust and the Gates Cambridge Trust and the Mastercard Foundation Scholars Program .
Vibrant teaching and research programmes focused on Africa exist across Cambridge, and we have a thriving African Society at the University.
Additionally, the Centre of African Studies (established in 1965) acts as a hub for graduate- and faculty-level interdisciplinary research.
In South Africa, the Cambridge Institute for Sustainability Leadership enables individuals and organisations to respond to critical economic, societal and environmental challenges and opportunities, running executive education programmes for sustainability managers and senior executives.
Cambridge-Africa , founded in 2008, is a University programme that supports African researchers and promotes mutually beneficial collaborations and equitable partnerships between African institutions and Cambridge.
They manage the Cambridge-Africa Alborada Research Fund , which provides catalyst funding for collaborations and supports training activities between researchers in Africa and Cambridge.
At least 300 awards have been made, to enable Cambridge researchers to engage with African colleagues from 33 African countries.
In addition, as a part of the Cambridge-Africa Programme, the University actively partners with African institutions to share skills and create new knowledge.
Current on-going projects include the:
Previous initiatives included the THRiVE programme (2009 - 2022), the MUII+ programme (2008 - 2020) and the CAPREx programme (2012-2021).
The Mastercard Foundation programme was established in 2022 as a collaboration between the University and the Mastercard Foundation.
It provides fully funded scholarships for postgraduate studies at the University for African students, amongst other initiatives that are being developed.
Over 500 Scholars from the African continent will be enrolled in the programme between 2023 and 2030 to undertake a wide range of Masters' courses.
In 2023 the University undertook a mapping of research ties with sub-Saharan Africa.
University of Cambridge student intake from sub-Saharan Africa was also mapped.
This work was done in collaboration between Cambridge-Africa , Cambridge Global Challenges and the Strategic Partnerships Office .
View a summary of our research ties and student admissions in sub-Saharan Africa
The student-led Cambridge Development Initiative works in partnership with universities and local communities in Tanzania on a range of health, engineering and innovation projects.
Cambridge University Press & Assessment , including Cambridge Assessment International Education (CIE), is also active throughout Africa.
CIE has worked with the governments of Botswana, Eswatini and Namibia to reform the education system and train local officials, teachers, markers and examiners in curriculum development and assessment.
There are lots of different ways you can work with the University of Cambridge.
Our Strategic Partnerships team is here to help you decide the best path for your organisation and connect you with the right people across the University.
The coordinator for African partnerships is Maja Wallberg .

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/a-global-university/asia-pacific:
The range and diversity of countries in the wide Asia-Pacific region is reflected in Cambridge’s varied and dynamic range of activities – in Australia, New Zealand, Japan, Singapore and elsewhere.
Research partnerships with leading institutions in Asia-Pacific demonstrate Cambridge’s commitment to solving national, regional and global issues in close collaboration with international partners.
The Cambridge Judge Business School is particularly active in the Asia-Pacific region, with ongoing research and events focused on alternative finance and the fintech industry.
The Cambridge Institute for Sustainability Leadership delivers its flagship executive programmes to senior executives and sustainability professionals in Australia and S.E.Asia .
Cambridge University Press & Assessment has a strong presence in the region, with national and local programmes of educational reform, teacher support and training, and network of Cambridge International Schools.
Many Cambridge Colleges also have active alumni groups in the Asia-Pacific.
Universities in Australia are long-standing research and publication partners of Cambridge.
They have links across all academic disciplines.
Examples include:
Australia is also home to over 4,000 Cambridge alumni.
A wide range of scholarships are funded by the Cambridge Australia Trust , supporting Australian postgraduates taking degrees at Cambridge.
In Japan, the University of Tokyo has a key partnership with Cambridge.
The partnership encompasses many fields of research and faculty exchange, especially in technology, physical and biological sciences, public policy and Japanese studies.
One of the ways that these activities are showcased is through the Cambridge-UTokyo Joint Symposium .
Cambridge also works closely with leading Japanese corporations, especially Mitsubishi, Hitachi and Toyota.
The universities of Cambridge and of Canterbury, New Zealand have a reciprocal programme for academic visitors, the Cambridge-Canterbury Exchange Programme , funded in the main by Canterbury’s Erskine Bequest.
It supports teachers and researchers in either direction and in any subject.
Singapore has been central to Cambridge’s international research profile for many years.
The Centre for Advanced Research & Education in Singapore (CARES) was established in 2013, the University’s first research centre outside the UK.
It brings together researchers from Cambridge with colleagues from the National University of Singapore, Nanyang Technological University and industrial partners to work on problems relevant to Singapore and the world at large.
These programmes initially focused on reducing Singapore’s carbon footprint, thereby developing more sustainable processes for industrial use around the world, but CARES now also hosts collaborative projects in pharmaceutical industry processes, decarbonising shipping, modelling for eco-industrial sites, and cognitive sciences.
Global Humanities is a multilateral, international initiative that grew out of Cambridge's School of Arts and Humanities.
It now involves partners in Chile, China, India, Lebanon and Turkey.
Their work explores approaches to global humanities, from institutional and international points of view, and how to teach the humanities.
Current and future projects include academic exchange, publications, workshops and conferences, and joint teaching at postgraduate level.
The contact for Global Humanities in our Strategic Partnerships Office is Maja Wallberg .
The coordinator for partnerships in East Asia is Dr Jingchen Hou and the coordinator for partnerships in the S.E.Asia-Pacific is Hilary Perrott .

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/a-global-university/china:
Cambridge has a strong and longstanding relationship with China.
Over 2,000 of our students are from the People's Republic of China, making them the largest international group from a single country studying at Cambridge.
Cambridge academics are engaged in a broad range of collaborations with colleagues across China, in areas as diverse as food security, the design of sustainable buildings, photonics and mental health.
We have close relations with some of the top universities in China, including Peking University, Tsinghua University, Fudan University, Zhejiang University, the University of Hong Kong, and the Chinese University of Hong Kong.
Our historic links with China inform our modern-day relationships.
Cambridge established the UK’s first Professorship of Chinese in 1888, and our alumni include the poet Xu Zhimo, best-selling author Louis Cha and athlete Deng Yaping.
The Cambridge scholar Joseph Needham contributed immeasurably to Western understanding of Chinese culture and the history of science and technology, and his work still continues at the Needham Research Institute – an independent centre with strong links to the University.
Within the University itself, the Faculty of Asian and Middle Eastern Studies undertakes internationally recognised work in the history, literature, linguistics, social anthropology and contemporary culture of China.
The Cambridge Centre for Chinese Management at Cambridge Judge Business School is a research institute dedicated to the study of the management practices and strategies of Chinese enterprises.
It aims to become a leading global research platform that contributes to knowledge creation and dissemination, conducting research related to challenges for Chinese firms going global and non-Chinese firms operating in the People’s Republic.
The Cambridge University–Nanjing Centre of Technology and Innovation provides a home for joint research and innovation in collaboration with Chinese partners.
The Centre works with leading Chinese universities, research institutes and industry partners.
To tackle the urgent challenges faced by humanity, in 2019 Tsinghua University and the University of Cambridge established the Tsinghua-Cambridge Joint Research Initiative Fund, a five-year programme that strengthens research collaborations between academics at the two institutions.
Climate change, food security, infectious diseases – these all require the kind of scientific advances that happen most quickly when we combine the research capacity and intellectual power of global research universities like Tsinghua and Cambridge.
Interested in being part of this initiative?
Find out how to participate .
Global Humanities is a multilateral, international initiative that grew out of Cambridge's School of Arts and Humanities, and now involves partners in Chile, China, Hong Kong, India and Lebanon.
Its early work focuses on exploring approaches to global humanities, from institutional and international points of view.
This will build towards a certificate in Global Humanities, joint teaching at postgraduate level, collaborative research, workshops and conferences, and faculty exchange between the partners.
The coordinator for Global Humanities in the University's Strategic Partnerships Office is Maja Wallberg .
The coordinator for partnerships with East Asia is Dr Jingchen Hou .

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/a-global-university/europe:
Through high-level participation in pan-European bodies, such as the League of European Research Universities, and through strong bilateral relations with institutions in other European countries, the University of Cambridge is committed to active and positive engagement with its partners across our continent.
Cambridge is home to more than 4,000 students from across the European Economic Area.
We have outstanding breadth and depth in the study of European languages, cultures and history.
Teaching is offered in ten European Union official languages; the Department of Slavonic Studies is unique in the UK in offering undergraduate and postgraduate teaching in Russian, Ukrainian and Polish.
The DAAD-University of Cambridge Research Hub for German Studies acts as a beacon for the study of German culture, and provides a public platform for the discussion of German themes in the UK.
The Centre for European Legal Studies is a focal point for research in European Union Law and European Comparative Law.
The Centre for Science and Policy provides opportunities for decision-makers from government and industry across the EU to forge useful and lasting connections with Cambridge researchers.
From its Brussels office, the Cambridge Institute for Sustainability Leadership brings its expertise and network of leaders directly to European policymakers.
Cambridge is a member of LERU, an organisation of 24 leading European universities pushing the frontiers of innovative research.
LERU advocates, at both a national and European level, for the importance of basic research and articulates the vital role universities play in society.
It has become an important contributor to European policy discussions on higher education and research.
Central to LERU’s work is the publication of policy papers and statements, as well as the organisation of events and meetings.
LERU provides a valuable forum for members to share expertise, experience, news, and good practice.
Representatives from LERU’s varied policy and thematic subject groups meet in person (and more recently online) throughout the year, and university leaders convene annually at the rectors’ assembly.
The current Cambridge senior officer for LERU is Renata Schaeffer .
More information can be found on the LERU website .
In 2018 the University established a strategic partnership with the Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität Munich (LMU).
The purpose of the partnership is to:
All areas of research and education are covered by the partnership, and from the beginning all six of the University's Schools have been involved.
The overall aim is to explore and support a suitable array of activities that will cement a meaningful and productive strategic partnership between the two universities.
Further information regarding the Cambridge-LMU strategic partnership (PDF) .
The University of Cambridge and the LMU Munich are delighted to announce the first call of the second funding period 2025-2029.
Find out more about the Cambridge-LMU Strategic Partnership: Call for Proposals in Research and Teaching.
The CamPo academic exchange scheme originated in 2014 as a PhD student mobility programme between POLIS and Sciences Po, a leading research university in France.
In 2017, the relationship expanded to include funding to support collaborative research projects in the arts, humanities, and social sciences.
In 2021, CamPo was renewed for a further three years, and a new call for applications was issued.
For further information, please contact campo@admin.cam.ac.uk .
The coordinator for partnerships with Germany is Ingrid Hobbis , and the coordinator for all other European partnerships is Dr Olena Fim'yar .

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/a-global-university/india:
Engagement with India is a strategic priority for the University.
The large number of Cambridge alumni in India adds a vibrancy to all University interactions there.
Within Cambridge, the Centre of South Asian Studies acts as a resource and hub for scholars working on India, and houses a remarkable collection of archive materials – books, papers, maps, photographs, cinéfilms – covering a period of over 200 years and painting a unique picture of the Raj and the early decades of the post-colonial era.
The Centre welcomes numerous visiting scholars and lecturers from India, who contribute to its broad intellectual life.
Scholarly exchange between Cambridge and India is supported by the Cambridge-Hamied Visiting Lecture Scheme , which provides financial support for scholars to work with colleagues at Cambridge or in Indian institutions in order to build new collaborations and help existing partnerships to grow.
The Centre for India and Global Business at the Cambridge Judge Business School provides a platform for research and engagement with partners in industry, academia and policy, focusing on India's current and future role in the global knowledge economy.
Cambridge maintains close relationships with the British High Commission in India, the British Council, and the UK Science and Innovation Network, as well as with several central Indian ministries and the Office of the Principal Scientific Adviser.
Cambridge also has multi-faceted partnerships with a number of key institutions, such as the Indian Institute of Science, CMC Vellore, IIT Bombay, IIT Delhi and Ashoka University.
The University’s Section 8 company in India, the Cambridge India Research Foundation , enables tax-efficient giving to support Indian students and research activities within India, and hosts workshops and other events, both academic and social.
Cambridge University Press and Assessment has a significant presence in India – 293 staff in eight offices around the country, plus large network of Cambridge International Schools and in-country publications The University enjoys membership of the UK-India Business Council , which hosts a wide range of events in both countries, covering research-related topics, academia-industry interaction, and informal exchange.
The coordinator for Indian partnerships is Hilary Perrott .

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/a-global-university/north-america:
Our academics are involved in world-leading collaborations with American and Canadian colleagues in every area of research – ranging from diabetes with the Harvard Medical School, to stem cell engineering with the University of Toronto, and the University Library's collaboration with the American Council of Learned Societies on the Darwin Correspondence Project.
The Visiting Pitt Professorship and the Mellon Professorial Fund bring distinguished scholars from the USA to Cambridge.
In the 2022–2023 academic year approximately 1,000 students studying at Cambridge were from the USA, Canada and Mexico.
Cambridge is the UK’s leading university for graduate studies in American History, and there are many longstanding exchange programmes between Cambridge Colleges and leading American universities, with scholarships available for students travelling in both directions.
North America is also well represented amongst postdocs and early career researchers in Cambridge.
Cambridge in America helps the University and Colleges keep in touch with over 20,000 Cambridge alumni in the USA.
Also, there is an active network of alumni associations in Canada and Mexico with over 4,000 and 400 Cambridge Alumni, respectively.
Cambridge University Press & Assessment opened an independent sales office in New York in 1949.
In the seven decades since, the North American branch has grown to become one of the largest academic publishers in the region.
The coordinator for North American partnerships is James E.
Phillips .

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/born-in-Cambridge:
Meet 10 University spinouts that are having an impact in the UK and around the world.
If new ideas and new ways of doing things are to make a difference to our lives, they need people and organisations to put them into practice.
At the heart of one of the world's most successful innovation ecosystems, the University of Cambridge is full of entrepreneurial researchers and students with the drive and imagination to bring research ideas out of labs and libraries and into the real world.
Here are 10 Cambridge spinouts and start-ups that are making a difference.
A new technique that speeds up drug discovery has led to the development of two successful cancer treatments.
Kisqali has been approved for treating advanced breast cancer in more than 95 countries and Balversa, used for advanced bladder cancer, was fast-tracked for approval in 2019 by the US Food and Drug Administration.
These drugs were developed by University spin-out Astex using fragment-based drug discovery, pioneered by a team of Cambridge chemists and biochemists.
The technique has since been adopted by most major pharmaceutical companies and more than 40 compounds discovered using it have reached clinical trials.
The UK's water pipes are being cleared of blockages caused by an invasive mollusc.
The zebra mussel, a species originally native to Eastern Europe but now spread around the world, is wreaking havoc as it invades new territories.
Unlike native freshwater mussels, zebra mussels can attach to hard surfaces.
This leads to a build-up on the inside of pipes that supply raw water for treatment, reducing the flow of water and forcing the water companies to take the pipes out of commission while they are cleaned - at an annual cost of £8 million in the UK.
BioBullets is the brainchild of a Cambridge zoologist and a chemical engineer.
Together they have developed tiny fat-covered particles that have proved to be tasty morsels for the zebra mussels, containing toxins lethal to them but not to other native species.
The technology is being trialled by seven water companies that supply drinking water to 52% of the UK population (34.7 million people).
A technology developed by Cambridge physicists is used in 35 million phones to send and receive data faster, using less power and with lower CO 2 emissions.
A team of physicists came up with a low-cost micro-electromechanical (MEMS) alternative to expensive switches connected to fixed capacitors.
Its digital variable capacitors both increase the speed at which data can be sent and received and reduce the power needed to do so, increasing efficiency by as much as 100% in comparison to broadband antennas.
Its capacitors also reduce CO 2 emissions.
The energy saved by the 35 million phones containing this technology equates to an estimated combined 2 million kg of CO 2 emissions per year.
Cavendish Kinetics was spun out of the University in 1994 and acquired by Qorvo Inc in 2019 for more than $300 million.
A non-invasive test coupled with AI is helping to spot the early signs of oesophageal cancer in tissue samples.
Oesophageal cancer is one of the world's most lethal cancers - and it's on the rise.
Only 13% of patients diagnosed with oesophageal cancer survive for more than five years and it's now six times more common than it was in the 1990s.
More than half of all cases could be prevented though, if a condition known as Barrett's oesophagus is found and treated early.
Cambridge researchers have invented a simple, cost-effective early oesophageal cancer detection test to do just that.
A patient swallows a capsule which collects cells from the oesophagus in a process that takes just ten minutes.
Cyted then digitises cell samples which are analysed by its pathologists.
Normally, analysing samples creates extra work for an already overstretched health service.
Cyted uses deep learning pathology techniques to do the leg work, so that human pathologists need only look at the cases that aren't clear cut.
More than 10,000 of its early oesophageal cancer detection tests have been rolled out to NHS services across the UK.
More than 2 billion gamers have had their online lives transformed by geometric algebra.
A group of Cambridge astrophysicists and engineers used this mathematical framework to revolutionise the lighting and graphics used in some of the world's most successful gaming franchises.
They created a company, Geomerics , which spun out of the University in 2005.
In 2014, it was bought by another Cambridge success story, chip-design giant, Arm.
The technology has been used by major games publishers to remake the iconic 90s game Final Fantasy VII and to upgrade some of the biggest blockbuster franchises in gaming history, including FIFA , which alone has 45 million players generating revenue of more than $1.2 billion each year.
More than 30,000 cancer patients have been treated with Olaparib, a revolutionary new cancer drug developed by Kudos Pharmaceuticals.
Fundamental research by a team of University scientists into DNA damage mechanisms led to the development of Olaparib .
They discovered that the dysfunction of two genes known to increase the risk of cancer sensitises cells to the inhibition of a critical enzyme involved in DNA repair.
The researchers harnessed this discovery to develop a new therapeutic approach which resulted in Olaparib, the world’s first marketed DNA-repair enzyme inhibitor.
This breakthrough drug reduces disease progression and death by up to 66% in four types of cancer - breast, ovarian, prostate and pancreatic - and is now being used in 73 countries.
Olaparib was originally developed by spin-out company KuDOS Pharmaceuticals, which was acquired by AstraZeneca in 2005.
Lung cancer patients are getting more targeted treatment, thanks to the development of a non-invasive blood test.
Lung cancer is one of the most prevalent and hardest to treat of all the cancers.
The more doctors can understand what's happening at the tumour level, the better they can target their treatment.
Previously, this was only possible by taking tissue samples - an invasive and unpleasant surgical procedure.
Scientists at Cambridge developed a blood test (or liquid biopsy) which shows how a tumour is progressing and gives clinicians vital information in deciding how to treat it.
The researchers commercialised the technology through a spin-out, Inivata , which was bought by NeoGenomics, Inc Group in 2021.
An ingenious device called NATROX® O 2 is helping to heal chronic and hard-to-heal wounds by generating oxygen and delivering it directly to the wound site.
If an elderly person, or someone with a health condition like diabetes, sustains a wound, it can take a long time to heal.
In some cases, it never does - which can result in amputation.
Wound management costs the NHS around £8.3 billion a year, of which 67% is spent managing unhealed, chronic wounds.
In the early 2000s, a Cambridge material scientist and a local inventor and entrepreneur came up with a clever way of extracting oxygen from the air and applying it to the wound.
They set up Inotec AMD to develop and commercialise NATROX® O 2 , a wearable, battery-powered device the size of a mobile phone.
Clinical trials have shown that Natrox ® O 2 was able to heal up to 57% of these chronic wounds, significantly reducing the cost of treatment and vastly improving patients’ quality of life.
Since 2013 it has been used to treat many thousands of patients in more than 29 countries.
More than 1 million genomes are sequenced every year thanks to a technology developed by Cambridge chemists.
Solexa Sequencing is having a profound impact on human health and our understanding of the genetic basis of disease.
Solexa was spun out of the University in 1998 and acquired by Illumina in 2007.
The technology underpins some of the world's major genome sequencing projects.
It has, for example, enabled the Cambridge-led COG-UK team to track the emergence and spread of COVID-19 and all its variants.
Illumina currently has more than 7,000 employees worldwide and annual revenues of more than $3 billion per annum.
300 million mobile phone users have been spared a collective 100,000 years of typing, thanks to Cambridge computer scientists.
They used machine learning and natural language processing to predict what we want to type.
The company they started in 2009 became SwiftKey .
By June 2014, users were estimated to have saved half a trillion keystrokes.
By 2016, SwiftKey software was installed on more than 300 million devices.
It was estimated that its users had saved nearly 10 trillion keystrokes, across 100 languages, amounting to more than 100,000 years in combined typing time.
The success of SwiftKey led to its acquisition by Microsoft in 2016 for $250 million, and the software was incorporated into Microsoft’s flagship mobile app, SwiftKey Keyboard for iPhone and Android, with 500 million installations by 2020.
These new ventures were included among the examples of impact in the University's 2021 REF submission .
They are a representative few of the many spinouts and start-ups founded by Cambridge researchers, staff and students in recent years.
You can find out about some of the other Cambridge-born businesses and social ventures that are changing our world at Cambridge Enterprise and the Department of Computer Science and Technology.
Published 7 December 2022 With thanks to:
The University of Cambridge REF team
Photography Banner: People meeting round a table.
Getty Images.
Credit: Image Source 1.
Pills.
Unsplash.
Credit: Hal Gatewood 2.
Zebra mussels.
iStock / Getty Images Plus.
Credit: sdphotography 3.
Mobile phone.
Credit: charlesdeluvio 4.
Man with heartburn.
Pixaby.
Credit : Natural Herbs Clinic 5.
Credit: Geomerics 6.
PARP inhibitor.
Credit: University of Cambridge 7.
Test-tubes.
Pixabay.
Credit: Fernando Zhiminaicela 8.
Healthcare worker supporting a patient.
Getty Images: Halfpoint Images 9.
iStock.
Credit: ktsimage 10.
Typing on a phone.
Credit : freestocks The text in this work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/business-partnerships-computing:
Cambridge is the home of computing in the UK, from Charles Babbage, through Alan Turing, the pioneers of personal computing in the 1980s and the global phenomenon of Arm, to the explosion of artificial intelligence and the emergence of quantum technologies.
Today, AI , cyber security , quantum computing and computer architecture are all areas of intense research and innovation across the University and the wider Cambridge ecosystem.
Are these areas in which your organisation is looking to develop its skills and capabilities?
Would you like to join us in some blue-sky, world-changing thinking?
Meet four of our leading researchers from the Department of Computer Science and Technology , find out what they are working on - and why collaborating with industry is key to their success.
To find out more about how your organisation can work with Cambridge on these or other challenges contact us at: business@admin.cam.ac.uk
Published: 18 September 2024
Images Top: Getty Images: credit: Yuichiro Chino Diarmuid O'Brien: credit: StillVision

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/arm:
Architecting the future
Arm and Cambridge University are working together to make our phones and computers more secure, more efficient and ready for the digital revolution.
Self-driving vehicles, companion robots and supercomputers that can help to advance medicine, predict and mitigate natural disasters, solve energy problems, tackle climate change and study the origins of the universe.
What do all these things have in common?
They are all being made possible by know-how and technology developed by Cambridge success story and leading semiconductor IP company, Arm.
Arm-based technology is used by billions of people in their phones and computers every single day.
As 5G, the internet of things and AI become part of the fabric of our lives that number will only get bigger.
However, while these advances promise huge benefits, they also bring with them significant risk – not least, greater exposure to cyber attacks.
Computer security is not a new problem.
Microsoft has been publishing its annual Microsoft Digital Defense Report since 2005.
This year’s edition makes particularly gloomy reading, as it describes how opportunistic cybercriminals have taken advantage of people’s emotional and computing vulnerabilities at this time of global pandemic.
For chief architect at Arm, Richard Grisenthwaite, “Computer security is the greatest problem computing has to address in order to reach its full potential.”
And that problem is one that the University of Cambridge and Arm have been working on together since 2014, through a project called CHERI.
The idea was first hatched in 2010, when researchers Dr Robert Watson and Professor Simon Moore at the University’s Department of Computer Science and Technology asked themselves a fundamental question: “If you were starting from scratch, what would you need to do to both hardware and software to make computers more secure?”
They were asking themselves this question because the computers we use today – and the programmes written for them - are rooted in the technology of the 1970s, a time, according to Professor Peter Sewell, another key player in the CHERI story, “when most people didn’t know how to design more securely and, even if they did, they had no clue that they needed to.” Back in the days of glitter and flares, computing had not yet become an adversarial enterprise.
Fifty years later, the situation could not be more different.
Security is a huge challenge for organisations and individuals alike, and it’s a problem which will only be amplified by advances in AI and big data.
"But the hardware we use today has significant limitations," explains Sewell.
"It doesn't give us good enough memory protection and it doesn't let us compartmentalise software sufficiently.”
"CHERI," Watson continues, "addresses both of these issues.
It allows you both to isolate more programmes, more effectively and to protect and compartmentalise within a programme so that if, say, a virus gets into your mail, it would not be able to wreak havoc across all your accounts, folders, messages and attachments."
"To put this in context," Moore added, "Microsoft’s research of its own vulnerabilities from the last 10 years indicates that 70 per cent of them were memory safety bugs, the majority of which could have been mitigated if CHERI had been deployed.”
"Normally, in computer science," Watson explains, "we experiment by changing one thing at a time, keeping everything else the same and seeing what happens.
For software researchers, that generally means sticking to the same hardware and for hardware researchers, sticking to the same software with both trying to limit the changes they have to make to the architecture (or interface) between them.
"The problem with that approach," he continues, "is that you can only make relatively narrow, incremental improvements.
CHERI is so revolutionary because we are changing the architecture, hardware and software all at the same time.
There are only a handful of research labs in the world with the breadth and depth of expertise to attempt this."
With funding from DARPA, and in close collaboration with Peter Neumann at SRI International (a non-profit research lab based in California), Watson and Moore made good progress with their ambitious plan over the next four years, working together on the architecture while Watson focused principally on the software and Moore on the hardware.
They were later joined in their endeavour by applied semantics expert, Sewell, who was already working with Arm on other aspects of its architecture.
His role in CHERI is to ensure that the architecture is mathematically well-defined and that its security properties are mathematically provable.
Like many collaborations, the circumstances in which CHERI came about were to some extent accidental.
By 2014, Watson and Moore were making good progress.
From the start, they had thought that Arm would be the perfect commercialisation partner.
Watson explains why: "We were proposing a fundamental change to architecture that requires new hardware and transforms the software that runs on it.
Bringing new architecture to market is what Arm does."
However, at that stage, the pair felt they weren’t quite ready to make the first approach.
Fate intervened, in the form of one of Moore’s PhD students whose next-door neighbour worked at Arm and suggested that he come along and give them an informal talk about his work.
Mildly concerned, Moore decided he ought to go along.
This turned out to be a good decision, as the normally reliable student managed to get lost on the way, and Moore had to ad lib until he turned up.
Moore explained, “It just so happened that, most unusually, Richard Grisenthwaite was not busy that lunchtime and was sitting at the back of the room.
He was really interested in what we had to say.”
That was the start of a powerful collaboration, built on a convergence of mutual interests.
For the Cambridge team, the potential scale of implementation was a hugely exciting prospect.
The ubiquity of Arm IP means that CHERI, if adopted, will be guaranteed a near universal take-up.
However, Arm can only deploy a technology that is both desirable and beneficial to its ecosystem partners.
And, although according to Grisenthwaite, “CHERI has been described by some of Arm's major partners as potentially the most interesting step forward in computer security under consideration” its deployment is not yet a given.
Graeme Barnes, lead architect and distinguished engineer at Arm said, “CHERI is potentially a very big deal but it’s also a big change.
We need to prove to people that it brings significant benefits and is deployable.”
An academic prototype, however impressive and well-referenced in the literature is not going to cut it with companies that are being asked to make a significant investment - potentially tens or hundreds of millions of dollars - in this new approach.
Hardware designers in industry need to be convinced that CHERI is buildable.
Software developers need to be able to try it out, and get excited about it.
CHERI was going to need a proper, industrial quality prototype – and that would take tens of millions of pounds to develop.
An early CHERI prototype developed at the University of Cambridge
Recognising the importance of security to its digital infrastructure, in 2019 the UK government backed a Digital Security by Design Challenge, which awarded £70 million in funding to the prototyping effort, which by now had acquired the name, Morello.
The £70 million was matched by a further £117 million from Arm and other industry partners including Microsoft and Google, enabling Barnes and his team – in close collaboration with Cambridge and the University of Edinburgh - to develop Morello, described by Grisenthwaite as “a ground-breaking and unprecedented industrial-scale prototype of the CHERI concepts in the context of the Arm architecture.”
"It's important to remember Morello has now become a national effort," says Watson.
In 2020, £8 million of the Digital Security by Design programme’s funds went to support projects at eight UK universities (including Cambridge) carrying out Morello-related research over the next four years.
CHERI and Morello are central to the University-Arm relationship right now but the partnership also encompasses a number of other long-term collaborations.
Separate to his involvement in CHERI, Sewell has been working with Arm for more than a decade trying to better define the memory model at the heart of Arm’s architecture.
One of the reasons we have seen such huge advances in computing performance in recent years is because processors are now able to execute the tasks set by progammes out of order, as opposed to sequentially.
This ‘concurrency’ makes processing much more efficient but it can also cause errors.
Sewell's team, together with Arm and other colleagues, set about describing the memory model mathematically for the first time and, in doing so, revealed areas of ambiguity that could cause potential problems.
This pioneering work enables these systems to achieve higher performance in a more reliable manner.
In 2011, Dr Timothy Jones joined the University on a Postdoctoral Fellowship from the Royal Academy of Engineering .
“Fellowship holders are expected to find a mentor and most choose an eminent academic,” Jones explained.
“I figured I could ask any professor in any university for advice any time I needed it so why don’t I find someone a bit different?
I noticed that Warren East [CEO of Arm at the time] was on the list and thought why not?”
This was the start of a fruitful relationship.
Initially, Jones spent two or three days a week at Arm, where he was given a desk, computer and “access to everything”.
Over time, as his departmental responsibilities increased, this was gradually scaled back but the deep engagement continued through Arm’s funding of PhD students: four fully-funded and two part-funded with EPSRC through its iCASE awards scheme.
Jones and his PhD students have been focusing on how to improve computing performance, particularly in this era of big data.
One of the ways they have been doing this is through ‘prefetching’ – collecting data in advance and storing it close to where it will be needed.
To optimise this process, they designed a new kind of architecture which spreads the workload across multiple small cores rather than concentrating it all through one large, high-performing core.
Having devised this novel approach, they then applied it to other problems such as reliability in safety critical systems.
For example, the system that controls your anti-locking braking system runs the same programme twice, one very fractionally behind the other so that if an error occurs, it is logged and checked with the duplicate and remedial action taken.
“Our distributed architecture would produce the same results,” says Jones, but “with a fraction of the area and a fraction of the power overhead.”
Another productive area of investigation has been vectorisation – where a single stream of instructions runs on multiple streams of data at the same time – which also delivers important efficiency and performance benefits.
For Jones, the benefits of the collaboration have been huge: “Ultimately, you don’t want to just publish papers, you want to influence products.
Our relationship with Arm means we can talk to people who can point you in the direction of interesting problems that you might not be aware of – or steer you away from problems which are either not very important or for which solutions already exist.”
Funded PhDs are also an important dimension of the relationship.
Each of them has a mentor at Arm and regular contact.
Thomas Grocutt, embedded research architect, explains that from Arm’s perspective this has a number of benefits: “As well as making the results of their work more applicable to the problems we are facing, we also see it as a great way of spotting really good talent."
Arm processors will need to cope with the advances in machine learning and robotics that are just round the corner.
Fellow and senior director of Research Technology at Arm Research, Stuart Biles explains: “We are tasked with essentially building future value for the company, in the technological sense.
So part of our job is to anticipate what future problems or roadblocks to the success of the company are going to be.” One of those future challenges - and opportunities - is around machine learning.
In spite of all the hype around it, Richard Turner, Professor of Machine Learning in the Department of Engineering, cautions there is a still a long way to go before it can really work “in the wild”.
“There are two main reasons why self-driving cars haven’t happened yet,” says Turner.” The first is that machine learning methods have not yet learnt to deal with uncertainty.
In fact, they are supremely overconfident.
While it’s not a disaster if they tag a picture on your phone incorrectly, it is if they fail to spot a pedestrian about to step off a pavement.”
The second yet-to-be-solved problem is that “current methods are all trained in one go on handcrafted datasets which need an expert to set them up.
If you come along a month later with a new model of car that you want it to recognise, it essentially has to be retrained from scratch.”
At the moment, according to Turner, that is a “cumbersome process which has to be done on a server somewhere.
It can’t be done, for example, on a mobile phone.” But, he says, “as we enter an era of increasing personalisation, we need to move towards what’s known as ‘lifelong learning’.”
From a chip design perspective, that means an architecture that can handle the demands of modern AI algorithms.
By working with experts like Turner, alongside its own dedicated machine learning business unit, Arm is able to get valuable insights into the latest techniques and their implications for its own products.
Advanced memories materials specialist, Judith Driscoll, Royal Academy of Engineering Professor of Emerging Technologies in the Department of Materials Science and Metallurgy, has also been exploring opportunities for collaboration with Arm.
Her research group engineers oxide materials at the nanoscale with a wide range of industrial applications.
“Resistive switching effect could lead to new kind of low power, high performance computing,” the need for which is also being driven by advances in machine learning and big data.
Driscoll points out that “Computing isn’t just about algorithms and things.
You do actually need to make stuff – and what you make it out of is critical.”
For Sewell, working with Arm on the CHERI project provides “the opportunity to work on something which by academic standards is on a very large and serious scale.
There’s a tremendous reality of engineering that most academic projects don’t attempt and can’t afford.”
For Biles, there are number of factors that make the collaboration successful.
Firstly, the quality of the research: “You know they are well-respected researchers in their fields.
When we start following a particular track, we will see the papers they have published.” Secondly, geographical proximity undoubtedly helps, except during a pandemic.
“In normal circumstances, it does change the dynamic significantly in that people can jump into a car or get on their bikes and go for fairly impromptu meetings, just to chat over interesting topics.
It introduces an ease into the relationship which makes it more likely to be perpetuated.” Finally, Biles points to Cambridge’s interest in combining blue-sky thinking with real-world application.
“The folks that we work with have a nice combination of following their own path but they are also interested and engaged with some of the constraints that industry bring them.
They view it as an interesting challenge.”
The Digital Security by Design project is a five-year undertaking that began in 2019.
The Morello prototype is on track for completion in 2022, at which point it will be made available to Arm’s ecosystem of software companies, tool developers and academic institutions.
They will have a further two and a half years to test, write code and provide critical feedback.
All of those involved at the University and Arm are eagerly awaiting the outcome of this process which has the potential to make all our digital lives safer and more secure.
As that story plays out, both parties continue to explore other areas of mutual interest: looking for new ways to improve the performance and efficiency of computing and sharing knowledge as the machine learning revolution unfolds.
Image credits from top: iStock: metamorworks , KrulUA , happyphoton , anyaberkut

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/arup:
Arup is a global engineering and sustainable development firm with designers, consultants and experts working across 140 countries .
Arup and Cambridge have been working together since the 1960s.
Today, the partnership is focused on harnessing new digital technologies to build a more sustainable world.
Together we have:
Some of this work has been supported by the Ove Arup Foundation, a charity dedicated to promoting its founder's philosophy of 'total design'.
Arup and Cambridge have been working together for more than 60 years and the relationship between Cambridge and the Ove Arup Foundation goes back to the early 1990s.
Talk to anyone involved and it quickly becomes clear why these partnerships have proved so fruitful and enduring.
Both Arup and Cambridge attract what Dame Jo da Silva, Arup's Global Director of Sustainable Development, describes as "incredibly smart people", all of whom are intent on bringing about positive change across the sector through new technologies and a better understanding of how they can be applied.
Collaboration and a multidisciplinary approach underpin everything the partners undertake, whether it's solving research problems or transforming how professionals are taught - in a way that has been hugely influential around the world.
Making infrastructure smarter
A mathematical bridge
Managing flood risk
S kills for a changing world
Digital cities for change
Developing sustainability leadership at Arup
Empowering the next generation of industry leaders
In 2010, Professor Lord Robert Mair, founder of Cambridge's Centre for Smart Infrastructure and Construction (CSIC) , saw an opportunity to use the latest ideas in sensing technologies and apply them to infrastructure.
"At the time, sensors were being widely used in sectors such as aerospace, so that engineers knew how every bit of their assets were performing at all times."
"However, the same could not be said of the world of infrastructure.
Kenichi Soga (now a professor at University of California, Berkeley) and I could see that these sensing technologies would allow us to understand how vital assets are performing - and if remedial action needs to be taken."
In 2011, CSIC was established in Cambridge with funding from Innovate UK, EPSRC and 28 industry partners, including prime mover and supporter, Arup.
From it emerged new methods and techniques to use distributed fibre optic sensing (DFOS) for monitoring civil infrastructure.
DFOS transformed the way changes in strain and temperature are measured, making it possible to assess the engineering performance of structures such as foundation piles, tunnels, retaining walls, pipelines and bridges.
The development of DFOS was a key pillar of the new Centre's activities, and one in which Arup had a key role.
Mair said: "As a leader in the field, Arup has always been wedded to the importance of measurement and they have been hugely instrumental in both the development and deployment of the DFOS technology."
Jennifer Schooling, former Director of CSIC (now at Anglia Ruskin University), explained why working with Arup was so instrumental in the development of DFOS.
"Doing good science is one thing, but we needed help to turn it into something that's useable by industry.
That's where Arup came in, helping us to codify how DFOS should be used in practice and working with their clients to show them its benefits.
The intellectual 'oomph' was very much a joint effort between Arup and Cambridge."
Bank Station Bank is one of London's busiest underground stations.
By 2016, around 98 million passengers a year were using it and not finding it a pleasant experience.
To alleviate the problem, Transport for London decided to increase the station's capacity by 40%.
This meant building new tunnels under some of the capital's busiest streets.
Mair explained: "It became clear that the tunnelling team would need to cut through some of the foundation piles supporting a large office block."
"DFOS meant we could tell what was going on as the construction team worked to sever the piles and replace them with concrete supports that would ensure the building stayed safe."
Exposed under-ream pile prior to  cutting
Sure enough, it worked.
The team was able to monitor the strain induced in the piles, as well as the settlement of the building - which was minimal.
The work was carried out safely, with no structural repercussions.
In 2021, the world's first 3D-printed steel bridge was unveiled in Amsterdam by Queen Máxima of the Netherlands.
Mark Girolami, who became the Sir Kirby Laing Professor in Civil Engineering on the retirement of Lord Mair, and is chief scientist of the Alan Turing Institute explained how he got involved.
"Arup was brought in to do the structural design and it soon became clear that because the engineers were working with what was effectively a new material and a new way of building, the standard design tools weren't working."
"We realised we were going to need new mathematics, new statistics and new computing.
This led to an accelerated research programme that resulted in the redesign of these tools from a theoretical level all the way through to actual deployment."
"Following on from that, the Royal Academy of Engineering awarded a fellowship to an Arup scientist, Ramaseshan Kanan, so that he could come to Cambridge and continue work on the development of tools that will be needed as 3D printing is used more widely for building and to monitor the performance of existing structures."
As well as being an exciting testbed for new materials and construction techniques, the other ambition for the 3D bridge was to show that it is possible to measure the performance of a structure over time.
Girolami and team created a digital twin of the bridge fed by a hundred sensors attached to the actual bridge, enabling its engineers to monitor strain, movement, vibrations and weather conditions as people cross it and assess how the bridge is faring, alerting them if problems occur and when maintenance might be required.
For Kanan, the collaboration with Professor Girolami, and the connection into wider Cambridge and Turing communities has been invaluable for his RAEng Industrial Fellowship.
"We have been able to develop and explore algorithmic techniques to a range of problems within decarbonisation and resilience in the built environment.
"The engagement has shown a deep alignment between Cambridge and Arup to work on these themes and has given us a solid foundation on which we plan to build further collaborations."
" We’re facing a losing battle against rising sea-levels ," says Tom Spencer, Emeritus Professor of Coastal Dynamics, and Director of Cambridge's Coastal Research Unit .
"And we’re going to see more extremes as we move towards the end of the century ."
Being able to anticipate floods accurately is going to be increasingly important for governments and communities around the world.
"But until relatively recently", explained Arup alumnus Mike Dobson (now the new energy sector lead for the marine environment at Crown Estate) , "although we were trying to make good decisions, the tools at our disposal were pretty static.
Lots of modelling, lots of economics presented in a report.
We wanted to see what else was possible and bring it to life in a way that policymakers in particular could understand.
Cambridge University managed to unblock the complex modelling which allowed us to do that.”
Hull was chosen as a pilot site for the new approach because of its geography and susceptibility, with around 100,000 properties potentially at risk of flooding.
Spencer explained, "Arup had been working there for decades, so they knew what data sets were around, and they had a very strong link to the Environment Agency in Hull."
" The real power of the Cambridge–Arup approach here, " he continued, "is that it considers a huge number of potential options.
So you can really play with all sorts of different things, such as the height of your flood defences, your storm surge conditions, your sea level.
It just runs thousands of combinations of these things really pretty quickly.
The computing power behind it is huge."
The Cambridge modelling and the sea-level rise insights tool has given the Arup team new levels of data and new opportunities to improve insight for decision-makers.
Can it be applied in places beyond Hull?
"Absolutely," said Dobson , "wherever local levels of sea and land are known.
We’ve worked with Cambridge to design the whole process to be replicable.
We want it to be globally applicable.”
Back in 1991, the Ove Arup Foundation organised what its former chair of trustees (and former Arup Group Chairman) Terry Hill, described as " a landmark day-and-night workshop" at Madingley Hall in Cambridge to discuss the future of engineering education.
Out of that exhaustive discussion emerged a proposal from Cambridge for a new part-time master's degree offered jointly by the Departments of Architecture and Engineering.
Hill explained: " Back then, architects and engineers tended not to work closely with one another.
We wante d to change all that so we funded the development of what became the Master's in Interdisciplinary Design for the Built Environment (IDBE).
When it started, it was the only course of its kind, teaching engineers alongside architects.
Over time this expanded to bring in the whole gamut of disciplines involved in the built environment, including people with finance and investment backgrounds, surveyors, project managers, designers and planners.
As the environmental impact of the way we live our lives has become an increasingly stark reality, the course has evolved to focus on sustainability and resilience, under a new title, Sustainability Leadership for the Built Environment.
The Ove Arup Foundation is an educational charity set up in memory of Sir Ove Arup with the express purpose of bringing together - and advancing the knowledge of - the different disciplines involved in the creation of our built environment.
Now run by the Cambridge Institute for Sustainability Leadership (still in partnership with the Departments of Engineering and Architecture) it remains true to its original vision of bringing together different disciplines to develop and share their knowledge to build a better world.
"In 2015, everyone was talking about digitalisation and smart cities," said Faith Wainwright, one of the Ove Arup Foundation's current trustees.
"At the time, we could see there were huge opportunities coming down the line, thanks to these new technologies, which could help us understand what really makes a city liveable and sustainable.
"But we wanted to understand how they could  transform the way we develop and manage the built environment, not just from an engineering 'hard-wired' perspective, but also from the point of view of the people whose lives they would affect.
"The goal was always to establish an education programme for practitioners where this new knowledge could be taught in an interdisciplinary way, just like IDBE.
But before we could get to that point we needed to understand what we going to be teaching so we started by funding research at CSIC, led by Jennifer Schooling."
"One of the big challenges we were all very aware of," said Schooling, "is that a lot of smart city initiatives seem to founder.
A common factor is that they tend to be driven by technology rather than need which means that the companies who were implementing them weren't properly considering how people would use them or how they would be delivered and managed over the long-term."
"Of course you need to understand what the digital technologies can and, crucially, can't do but you also need to know how they will land.
"As a result of our research, we developed a digital innovation process map that guides you through the planning and testing while creating an enabling environment and embeds the outcomes."
"One thing we have learnt is that you need to start with understanding the public value of what it is you are trying to deliver, then work out what the role of digital is in delivering that (if any), and then pilot it."
All of Schooling and team's work has gone into designing a suite of new Digital Cities for Change education programmes ‘ Leadership of Urban Digital Innovation for Public Value - LeadUp ’ - a one-year certificate, a two-year diploma or a three-year master's - aimed at a mix of people from the public and private sectors.
Another path to driving change in the industry is through equipping leaders at Arup with the capabilities they need to deliver change through their work with clients.
This is where another Arup-Cambridge partnership comes into play.
Around five years ago, Arup recognised the need for a bespoke programme that would give its senior leaders access to some of the latest thinking on sustainability in the built environment across a range of disciplines and help them apply that thinking in their work.
Dame Jo da Silva, Arup's Global Director of Sustainable Development, explained: "When I took on this role I was trying to create transformative change in the firm, so that everything we do contributes to a sustainable future and a key part of that is strengthening Arup's leadership on this issue."
"The programme we developed with the Cambridge Institute for Sustainability Leadership's was predicated on really rigorous research and an impressive diversity of contributors.
We have been running the course for three years now and it has been genuinely game-changing."
For CISL's Programme Director, Elodie Cameron, the relationship with Arup is very much a two-way street.
"Being able to work with a like-minded client to co-create and co-deliver a programme, enables us to really drive change."
CSIC’s Early-Career Academics and Professionals Panel (ECAPP) Ever mindful of the need to move the sector forward, Arup and Cambridge (and other key industry players) have collaborated on an initiative designed to give younger researchers and practitioners more of a voice.
Dr Lizzy Moyce, Research Development Manager at Arup, explained: "The idea is that between eight and ten of us representing different parts of the smart infrastructure and construction sector are able to bring a fresh perspective - as well as giving us the opportunity to network and develop our careers."
Now in its second year, ECAPP has made a strong start.
The panel is intended to complement CSIC's steering committee which provides mentoring for the various ECAPP workstreams.
ECAPP has run a series of workshops with senior leaders, at which Moyce says: "We're challenging the views of those people who are holding the senior positions and saying 'we don't think that's quite right from our perspective coming up through the industry'."
The first ECAPP cohort
And the panel is already having an impact.
Moyce and colleagues have submitted a paper to the Joint Board of Moderators which oversees engineering courses in the UK.
"We highlighted that a lot of digital content is not yet making its way into the curriculum and on the back of that we've been invited to give a talk to the Institution of Civil Engineers (ICE).
Prior to COP26 (in 2021), Jo da Silva was looking for a way to communicate to the industry as a whole the need to address the climate emergency not just by reducing carbon emissions but by addressing the system as a whole.
One of the ways she set about this was to publish Reduce, Restore, Remove: a call to action , written by Arup experts with a foreword by Professor Shaun Fitzgerald, Director of the Centre for Climate Repair.
For Fitzgerald, working with companies such as Arup is key to bringing about change:
“It’s fantastic that Arup is taking a leadership role in addressing this kind of systemic change.
If we are to make progress, we need to continue our work together to develop the solutions and take the urgent actions that are needed.”
As we celebrate more than six decades of partnership, the strong connections between the Ove Arup Foundation, Arup and Cambridge, stand as a testament to the transformative power of collaboration and innovation in shaping the future of infrastructure.
As da Silva says: "Partnerships work when they are of mutual benefit.
We can do things with Cambridge that we couldn't do on our own.
It works because there is strong cultural alignment between us."
Published 19 September 2024
Photography from top: Banner image: Getty Images: credit: Prapass Pulsub Bank Underground Station: Getty Images: credit: Jonathan Wilson Exposed under-ream pile prior to  cutting: credit: Transport for London '3D bridge': credit: MX3D: Thea van den Heuvel Humber Bridge: Getty Images: credit: h utchyb Skills for changing world: Getty Images: credit: 10,000' Hours Digital cities: Getty Images: credit: lupengyu Sustainability leadership: Getty images: credit: Luis Alvarez ECAPP: credit: University of Cambridge Climate emergency: Getty Images: credit: Prapass Pulsub
This longstanding partnership between Cambridge, Arup and the Ove Arup Foundation has made our world safer and more sustainable and changed the way professionals are taught.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/aviva:
Insuring its future
Dr Orlando Machado, Chief Data Scientist at Aviva
If you were asked to name some companies at the cutting edge of data science, the likes of Google, Amazon and Facebook might spring to mind.
Insurance companies like Aviva might not.
Yet insurance has been ahead of this particular curve for decades.
After all it’s a business which has been running on big data and algorithms long before these disciplines became part of our collective consciousness.
As data science continues to advance, Aviva is determined to remain in its vanguard, both to improve the way it does things in the short term but also to look afresh at the whole business of insurance and its role in society.
To this end, in 2016 it set up its own data science practice, Aviva Quantum, with a mandate to harness data and technology in order to ‘disrupt’ itself.
Now, a new partnership between Aviva – led by Quantum – and Cambridge University is asking ‘what does this all mean for the future of insurance?’
33 million customers worldwide
31,000+ employees around the world
Founding partner of the Cambridge Centre for Data-Driven Discovery
Funding an Aviva Research Fellow and 3 PhDs
Bespoke training courses for Aviva staff
Industrial Strategy Grand Challenge project
To a certain extent this is already happening with things like smart sensors in your home that can tell you if your washing machine has started to leak and apps that help you drive more safely.
But if insurance is going to become more focused on prevention, it needs all of us to be comfortable with sharing more of our data.
Gaining our trust is vital: we need to be confident that our personal data won’t be abused, or its security breached.
To help Aviva think about some of these questions, Machado wanted to bring on board an academic partner that would allow it to “tap into cutting-edge thinking and some of the theoretical advances that are being been made in data science.
Our need for research is not just short-term improvements to machine learning techniques, it’s about longer-term research into societal trends, something that can be difficult for a commercial entity to do for itself."
Photo features (left to right): Jan Stanczuk (Cambridge PhD student), Dr Orlando Machado (Chief Data Scientist, Aviva), Anna Dalglish (Data Science Partnerships Lead, Aviva), Mark Hayes (Aviva Partnership Manager, Cambridge), Stefan Maczkowski (Head of Data Strategy, Aviva).
After a thorough evaluation of potential academic partners, Cambridge emerged on top and, in 2019, the two organisations began working together.
In a short space of time, they have got three PhDs up and running, sponsored a UK Industrial Strategy Grand Challenge project, developed a bespoke neural network training programme for Aviva data scientists and participated in a wide range of student and postdoctoral events.
Recruitment is currently under way for a new academic post, the Aviva Research Fellow.
With consumer trust – and its possible erosion – a very live issue, it is perhaps no surprise that one of the first PhDs Aviva wanted to sponsor is about ensuring their algorithms remain fair.
The PhD student in question is Michelle Seng Ah Lee, based in the University’s Department of Computer Science and Technology.
As well as studying for her PhD, Michelle has one foot in industry, as AI Ethics Lead at a 'Big Four' professional services firm.
She is also actively involved in Data Kind, a global charity that seeks to harness advances in data science for societal benefit.
Her research interest is in helping firms design algorithms which reflect their values.
Fairness seems like an important notion as more and more decisions – from recommending new products to approving a loan to hiring a new employee – are informed by machines and models.
While these models can tackle discrimination and subconscious human bias in processes, Lee contends that ‘fairness’ is a challenging concept to define in an algorithm.
One person’s idea of fairness is not necessarily the same as everyone else’s: value judgements are involved.
She cites a well-known example of two competing views of fairness in the US Criminal Justice System.
And that’s what Lee’s work is trying to do: by acknowledging that fairness is not a universal concept, she wants to make transparent the values, risk and impact underpinning each algorithm so that managers can decide what kind of trade-offs they want to make and what controls and governance need to be put in place.
“If, for example, you are building an insurance pricing algorithm, there needs to be a way of saying to senior executives: ‘These are your options.
If you choose this one, you will lower your portfolio risk and make insurance cheaper for your customers overall but it may have consequences for these groups.
Here's how we address this risk.’ My goal is to come up with a practical way for people to assess whether an algorithm supports their firm’s values.
My code and methodologies will be made available as open source for anyone developing decision-making processes or algorithms.”
How we address the needs of an ageing population and how we capitalise on our expertise in AI and data are two of the UK government’s Grand Challenges.
These are topics close to the hearts of both Aviva and Helena Gellersen, who is studying for a PhD in ageing and memory in the Department of Psychology.
With Grand Challenge funding from Aviva, Gellersen was able to put her PhD on hold for three months to look at the factors that make one person more likely to develop dementia than another.
For Gellersen, this was her first experience of working with a big company.
She explains why that matters: “It’s really important to get a better understanding of how your research might have an impact on societal issues.
I found it quite exhilarating that I can take what I’ve learnt over the last six years and use that knowledge to make recommendations and give a company insights that it didn’t have before.”
As well as her work on dementia, Gellersen also advised on Aviva’s wellbeing programme for corporate clients.
Its aim is to help employees engage in healthy behaviour and Gellersen helped Aviva think about which ones it should focus on.
(Poor sleep patterns, it turns out, is the health factor most correlated with other detrimental activities such as smoking, drinking, a lack of exercise and an unhealthy diet.) She also helped Aviva devise ways to improve people’s motivation.
“If people believe their health is within their own control, they are more likely to make a positive change.
The good news is that these ‘control beliefs’ are not fixed and can be susceptible to messaging.”
PhD student Jan Stanczuk in the Faculty of Mathematics is fascinated by data science and is harnessing this fascination to help machines get better at learning to spot what’s in a picture.
Collaborating with Cambridge on research topics is one thing, but if Aviva is to remain at the cutting edge of data science, it needs its own talent pool.
“Some of the best data scientists in the world come out of Cambridge,” says Machado, “so it makes sense for us to link with them.” To that end, Aviva is sponsoring the student-run Data Science Society, and Aviva Quantum team members give regular talks at student events.
The partnership is also supporting the data scientists who already work at Aviva.
More than 20 of them recently converged on Cambridge from its offices in the UK, Italy, Poland, France and Canada to learn about neural networks from leading computational neuroscientist, Dr Stephen Eglen.
Machado sees this kind of training as being a key component of the partnership, bringing new skills and knowledge in-house and “giving our data scientists access to world-class teaching and teaching materials.
It’s very motivating for them that we are investing in Cambridge to help them with their professional development.”
Managing the partnership: Mark Hayes (Cambridge) and Anna Dalglish (Aviva)
Managing the partnership: Anna Dalglish (Aviva)
A year into the partnership much has been achieved and there are ambitious plans to maintain the momentum, with more PhD funding in the pipeline and a new Aviva Research Fellow about to be appointed at the Cambridge Centre for Data-Driven Discovery.
One of the distinctive features of the relationship – and testament to Aviva’s commitment to it – is that it is funding a relationship manager based in Cambridge’s Strategic Partnerships Office.
Working closely with his opposite number at Aviva, the Aviva Manager is on hand to ensure that these two large and complex organisations are able to make the most of the plentiful opportunities that exist for collaboration.
Photo credits: StillVision Photography Note: all the photographs were taken earlier this year, prior to the outbreak of COVID-19 in the UK

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/boeing:
The future of flying
Dr Louisa Michael, member of Boeing Research & Technology's Electromagnetic Effects (EME) team and Cambridge alumna
To make aviation climate neutral is an urgent but hugely complex and multi-faceted task .
It requires breakthroughs in fundamental science, the development of new technologies and changes to the way the whole industry works.
University of Cambridge and Boeing research teams have worked closely together for nearly 20 years, asking difficult questions and seeking solutions to some very complicated problems.
Taking the sector to net zero is arguably the most complicated problem of all, which will need "commitment, collaboration and intense research focus to get us to where we need to be," says Ellen Ebner, Director of Sustainability & Future Mobility at Boeing.
- Ellen Ebner, Director of Sustainability & Future Mobility, Boeing
Research partners since 2003
Working with the Departments of Engineering, Computer Science and Technology, Materials Science & Metallurgy, Physics, Sociology and the Scott Polar Research Institute
Boeing is also an Aviation Impact Accelerator partner
Together we are addressing topics such as transitioning the aviation sector to net zero, electric and hybrid-electric propulsion, advanced materials and manufacturing technologies, human-computer interaction and managing disruption.
In 2019 Boeing took part in a roundtable discussion at Cambridge alongside other major players in the aviation industry, chaired by His Majesty, King Charles.
They were there to talk about sustainable aviation and how to make it happen.
The Aviation Impact Accelerator (AIA) was born, and Boeing has come on board as one of three major industry partners, with Rolls-Royce and Etihad Airways.
Since then, the AIA has built a model from which tools and insights can be developed that allow people to map, understand and embark on the pathways towards sustainable aviation.
Its first tool is the Resource to Climate Comparison Evaluator (RECCE).
This can be used to compare different aviation fuels, their impact on the climate, the resources they use and their costs.
The AIA has also published a report , in collaboration with the World Economic Forum, examining the technical capabilities of battery-electric, hydrogen fuel cell and hydrogen combustion aircraft and the role they might play in accelerating the aviation sector to true zero.
"What we are trying to do with the AIA and by working with partners like Boeing, is to identify system 'unlocks'," says Professor Rob Miller , Director of the Whittle Laboratory in Cambridge.
"Bottom-up modelling can help us identify possible unlocks and can cut through complexity to open doors to much wider transformations.”
"Boeing has been involved in the AIA from the start," explains its manager, Beth Barker, "providing expertise in developing and troubleshooting our aircraft modelling and in evaluating some of our other industry models."
For Neil Titchener, who has been leading Boeing’s involvement in the AIA, “being in an open forum with stakeholders from across the whole aviation sector will allow us to trailblaze this path to net zero."
"We’ve been able to contribute our expertise particularly around aircraft modelling and we have also been able to learn from the work going on around sustainable aviation fuels which will obviously have a huge part to play in the future of the industry.”
One of the ways in which aviation can be made more sustainable is through the development of electric aircraft.
However, according to Professor Paul Robertson from Cambridge’s Department of Engineering , it will be a long time before dreams of fully electric, long-haul passenger aircraft become a commercial reality.
"The limiting factor is battery technology.
We are decades away from having a battery that can store sufficient energy for a long-haul flight while being light enough for a plane to get off the ground."
But hybrid-electric planes are a much nearer term proposition for aircraft manufacturers, with a number of models close to commercial deployment.
The benefits, explains Robertson, are that they use less fuel and create fewer emissions than a conventional aircraft.
They do this by using a combination of fuel and electricity to provide the power needed for take-off and climbing then switch to much more efficient fuel-only engines when cruising along at a steady speed.
In 2014, Robertson and his team worked with Boeing to develop a single-seater demonstrator which used up to 30% less fuel than a comparable plane with a petrol-only engine - and was able to recharge its batteries in flight.
Robertson explains: "Until someone invents the magic battery, hybrid planes - particularly for light aircraft - will be a useful transitioning technology, allowing us to significantly increase fuel efficiency and, in time, we will be able to combine electric with sustainable aviation fuels, further reducing their carbon footprint."
For Robertson, working with Boeing has been a productive experience.
"Because these aircraft have to work in the real world, Boeing placed serious design constraints on us.
But as academics, that gives us something positive to aim for.
Boeing tells us what they need in the application space, we apply our design and innovation skills and together we see what comes out."
Robertson is not the only Cambridge engineer working with Boeing on hybrid-electric planes.
It was through a research project on melting glaciers that Professor Jerome Jarrett and his team found themselves drawn into this challenge.
Cambridge scientists from the Scott Polar Research Institute (SPRI) are trying to get a better understanding of how an increasing amount of meltwater is altering the behaviour of the Greenland ice sheet 's large outflow glaciers.
"We needed to search for meltwater pools on the glacier in order to observe them for an extended period of time," explains Jarrett.
"Satellite overflights were too infrequent to capture the daily changes the SPRI team were interested in.
Trying to operate from field stations on the ice, far from runways, would require vertical take-off, but helicopters are expensive and involve putting human crews into a potentially hostile environment."
A standard four-rotor style drone couldn't carry the weight of the commercial mapping technology the SPRI team wanted to use for anything like the required mission length.
What was needed was an aircraft that was light enough for two people to carry, able to take off vertically and then fly conventionally for several hours, mapping around 1,500 square kilometres of ice before returning to its launch point.
Jarrett and team opted for a design using tiltable propellers, a configuration that would make hybrid-electric propulsion an attractive choice.
Phantom Works, with its interest in this field, came on board and, having successfully developed the concept for an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV), Jarrett's team is now working with Boeing on the next step: applying this hybrid design optimisation approach to the 20-seater market.
But this ambitious project aims to do more than design a viable hybrid.
It is about going back to first principles to reimagine what an aircraft looks like .
Jarrett says: "If you ask someone to draw an airplane, it is likely to have a tubular fuselage, swept wings and a tail because that's what commercial planes have looked like for the last 60 years.
That configuration has been determined by the use of kerosene-fuelled jet propulsion.
But change the way you power the plane, for example, by switching to hydrogen and/or electricity, and all the assumptions built into design rules assuming kerosene fuel no longer hold." Jarrett's team is developing a set of computational approaches for configuration optimisation that will free aerospace engineers from the constraints imposed by using fossil fuels, opening up the design space for the greener aircraft concepts of tomorrow.
- Sean Wakayama, Boeing Principal Investigator
Batteries are not the only obstacle to electric, long-haul aviation.
Another challenge is building an electric motor that is powerful enough to fly the plane while being small enough that it can get off the ground.
To help solve this problem, Boeing and Cambridge have been working together on bulk superconductivity for more than 15 years.
Their ultimate aim is to be able to switch to superconducting generators and motors in order to make an electric plane that is light enough to fly.
In 2014 their efforts were rewarded with one of the world’s most sought-after accolades: an official Guinness World Record, for the strongest magnetic field trapped in a bulk superconductor.
Leader of the Bulk Superconductivity Group, Professor John Durrell and his team at the Department of Engineering are looking at the underlying technological challenges.
Durrell explained: “If you want to have a large magnetic coil made out of superconductors, you need to be able to set the magnetic field up in a reliable and robust way.
Key to that is being able to connect superconductors together without introducing too much resistance.”
- Pat Stokes, Boeing Executive Focal and Research Portfolio Leader for the University of Cambridge.
"Finding new ways to operate more efficiently is also an important part of our commitment to meeting our decarbonisation targets , " says Pat Stokes, Boeing Executive Focal and Research Portfolio Leader for the University of Cambridge.
"Addressing how we manufacture our aircraft and manage our operations is helping us take incremental but significant steps in reducing our environmental impact."
Complex physics and mathematical modelling have been helping Boeing tackle some of these real-world operational challenges, including how to de-ice aircraft wings more sustainably, how to mitigate lightning strikes, and how to 3D print complex parts more effectively and accurately.
The Laboratory for Scientific Computing , led by Professor Nikos Nikiforakis , is pioneering this novel approach.
By combining physics with applied maths and high-performance computing, the team is able to model highly complex scenarios, such as how different states of matter (whether plasma, gas, solid or liquid) behave at a macroscopic level when they interact.
To ensure planes are safe to fly in what are called icing conditions (that is, when ice is likely to form on a plane), wings and engine inlets must be kept ice-free at all times throughout the flight.
Today, for both large aircraft and small, this is achieved using a variety of methods: heaters, pneumatic ducting, fluids that lower the freezing point of water or inflatable rubber 'boots' which expand to break off any accumulating ice.
The objective of the Cambridge research was to evaluate a more effective and more energy-efficient way of doing it.
Nikiforakis and his team have applied their computational multiphysics methods to see if, by creating tiny vibrations using ultrasonic transducers placed under the skin of an aircraft, it is possible to stop ice formation.
No commercially available software has all the underlying physics necessary to accurately simulate this phenomenon at the macroscopic level, so the team built a bespoke multiphysics algorithm which has successfully revealed the underlying physics of this process and has demonstrated its effectiveness in a real-world scenario.
The next step is to take these findings and test them in Boeing’s icing tunnels.
On average, commercial planes are hit by lightning once a year.
While they are designed to withstand these strikes, every time they happen, the plane may be temporarily taken out of service while it as assessed for damage and any repairs carried out.
This can cause significant disruption to schedules which, in turn, contributes to inefficiencies.
By understanding the physics of a lightning strike and how it affects the different materials in a plane, this research is helping Boeing rethink how parts are designed, what damage limits are recommended for particular components and how maintenance and repair practices should evolve accordingly.
One of the Boeing team members carrying out this research is Cambridge PhD, Louisa Michael, who was a postdoctoral researcher in Nikiforakis's Scientific Computing Laboratory.
“In spite of the importance of the topic, there’s only a small part of the world focused on lightning and aviation research, and an even smaller subset falling in the intersection between academia and industry where innovative technology finds its way into industrial applications,” Michael says.
“It’s fascinating to work on such complex but very real problems.
"I get to collaborate with other people around the world who share my expertise in this area," she continued.
"And all this would have not been possible without the very talented Cambridge research team and my exceptional Boeing EME teammates.
It’s pretty exciting to see all of that coming together.”
Nikiforakis adds: "There is no other model in the world that can capture the two-way interaction between lightning and a material, so this is a very significant advance both in fundamental mathematical physics and in terms of numerical analysis and scientific computing."
As aircraft design changes to benefit from new, more sustainable technologies, manufacturers like Boeing are increasingly turning to 3D printing to produce the large, complicated components these new designs demand.
3D printing (or additive manufacturing), is also more efficient and creates less waste than conventional manufacturing.
Melting the metal powders used for 3D printing is a multiphysics problem and therefore of interest to Nikiforakis and team.
Understanding what's going on as the powder becomes a liquid and then cools to become a new solid - and being able to model that process mathematically - can help us to better understand the properties of the finished part, and to improve the techniques used for additive manufacturing.
Nikiforakis explains why this is important: "Commercial software packages are available to address this issue.
However, not only is our computational model an order of magnitude faster than any currently on the market, it can also simulate innovative manufacturing processes developed at the University's Institute for Manufacturing using an array of lasers."
For Boeing's Pat Stokes, this multiphysics approach, "is very exciting work and highlights the importance and value unleashed via the development and utilisation of model-based engineering and simulations of highly complex physics phenomena."
"My part of the Boeing portfolio is the most cross-disciplinary, often involving PhD students with backgrounds in the social sciences, psychology or business," says Professor Alan Blackwell , from the Department of Computer Science and Technology.
"That's because my group tends to get involved in projects where humans and technology are coming together in a way that creates some kind of issue."
For example, if you were to have a maintenance manual for a 747 it would be so huge you would, says Blackwell, "need a van to drive it around".
The question Boeing asked Blackwell and his team was 'how you can design computer systems, including screens and keyboards, that make it easy to find the information you need when you are in the middle of doing something very complicated?'
Boeing funded a PhD student with a background in the anthropology of dance to investigate this challenge.
But, as Blackwell explains, "for this kind of work you have to go into an organisation and watch how people set about their tasks.
Boeing factories are not places where you can have research students wandering around, so we looked for another domain - a bit closer to home - with a similar set of problems."
They found the ideal location, a place where teams of people work together in a complex situation and need to access data: the Royal Papworth Hospital in Cambridge.
The student observed the transition in the intensive care unit from paper notes to an electronic patient record system with a screen at the end of each bed.
Her background in anthropology and dance enabled her to study the way that the anaesthetists, consultants and the nursing team were 'choreographing' their work by adjusting the positions of their bodies relative to the patient when the computer was introduced.
Blackwell's team has also been investigating situations where human decision-makers and AI agents are interacting with one another and forming ideas about what each other is thinking.
To do this, they built a prototype which looks at how autonomous vehicles in a city interact with human drivers.
Blackwell explains: "We came up with a way of visualising the basis on which they're making decisions and playing out scenarios.
It allowed us to look simultaneously at many possible universes in which different things might happen depending on the decision that you take.
All those different universes are represented in our model by 'ghost cars' driving around."
- Dr Dragos D.
Margineantu, Boeing Senior Technical Fellow, AI Chief Technologist
As well as designing and manufacturing aircraft, Boeing also provides its airline customers with a wide range of after-sales support, including planning and managing airline operations.
Professor Duncan McFarlane and his team at the Institute for Manufacturing have been working with Boeing for many years to analyse and manage disruptions.
Around eight years ago, the IfM team started to apply its expertise in disruption management and data analytics to address the complicated problem of airline scheduling, working in collaboration with both Boeing and its airline partners.
"Increasing efficiency by minimising disruption to schedules has an important role to play in reducing emissions," explains McFarlane.
"We are working with Boeing and their airline customers to help them handle disruptions better and to understand why one flight can be delayed with very little knock-on effect to the schedules, but another creates airport mayhem."
To answer those questions, McFarlane's team has used machine learning to develop a software tool that looks at multiple data sources, works out what's causing the problems and which types of disruption are likely to have more severe consequence than others.
The software has already been used to analyse nearly 100,000 flights and, according to Goran Stojkovic, a Boeing Technical Fellow who works for Digital Aviation Solutions at Boeing Global Services, “it is helping us see what is really happening in the back-end so we can adjust flight schedules to minimise problems.”
How to go about minimising those problems is the second part of the puzzle.
The team is working on a further piece of software to help airlines deal with delays by resetting their schedule for the rest of the day, reassigning crews, aircraft, flights and passengers in the most effective way, to ensure as many seats are occupied as possible.
“This has been a fruitful project for Boeing”, says Stojkovic, “and we have identified some clear opportunities for deployment which we are taking forward.”
As Cambridge and Boeing celebrate 20 years of collaboration, Philip Guildford, Chief Operating Officer at the Department of Engineering and the University's partnership lead for Boeing, explains why the partnership has been so enduring and so valuable for both partners.
“Cambridge is a centre of world-class research and Boeing is a global industrial innovator.
We both share a commitment to - and excitement about - the potential of fundamental science and the deployment of new technologies to have a positive effect on people's lives.
Never has that been more important than it is today, as we strive to accomplish this most complex but necessary of tasks: reimagining the future of aviation."
Published 16 February 2023
Photography
Dr Louisa Michael.
Credit: Boeing Boeing ecoDemonstrator in flight over mountains.
Credit: Boeing.
Photographer: PaulWeatherman Hybrid-electric demonstrator: University of Cambridge Iceberg shot from a drone.
Credit: Carlo Cogni Jet engine.
Credit: Jonathan Knowles Lightning bolt.
Credit: Sarayut Thaneerat Planes at gates.
Credit: Michael H Departure boards.
Credit: Craig Hastings Woman at airport.
Credit: Benjamin Torode

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/working-with-BT:
25 years of BT and Cambridge
BT is a global telecommunications company with 100,000+ employees worldwide, serving customers in more than 70 countries.
Cambridge is one of BT's four strategic university partners worldwide.
Research collaborations span engineering, computing, physics, materials science, social anthropology, and business and management.
BT is a member of Pembroke's Corporate Partnership Programme.
Back in 2000, fewer than half of UK households had a mobile phone .
If you wanted to get in touch with someone, you would try calling them on their landline and keep your fingers crossed that they were at home.
Since then, how we communicate, how we do business and what we do for fun have changed beyond all recognition.
For the past 20 years, BT and Cambridge have been working together to understand both the technological possibilities of our new digital world and also the effect those technologies could have on us.
“We’re a company that does research.
Our world-leading teams generate patents, publish papers and attend conferences,” explains BT’s MD of Applied Research and Pembroke College William Pitt Fellow, Professor Tim Whitley.
“Collaboration with academia is a crucial part of that process for us.
Working with experts from other organisations challenges our thinking and brings our teams into contact with people from many different disciplines, such as social sciences and business schools, often with different perspectives.”
“Our relationship with Cambridge has a strong track record of delivering value to our business through technical innovation and strategic insight for more than 20 years.”
One of BT's most longstanding collaborations – with the University’s Engineering Design Centre (EDC) and Professor John Clarkson – was started in the early 2000s by Jeff Patmore, then head of BT’s strategic university relationships.
According to government figures , just under a quarter of people in the UK have some kind of disability, increasing to almost half of those of pensionable age.
With funding from BT, Clarkson and his team, working with Roger Coleman, Professor of Inclusive Design at the Royal College of Art, developed an inclusive design training course which they delivered to designers and product managers across BT.
The outcomes were impressive and included the 2008 launch of two bestselling BT products which incorporated all the principles of inclusive design: the Freestyle 750 series phone and a more user-friendly Home Hub 2.0.
Since then, the University's toolkit for inclusive design has been adopted internationally as the 'gold standard' and its principles have been incorporated in the UK's national curriculum for Design and Technology.
For Clarkson, "The thinking and all the early development of the toolkit was funded by BT.
Its support was instrumental in making all of that happen.
We simply couldn't have done it any other way."
But that's not the end of the story.
The approach, first developed in the early 2000s, has stood the test of time.
BT is currently funding a PhD student, supervised by Clarkson, who is helping to design internal software packages to make them user-friendly and fully inclusive.
Another type of academic engagement pioneered by Patmore and Clarkson was rapid research into how new communications technologies were affecting human behaviour.
This was prompted, explains Patmore, "by increasing concern in the media about the impact of the internet, particularly on children.
These were big questions BT decided it needed to answer.
We needed to think about the consequences of making the internet accessible to everyone."
Jeff Patmore, former Head of Strategic University Research & Collaboration at BT
The result was an ambitious study of internet usage and its impact on families and their wellbeing in the UK, US, China and Australia, Culture Change in Communication .
Organisational culture has been another area of mutual interest for Cambridge and BT over a long period of time, led by Dr Philip Stiles at the Cambridge Judge Business School.
"The stakes here are high," explains Stiles.
"BT is what we call a high reliability organisation.
It has to achieve 99.99999% reliability in its core telephony network, and to run an organisation like that, you need precision and consistency." But BT is also undergoing digital transformation, moving away from the traditional switched network to a voice over internet protocol network (VOIP) approach.
"The introduction of this technology has required changes in infrastructure, skills, ways of working and culture generally, as BT combined the needs for consistency and a flawless service with innovation and change.
Of particular interest was the use of self-managing teams to manage the transition."
Dr Philip Stiles, Director of the Centre for Human Resource Management, Cambridge Judge Business School
"One of the outcomes," says Stiles, "was that it cemented the idea of these self-managing teams.
Rather than a traditional hierarchical leadership approach to change, engineers worked in leaderless teams adopting cross-functional and highly flexible ways of working and showed how continuity and innovation can be combined.”
BT's commitment to understanding the 'people' side of technology is also reflected in Stiles' involvement in a major technology project, Next Generation Converged Digital Infrastructure (NG-CDI) alongside colleagues from Cambridge's Institute for Manufacturing and teams from the Universities of Lancaster, Bristol and Surrey.
NG-CDI is a Prosperity Partnership project jointly funded by BT and ESPRC to secure the UK's telecommunications networks for the future.
Professor Ajith Parlikad from the IfM explains: "As 5G comes on stream and things like self-driving vehicles, virtual reality and the Internet of Things become a normal part of our everyday lives, we are going to see an unprecedented demand placed on our communications networks.
Current networks will simply not be able to cope."
The multi-university, multidisciplinary team aims to develop a smart network that can react to and even predict changes in networking demand and reconfigure the infrastructure accordingly with minimal human intervention.
But it's not just about the technology.
"For BT," explains Stiles, "this programme represents a huge organisational as well as technical challenge, with implications for how the business is structured, and how current ways of working will need to change.
"If the network is going to be run by AI, how do you ensure that the algorithms are the right ones and do exactly what you want?
What happens if something goes wrong?
At the moment, if part of a system breaks down, BT has got clever engineers who can work out where the problem is.
With AI, it's not always clear how to identify the problem and fix it."
"That's where we come in.
Our part of the project is to look at the risks involved, and the kinds of governance BT will need to put in place to mitigate those risks."
Making networks 'unhackable' is another active area of research collaboration, both with Professor Richard Penty in the Department of Engineering and with Mike Payne, Professor of Computational Physics at the Cavendish Laboratory and BT Corporate Fellow at Pembroke.
A huge amount of work is going on at Cambridge – and elsewhere – in quantum key distribution (QKD).
While Payne is sceptical of much of the hype surrounding quantum more broadly, he thinks there is "one clear area of application in creating secure communications networks".
Penty takes up the story: "With today's technology, it would take an unfeasible amount of computing power to crack conventional encryption algorithms and work out their keys.
But at some point, someone will invent a quantum computer that is big enough to do it.
"QKD essentially solves the problem in advance.
By making use of the fact that photons are individual particles of light and therefore have quantum mechanical properties, you can devise a protocol for sending a key securely from one place to another.
If you wanted to, you could also update the key every millisecond.
However, one of the technical challenges is that it's very difficult to send both the key and the data you are encrypting over the same fibre."
And this is where another feature of the Cambridge-BT partnership comes into play – geographical proximity between the University and BT Research in Martlesham, Suffolk.
This has resulted in what Carol Fletcher, head of BT’s Strategic Partnership Programme with Universities and Schools, describes as " a genuine world-first: together we designed and implemented what at the time was the longest quantum secured network running from our campus in Suffolk to Cambridge."
Carol Fletcher, head of BT’s Strategic Partnership Programme
During the pandemic, BT saw a sudden rise in the number of attacks on its 5G masts and threats made to its staff.
Fuelling these activities was a conspiracy theory, widely shared on social media, that 5G was responsible for spreading the coronavirus.
Naturally, BT was interested in finding a way to monitor the spread of disinformation with a view to identifying potential threats.
In 2021, as part of the Cambridge Grand Challenges programme, Andrea Kocsis, a PhD student in the Department of Archaeology, spent six months at BT pursuing her interest "in misinformation and fake news".
She joined BT's Security research team to develop an automated way of detecting the spread of misinformation on Twitter by using machine learning to differentiate between those with malicious intent versus news reporting and general chatter around the topic.
Kocsis explains that the next stage of the project is "to integrate the results into a software which is able to catch those tweets about 5G which can trigger direct aggression."
"This project is a great example", says Fletcher, "of how we can work the University in lots of different ways.
Being able to bring in some expertise from a slightly different domain to look at this problem has been really helpful."
For Director of Cambridge Grand Challenges, Dr Konstantina Stamati, the benefit is mutual.
"Companies that host a PhD student benefit hugely from their knowledge and expertise.
But it's also fantastic for the student who gets to spend time in an organisation, looking to solve a particular problem while gaining valuable skills and experience."
In 2003, BT joined the pioneering Pembroke College Partnership programme.
Today, the relationship with Pembroke remains strong and is one of the things that Fletcher values about Cambridge.
"It helps us develop all the different types of engagement we have with the University, whether it's the high-profile BT-Pembroke Annual Lecture , hosting brilliant Pembroke students as interns, supporting MBA student projects at the Business School, or working together on STEM outreach."
"Pembroke also helps us find the people across the University who can test us and challenge us, to help our researchers with what they're doing and to help us understand where our next big challenge or our next big success is going to come from."
The last word goes to BT Corporate Fellow, Mike Payne: "Our partnership with BT is founded on honesty, trust and integrity.
To maintain this relationship over such a long period of time with so many different people involved is really quite remarkable and says a lot about the company."
Published 14 October 2022
Digital globe.
Credit: Piranka Old friends catching up.
Credit: SolStock Woman working at a BT contact centre.
Credit: BT Rendering of binary code pattern.
Credit: MR.Cole_Photographer Quantum computing concept.
Credit: Vchal Communications tower.
Credit: Lucas Ninno Statue of William Pitt, Pembroke College.
Credit: University of Cambridge

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/future-of-work:
Professor Jennifer Howard-Grenville introduces a new partnership between the University of Cambridge and KPMG on the Future of Work.
"You're on mute."
In March 2020, this became an all too familiar refrain as our working lives were turned upside down.
Many of us – although by no means all – were suddenly 'working from home', connected to the outside world through our computers.
By and large, we got on with it.
There were upsides – and downsides.
But, most of all, there were questions.
We were collectively re-evaluating our working lives.
Before the pandemic, new trends had already started to emerge.
Digital technologies were changing the way we were doing things from buying groceries to calling a cab.
Organisations were becoming increasingly conscious of their responsibilities to the planet and to the wellbeing of their staff.
Governments were becoming more concerned about growing inequalities between and within countries.
But these changes were incremental.
Mostly we carried on behaving in the same way our parents, their parents, and generations before them, have done.
We would get up and go to work.
Until the pandemic stopped us.
Suddenly, we had an opportunity to take stock, to consider the forces of change already in train and to ask 'Where do we go from here?'
But to do that we need to recognise that we are in a state of transition.
We are still tethered to a set of expectations and beliefs about work and life that are no longer fully relevant.
At the same time, we are looking towards a more equitable, productive, meaningful, responsible and, dare I say it, more caring future.
The good news about this 'in-between' state is that it is also a space of incredible potential.
We can not only dare to imagine – but for the first time in many of our lives – actually create the future we want.
Freed from expectations about, say, face-time at the office, expressing our true selves at work, or what contributes to productivity, we get to rewrite the rules.
This once-in-a-generation opportunity cannot be wasted.
Jennifer Howard-Grenville, Diageo Professor in Organisation Studies at Cambridge Judge Business School and University of Cambridge lead for the Future of Work partnership.
Our Future of Work initiative seizes this opportunity to launch ambitious, multidisciplinary research programmes on themes that must be explored, understood, and tackled in fundamentally new and evidence-led ways in order to deliver the future we want.
Professor Gordon Harold is leading the Mental Wellbeing programme for the partnership, with Professors Diane Coyle CBE and Sir John Aston.
Gordon explains: "Mental health is the bedrock of a healthy, productive and positive society.
It is estimated that 1 in 5 children and adults in the UK experience mental ill health and that by 2030 depression will be a leading cause of premature death and illness globally, costing an estimated $16 trillion dollars annually.
"According to a report published in February 2022, mental health problems are costing the UK economy at least £117.9 billion annually, equivalent to approximately 5% of the UK’s GDP.
"Promoting positive mental health and supporting those who experience or are at risk of mental ill health is now a national and global priority.
We know that 75% of serious mental illness in adulthood is in place before the age of 18 years, so starting to address this early is essential.
"This partnership will bring together researchers and experts across the fields of psychology, education, mathematics, economics, intervention and prevention science and other related academic and professional disciplines.
"We will work directly with KPMG and their partners to offer a unique and innovative interdisciplinary research programme that will help us better understand the factors that affect mental wellbeing at work.
It will also show how evidence-based support can positively affect individual mental wellbeing, enhance workplace productivity and promote a healthy workforce for the future."
“As we emerge from the pandemic to different ways of working, we are all being impacted by change and now more than ever, businesses will benefit from research and data to help them invest in the right areas to support their workforce, their organisations and to reflect a changing society.
Chris Hearld, Head of Regions at KPMG UK explains why the initiative is so important for KPMG.
“Supporting the mental wellbeing of employees is a key issue in the new world of work for business leaders and this is the first pillar of research we will jointly explore.
Professor Gordon Harold, University of Cambridge lead for the Mental Wellbeing programme
Chris Hearld, Head of Regions, KPMG UK
“Our partnership will research and identify what really works when it comes to supporting mental wellbeing in the workplace, addressing the current lack of data evidencing clear links between mental wellbeing policies and better employee health.
“By helping business leaders support their people to thrive at work, we intend to play a role in lifting productivity, delivering wider benefits to the economy and the people who work in it.”
Find out more: KPMG and Cambridge researchers discuss mental wellbeing in the workplace
For the Future of Work to enable individual thriving, organisational effectiveness, and societal wellbeing, we need to look across all these levels, and particularly where they intersect.
For example, we cannot ask what ‘good’ jobs look like in a technology-enabled future without deeply understanding how interacting with those technologies shapes individuals’ mental wellbeing, nor how the adoption or loss of certain jobs influence the geographic distribution of economic and community development.
By its nature, therefore, such an endeavour has to cross disciplines and methodologies.
Collecting and analysing data across these vastly different scales – from the level of individuals to national and international trends – cannot be adequately tackled by one discipline alone.
The Future of Work programme will inform actions and policies that can grow and support progress in these areas.
By addressing the overlaps between the different levels and questions, our research can contribute to the massive opportunity before us – not just understanding how we as individuals are making sense of the new world of work, but how we can collectively do so in a way that delivers a productive, resilient future for people, organisations, societies, and the planet.
Following on from the first research pillar on Mental Wellbeing, we will develop multidisciplinary research pillars in other pressing areas.
Research questions within a pillar focused on digital technologies, for example, may probe how such technologies influence people’s experiences of work, its regional, national and/or global distribution, and how this, in turn, reshapes organisational approaches for employee training and development.
These programmes will be shaped collaboratively by the University of Cambridge and KPMG.
We will invite researchers from across the University to propose multidisciplinary, multi-year projects which will deliver ground-breaking research.
Working in partnership with KPMG, the researchers will be guided by the experiences and challenges facing global organisations today.
This will give them a unique opportunity to listen, learn and co-develop effective, evidence-based interventions and strategies that can be shared widely to benefit other organisations engaged in reimagining the future of work.
This is the start of an ambitious partnership which could influence the working lives of generations to come.
Read more here .
We will be making more announcements in due course about how to get involved: University researchers, watch this space.
Published 21 June 2022
Portrait of Jennifer Howard-Grenville: StillVision photography Image of workers stretching: Hispanolistic, Getty Images Woman shaking hands with robot: Peter Cade, Getty Images

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/nokia-bell-labs:
Cambridge and Nokia Bell Labs are working together on next-generation mobile technologies.
PhD students Lorena Qendro (left) and Andrea Ferlini with Nokia Bell Lab's earable prototype.
If our eyes are the windows to our souls, our ears may prove to be the gateway to our minds and bodies.
At least, that's what a partnership between Cambridge University and Nokia Bell Labs believes.
A new generation of devices worn in the ears - aka 'earables' - has the potential to transform our mental and physical health.
And thanks to a generous donation to the University from Nokia Bell Labs, it is just one of the mobile computing projects these two titans of innovation are working on together.
Many of us spend more and more time plugged into headphones.
What if those little pieces of plastic could be doing more than streaming music into our ears?
What if they could also be making us healthier and happier?
Professor Cecilia Mascolo explains why this technology - and others like it - are so important: "In the future, we see earables supporting people with things like interaction disabilities, memory impairment or mental health issues as well as being used to diagnose and monitor disease and infections."
For Nokia Bell Labs, this is an area of such huge potential that it has developed a new platform for 'earable' technologies.
In the same way that Apple - amongst others - encouraged a community of developers to create apps for it, Nokia Bell Labs has opened up its platform and prototype to promote rapid innovation.
And it seems to be working.
Cambridge was an early adopter and is now one of around 70 universities working on the platform, with a focus very much on the data side of things: how to process and understand the information coming out of the earables and how to make mobile computing systems more efficient and - critically - more secure.
But working on earables is only one aspect of their collaboration.
In 2018, thanks to Nokia Bell Lab's donation, the University was able to establish the Centre for Mobile, Wearable Systems and Augmented Intelligence under the joint leadership of Mascolo and Professor Alastair Beresford.
Its broad aim is to harness advances in mobile systems, security, new materials and AI to underpin a new generation of technologies with a whole host of applications.
Devices worn in the ear, on our wrists or incorporated into our clothing are, the team believes, certain to play an important part in the healthcare delivery of the future.
But there's still a huge amount of work to be done on the 'building blocks' before these technologies become part of our everyday lives.
In this regard, the Centre is making progress in a number of different areas, from how to combine inputs from multiple sensors to gaining a better understanding of how people interact with these new devices.
Ultimately, however, these devices will only work if their security - and their users' privacy - can be guaranteed.
Beresford's research interest in this area, therefore, is mission critical and is already having a significant impact.
His team recently identified a key vulnerability in smartphones which the manufacturer has now taken steps to address.
The close relationship between the Centre and Nokia Bell Labs has also encouraged researchers to find and explore other areas of mutual interest such as how wearable consumer tech could have an important role to play in detecting - and therefore helping to manage - certain types of compulsive behaviours such as nail-biting, skin-picking, fidgeting and hair-pulling.
Back in 2015, when the world-famous network of Bell Labs was acquired by Nokia (from Alcatel Lucent), it had a very strong foothold in the US and Europe but no UK presence.
Dr Fahim Kawsar, Founding Director of Pervasive Systems Research at Nokia Bell Labs in Cambridge saw this as a gap which, at his instigation, the company sought to rectify.
By 2016, Nokia Bell Labs had set up shop on Cambridge’s West Cambridge campus to focus on three core areas: materials, systems and data science.
Cambridge had been top of Kawsar's list for a number of reasons:
At around the same time that Nokia Bell Labs was contemplating a Cambridge office, Kawsar and Mascolo - with a shared interest in mobile systems - were starting to run into each other at conferences.
Their collaboration naturally intensified when Kawsar moved to Cambridge and culminated in 2018 in the foundation of the Centre for Mobile, Wearable Systems and Augmented Intelligence.
For both Mascolo and Kawsar, the philanthropic model of collaboration is hugely liberating.
For Kawsar: "It covers all the IP issues and logistical constraints which can otherwise strangle research.
We don't have to worry about any of that and can just get on with it."
Another advantage of the donation is that it allows the Centre to be flexible in how it funds its PhDs and postdoctoral researchers which means it can make the money stretch further.
At the moment, the Centre is fully or partially supporting eight early career researchers and is in the process of recruiting more.
Proximity is also key.
Or at least it was, until the coronavirus pandemic intervened.
Nokia Bell Lab's 20-strong team is - under normal circumstances - a stone’s throw away from the Centre for Mobile, Wearable Systems and Augmented Intelligence on the West Cambridge campus.
In pre-COVID-19 times, the Cambridge PhD students would regularly shuttle between the two buildings as would those members of the Nokia Bell Lab's team with Visiting Scholar status - and access cards.
For Kawsar, being able to work alongside each other is an essential part of the process, and something he is very much looking forward to returning to.
Mascolo agrees: "Being so close to each other has definitely had an impact on how we innovate, and not only in terms of ideas.
Having an industrial partner nearby working on prototypes has helped us evolve our ideas and speed up development."
Another dimension of the collaboration both Kawsar and Mascolo consider to be hugely important is the connections it forges between the students and the company.
From Nokia Bell Labs' perspective, it is an opportunity to recruit some of the UK's rising stars.
For the students, it gives them first-hand experience of working in industry which means they are able to make more informed career choices.
But, ultimately, successful academic-industrial collaborations are all about the people.
"I've been involved in a number of industrial collaborations over the years," Mascolo says, "and, in the end, it's all down to the chemistry.
Photo credits: Stillvision Photography Cambridge

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/rolls-royce:
Reaching for the skies
Professor Cathie Rae, Professor of Superalloys, University of Cambridge
Getting planes in the air – and keeping them there – is a complex and expensive business.
It is also responsible for more than two per cent of the world’s fossil fuel-based CO 2 emissions.
For world-leading aeroengine manufacturer, Rolls-Royce, reducing those emissions by making its planes more efficient is, therefore, a critical task.
Much has already been accomplished but there is more to be done.
Year on year, Rolls-Royce continues to push the design of its engines and the materials they are made from to the limits of possibility.
Cambridge has been playing an important part in this process for more than 40 years.
From the moment the Whittle Laboratory first opened its doors – and its testing rigs – in 1973, it became an invaluable research partner for Rolls-Royce, embarking on a shared quest to improve the efficiency of turbomachinery.
Rolls-Royce was quick to see the advantages of this way of working, and the relationship between it and the Whittle team helped to define a model for the University Technology Centre (UTC) network that Rolls-Royce went on to establish in the 1990s.
This network now consists of approximately 30 UTCs based at some of the world’s leading universities, giving Rolls-Royce access to new thinking, state-of-the-art laboratory equipment and, critically, to a steady supply of young engineering talent.
Working together for more than 40 years
2 University Technology Centres
Partners in the EPSRC Centre for Doctoral Training in Future Propulsion and Power
Supporting 50+ Cambridge PhD students
Today, Cambridge is one of only a handful of Rolls-Royce’s partner universities to have two UTCs: the University Gas Turbine Partnership based at the Whittle and Hopkinson Laboratories and the Materials UTC based at the Department of Materials Science and Metallurgy.
In 2009 the relationship with the Materials Department was further cemented when it became the lead partner in the Rolls-Royce University Technology Partnership (UTP) in materials research, combining its expertise with that of the Universities of Swansea and Birmingham.
In addition to the academics and researchers, Rolls-Royce provides varying degrees of support for more than 50 Cambridge PhD students at any one time.
Over the years, the Whittle Lab has contributed to many breakthroughs in Rolls-Royce engines, such as switching from a 'two-dimensional' (2D) to a 3D compressor blade.
Now the industry standard, the design reduces fuel consumption by nearly 1%.
Although this may sound like a small gain in efficiency, it is anything but.
For each aircraft, that could equate to a reduction in CO 2 emissions of up to 765 tonnes per aircraft per year and a saving of up to $240,000 a year in fuel costs.
Director of the Whittle, Professor Rob Miller together with Dr James Taylor , Rolls-Royce Fellow in Compressor Aerodynamics, is currently taking this work forward to develop the next generation of 3D blade designs.
Dr Bryce Conduit, Rolls-Royce (left) and Dr James Taylor, University of Cambridge.
Conduit was supported by an EPSRC IAA Knowledge Transfer Fellowship to work on secondment at the Whittle.
If a bird or other object strays into an aeroengine, it’s definitely bad news for the bird and potentially bad news for the engine’s compressor blades.
Engineers must decide if the damage is serious enough to warrant taking the engine off the wing to repair it.
If it is, it will cost Rolls-Royce a huge amount of money and is therefore not a decision to be taken lightly.
The preferred option is to use a grinding tool on the blades in situ to remove any small cracks and prevent them from spreading.
But any changes, however small, to the shape of the blades will affect the performance of the engine.
This poses a tricky question for the Rolls-Royce engineers: how much damage to how many blades and in what pattern can be sustained before performance is compromised?
Enter Taylor and Bryce Conduit, AI/Horizon Scanning Lead in Rolls-Royce’s Central Technologies Group (with a PhD from Cambridge in Materials Science) who worked together on a novel approach to understanding this problem using machine learning, something the team thinks has not been done before.
Under normal circumstances, machine learning needs thousands of bits of data on which to train.
However, a single compressor test normally takes around six months to complete.
At that rate of progress, it would simply not be possible to generate the quantity of data needed.
The Whittle solved this conundrum by developing a rapid test capability in which a compressor rig can be stripped, rebuilt and tested in just 15 minutes – a staggering 1,000 times quicker than was previously possible.
Using this high-speed capability, Taylor and Conduit were able to test 125 different compressors.
Although this represented a huge step forward, it was still not giving them the quantity of data they needed for the machine learning system they had in mind.
Their response was to combine the test results with ‘expert elicitation’.
In other words, they interviewed compressor specialists at Rolls-Royce and the Whittle Lab and fed their human wisdom into the model.
The combination of rapid testing and expert knowledge resulted in a machine learning model which can predict how damage will affect the operation of a compressor to an accuracy of 98%.
From left: Dr Bryce Conduit and Malcolm Hillel, both Rolls-Royce, Dr James Taylor, Dr Tony Dickens and Professor Rob Miller, University of Cambridge.
What is it about the UTC model that makes these kinds of game-changing advances possible?
For Rolls-Royce's Malcolm Hillel it's the ability to look beyond the immediate pressures faced by all organisations and come up with completely new ways of doing things.
For Miller, the longevity of the relationship and having a framework in place for sharing IP are also critical factors in its success.
“We’ve been working with Rolls-Royce for more than 50 years and that gives both parties a whole host of benefits.
It means Rolls-Royce can be completely open with us about its strategy which, in turn, means that we are always ahead of the curve in researching the areas industry is most interested in.
And that openness means technology transfer is just so much easier.”
Dr Howard Stone, Reader in Metallurgy, University of Cambridge and Deputy Director of Rolls-Royce UTC in Materials.
While the Whittle uses its expertise in aerodynamics to make aeroengines and gas turbines more efficient, the Department of Materials Science and Metallurgy considers the other side of the same problem: what these machines are made of.
Justin Burrows, Project Manager for University Research at Rolls-Royce and currently a Royal Society Industrial Fellow based at the University says: “Aeroengines give us an almost limitless challenge.
You are spinning a turbine blade around at 13,000 rpm, it’s in a gas stream 200 degrees above the alloy's melting point and you are hanging a double-decker bus off the end of it.”
Developing a nickel-based superalloy for engine disks that are operating at these immense speeds, under vast amounts of stress at high temperatures has been the principal focus of the Materials UTC since its inception.
Work to further extend the properties of the material continues today, with a patent in the works for a new alloy likely to be introduced into Rolls-Royce engines in about five years’ time.
At the same time, engine designs are changing, with fans getting bigger and the engine getting smaller.
Ultimately, to maximise efficiencies, a gearbox will be needed which can withstand what Professor Cathie Rae , Professor of Superalloys at the Department of Materials Science and Metallurgy describes as “unprecedented pounding” so that the fan and the turbine can run at slightly different speeds.
The Cambridge team is researching the materials and the resistance to wear needed to operate in those extreme conditions.
Rae, like Miller, thinks the benefits of the relationship are multifaceted: “Working with universities like Cambridge gives Rolls-Royce access to our academic staff, exposure to new ideas and access to more and better equipment and techniques than any in-house research centre can reasonably fund.”
But the relationship is very much a two-way street, giving Cambridge researchers extraordinary opportunities to address some of the world’s most complex technological challenges.
Atomic-level engineering is at the forefront of modern, greener jet engine design.
Video (2015).
Dr James Taylor and Dr Tony Dickens at the Whittle Laboratory
In the end, a successful partnership is all about the people.
The UTC structure creates the conditions in which long-term, open working relationships between Cambridge researchers and Rolls-Royce engineers can flourish to achieve real technological breakthrough.
Miller points to the recruitment of both graduates and postgraduates as a critical factor in sustaining those relationships: “From Rolls-Royce’s perspective being able to recruit some of our most talented engineers is clearly an advantage.
But it’s also an advantage for us to have generations of Cambridge-trained engineers at Rolls-Royce.
It means we understand each other really well.”
Further reading : You might also be interested in Professor Rob Miller's recent article in Horizons magazine on ' Green-sky thinking for propulsion and power '.
To find out more about how the University of Cambridge can work with your organisation, visit: www.cam.ac.uk/business-and-enterprise
Or contact us at: business@admin.cam.ac.uk
Images
Damaged compressor blades in the rapid test rig.
Credit : James Taylor Installing a pressure transducer in the rig Machining prototype compressor blades from aluminium alloy on the 5-axis mill Damaged blades lined up and ready to test Inside an arc melter where prototype alloys are first produced.
Weighing elemental metals to prepare the right mix for a new alloy.
All other credits : StillVision Photography

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/testing-the-water:
Why Cambridge?
Before I came to Cambridge to do a PhD, I was an undergraduate at Heidelberg University studying particle physics.
My supervisor there had accepted me on to a PhD programme but was then offered a job in Cambridge.
I was able to transfer my offer to Cambridge and to get the funding I needed, I applied to the Centre for Doctoral Training (CDT) in Data Intensive Science.
CDTs include an industry placement as part of the training they offer.
Was that a particular attraction?
At that stage, I was probably just thinking about the best way to get funding for my PhD.
But it was nice to have half a year to test the water and see what it's like to work in industry even though I didn't think I would stick with it.
Your PhD in a nutshell?
I was working with the ATLAS Detector at the Large Hadron Collider at CERN, recording and analysing what happens when protons collide, looking for a new particle hypothesised by physicists in their proposed explanations for dark matter.
How did the placement with OKRA.ai come about?
I had heard good things about the company from previous students and I liked the fact that it's enabling healthcare.
The other thing I like is that the industry is very regulated.
This means that when we use AI we already have to comply with strict regulations which other AI sectors are still catching up on.
What did you do during your placement?
OKRA has a product called the 'Medical Brain'.
It connects huge volumes of text , from healthcare providers, researchers and pharma companies.
Bringing them together produces tons of interesting insights and by using machine learning we are able to identify emerging topics and trends.
I was looking at how to integrate large language models into the 'Brain'.
Once you've found an interesting topic, you can present the raw data relating to it.
But that can be very messy and difficult to get into.
It's much better if you can generate a nice clear summary that tells you what's going on with links to the underlying data.
Creating these user-friendly summaries was one aspect of my work; the other was to develop a chatbot to help people access the insights without needing to use the dashe.
What was the company like to work for?
I felt very well supported from day one.
They have team lunches every Wednesday.
Not only is the food delicious but it's also fun because you meet people that you don't get to talk to as much.
Prior to OKRA.ai I had never used natural language processing.
I'm used to using numbers to describe the physical world but I've always thought of language as this vague, human, messy thing.
I've realised that, in spite of its vagueness, by using mathematical techniques you can go a very long way to pinning language down.
In some ways, that realisation has changed how I look at the world.
I was really impressed with the amount of care taken to keep track of the data at OKRA.ai.
We aim to be like that in academia but it's not always as well implemented in practice.
If I had gone back to research, I would have wanted to put that knowledge to good use.
In the ATLAS collaboration there are about 3,000 people who you somehow have to align with.
It's much easier to work with small numbers of people in the same building.
Even when there's strong disagreement to start with, if you can get people in a room together, you can find a way through it.
You are now working for OKRA.ai.
When did you decide this was the right path for you?
I realised I wanted to continue developing the prototypes I'd been working on during the placement.
And I just really enjoyed the day-to-day work and was excited to carry on with it.
What's your role now?
I'm a data scientist in the natural language processing team.
A lot of what I'm doing is a continuation of what I started as an intern but there's also a lot of aligning with people about what we are going to do, why and how.
I'm really enjoying it!
Why does OKRA.ai have student placements?
We want to bring in expertise from the cutting edge of academia and different perspectives.
Recently, the University of Cambridge and Envision Pharma Group hosted a hackathon on the use AI for global healthcare, bringing together students and industry experts to solve real world cases with AI.
We look forward to many more collaborations with Cambridge and connecting their bright minds to the life sciences industry to deploy their technical skills to drive faster and smarter patient outcomes.
What about Lars in particular?
We've never had someone come in on a placement and drive their own work, in the way Lars has done.
He's one of those people who you can throw any problem at and he'll find a solution.
With his expertise and contagious laugh, Lars is an invaluable member of our diverse team.
As an undergraduate, I studied physics at Imperial College London.
Towards the end of my degree I specialised in topics to do with atmospheric processes.
But I've always loved space and particularly the physics of the solar system.
I saw an opportunity at the Institute of Astronomy in Cambridge for a summer internship.
I did that for a few months and really loved both the department and the city.
So, when the time came, I applied for a PhD position there and was fortunate enough to get a place .
How did your industry placement come about?
Cambridge allows PhD students to take up to six months out from their studies, suspending their funding, to do things like industry placements.
I was keen to experience this opportunity before the end of my studies, so that I could make a more informed decision on whether I wanted the next step of my career to be in academia or closer to industry.
Trying to better understand how the Earth’s atmosphere and surface were influenced by giant collisions with large (Mars-sized) asteroids during the Earth’s early lifetime.
So how did the placement with SATAVIA come about?
They were suggested to me by Professor James Fergusson who looks after industry placements for the CDT and has a lot of contacts.
I really wanted to use my physics and SATAVIA was perfect.
It's an atmospheric science company, looking at mitigating the warming effect of aircraft-created condensation trails (contrails).
It was also great for me that it was a start-up.
If you like a lot of structure and a defined role, maybe a larger company is better, but I like having a diverse set of tasks to do in my day-to-day work and I was able to get involved in lots of different things.
What were you doing for SATAVIA?
SATAVIA has a weather prediction model to help aircraft avoid the conditions which cause contrail formation.
Contrail science is quite a specialised branch of atmospheric science using both weather prediction modelling and contrail modelling.
You feed the weather parameters into our model and it creates a representation of what the contrail would look like if the aircraft was flying through that weather.
I was part of the science team, validating the model by running tests on it.
I picked through all of the code to make sure it matched up with the literature and then used that knowledge to write up documentation to help with the business side of the company, such as for investors or partners within the aviation and climate industries.
Then there was the day-to-day operation.
Satavia was actively involved in flight trials with its partner Etihad every week.
I was there helping to make sure that everything made sense atmospherically.
How to set up your own frame of reference for what success is and to pace yourself into that.
Breaking down large tasks into small achievable daily/weekly goals is really important.
I'd written code for my own research but SATAVIA showed me how to do it in a much more professional way.
When you're doing scientific research, you are often speaking to people in your field or you're doing outreach to people who are in adjacent fields.
I think that misses out a key category of people who are either in industry or are policymakers because they speak a very different language.
You have to learn how to how to communicate effectively with different types of people by trying to understand their motivations and what they will need as a result.
You've taken an academic post, back at Imperial.
What is your role now?
I'm a postdoc with my own research project, still working on modelling contrails and I'm still working with industry.
I'm involved in a European consortium with other research institutes and industry partners looking at a large-scale solution for contrails.
Why does SATAVIA offer student placements?
For their ideas!
Someone in the later stages of their PhD will likely have exposure to very cutting-edge material, including research which has yet to be published.
What about Jonathan in particular?
What we do is extremely complex, but Jonny was able to very quickly grasp the detail and represent it in slides to help us explain it clearly to lay audiences.
It's very, very difficult to do that well.
We are currently developing a methodology to create incentives for airlines and others undertaking contrail management in routine aviation.
Jonny was instrumental in helping us develop the scientific materials to support this approach, working at a very high level to advance the state of the art in this field.
Jonny's time with us gave us confidence that we could rely on the University’s student placement scheme to provide valuable and relevant expertise.
Published 29 May 2024
Photography Banner image: Getty Images: Credit: Liudmila Chernetska Images of Lars supplied by OKRA.ai Images of Jonathan: credit: Jacqueline Garget

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/quantifying-the-Cambridge-Cluster:
And it continues to prosper.
Last year, 'knowledge-intensive' businesses in the Cambridge city region saw a 17% increase in their collective turnover, in a spectacular post-COVID rebound.
Dr Andy Cosh (left) and Dr Giorgio Caselli
It was back in the 1980s that people first started talking about the 'Cambridge Phenomenon', referring to the explosion of technology, life sciences and service companies that had started to cluster in and around 'Silicon Fen'.
But that flowering of entrepreneurial spirit brought with it certain challenges.
Matthew Bullock is co-founder of Cambridge Ahead , a membership organisation (to which the University belongs) which was set up in 2013 to advocate for sustainable economic growth in the region.
"Early on," he explains, "we realised that to maintain the cluster's momentum, we would need to understand its strengths and build on them.
We were also conscious that local government would need to plan for the houses and transport links to support this increasingly buoyant ecosystem."
"What was required were accurate numbers, from which we could create an overview of the whole regional economy."
An early attempt to map the Cluster served to demonstrate the scale and complexity of the task.
"There were obvious problems with that first data set, with companies being counted more than once," explains Bullock.
"De-duplicating corporate structures is not easy.
You have to know what you are doing."
Enter Dr Andy Cosh, Assistant Director at the Centre for Business Research.
With a research background in applied economics, and experience of working both at HM Treasury and with many different companies, he understood exactly what was required.
"In 2015 , I started data gathering, entirely on my own," says Cosh, "developing a methodology which has since turned into an extensive operations manual."
In 2018, as the size of the task continued to grow, he was joined by fellow data expert, Dr Giorgio Caselli.
Together they have expanded their regional focus from a 20-mile radius around Cambridge to cover the whole Cambridgeshire and Peterborough combined authority.
Today, their database contains details of more than 90,000 companies and limited partnerships, both active and inactive.
Gaining a true picture of the region's economic geography is a painstaking exercise.
To work out how many new companies are founded each year and if existing ones have grown, shrunk, failed, or moved away, takes months of research.
Dr Giorgio Caselli, Senior Research Fellow at the Centre for Business Research
Their no-stone-unturned approach includes driving round the region's science and business parks to ascertain which companies have a physical presence there.
Cambridge Ahead's CEO, Jane Paterson-Todd, explains why their data analysis is so important: "It enables Cambridge Ahead to speak with credibility about what is happening across the Cambridge economy.
"It is invaluable in our engagement with national and local policymakers, shining a spotlight on what is really happening in our industry base and enabling us to talk to government about the investments and interventions that are needed in response."
"When we first started," says Cosh, "we were sponsored by local organisations such as Arm, Marshall and Mills & Reeve, who recognised the value of the data from the outset.
"We are now also funded by the Cambridgeshire and Peterborough Combined Authority and the Greater Cambridge Partnership, and our work underpins their planning for sustainable - and equitable - economic growth across the region."
Today, this annual data collection and analysis provides the cornerstone for a wide range of local, regional and national planning activities, playing a pivotal role in supporting the development of the Cluster as a whole and the associated infrastructure planning.
The methodology has also been used to investigate the impact of particular parts of the ecosystem.
For example, in 2020, Cosh and Caselli were part of a team that quantified the impact of the Babraham Research Campus, highlighting its critical role in the UK's life sciences sector.
For Cosh, as well as supporting the continued success of the Cluster, their work also represents a model for how this kind of approach could be applied more widely:
"If the government wants to develop effective regional economic policies, it needs to understand which sectors it is strong in and where, and use policy to enhance those strengths.
But to do that properly they need this kind of detailed, accurate data which currently is not available for other parts of the UK."
Professor Andy Neely, Pro-Vice-Chancellor for Enterprise and Business Relations at the University of Cambridge
The Cambridge Cluster Insights dashboard
Every year, Andy and Giorgio's data helps us show just how important the ecosystem is to the University and vice versa.
Download Cambridge Innovation in Numbers as a PDF or keep on scrolling.
year-on-year increase in knowledge-intensive jobs in last 6 years
Patent applications per 100,000 residents
IT and telecoms firms
High-tech manufacturing firms
.
Knowledge-intensive services companies
Life s ciences companies
contributed to the UK economy
one of the world's top 3 universities
Cambridge affiliates awarded the Nobel Prize
top university in the world for producing successful tech founders
researchers supported by Cambridge Enterprise (the University's knowledge and tech transfer office)
in translational research funding won with the support of Cambridge Enterprise 2011-22
in follow-on funding raised by spinouts in the Cambridge Enterprise portfolio since1995 r
of Cambridge Enterprise portfolio companies have a 5-year survival rate
firms founded by staff and alumni of the University's Department of Computer Science and Technology
You may also be interested in:
The University contributes nearly £30 billion to the UK economy and supports more than 86,000 jobs across the UK.
A report by London Economics has measured the University of Cambridge’s impact on the UK economy in 2020-21.
Published 2 May 2023
Photography: StillVision Infographics: Suvi Roberts

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/clinicaltriallists:
Cambridge’s Experimental Medicine Initiative
Sarah Fell
These days, thanks to COVID, we are all aware of the importance of clinical trials in getting new treatments to patients.
But only around 15% of drugs trialled are ever approved and they often fail at a very late stage, costing the pharmaceutical industry trillions of dollars.
Cambridge's Experimental Medicine Initiative (EMI), supported by AstraZeneca and GSK, is training a new kind of triallist, specialists who can work out at an early stage if a treatment is likely to succeed.
More than 20,000 talented researchers, clinicians and healthcare professionals live and work in and around Cambridge.
These are people with one thing in common: a determination to find new and better ways of preventing and treating disease.
But before a new treatment can be used with patients, it has to go through exhaustive clinical trials.
This is a process we have become all too familiar with, as we watched the race to develop effective COVID vaccines unfold.
“The world now knows that being able to test the effectiveness of new vaccines and other medicines in a safe and timely manner is critical both to future public health emergencies and to the development of new treatments for chronic diseases,” says Ian Wilkinson, Professor of Therapeutics and Director of the Cambridge Clinical Trials Unit.
Professor Ian Wilkinson
Before they were so abruptly brought to public consciousness, clinical trials had been evolving over the course of the twentieth and twenty-first centuries into a complex, highly sophisticated and heavily regulated medical specialism.
“Traditionally, clinical trials have been organised to test safety first and efficacy last,” explains Wilkinson.
“It’s a cautious step-by-step approach that ensures that pharma companies can satisfy regulators that the drug is safe.”
According to Wilkinson, however, this approach, while understandable, can be problematic, as development becomes increasingly expensive and more drugs are failing at a late stage.
“When that happens,” says Wilkinson, “a company may have wasted several hundred million dollars trialling a drug that was never going to work.
Leaving questions of whether a drug is effective to the final stages is now too risky and expensive.”
The three phases of clinical trials
“We need to find out much earlier if a treatment is going to work.
And we do that by looking not just at a drug’s safety in those early trials but also by studying what it’s doing to the patients.
For that we need people with an unusual skillset who are in very short supply.”
Cambridge BioMedical Campus
In recent years, the UK’s two pharmaceutical giants, AstraZeneca and GSK, have championed the need for more rigorous trial design to weed out likely failures earlier in the process – and have been working with the University of Cambridge to do something about it.
As a collaboration, it makes perfect sense, combining the University’s research expertise with AstraZeneca and GSK’s drug discovery and development know-how.
With AstraZeneca moving its global headquarters – the Discovery Centre – to the Cambridge Biomedical Campus where GSK already has its Clinical Trials Unit, all of this expertise is now in one place, alongside not one but three, world-leading hospital trusts.
In 2016, specifically to address the shortage of suitably qualified triallists, the University set up Experimental Medicine Initiative (EMI) with funding from – and the active participation of – AstraZeneca and GSK.
It has since recruited a cohort of 11 talented researchers and clinicians to its PhD programme and created six academic clinical lectureships.
The trainees all run their own clinical trials with the support of an industry, academic and clinical supervisor.
The programme is designed to be a two-way street, with the trainees gaining invaluable experience while their industry partners benefit from their new approaches to experimental medicine.
Renal specialist, Dr Rona Smith was already an experienced triallist when she was appointed to an EMI academic clinical lectureship.
She had previously been involved in a large international randomised trial comparing the effectiveness of drugs in patients with vasculitis, an autoimmune disease causing inflammation and narrowing of blood vessels.
Dr Rona Smith
From the outset, Smith was interested in asking the ‘mechanistic’ questions to “work out why some people respond to a particular drug and some don’t.”
The EMI post allowed Smith to develop her own ideas and to take on her first role as Chief Investigator in a national study, looking at responses to vaccines in vasculitis patients.
In 2019, with that experience under her belt, Smith felt equipped to move on to a Senior Research Associate role.
When COVID struck, Smith and her colleague, Thomas Hiemstra, were looking after dialysis patients who, although acutely vulnerable to the virus, still had to go into hospital three times a week for treatment.
Nationally, more than 10% of dialysis patients caught COVID and those that did suffered from high mortality rates.
Hiemstra had the idea that they should trial a drug that could protect both these and other vulnerable kidney patients.
Smith explains: “Speed was of the essence so we were looking to trial a drug that we already had safety data for.
Various groups were busy screening drug libraries of existing compounds and the most promising appeared to be niclosamide, a drug normally used to treat tapeworms.”
The Cambridge team received enthusiastic backing from Union Therapeutics, the company that makes niclosamide, as well as funding from LifeArc, Kidney Research UK and Addenbrooke’s Charitable Trust.
Getting the trial up and running was not plain sailing, however.
“The only way to get a COVID trial going in the UK was to have it designated a national priority by the government.
We were turned down initially but continued to have conversations with the Department of Health.
Its priority – rightly – was the vaccine roll-out but we had increasingly compelling evidence that a significant proportion of our kidney patients were still vulnerable even after two doses.”
Having agreed to modify the trial to include another nasal formulation, they eventually got the green light and have now enrolled nearly 700 patients in 36 centres across the UK.
Their ambition is to reach 1,500 patients in 40 centres and the team is working with colleagues in India, with a view to extending the trial there.
Smith is excited about the trial and its prospects.
“At the moment, it’s running with niclosamide, a second inhaled agent is about to be added to the platform and, moving forward, we want to refine the target population so that we can identify people who will not respond to the vaccine and therefore remain most vulnerable to the virus.
More targeted agents, such as monoclonal antibodies targeting SARS CoV-2, could also be considered for these patients.”
For Smith, her involvement in the University’s EMI programme played a pivotal role in her development as a trial specialist.
“The direction of travel with all trials is to take a much more mechanistic approach, to understand why something works or doesn’t."
"Training individuals to have an understanding of the complexities of clinical trials and how to incorporate aspects of experimental medicine is key.
You can only really do that by learning on the job in a supported environment.
You can’t learn it remotely from textbooks.
You have to be doing this kind of work to understand its intricacies.”
Cancer specialist, Dr Constanza Linossi arrived in Cambridge from Argentina via Barcelona, where she had already gained first-hand experience of running clinical trials at Vall D’Hebron University Hospital, a leading international centre of clinical and translational research.
She came to Cambridge initially to work as a clinical research fellow for Addenbrooke’s Early Phase Unit and breast cancer teams.
While this was valuable experience, she soon found herself “itching to design her own studies”.
Dr Constanza Linossi
To improve her knowledge of clinical trials design and gain insight in translational research, she applied to do an MPhil in translational medicine.
This path took her to work at Professor Rebecca Fitzgerald’s lab, which specialises in oesophageal cancer.
Although Linossi’s previous experience had been in breast and ovarian cancer, her interest quickly shifted.
“Even though it’s a nasty cancer which often has poor outcomes, oesophageal cancer has been less researched than, say, breast cancer because it is not as prevalent.
When Linossi heard about the EMI programme she decided to apply to further boost her experience as a translational researcher.
Her EMI PhD, supported by AstraZeneca, has two separate but connected strands.
Using tissue samples collected as part of a study run by Fitzgerald’s lab in collaboration with the International Cancer Genome Consortium, she is studying the molecular and immunological landscape of patients with Stage 2 and 3 oesophageal adenocarcinoma and the effects of chemotherapy on the disease.
The lab work for this part of the project is carried out at AstraZeneca, under the supervision of its experts in immuno-oncology.
The design and delivery of a clinical trial, Calibration, is the second part of the project.
Patients with the disease receive durvalumab, an immune checkpoint inhibitor developed by AstraZeneca.
The aim of the trial is to assess its effectiveness in treating the disease and to identify biomarkers which could indicate which patients are most likely to benefit from its use.
Linossi was already an independent clinician when she arrived in Cambridge but, she says, “EMI has given me the guidance and support to set up my own early-phase trials, ask relevant research questions and help me answer them.
The medical side of things is not a problem but now I have a much more complete set of skills.
I can be a more critical and independent researcher."
In the future, Linossi wants to, “work in drug development at an early-phase unit of a major academic centre gaining expertise in immune-oncology - and have a really big impact on people’s lives.”
Dr Jamie MacKay, the first of the EMI cohort to complete their PhD, was a radiologist at the Norfolk and Norwich University Hospital, who “had dabbled a bit in research” during his clinical training before deciding he wanted to pursue it further and study for a PhD.
With Fiona Gilbert, Professor of Radiology and Andrew McCaskie, Professor of Surgery at Cambridge, Mackay developed a research proposal in osteoarthritis which, it turned out, chimed with one of GSK’s strategic priorities.
Interests quickly aligned and MacKay found himself enrolled in the EMI programme, working with GSK's clinicians and scientists to develop magnetic resonance imaging techniques that can be used as a rapid and non-invasive way of assessing the effectiveness of treatments for osteoarthritis of the knee.
The collaboration meant that GSK could subsequently use the techniques in its experimental studies focused on osteoarthritis.
MacKay’s work has garnered international recognition.
In 2020, he was elected as one of 15 Junior Fellows of the International Society for Magnetic Resonance in Medicine (ISMRM), in recognition of “outstanding quality and promise in research”.
In 2021, he received the ISMRM Young investigator award for clinical MRI research, the first time the prize has been awarded outside the United States in more than 15 years.
Dr Jamie MacKay
For MacKay working with industry has opened doors: “It gave me an insight into the standards industry applies to conducting a clinical study.
It was hugely beneficial to see how that world worked and definitely paved the way for me to move into my current role as a medical director in the pharmaceutical industry.”
“Jamie MacKay, Coni Linossi and Rona Smith are all great examples of why the EMI programme is so important,” says Wilkinson.
“Capitalising on basic science discoveries to improve outcomes for patients is critically important and you need the right people to make it happen.
That’s why the programme is vital not only to Cambridge but to the world.”
Looking ahead, Wilkinson is keen to expand the EMI, by bringing on board “more industry partners who offer more varied experiences across a wider range of disease and therapeutic areas and wider ranges of approach to therapies."
"Given that Cambridge has the greatest concentration of biopharma outside North America," he says, "it would seem that the opportunities here are fantastic both for industry and for the triallists of the future.”
Image at top: MarianVejcik, Getty Infographic by Alison Fair

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/neurodegeneration-collaboration:
Academic and industry researchers are looking for new ways to treat neurodegeneration by recycling bad proteins.
Three companies, Astex Pharmaceuticals , Eisai Ltd and Eli Lilly and Company , are joining forces with research scientists across Cambridge to explore promising new approaches to the treatment of neurodegenerative disease.
When unwanted material builds up in our cells, our bodies generally take care of it using a process known as autophagy - which literally translates as ‘self-eating’.
Autophagy is normally carefully controlled so that it removes damaged proteins and keeps cells healthy.
One feature of neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s is that damaged proteins build up in the brain — ultimately destroying nerve cells.
What if we could get rid of these proteins by switching on the body’s own mechanism for clearing out its cellular trash?
Could this lead to breakthrough treatments for these devastating conditions?
That is the challenge a group of research scientists and industry partners in Cambridge has set itself, in a groundbreaking model of pre-competitive collaboration led by the University’s Milner Therapeutics Institute .
The Milner Institute’s Deputy Director, Dr Kathryn Chapman, explains the rationale for setting up this new Consortium project: “Finding new treatments for neurodegeneration is a mammoth challenge.
Everyone recognises it to be a vitally important target for drug discovery, but it is such a complex area that it is hard for companies to make significant progress on their own.”
Dr Kathryn Chapman, Milner Therapeutics Institute
Chapman and colleagues felt that the Milner Institute could play an important convening role, bringing together academic and industry experts to make real progress in translating the basic science into a better understanding of the different kinds of therapeutic interventions that might be possible - and effective.
The approach is all about bringing the right people, know-how and experience together.
In this case, that meant not only experts from different companies but also research scientists from different institutions across Cambridge.
One of these is world authority on autophagy, Dr Nicholas Ktistakis from the Babraham Institute .
"The pathway is already well understood," he explains.
“It has been studied for many years in terms of the basic science but whether it can be mobilised to treat disease, that’s more of an open question - and one that we are trying to answer together."
Dr Nicholas Ktistakis, Babraham Institute
Working alongside Ktistakis is Dr Alex Whitworth from the MRC-Mitochondrial Biology Unit in the University’s School of Clinical Medicine.
Whitworth is an expert in mitophagy, a form of autophagy affecting mitochondria, which plays a critical role in cellular life and death.
Expertise in early-stage drug discovery and target validation for dementia is provided by the third research partner, the ALBORADA Drug Discovery Institute , part of the Alzheimer’s Research UK Drug Discovery Alliance, also based in the School of Clinical Medicine.
Its involvement in the consortium is led by Chief Scientific Officer, Dr John Skidmore, who is hugely supportive of the collaboration: "Clearly, autophagy is an area of great therapeutic interest in which everyone is asking more or less the same questions.
It seems ideally suited to this kind of collaborative approach."
Dr John Skidmore, ALBORADA Drug Discovery Institute
When Alzheimer’s Research UK established the Drug Discovery Alliance it did so with collaborative intent.
The Alliance's Director of Research, Dr Susan Kohlhaas sees real benefits to a model where universities, corporations and charity work together: “The ALBORADA Drug Discovery Institute puts industry experts in an academic setting, with their work made possible by the charitable ALBORADA Trust."
For Ktistakis at the Babraham Institute, one of the major benefits of the collaborative model is in being able to reproduce results.
"A huge problem in drug discovery efforts," he explains, "is that often when someone discovers something, no-one else is able to replicate their findings.
Here we have three different labs, all bringing very specific expertise to the problem, making sure we are talking to each other at every step of the way, checking that we can see what the other labs are seeing.”
The other critical dimension of this collaboration is the involvement of three pharmaceutical companies: Astex, Eisai and Eli Lilly and Company.
These companies all bring deep knowledge from their own research programmes in neurodegeneration.
Peter Atkinson, Head of External Innovation, Neurology Business Group at Eisai, explained why they were so keen to be involved: “Companies have been trying to harness endogenous clearance pathways for years but it’s a very complex area.
There are so many different ways in which you can modulate the pathway.
"Because autophagy takes place throughout the whole body, you need to be sure that if you switch it on to correct something in the brain, you don’t inadvertently cause problems elsewhere.”
“What we like about this approach is that by sharing knowledge and resources, we are de-risking the effort and harnessing both academic expertise and robust, industry-standard evaluation and validation processes.”
Nicola Wallis, Senior Vice President Biology at Astex Pharmaceuticals agrees: “This is a really interesting development for us.
We have worked with the Milner Institute before but not with other pharma companies.
The difference with this initiative is that we can all use the results and explore individual areas on our own going forward.
As companies, we will be more interested in some areas than others.
So this is very much a win, win.”
Dr Nicola Wallis, Astex Pharmaceuticals
Research Advisor at Eli Lilly and Company, Fiona Menzies, is excited to see the data that is generated from this collaboration, confident "that it will deliver unique insights into this important area of biology that would not be achieved by any one of us working alone."
It all started in 2019, when the Milner Institute organised a ‘sandpit’ to which researchers and companies were invited to brainstorm around the broad topic of neurodegeneration.
Jeremy Carmichael, Senior Vice President, Corporate Development, at Astex described how “the sandpit really struck a chord with people.
It was an exciting topic which immediately got real traction.”
This was echoed by Chapman who could see the potential for a collaborative approach: “The group quickly became more than the sum of its parts.
The power of all these different minds working on the same problem was spectacular.”
Having created a huge amount of interest with the sandpit, Chapman and team were determined to capitalise on the obvious appetite for collaboration.
However, creating a consortium of organisations that don't usually work together is not a task for the fainthearted.
For Eisai's Peter Atkinson, the Milner Institute's role has been critical in getting the project off the ground, through its tireless efforts to "broker the relationships, broker the science and broker the contracts.”
"It deserves huge credit," agrees Menzies, "for identifying the need for enhanced collaboration in this area, and then, not only taking the initiative to bring together a diverse group of interested parties but ultimately making this project happen."
Over the next two years, the aim is to make real progress in understanding the molecular pathways controlling autophagy and which of the possible treatment targets have the most potential.
"Our hope," says Chapman, "is that some new targets for drug discovery can be taken forward into clinical development by one or more of the companies."
Meanwhile the Milner Therapeutics Institute plans to build on this success and set up multi-company projects with other partners in the Consortium, which now includes 10 pharma companies.
It has recently issued a call for more ideas for collaboration between researchers and industry, in a wide range of disease areas including cancer, neuroscience and infectious diseases.
"We can see the power of collaboration," says Chapman, "and want to apply it to other areas where there are opportunities to make real progress in developing new treatments."
Top: C onceptual image of human nervous system.
Credit: ktsimage, Getty All other images: University of Cambridge

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/business-and-enterprise/aviva-cambridge-annual-report:
"We are delighted to share this report, which highlights the progress of our partnership over a very difficult 18 months for everyone.
Achievements include doubling our number of active PhD sponsorships, developing a placement program for neurodiverse students, and renewing our podcast series to share our data science applications with all.
We are just as excited about the future with an increased focus on development opportunities for our people, working with Cambridge to share our corporate archives, and delivering our research projects supporting both Aviva’s climate action agenda and community wellbeing support."
Alessia Kosagowsky Chief Data Officer, Chair of Aviva Quantum
Read the 2019-20 report here .
Read more about the partnership here or watch this film about its first year.
Aviva sponsored PhD candidate, Michelle Lee
Credit: Stillvision Photography

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/enterprisingresearchers:
An award-winning team from Cambridge, Botswana, Mozambique and Namibia has been bolstering entrepreneurship in Southern Africa and supporting some exciting new ventures in the process.
Gaborone, Botswana.
Credit: Eddie Chuan-Shun Ho, Wikimedia Commons
Around 20,000 people in Botswana are hearing impaired.
With little support, they struggle to access critical services such as healthcare and banking.
Many are unable to cast their vote.
Children, who account for more than half of the deaf population, often fail to receive even a basic education and thus have their life chances limited from the start.
This is something aspiring tech entrepreneur and ICT Associate at the Botswana Institute for Technology Research and Innovation (BITRI), Lucia Otsetswe-Moapare wants to change.
Her solution is a mobile app which both teaches sign language and translates it and which she hopes will be adopted by schools, banks and hospitals to deliver services to this disenfranchised community.
In 2019, Otsetswe-Moapare was one of 17 entrepreneurial researchers from three southern African universities taking part in a knowledge exchange programme with the University of Cambridge.
Tech entrepreneur Lucia Otsetswe-Moapare
In 2018, six of the world's top 10 fastest growing economies were in Africa.
2019 saw an 11 per cent increase in foreign investment across the continent.
An article in The Economist , published at the end of March, gave further (pre-COVID) grounds for optimism about the continent's economic trajectory pointing, amongst other things, to "the emergence of a start-up culture.
Last year [2019] venture-capital funds invested about $1.3bn in new African firms, an increase of more than 600% over the $200m invested in 2015."
The pandemic has brought an abrupt and devastating halt to any further progress, with the UN warning that it will disproportionately affect the world's poorest nations.
But back in 2019, when what The Economist was calling a "start-up boom" had started to gain ground and coronavirus was on no one's radar, researchers and knowledge exchange professionals from Cambridge and three southern African universities took part in a remarkable back-and-forth set of visits.
According to BITRI’s Director of Partnerships, Bathsheba Mbongwe, the idea for this programme germinated when Cambridge researchers visited BITRI in 2018.
They started to talk about "the need for universities to work in partnership with local industry in order to achieve societal impact" and about how best "to establish academia-industry innovation ecosystems."
At around the same time, the University of Namibia was developing its vision for the future, with innovation, enterprise and community engagement firmly at its heart.
Lúrio University (Unilurio), a technical university in the north of  Mozambique, was similarly tasked with increasing the number of entrepreneurs emerging from its portals.
From these converging conversations an ambitious knowledge-exchange programme emerged, involving more than 50 participants and 10 institutions.
Definitions vary, but in essence, it is about sharing knowledge developed inside universities with communities outside those universities.
“Knowledge” is broadly defined to include ideas, information, skills and experiences.
The “exchange” part is critical: this is not a one-way process, but is designed to bring insights from outside the university back in.
Its goal is to create or expand the impact university-devised knowledge has on the world.
This particular programme had three main aims.
The first was to share Cambridge's experience and expertise with the three Southern African universities as they build their capabilities to commercialise their own intellectual property.
The second was to identify areas for ongoing research collaboration between the universities in areas which will have significant and lasting impact.
And the third was to help Cambridge evolve the support it offers to other universities looking to maximise the impact of their research.
At the heart of the programme were the 17 impressive examples of entrepreneurship - including Otsetswe-Moapare's - already underway in Botswana, Mozambique and Namibia.
They were presented at the first workshop in Botswana where Cambridge experts were on hand to share their knowledge of research commercialisation.
Alongside researchers in topics such as innovation management, intellectual property and industrial sustainability were a team from Cambridge Enterprise, the University’s technology transfer arm, with a wealth of experience in commercialising intellectual property.
As well as looking at how each of the entrepreneurs could improve their own chances of success, the group also considered the “innovation ecosystem” and the critical role policymakers, universities and businesses need to play in it in order to create a thriving entrepreneurial community.
Although the Cambridge context is clearly very different to the African one, hearing how the Cambridge Cluster has evolved into one of the world’s most successful innovation ecosystems offered some useful insights.
For João Salavessa, founding Director of the Faculty of Social Sciences and Humanities at Unilurio in Mozambique, the Cambridge story gave them, “lots of new ideas which is important for us right now.
We need more entrepreneurs and we have a lot of opportunities.
If our students can develop their ideas and work for themselves, it is a benefit both for them and for the whole country."
For the 17 entrepreneurs the next stage was a visit to Cambridge for some practical workshops covering topics such as how to develop a business plan, how to carry out and benefit from market research and how to make a compelling pitch to potential investors.
For Otsetswe-Moapare, currently exploring partnerships with Botswana’s Ministry of Education, banks and hospitals to support the take-up of her app, "the programme was perfect timing for me as I was just at the commercialisation stage.
I learnt a huge amount but the two things that really changed my approach were understanding the importance of market research and that negotiations are all about building long-term relationships."
Pigeon peas.
Credit: www.uniprot.org/
In Mozambique, Ramula Issa, a researcher at Unilurio, is also committed to making a difference to people's lives.
Food security remains one of the most pressing challenges in sub-Saharan Africa.
Pigeon peas ( Cajanus cajan) could be part of the solution.
They are already an important source of protein and micro-nutrients for many Mozambicans but a lack of processing technologies means that much of the harvest is often wasted.
Until her project was put on hold by the coronavirus, Issa had been exploring how to turn her PhD in nutrition into a business.
Her goal is both to help farmers better preserve the harvest and its nutritional composition using new technologies, processes and packaging and also to create a new range of pigeon pea-based products - such as cookies - which would be affordable and appetising, have a long shelf-life and a high nutritional value.
Her trip to Cambridge proved to be an important catalyst: "When I was researching, I was only thinking about the research.
Experts from Cambridge not only showed me it was possible to create a business but gave me the skills to go about it."
There's still much to be done and Issa is looking forward to restarting the project as soon as she can.
"Food security is such a big problem.
We need to make sure that the research we do makes a difference."
Dr Bathsheba Mbongwe, Botswana Institute for Technology Research and Innovation (left) and Dr Sara Serradas Duarte, Cambridge Global Challenges
The success of the programme has been recognised by the UK's leading professional body for knowledge exchange practitioners.
Earlier this year, it was awarded the prestigious PraxisAuril UKRI Team of the Year 2020 Award.
Dr Sara Serradas Duarte from Cambridge Global Challenges, the driving force behind the initiative, said: "The two aspects of this programme that were fundamental to its success were listening and jointly learning.
"The starting point was the needs of the institutions in southern Africa but as a result of the projects all of us in Africa and the UK have become better equipped to deliver knowledge exchange and to collaborate on new research."
But winning an award is by no means the end of the story.
Research collaborations between the universities are progressing in areas such as microbial and electrochemical energy production systems and medical sterilization and water remediation.
The participating universities are putting in place mechanisms to support research commercialisation.
Unilurio, for example, has set up CADI, the Centre for Academic Development and Innovation, to deliver its own entrepreneurship training and a knowledge-exchange Agribusiness Unit in conjunction with the Mozambique government and with funding from the African Development Bank.
Unilurio is also using its new expertise to forge stronger connections with big business - an important component in any successful ecoysystem.
"There is currently a gap between the universities and companies, mostly because of a lack of trust and a lack of awareness about what we are doing.
We need to change that and find ways of working with each other.
It's really important that the big companies hire local people," said Salavessa.
In November 2019, in partnership with the Cambridge Global Challenges team, Unilurio delivered three workshops designed to persuade industry and government that they need to work with their local universities which, said Salavessa, "were an important starting point in making that happen."
As all countries face the daunting task of rebuilding their COVID-ravaged economies, it is now more important than ever that universities are able to turn their research into economic and social value.
In Botswana, Mozambique and Namibia, that means supporting inspiring young entrepreneurs like Issa and Otsetswe-Moapare as they pursue their dreams of improving the lives of the people around them.
This pioneering programme has helped to strengthen the entrepeneurial capabilities of three southern African universities.
It has also helped Cambridge develop the support it is able to give to other universities wanting to do the same.
That sounds like a productive exchange of knowledge.
Cambridge Global Challenges is the Strategic Research Initiative of the University of Cambridge that advances the contribution of its research towards addressing the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goals in the Global South.
Cambridge Enterprise , part of the University of Cambridge, supports academics, researchers, staff and students in achieving knowledge transfer and research impact.
Liaising with organisations both locally and globally, its offer expert advice and support in commercialisation and social enterprise.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/executive-education:
Executive education during a pandemic – and beyond
Photo by Compare Fibre on Unsplash
It was in the middle of Cambridge’s 2020 Easter holiday that the UK government announced its first national lockdown, to take place with immediate effect.
At the time, many of the University’s students were at home with their families.
But Cambridge also opens its doors to a different kind of learner, someone who wants to develop their executive and professional skills or to expand their intellectual horizons.
These courses often take place outside term-time.
For the University’s executive education providers, lockdown, therefore, presented some immediate challenges.
It would also, in the ensuing months, reveal new opportunities, culminating in the launch of a new addition to its online education programmes, Cambridge Advance Online .
Over the years, the University has developed a rich and varied menu of executive and professional education and lifelong learning opportunities, making its world-class teaching and research available to a very wide audience.
You can learn, amongst other things, how to be a better leader, how to manage innovation, how to choose the right technologies and how to put sustainability at the heart of your business.
You can gain professional qualifications in specialisms as diverse as architecture and genomic medicine or assuage your thirst for knowledge through lectures and courses on everything from the history of art to evolutionary biology.
Prior to the pandemic, you could do some of these things online but mostly they happened in Cambridge, where you could learn from some of the world’s leading academics while enjoying the full ‘Cambridge experience’ of wood-panelled dining halls and punting expeditions on the Cam.
When lockdown was announced, many of these courses were in full swing.
At the University’s Institute of Continuing Education (ICE), the situation required a rapid and agile response.
Its Head of Continuing Education, Dr James Gazzard, explained: “Obviously, some of our students could just go home but we had people from different countries with us who couldn’t get on a plane straightaway.
Literally overnight we switched to a hybrid model of online and in-person delivery.
Fortunately, we were able to do that because we already had the people and technology in place.”
Meanwhile, over at the Cambridge Judge Business School, the Entrepreneurship Centre had been all set to deliver a bespoke ‘scale up’ programme for Barclays Bank, designed to help small business clients get to the next level.
Marie-Ann Kyne, Executive Director of Executive Education, said: “We felt very strongly that this was exactly the time when these kinds of businesses most needed to be resilient, to understand what’s in their power to control and what they can still do to grow even in these most challenging of circumstances.”
After a lightning speed and hugely successful pivot to delivering the programme ‘live online’, Barclays asked what else the Cambridge Judge Business School could do to support its small businesses.
Eight weeks later, a brand new self-service ‘Back to Business’ online programme was launched which has since been accessed by more than 4,500 of Barclays’ SME clients, and demonstrating, says Kyne, “the extraordinary reach online can give us.”
Cambridge Judge Business School
As the dust settled during April and we were all getting used to new ways of working, phone calls and emails started to come in to all the executive and professional development providers across the University.
“Now that we can’t travel, can we defer our course until after the pandemic?” To which the answer quickly became, “Yes, if you want to, but how about doing it online instead?”
Because Cambridge’s executive education providers had already been delivering a proportion of their courses online, they already had the expertise and technologies they needed, including their own virtual learning environments, a platform that allows tutors to deliver all kinds of interactive content, as well as exchange and comment on written work and presentations.
But having the right skills and technology in place is one thing.
Switching to full online delivery is quite another – something that was going to take a phenomenal amount of work in a very short space of time.
"In order to turn a face-to-face course into a successful online one, you need to do a lot more than ask your tutors to deliver the same material into their laptops from their back bedrooms," Lindsay Hooper, Executive Director of Education at the Cambridge Institute for Sustainability Leadership (CISL) explains.
“We had to completely reinvent each course.
We know that learners can’t concentrate for long when looking at a screen.
And you can’t always rely on discussion arising naturally as it does in person.”
Gazzard agrees.
“If you give people a 50-minute monologue, it just doesn’t work online.
It is much more effective for a lecturer to record 30 minutes of content that goes out for the learners to review in advance.
You can then use the contact time much more productively in discussion.”
Getting the logistics right is also a vital part of the online experience.
“It’s all down to meticulous planning and making sure it’s properly resourced,” says Amanda Bamford, Learning and Development Specialist at IfM Engage, the knowledge transfer arm of the Institute for Manufacturing.
“You always need to have two people delivering the courses.
While the tutor is leading the engagement with the students, you need to have someone monitoring the chat and managing the breakout rooms.
If you are delivering from home and your broadband dies, it also means you’ve got someone who can step in and save the day.”
Managing different time zones is another challenge.
When turning its flagship ‘GOLD for Technology Leaders’ course for Atos into an online programme, the solution, explained Bamford, was to split the cohort into time zones, delivering to “Europe going east in the mornings and Europe going west in the afternoon.”
Institute of Continuing Education at Madingley Hall
Cambridge Institute for Sustainability Leadership's new headquarters in Cambridge, a retrofitted sustainable office building which will set new standards for low energy use, carbon emissions and impact on natural resources.
In spite of a proven track record in delivering online courses, some potential clients remained sceptical.
“Some were very open to the idea of online delivery, happy to try it and see what happened,” said Hooper, “but others were more resistant, including one client who memorably described themselves as a ‘stick-in-the-mud face-to-facer.”
The sceptics needed convincing that an online course could deliver the same quality experience as residential ‘immersion’.
Can you, for example, replicate the networking benefits of meeting other people in person or generate the same kind of creative energy that comes from having a group of people in one room?
Gazzard argues that, if anything, online delivery breaks down barriers: “Prior to COVID, the majority of our students wanted to come to Madingley Hall.
For many, the online option felt distant and isolated.
But what we’ve seen is the emergence of a strange kind of intimacy.
By entering into your tutors’ and peers’ homes, seeing their partners bringing them a cup of tea or a child demanding their attention, you see beyond the professional veneer that we all adopt.”
He also described how students were creating strong bonds with their classmates, providing a supportive environment for those sharing stories of COVID-induced redundancies, sometimes leading directly to job offers from peer learners.
In terms of the online experience, she has also noticed how it allows some of “the quieter voices” to make themselves heard.
“In face-to-face sessions, the main form of interaction is speaking out and some people are less comfortable with that.
When there are different ways of communicating, such as typing questions, we have found that you can surface more perspectives.”
For Kyne, another advantage is that by breaking the content up into smaller segments, delegates, “get time to reflect between sessions, perhaps implement what they’ve learnt in their workplace and feedback to their tutors.”
Any doubts delegates might have had about a lack of interactivity seem to have been confounded, judging from course feedback.
Dorian Xhixho from MuleSoft, attending the Cambridge Judge Business School’s Managing Innovation Strategically Live Online course, is one of those who has been pleasantly surprised by the online experience: “I found [online] to be equal and if not better, in some aspects.
For example, participants … were more willing to share and brainstorm ideas, which made the course more lively.
In a classroom environment, this may not happen as often, due to the tendency of ‘agreeing’ with your classmates."
What about our “stick-in-the-mud face-to-facer”?
Having been persuaded to take the plunge, Hooper says, “the company is now a huge fan to the point where they think remote delivery will be their default model and they want us to help develop some of their other programmes.”
An obvious benefit of online delivery, is its capacity to reach more people in further flung places.
Cambridge Judge Business School, for example, has noticed an uptick in interest in its courses particularly from South Africa and Nigeria.
Marketing Director, Derrick Mabbott, attributes this partly to compatible time zones but also to the fact that if you subtract the cost of travel and accommodation, enrolment becomes a more affordable proposition.
Hooper also points out that it’s not just reducing the price point that increases accessibility.
“For people with childcare or other such commitments, travel wasn’t previously an option.
Online opens up learning to people – often women – who were previously excluded.
Of course, another benefit is that it’s massively reduced our carbon footprint now that we are not flying teams around the world or have participants flying to us.”
While the Cambridge providers are not seeing online as an opportunity to increase the numbers of delegates on a particular course – and thereby diluting the experience – there are occasions where technology can support impressive levels of impact.
Richard Hill, Head of Knowledge and Learning at the Møller Institute, which specialises in leadership development programmes, describes how it was able to reach 70,000 young leaders around the world.
“We have been running a programme with the British Council called Future Leaders Connect.
Every year, 50 terrifyingly accomplished young people spend a week in Cambridge learning about leadership.
Last year we ran it over three sessions for the tens of thousands of applicants who didn’t make it to the last 50.
Although we wouldn’t claim it was the same experience, it meant we were able to transfer knowledge on a heroic scale.”
Møller Institute
Before the pandemic unfolded, online delivery was already an important component of the University’s executive and professional education and the expectation was that it would become more so over time.
COVID-19 has served to accelerate a process that was already underway.
As Richard Leather, Managing Director of the Møller Institute, points out.
“Online delivery right now is a function of the fact that we haven't been able to bring people together physically.
But that will change.” And when it does, the fact that online has proved itself more than equal to the task, “has changed consumers’ perceptions of online delivery.”
If national lockdowns accelerated a trend, are we likely, as the pandemic recedes, to revert to a more hybrid model?
“Absolutely,” says Kyne, “online is a no-brainer now.
We’ve had huge success with courses like Rising Women Leaders.
It’s a great medium which is opening up access to what we do.
But it’s definitely a complement to, not a replacement for, face-to-face.”
She emphasises the importance, for example, of in-person residential courses which “allow you to step away from your day-to-day work pressures and immerse yourself in the course, which can be enormously valuable.”
Hooper concurs, pointing out that face-to-face is particularly effective for certain kinds of activity, particularly those relying on “innovation and co-creation”.
For Gazzard, what all this means is a new flexibility: “If you want to be in a classroom in Cambridge, you will be welcome.
You’ll have a brilliant time.
If you want to be fully online, you are equally welcome.
And if you want to be mainly face-to-face but can’t face travelling on a snowy night in January, you can make a last-minute decision to join online instead.”
As we emerge from the pandemic, the toll it has taken on mental health and wellbeing is becoming all too apparent.
"As a social and inclusive activity," says Gazzard, "learning, and the relationship-building that comes with it, will have an increasingly important role to play in building resilience."
But this is not just a COVID story.
Gazzard explains that there are other pressures affecting everyone of working age, creating a perfect storm: “Skills’ shelf lives are really short now: you can’t expect to learn something between the ages of 18 and 21 and those skills to last your whole working life.
Technology is fundamentally changing the nature of work – some jobs will disappear and new ones will emerge.
All of this means that if you want to be competitive, you’ve got to think about your learning strategy, both as an individual and an employer.”
“In this changing landscape”, says Anna Wood, Managing Director of Cambridge Online Education, “we are seeing a rapidly growing global demand for high quality short courses that give people new skills and capabilities and which can be fitted into busy lives.”
During the last year, the University has been putting in place new plans to address this demand.
This year, Cambridge University Press and Cambridge Assessment are merging to create a single organisation with expertise both in developing teaching materials and in assessing learning outcomes.
This combined educational powerhouse is joining forces with the wider University and its world-leading academics to develop a brand new portfolio of online short courses designed for graduates in the workplace: Cambridge Advance Online.
Professor Richard Prager, Senior Advisor to the Vice-Chancellor on Online Education and Head of the University’s Engineering Department explains that this new initiative "aims to complement the fantastic programmes – both residential and online – already offered across the University, replicating their low student-to-faculty ratios, academically rigorous standards, frequent interactions between learners and tutors and the access they provide to valuable peer networks.”
“This is," says Wood, "an exciting new chapter in the history of the University.
We know there is a huge appetite for a Cambridge education.
By combining expertise from across the whole University and increasing the number of courses we are able to offer, we can give many more professionals access to Cambridge - and help them to acquire the knowledge and skills they need in their working lives.”
• Around 50 online short courses to be launched over the next 4-5 years
• The first four courses start in September 2021
• Courses will be 6-10 weeks in length and run thee or four times a year.
• Each course will comprise six to 10 weeks of part-time learning and will feature original content from Cambridge academics, interactions between peer learners and feedback from course tutors.
• A sector-leading platform, maximising the student experience and learning outcomes
Find out more : read the announcement about Cambridge Advance Online.
With thanks to the University’s principal Executive and Professional Development providers: Cambridge Advance Online Cambridge Institute for Sustainability Leadership Cambridge Judge Business School Executive Education Ltd Institute for Continuing Education IfM Engage Møller Institute

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/festival-of-podcasts:
Photo by Will Francis on Unsplash
Here you'll find all the podcasts from around Cambridge all in one place.
Listen to one, then move on to the next!
Subjects include everything from radiotherapy and finding the links between climate change and early marriage to what really happened to Darwin's missing notebooks.
Say That Again Slowly is the Cambridge Festival podcast looking to explore research and topics presented at the Festival in closer detail with the experts.
New season includes Must Farm, nuclear fusion, a Russian composer and the history (and future) of vaccines.
Profiling inspiring woman who are doing outstanding things, primarily in the fields of science, but also entrepreneurship and business.
Mind Over Chatter is the official podcast from the University of Cambridge.
One series at a time, we break down complex issues into simple questions.
Explore the notebooks’ great importance, the endlessly curious life and letters of Charles Darwin, and the end of a nearly 50-year mega project to transcribe and publish 15,000 letters to and from Darwin – making them freely available to us all.
A guided walking tour taking you through a history of illness, medical care and social welfare in Cambridge.
The Library of the Great Silence is a unique research facility founded by the San Francisco conceptual artist Jonathon Keats and dedicated to examining existential risks of the present.
A podcast series designed to discover Virginia Woolf’s impact on art, philosophy, and politics in the present day, as well as Woolf’s interest in the arts and ideas of her own time.
Hosted by award-winning author and podcaster, Yvonne Battle-Felton ( Academic Director for Creative Writing at ICE) , Bookable Space is a podcast where authors read to us, answer three questions about their books, and tell us where to find them.
George Regkoukos, a historian of Russian and Research Analyst & Research Programmes Coordinator at Cambridge discusses great masterpieces of Russian art.
As fascinating as physics can be, it can also seem very abstract, but behind each experiment and discovery stands a real person trying to understand the universe.
A collection of oral history recordings that bring to life the story of Gwydir Street off Mill Road - produced by Gwydir Street Friends in collaboration with the local community and Professor Helen Weinstein as part of an intergenerational, cultural heritage project.
Bring conversations about the Fitzwilliams collections to you.
Proust Curious is a podcast miniseries about the experience of reading À la recherche du temps perdu in its entirety.
These are some of the questions our podcast series, led by graduate students at the University of Cambridge, seeks to explore.
A thought-provoking conversation about how museums in the West built collections of an iconic extinct animal – the thylacine – and the violent events surrounding that extinction.
Dr Zoë Svendsen exploring new ways of working and thinking in order to create the conditions for more climate-careful theatre-making.
Unpack and explore society's relationship with nature with the new podcast from the Intellectual Forum.
Host Noah Rouse sits down with academics and influential figures to discuss how different facets of our society interact with the natural world.
Christine Özden, global director for climate education at Cambridge University Press & Assessment , talks to Jodie Bailey-Ho, a student of environmental sciences at the University of Manchester and champion of climate education.
A podcast brought to you by The Cambridge Climate Society for essential climate news and education.
Don’t miss our weekly climate news roundup, or our longer, in depth interviews with key climate figures.
Interviews on different topics such as climate change, sustainability and the environment.
A podcast mini-series with four coastal research experts to explore different aspects of the UK’s coastal adaptation to climate change.
How are forests becoming digital environments?
The Smart Forests research project investigates the social-political impacts of digital technologies that monitor and govern forests.
In this podcast series, we speak to scientists, artists, activists, and technologists about their work.
A podcast aimed at all veterinary professionals with an interest in veterinary cardiology.
Veterinarian, nurse, tech or student, you'll find something to engage you in this fascinating specialty.
The BMJ's Heart Podcast Digital Media Editor, Professor James Rudd helps keep cardiologists up to date with advances in the diagnosis and treatment of cardiovascular disease.
Everyone is different, but we all start as fertilised eggs – we are made the same way.
Young artists and scientists embrace challenging conversations about how humans develop before birth.
A podcast from the Gurdon Institute.
In this podcast by the Cancer Research UK Cambridge Centre, dive into the world of radiotherapy by learning what radiotherapy is and how it has developed.
The Naked Scientists flagship weekly science show.
Science news stories, scientific breakthroughs and interviews with leading scientists.
From the Centre for Science and Policy, this podcast focuses on sharing the evidence and expertise policymakers need to know as they respond to Covid-19.
This series highlights the ground-breaking science by the Integrated Cancer Medicine Programme (ICM) at the Cancer Research UK Cambridge Centre and the University of Cambridge.
The History of Now, a series of podcasts from the Faculty of History at the University of Cambridge, discussing the covid-19 pandemic from an historical perspective.
In these informal conversations, hear unique perspectives from diverse experts who are generating evidence and innovating practice to improve quality and safety in the NHS.
In our podcast series Connect Health Tech explore and discuss a diverse range of themes and topics of interest, including developing interdisciplinary collaborations, finding the right partner, and impactful business support for entrepreneurs.
The Confidence Interval podcast talks science, people, and population health.
We explore the research happening at the MRC Epidemiology Unit, University of Cambridge and meet some of our researchers to find out what makes them tick.
In this series, we speak to experts to find out what is happening now in terms of developments in radiotherapy practice and to hear about new research that is still in its early stages.
Mind Matters is a University of Cambridge podcast dedicated to nurturing mental well-being within the university community and beyond.
We explore challenges faced by students, and delve into topics ranging from social connections and pressures, to healthy lifestyles and transitions.
A series from The Rudd Centre.
The new monthly podcast from Gates Cambridge will cover eight different areas, from climate economics to global healthcare .
In each episode we’ll be taking a look at one of the fascinating research projects happening within the Faculty through conversations with the researcher and an expert guest working in their field.
Thoughtlines is a podcast series from CRASSH  – the place where people gather to ask the big questions on who we are and why we live the way we do.
Launched in March 2019, the INI podcast series aims to highlight the diverse people and explore the many interconnected topics linked to the Institute’s activities.
Explore human rights with people who study them, and people who fight for them, from the UK and around the world with Centre of Governance and Human Rights.
Monthly podcast series produced by the Bennett Institute for Public Policy (Cambridge) and Institute for Advanced Study in Toulouse (IAST) to give interdisciplinary answers to today's challenging questions.
Join Dr Eleanor Drage and Dr Kerry Mackereth as they ask the experts: What is good technology?
Is it even possible?
And how can feminism help us work towards it?
A podcast about Islam and ideas, from the Centre of Islamic Studies at the University of Cambridge.
In every episode, hear from leading experts to learn more about the most important human rights issues of the day.
A series of podcasts covering conferences, individual interviews, seminars and much much more.
A plethora of topics such as science, religion, theology, faith and philosophy.
This episode looks at environmental, social and governance (ESG) reporting: issues that matter to business operations, and how companies report about them.
A podcast that looks at contemporary policy issues from around the globe and explores possible solutions through interview-style conversations with experts, academics and policy practitioners.
A weekly Plus podcast, 'Maths on the Move', aims to give a wide interested audience insights into the world of mathematics, with interviews and discussions with leading mathematicians and scientists about the maths that is changing our lives.
Camthropod is produced by a collective of staff and students from the Cambridge Department of Social Anthropology.
We broadcast regularly during term time.
Camthropod includes interviews with visiting speakers about their work, as well as audio pieces presenting aspects of our research or just things that interest us about daily life.
Risky Talk features conversations with the world’s top experts in risk and evidence communication addressing urgent, practical challenges.
Tilly Franklin, CEO and Chief Investment Officer at University of Cambridge Investment Management, discusses her career and her time in Cambridge so far.
With miniseries on martyrdom, religious difference, and climate change, the Religion and Global Challenges podcast explores how religious narratives, ideas, practices and experiences inform crucial challenges facing our world today.
The Rudd Research Centre has launched another podcast series, ‘In Conversation,’ where they invite remarkable guest speakers from the communities we work with to spotlight their work and communicate important topics and issues to a local and national audience.
The Centre of Geopolitics hosts conversations with people across academia, government, civil society, politics and business to discuss major geopolitical issues, past, present and future.
A collection of public lectures given by members of the Faculty of Law at the University of Cambridge.
The Lauterpacht Centre for International Law (LCIL), University of Cambridge hosts regular lectures on key areas of International Law such as  UN peacekeeping operations, the advisory jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice, the crime of aggression, whaling and crimes against humanity.
Inspiring Discovery.
Building Knowledge.
Unlocking Potential.
Hot off the Press features insights into academic publishing, our products and our mission as a university press.
Welcome to the Brighter Thinking Pod from the International Education group of Cambridge University Press & Assessment.
We provide a place where international education enthusiasts from all backgrounds can come together to discuss the challenges faced by teachers in a modern classroom and discover new teaching ideas.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/business-and-enterprise/blog/building-better-business-partnerships-lessons-from-our-showcase-event:
Towards the end of last year, I was delighted to host our annual event attended by representatives from Cambridge’s key business partners.
Companies including AstraZeneca, GSK, Google, KPMG and Siemens gathered in Cambridge to think about why and how we work together and explore ways in which we can make our partnerships more successful in delivering our shared vision.
Today, universities are measured by their impact on the world, through the technologies they create and the difference they make to lives and economies.
At Cambridge we have an impressive track record of doing just that, changing the world in so many ways, from the jet engine to IVF, from monoclonal antibodies to Raspberry Pi.
But we can’t rest on our laurels: we need to carry on, doing more and doing better.
To that end, we are developing a new innovation strategy, building on our past successes and setting out ambitious plans for the future.
Collaborating closely with industry has a vital role to play in delivering those aspirations.
As one of our industry partners, you already know that Cambridge can offer you access to world-leading scientists, thinkers and emerging talent.
But more than that, by working with the University you become a key part of our innovation ecosystem.
Cambridge is home to one of the world’s top innovation clusters and is the world leader, ahead of San Francisco, for science and technology intensity.
It has one of the fastest-growing economies in England and has excellent connections to other innovation hotspots.
With its ‘Golden Triangle’ partners, Oxford and London, it has created an ecosystem which contributes £110 billion to the economy annually and two million jobs.
Twenty-four unicorns have been born in Cambridge and we have more than 5,000 knowledge-intensive companies here, plus a strong spinout, start-up and investment culture.
At the heart of all this innovation activity, our researchers are inspired not to just come up with new and interesting ideas, but to find ways to put those ideas into practice.
And we need the help of our industry partners to make that happen, whether by setting us seemingly impossible research problems, seeing the possibilities in our blue-sky thinking or helping us to develop the next generation of scientists and leaders.
However, while the rationale for partnerships is clear, bringing together large and complex organisations is not always straightforward.
We started by asking some of our partners to share their perspectives on both the opportunities and challenges of academic-industry partnerships.
First, we heard from Justine Andrew, Head of Education, Skills and Productivity at professional services firm, KPMG.
A relatively new partner, KPMG doesn’t ‘do R&D’ in the way that many of Cambridge’s technology partners do.
Instead, it came to Cambridge with an ambitious ask: could we help it re-wire its business around its people, putting environmental, social and governance (ESG) priorities, innovation and employee mental wellbeing at the heart of its organisation.
This has led to a significant research programme aimed at supporting the mental wellbeing of KPMG staff, an ESG programme already delivered to around 50,000 staff and involvement in Cambridge’s Founders initiative, helping spinouts and startups scale their scientific breakthroughs.
Hariprasad Radhakrishnan, Team Lead for UK Healthcare, Research & Higher Education at Google described Google’s 10-year partnership with Cambridge and the huge number of touchpoints across both organisations.
He highlighted that we recently signed a framework agreement to streamline research collaboration and that Google is the first funding partner for the University’s Centre for Human-Inspired Artificial Intelligence (CHIA), a multidisciplinary initiative to develop AI that is grounded in human values and benefits humanity.
Another interesting dimension of the partnership is the joint role held by Zoubin Ghahramani who is both a VP of Research at Google DeepMind – and  Professor of Information Engineering in the University’s Engineering Department.
This kind of dual role can be helpful in developing partnerships that meet both partners’ needs.
Our third panellist, Jacqui Hall, Head of Early Careers, BioPharma R&D at AstraZeneca, spoke about the company’s deep-rooted partnership with the University which has both deepened and broadened since it moved its R&D headquarters to Cambridge.
Jacqui described how developing talent is a key pillar of AstraZeneca’s drug discovery strategy.
This has resulted in AstraZeneca funding more than 150 Cambridge PhD studentships and establishing multiple training and exchange programmes, ensuring a steady pipeline of research and clinical expertise.
Playing an active part in the innovation ecosystem is also central to AstraZeneca’s strategy, demonstrated by its extensive mentoring programme for students, early-career researchers and new ventures, and its involvement in organisations such as Innovate Cambridge.
These three companies exemplify some of the different approaches to – and motivations for – partnering with Cambridge.
But the purpose of our discussion was not just to celebrate success, important though that is.
It was also to explore some of the barriers that can prevent us from realising our shared ambitions.
The panellists also identified some of the challenges they have encountered, which we further explored through roundtable discussions (see below for a summary).
As well as thinking about how to optimise bilateral partnerships, we also wanted to consider how multiple organisations can come together with a sense of urgency to deliver innovations at pace and scale to address the grand challenges of our time.
We invited Tomas Coates Ulrichsen, Head of the Policy Evidence Unit for University Commercialisation and Innovation (UCI) to report back on a UIDP summit he had hosted earlier in the year, involving a wide range of industry partners, policymakers and US, UK and European universities.
He inspired us to think about creating multi-organisational, multidisciplinary coalitions to address problems that are too complex for single organisations – or sectors – to tackle alone.
He shared insights from the conference as to what these coalitions will require, including:
There are some clear actions here for us, which we will report on at next year’s event.
However, what I took away from the day was a reaffirmation both of the impressive achievements and huge potential of our strategic partnerships.
By better aligning our efforts, by being more flexible in some areas and by investing in our supporting structures and activities, we can build on our successes and turn our shared ambitions into outcomes which can make a real difference to the world.
I look forward to continuing the conversation.
Diarmuid O’Brien, Pro-Vice-Chancellor for Innovation, University of Cambridge
January 2025
Read all our Business and Enterprise blog posts .

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/business-and-enterprise/consultancy-the-unsung-hero-of-university-innovation:
Far from being a secondary actor, academic consultancy has become one of the most effective and efficient ways of generating impact from university research in a short space of time.
It supports an extensive array of faculty, forges partnerships with numerous industry and governmental players, and generates a stable and substantial revenue stream.
Cambridge Enterprise ’s consultancy activity brought in £10.7 million for the University of Cambridge in 2022/23, while consultancy has also proven itself a dependable asset at our peers’ institutions, including the University of Oxford, Imperial College London and University College London.
At Cambridge, consultancy makes a significant contribution to the impressive £23 billion annual economic impact generated by the university’s research and innovation output (which figure also includes the revenue from Cambridge spin-out companies and from knowledge and tech transfer and licencing).
It does so via its unique ability to tap into the entire academic base.
From the arts, humanities and social sciences to clinical medicine and technology, consultancy channels the intellectual might of Cambridge’s diverse disciplines into practical solutions and innovations.
Universities can offer both broad, shallow and deep, narrow perspectives to potential clients, depending on the project brief.
For instance, individuals with specialised knowledge could serve on scientific advisory boards, helping shape strategies for health or pharmaceutical companies.
Alternatively, a collaborative effort by a small group may involve tailoring programmes specifically for government entities to tackle various challenges, such as designing an intervention programme for use in conflicted societies or providing guidance to a film crew during production.
More than half of our UK partnerships extend beyond the Golden Triangle of Cambridge, Oxford and London, bolstering regional competitiveness.
And more than half of our industry partners are SMEs, demonstrating that consultancy is crucial for businesses that lack the in-house innovation resources to tap into world-class insights.
Consultancy can be the snowball that starts an avalanche.
Our recent engagement with Enhanc3D Genomics, a Cambridge precision medicine spin-out, has not only spawned more consultancies but also studentships and research agreements with the university.
On the national stage, our involvement in the Clari-Fi project, developed as part of a consultancy with Unilever, is enhancing mobile screen accessibility, creating economic value for corporate clients while simultaneously removing visual barriers to mobile use in the general population.
We also enable the transfer of Cambridge expertise to the world, ranging from support for global pharmaceutical firms to delivering crucial medical training to less developed parts of the world.
These projects, and others like them, are driving unprecedented growth in our sector.
In the last decade, we have seen a fourfold increase in consultancy activity, reflecting a growing awareness among faculty.
In the past five-years, Cambridge has engaged and supported more than 500 different researchers in consultancy activity and over 1,000 external clients.
Typically, academics approach Cambridge Enterprise for consultancy support, given our team’s ability to oversee legal and financial risks for both the university and the academics involved, providing model agreements, university insurance coverage and an expert team for negotiations.
We simplify the process by managing all financial and contractual administration, allowing academics to focus solely on their work.
We also receive enquiries from external organisations seeking our assistance in identifying experts.
Demonstrating impact has become crucial in the UK, influenced by requirements in both the Research Excellence Framework (REF) and research funding applications.
This shift in perspective has affected thought processes.
While there will and should always be those dedicated to teaching and/or blue skies research, the diverse benefits of using their expertise and knowledge to tackle world challenges are recognised by an increasing number of academics, from individuals working in applied science disciplines through to theoretical physicists and theologians.
But there is still more to do to raise awareness.
Our role is to showcase – to senior management as much as rank-and-file academics, many of whom are still unaware of this opportunity – that engagement in real-world applications is not only possible but also has extensive benefits for individuals, the university and, of course, the economy.
This awareness-raising mission extends beyond one institution: it should be pursued across the sector.
The government must be helped to recognise and incorporate consultancy when examining the potential of university-industry relations.
At its core, consultancy is a cross-pollinator of innovation.
It not only transcends disciplinary boundaries within universities but helps worlds collide, spreading and sharing ideas and information between academia, industry and other actors.
This fusion is foundational to the kind of divergent thought, inspiration and cooperation that underpins innovation and will be vital to addressing global challenges effectively.
We neglect this potential at our peril.
This is an edited version of an article published in Times Higher Education , 9th January 2024.
Find a consultant through Cambridge Enterprise.
Amanda Zeffman, Head of Consultancy Services and Research Tools, Cambridge Enterprise
March 2024
Read all our Business and Enterprise blog posts here .
Hand holding plasma ball
Credit: Ramón Salinero on Unsplash

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/business-and-enterprise/blog/reflections-COP28:
I am sitting on a plane, looking out onto a hazy sea that seems to blend seamlessly with wisps of cloud so that it is not clear where one ends and the other begins.
The view is interrupted by occasional clusters of oil rigs, and then a few sandbars, and finally the marshy coastline of northeastern Arabia, or at least, what remains of it.
Is my flight contributing to its destruction?
Many have pointed out the irony of our collective carbon churning flights to attend a climate change conference, and while the irony is not lost on us, the widely held view is that the benefits of convening collective action to curb man-made climate change outweigh the costs of travelling for the event.
COP28 was the UN’s 28th annual ‘Conference of the Parties’ on climate change, bringing some 200 nations to the negotiating table, where the parties can agree and commit to action that will address climate change.
Besides the main UN programs, there were hundreds of pavilions that also hosted their own programs.
This meant that COP this year had a whopping ~100,000 people registered, almost twice as many as COP26 in the UK two years ago.
While this ‘fringe’ part of COP is criticised by some as a bit of a ‘trade show’, it demonstrates an increasingly unified voice from the private sector, NGOs, research institutions and communities.
Climate change is a unique challenge in that every person and every entity is a stakeholder, and COP this year gave them a bigger forum to come together, raise their voices to the country parties, and push forward collective action.
And this was the aim of Cambridge University’s delegation, which I was lucky enough to be part of.
With broad representation from across the University, our program brought together universities, businesses, and youth in an effort to send a clear message to policymakers while galvanising tangible action.
You’ll find an overview of the University’s COP28 activities here .
I lead on the University’s strategic industry partnerships that aim to decarbonise industries.
As the climate change challenge is becoming increasingly urgent, the University now aims to ramp up its contribution to the green transition, and strategic partnerships are a key part of that.
So I attended COP28 with a view to understand the global position of the private sector and identify new opportunities and routes for strategic collaboration.
For example, one of Cambridge University’s strengths is discovery science, such as is applicable to long-duration energy storage.
However, we need to speed up deployment if we are to address climate change in time.
This can only happen through partnerships with industry that will push these technologies out to the world.
The need for a just transition, however, means that we need to rethink traditional partnership models, and think more broadly and on longer timescales.
I had the opportunity to explore this as part of a panel hosted by the Higher Education Pavilion addressing the topic of ‘Transdisciplinary academic approaches to climate solutions’.
I was joined on the panel by brilliant colleagues from Pennsylvania State University and the University of Southern California.
The discussion focused on how to go beyond academic interdisciplinarity to transdisciplinarity by working with different stakeholders, such as policymakers, communities and the private sector.
We concluded by sharing lessons on training graduates to work in this transdisciplinary way and agreed that working with multiple stakeholder groups can scale our impact.
From our own experience at Cambridge University, we’ve seen this to be the case by bringing the private sector together with policy makers, for example, through our work on sustainable aviation , sustainable freight , or through the Corporate Leaders Group , and we are keen to do more.
Reassuringly, the presence of the private sector at COP28 showed that they are also keen.
I was impressed with the breadth of the private sector’s presence as well as the quality of the programs hosted, particularly those that were action oriented.
This includes the finance sector who seemed to show a strong willingness to invest in green growth.
Perhaps the biggest highlight for me was seeing the narrative start to shift from the green transition being a problem to be solved almost by regressing in human development and quality of life, and instead presenting it for the opportunity that I believe it is: an opportunity to develop sustainably, moving humanity forwards and bringing everyone along, improving lives and habitats around the globe.
This sentiment was echoed throughout the conference, whether it was the private sector discussing growth opportunities with huge economic potential, the public sector discussing the growing job market that far outnumbers expected job losses, or local communities and NGOs discussing environmental repair and protection.
I was also particularly pleased to see a strong focus on a just and inclusive transition, and a presence of indigenous peoples.
Now that the conference has concluded, we have clarity over the global stocktake and the fact that the previous pledges set us on route to a worrying 2.4-2.6 degree temperature rise by 2050, so we do need to correct our course.
Because of this, there is disappointment that the final agreement is somewhat watered down from the original ambition.
However, for me there are three highlights to celebrate.
Firstly, this is the first agreement to mention a transition away from fossil fuels.
Secondly, the nations have pledged to triple renewable energy capacity and double energy efficiency by 2030.
Thirdly, the agreement to set up a loss and damage fund is a triumph as it acknowledges that there is damage to be repaired and clarifies the responsibilities of richer nations in paying for the repair.
While the agreement does not lay out detailed plans on how the targets are to be met, it does set a clear direction of travel, and that direction is away from fossil fuels.
Hopefully, this will allow the nations to chart their courses in this direction and will reassure the private sector on where to put their investments.
There is universal acknowledgement that no one entity will be able to address climate change alone.
Partnerships are crucial, and I return from COP28 with numerous connections and leads for collaborations.
Unexpectedly, many of these connections were made serendipitously while waiting in queues or sharing coffee tables.
In the end, I do not know if my personal attendance was worth the carbon cost of my flight, but I will strive to make it so.
Working on the green transition does not only happen at COP, rather, it is continuous, unrelenting work, with COP being a point in the year for the nations to come together and publicly agree their commitments.
I return with renewed inspiration, motivation and commitment to maximise our contribution to the green transition.
We all need to do our part, but none of us can work alone in a transition of this scale.
We aim to increase our multi-faceted, strategic partnerships that can contribute to decarbonising industries and sectors.
I look forward to seeing our collaborations grow, and I invite you to think of how you can maximise your impact.
If you think you can do so by partnering with Cambridge University, get in touch.
Manar Alsaif, Energy Sector Lead, Strategic Partnerships Office
December 2023

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/business-and-enterprise/blog/cambridge-grand-challenges-driving-innovation:
This is exactly what the Cambridge Grand Challenges (CGC) is set up to do.
We aim to connect the best academic minds with corporate partners and the public sector, bringing together foresight of national and global challenges with an in-depth understanding of business challenges.
Initially, CGC was developed as an initiative to address global challenges and drive collaboration between academia, industry and government by applying research and methodologies from the social sciences to address the Grand Challenges identified in the Government’s 2018 Industrial Strategy.
It took a few years for the social scientists to see how their expertise and skills could be of value to companies and policymakers and vice versa.
As all sides got to better understand each other we’ve been able to build hugely successful partnerships.
The CGC has since expanded to cover disciplines across the six Schools of the University and now has a network of more than 60 non-academic partnerships across industry, government and the third sector.
The CGC initiative supports long-term engagement between industry and academia.
It is a bespoke process that can involve student placements, research projects, knowledge exchange, and skills development and research networking to address specific industry needs.
There are two main levels of engagement, the first being student placements.
These placements provide our corporate partners with resource to work on a topic that they might otherwise have had to put on the shelf due to other business priorities or an absence of methodological expertise.
They also allow our PhD students to apply their academic expertise to real-world problems facing industry, giving them important expertise and insights that are immensely valuable whether they decide to follow an academic career or seek employment elsewhere.
These placements last between one and three months, can be full-time or part-time and cover a wide range of topics across diverse industries.
With Aviva, for example, one of our PhD students used their research knowledge and skills in the area of dementia and ageing to find risk and protective factors for dementia and mortality.
The reason for this project was to help inform the underwriting process for insurance products, as well as to support the design of a wellness app intended to help Aviva’s customers lead a healthier lifestyle.
Another student’s project with GlaxoSmithKline involved statistical modelling of supply chains in pharmaceutical manufacturing processes and we’ve also had a student who worked with Newsec, a property asset management company, to assess the influence of external factors on the Swedish real estate industry.
We’ve had a few cases where a student placement has led to a company sponsoring a PhD studentship project focussing on longer term industrial needs.
Exposure to industry challenges and enabling students to see how their skills can be applied to a non-academic environment has also led to some of our students securing jobs with the company they have worked with during their placement.
The second level of engagement is through challenge workshops.
These often involve senior academics and post-doctoral researchers from multiple disciplines working together with industry on a challenge and mapping potential solutions to it.
During this process, we often find that the company comes away with a greater understanding of its own challenge, having identified a series of collaborative opportunities to work towards finding a solution.
In addition, industry partners gain a wider appreciation of the contribution to innovation made through new ideas, different ways of working and greater interdisciplinarity.
Following on from such a workshop, academics have been able to submit research proposals to explore specific challenges and provide solutions for the company.
For example, our Grand Challenges workshop with Microsoft Research led to a collaboration between it and the Cyber-Human Lab at the Institute of Manufacturing, looking at human avatars as co-workers and their potential to meet the needs of increasingly collaborative, networked, dynamic, multidisciplinary and geo-distributed workplaces.
Currently, academic groups in the University are working with Aviva to explore the impact of climate change on the social, natural and built environment in the UK.
CGC enables personal contacts to form between academics and individuals in companies.
These networks bring together people from different disciplines and who come with different perspectives.
Establishing these research networks enables a flow of knowledge between the two organisations and can lead to opportunities to leverage funds from funding bodies.
Our student placements have also led to a diffusion of the process across the company with more than one business team engaging with a particular project as it progresses.
Through the partnerships that the CGC facilitates, it’s possible to develop tangible and practical insights that a company can then implement, ultimately leading to greater innovation.
Find out more about how CGC can help your organisation here .
Dr Konstantina Stamati Director, Cambridge Grand Challenges
May 2022

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/business-and-enterprise/blog/harnessing-the-power-of-innovation-the-universitys-impulse-programme:
At the height of the pandemic, McKinsey published a report on innovating in a crisis.
More than three quarters of the senior executives surveyed thought that COVID would provide significant opportunities for growth.
However, fewer than 30 per cent of them felt confident that they are ready for the changes they see coming.
The area in which they felt the least equipped was ‘delivering net new growth opportunities'.
Innovation, the report contends, is critical for a company’s long-term survival.
But large companies rely on rules, systems and processes in order to keep thousands of employees pointing in roughly the same direction.
How, in this context, can you create a culture in which innovation and entrepreneurship thrive?
It’s not enough to recruit talented people who have bright ideas.
They need to be encouraged to ask challenging questions, to explore new possibilities and, above all, to apply entrepreneurial thinking.
Intrapreneurs, like entrepreneurs, need a supportive environment to maintain and strengthen their innovative thinking as well as the resources required to support the success of new growth opportunities.
The University’s Impulse Programme, run out of the Maxwell Centre , helps people and organisations develop the kind of ‘intrapreneurial’ mindset that will be vital for finding and exploiting new growth opportunities.
The twelve-week programme is intended both for ‘intrapreneurs’ and ‘entrepreneurs’.
They learn the same principles but customised to their respective situations.
By the end of the programme, intrapreneurs will have a business case they can present to executives and business founders will have a fully articulated commercialisation plan.
Both will have been thoroughly tested with a diverse group of senior level mentors, investors, experts and peers from different disciplines, industries and countries.
No matter how good an idea is, it takes a team to make it happen.
Learning how to create effective innovation teams that can bring together technology specialists with business and operations professionals, working across countries and cultures, is at the heart of the Impulse Programme.
When we select participants for the course, in addition to clever ideas and passion in business, we are looking for this mix of diverse background, expertise and industry knowledge among them, so that everyone gets a real experience of working with people who have different skill- and mind-sets.
It is not always a comfortable process.
People are challenged – and they have to learn how to handle uncertainties and their emotions when that happens, as well as take on board what they have learnt and move forward.
Phil O’Donovan, founder of Cambridge-based semiconductor company CSR and mentor on the course, explained in a recent article : “In the same way that quality control can’t be added at the last minute, like a coat of paint, innovation is the same.
It must permeate the organisation.
An ability to continuously learn from others is a skill that is key to innovative thinking.”
The length of the Impulse Programme is carefully considered.
It’s long enough to build strong relationships, whether that is with mentors or the other innovators taking part and provides sufficient time to reflect on the new business idea and refine it as necessary.
But it’s short enough to maintain momentum – and for the participants to operate at a high level of emotional intensity during a steep learning curve experience without becoming too exhausted.
For intrapreneurs, connecting to the wider innovation network is vital: it helps them find new talent, new ideas and new opportunities for collaboration and growth.
The Impulse Programme not only connects its participants to each other but also to world-class mentors: serial entrepreneurs, venture capitalists and business angels from the Cambridge Cluster with very different backgrounds, technology expertise and coaching and mentoring styles.
With such a broad range of mentors, we can find the best match for each participant.
We have around 120 contributors from the Cambridge innovation ecosystem sharing their knowledge and expertise.
With an annual intake of just 40-50 participants, it’s a very different format compared to similar programmes which tend to have more attendees than contributors.
This ratio means that participants can meet and directly work with people who can provide a wide range of perspectives.
Networking is a key part of Impulse.
Along with the business case that the participants develop with support from mentors, many find that the value they get from the programme is the connections they make.
The networking sessions allow people to learn from each other and to continue to do so after the programme has finished.
According to our Alumni Survey, 70 per cent of respondents said they were still in contact with their mentor and 64 per cent said they had developed between two and seven strong connections during their twelve weeks.
Having started the Impulse Programme in 2016, I never cease to be amazed by the ideas and passion of our participants and by seeing what our alumni – like quantum computing success story, RiverLane - go on to achieve.
There’s still time to apply for our 2022 Programme in April.
Find out more here .
February 2022

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/business-and-enterprise/blog/making-things-happen-the-importance-of-knowledge-exchange:
Knowledge exchange has been a personal passion for me, ever since my first job as a Teaching Company Associate (Now Knowledge Transfer Partnerships), managing a knowledge exchange project with Cardiff University and a tech start-up company.
That experience sparked my fascination with the impact of university research on the wider world.
Since then I’ve been fortunate to pursue this interest, working with universities and businesses across the UK in a range of different roles.
I was delighted to get the opportunity to come to Cambridge where there are so many exciting opportunities for knowledge exchange.
It is hugely satisfying when you are able to identify and nurture synergies between businesses and universities to achieve things neither could do on their own.
For example, one of my tasks is to manage the EPSRC IAA Follow-on Fund at Cambridge.
I am often told by academics how critical a relatively small injection of cash at the right time can be in helping them move an idea on to the point where it can attract more significant investment or industry support.
Fluidic Analytics , a spin-out from the Department of Chemistry, is a fantastic example of this.
During the course of his research, Professor Tuomas Knowles invented a new method for studying proteins and their behaviours which he turned into a lab-scale prototype.
It was thanks to the IAA Follow-on Fund that he was able to keep the project going until he could secure the investment needed to commercialise it.
The company now employs more than 60 people and has raised more than $40 million in funding.
The IAA has also played a pivotal role in collaborations with two of the University’s business partners, Rolls-Royce and Arm .
An IAA Knowledge Transfer Fellowship enabled Bryce Conduit at Rolls-Royce and James Taylor in the Whittle Lab (pictured above) to use machine learning to predict how much damage an aeroengine’s compressor blades can sustain before they need to be repaired or replaced.
To solve the problem, the pair developed a radical new approach to rapid prototyping that has the potential to revolutionise the way engineers design and optimise turbomachinery.
IAA Funding also enabled two postdocs to be seconded to Arm for a year to help it assess the feasibility of building a ‘proper’ industry-scale prototype of the ground-breaking digital security concepts being developed at the University’s Department of Computer Science and Technology.
If adopted, this will affect virtually all of us, improving the security of the billions of phones, computers and myriad devices that rely in Arm technology.
Sometimes we talk about technology as if is a discrete entity that can be boxed up and exchanged for money.
In practice, of course, it is not that simple.
Technology is also about the know-how that resides in a researcher’s head.
People are at the heart of knowledge exchange, whether it is someone from Rolls-Royce coming to work in the Whittle Lab or University researchers going to work at Arm.
In both cases, it gives them an opportunity to immerse themselves in a different world which can be hugely beneficial for the individuals concerned as well as paving the way for future collaborations.
We are fortunate at Cambridge that we have a strong track record of both entrepreneurship and collaboration with industry and other external partners.
Many academics have achieved amazing things through the commercialisation of their research – and are expert at doing so.
But how do you make sure, in an organisation of our size, that everyone who wants to get involved in knowledge exchange knows how to?
That’s where the University’s network of knowledge exchange professionals comes in.
One of our roles is to unearth that tacit knowledge within the University, share it widely and develop best practice so that everyone can benefit.
The other is about trying to connect, translate and mediate between the different worlds of academia and business and policy.
An often overlooked aspect of knowledge exchange is the importance of timing.
An external partner has to be at exactly the right point in their development lifecycle to need our input.
That need has to align with an academic or research group having the interest and capacity to pursue the research problem.
There is a certain amount of luck involved in getting the timing right but, to borrow a well-worn phrase, ‘the harder I work, the luckier I get’.
As knowledge exchange professionals, we spend a lot of time and effort doing the groundwork, forging connections and sharing information, often without a clear idea at the outset of what will bear fruit.
You know something will happen, you just don't know what.
Both sides - universities and businesses – have to be prepared to make this kind of investment of time and resources.
A lot of people are in academia because of their natural curiosity: they want to understand how things work and why they are the way they are.
By connecting them with the outside world, I can give them access to interesting new problems and help them turn their ideas into realities that go on to make a difference to people’s lives.
Making that happen is a genuinely rewarding task: I still can’t quite believe my luck that I ended up here.
November 2021

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/business-and-enterprise/blog/supporting-neurodiversity-in-the-workplace-an-insiders-perspective-on-a-thinklab-project:
Only 16% of autistic individuals are employed in full-time positions and 51% of employed autistic people possess skills higher than those required for their job.
Last year, Aviva, a leading general insurer in the UK and one of the University’s strategic partners, asked Cambridge for help with an important issue: how could it cultivate a more neurodiverse workforce?
And, specifically, how could it develop a data science placement programme that would attract and retain more neurodiverse employees?
This is not a straightforward task.
Some neurodiverse individuals find aspects of a conventional recruitment process challenging, from the way advertisements are phrased to the questions that are asked in interviews.
Once in the workplace, navigating the new environment and connecting with colleagues can be fraught with difficulty.
For example, noisy, open-plan workspaces and large meetings can be problematic for people with sensory sensitivities.
Many of the cultural and social norms that neurotypical employees take for granted, such as when to take breaks, may need to be made explicit.
Aviva asked Cambridge to help it understand the latest research in this area, review best practice from around the world, and seek input from neurodiverse individuals, both within and outside Aviva.
From this work, they sought to devise a practical plan for implementation.
ThinkLab, as part of the University’s Strategic Partnerships Office, was the perfect fit for the task.
ThinkLab is a programme that brings together Cambridge doctoral students from different backgrounds and disciplines to solve a societal challenge that needs urgent action.
I am an engineer working in energy research; as a ThinkLab participant, I was working alongside PhD students specialising in fields ranging from neuroscience, sociology and medicine to chemistry, bioinformatics, and geology.
We all brought different skills, knowledge and experience to the project, but the one thing we had in common was a desire to have a direct impact on a real-world problem.
We were fortunate to receive mentoring from two leading neurodiversity experts: Dr Temple Grandin, a global spokesperson in the field of autism and Professor Amanda Kirby, an academic and CEO of a company that helps organisations adopt a person-centred approach to recruitment.
To establish the factors influencing employment of neurodiverse individuals, we met with the University’s Careers Service and Auticon, a multinational IT consultancy that exclusively employs adults on the autism spectrum.
Critically, we also sought direct input from neurodiverse individuals to help us understand the kinds of unique challenges they face in their work and to identify any blind spots we might have missed on our own.
We were initially split into teams to brainstorm, collect data and explore best practice principles in neuroinclusive workplaces.
During this period, we had regular meetings with Aviva decisionmakers and the teams that would facilitate the placement programme.
These interactions were vital for helping us frame practical solutions that would work in the real world.
Having laid the groundwork, we entered the ‘storming’ phase.
During the process of close discussion and collaboration with our Aviva partners, it became apparent that the information compiled by the three teams overlapped considerably.
This forced us to think critically about our respective contributions to the brief.
The ThinkLab model emphasises flexibility so halfway through the process, we decided to redefine the core tenets of the project around the key actions Aviva would need to take in order to implement its new neurodiversity internship programme:
This pivot equipped us with clear objectives, enabling us to shift from divergent brainstorming to convergent problem solving.
In turn, Aviva was better able to understand how our recommendations could be enacted in practice.
This ability to refocus is central to the ThinkLab approach, which demands adaptability and agility from its participants.
A ThinkLab project sets out to transform a quite abstract brief into concrete deliverables.
It does so by treating project goals as organic, evolving entities which come into sharper relief as the project develops.
From an insider’s perspective, I found this both exciting and nerve-racking – akin to laying tracks for a hurtling train!
Change of any kind in a large organisation is challenging and complex, requiring input from many stakeholders.
ThinkLab carefully balanced input and challenges from Aviva stakeholders along with the research and best practice we had unearthed along the way.
The programme culminated in a discussion of our findings with partners and directors of Aviva’s global data science practice, Aviva Quantum.
This was a rewarding experience in presenting our research to the people that would put our recommendations to fruition.
Overall, I gained a great deal from my experience with ThinkLab.
It was a privilege to be able work on a project which, we hope, will make a real difference to people who are neurodiverse, both those who are able to take advantage of Aviva’s placement scheme directly and those who might benefit from greater awareness and wider changes as a result of Aviva’s approach.
On a personal level, I benefitted enormously from participating in this ThinkLab project and collaborating with researchers from such diverse backgrounds and areas of expertise.
The experience exemplified the impact of interdisciplinary collaboration in aid of societal challenges.
Find out more about ThinkLab.
Dante McGrath, Department of Engineering October 2021
Hands clasped together on a computer keyboard
Credit: Photo by NordWood Themes on Unsplash

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/business-and-enterprise/blog/joining-the-dots:
A new online community of researchers, businesses and healthcare providers is bringing the future of medicine one step closer.
Cambridge is one of the UK’s leading centres of life sciences and innovation.
Researchers from the University and the world-leading research institutes on our doorstep have contributed to major breakthroughs in healthcare.
Monoclonal antibodies, IVF and gene sequencing technologies are just some of the life-changing innovations to have emerged from the Cambridge Cluster.
Cambridge is also a research powerhouse in maths, physics, computer science and engineering.
The future of healthcare - earlier detection, better diagnostics, more-personalised medicine - lies where these disciplines meet.
Maths and computer science, for example, are driving advances in AI which will help us to better understand biological processes (and hence where to target drugs), interrogate the vast genomic datasets that underpin personalised medicine and improve how clinical trials are run.
Inventing new diagnostics and medical devices, using new materials and new processes such as additive manufacturing, needs both medical and engineering know-how.
There are plenty of examples of powerful interdisciplinary collaborations in the University, such as the new Cambridge Centre for AI in Medicine in the Department of Applied Mathematics and Theoretical Physics.
But finding out who does what and connecting the right people across a complex ecosystem is not always easy.
An already difficult task is made harder by the fact that researchers in different disciplines, executives in large companies, entrepreneurs and clinicians often talk a very different language and have different expectations of collaborative activities.
Once connections have been made, therefore, it can be a challenge to convert them into projects which go on to have a ‘real-world’ impact.
Connect: Health Tech, a Cambridge University Enterprise Zone was set up in 2019 with funding from Research England expressly to bridge these interdisciplinary and inter-organisational gaps through a range of activities.
A roadmapping exercise was carried out, using innovation management techniques developed at the University’s Institute for Manufacturing.
Key stakeholders were brought together to identify the top five barriers to collaboration and the best ways to overcome them.
The report, Creating a University Enterprise Zone for Cambridge across the life and physical sciences, will be published in June 2021.
The roadmap identified a clear need: a digital way of connecting and collaborating with people across the Cambridge ecosystem.
A year later, we are delighted to be launching, a new, easy-to-navigate online community where the physical and life sciences can meet, along with entrepreneurs, large corporates, venture capitalists, science parks, National Health Service and member organisations.
While focused on Cambridge initially, in time we hope that it will help community members forge connections further afield and expand the geographical boundaries of the ecosystem to create the right environment for ideas, start-ups, innovation and co-creation to thrive.
The idea of Connect: Health Tech is to ‘join the dots’, to help researchers from different disciplines to find each other and other resources they might need, whether that is mentorship, skills, equipment, funding or physical space.
For businesses, it’s about all that as well as being a welcoming, easy-to-navigate way into the complexity of the University and the wider Cambridge cluster.
Getting successful collaborations off the ground often relies on the efforts of a relatively small group of people who have the knowledge and expertise to make connections – and broker relationships - across projects, disciplines and sectors.
Connect: Health Tech brings these ‘super-connectors’ together in one place, creating a hugely powerful resource that, we hope, will both bring people together and provide the support they need to take collaborations forward.
Users will be able to find new contacts and networks and the community can post events, funding opportunities and jobs of interest.
Special interest groups will encourage businesses and academics to discuss areas of common interest, with the topics chosen to catalyse inter-disciplinary interactions across the physical and life sciences.
In time, the intention is that businesses will use these groups to share the challenges they face so the community can help solve real world problems
If Connect: Health Tech is successful it will benefit everyone – business, academia and patients.
We want to see it leading to stronger and deeper interaction between physicists, material scientists, chemists, engineers, biotechnologists, biologists and clinicians across academia and industry leading to more clinically beneficial projects.
And we hope it will strengthen the already rich pipeline of healthcare spin-outs, start-ups and SMEs that emerge and flourish in the Cambridge Cluster.
With this blog comes an open invitation for businesses and individuals to join the online community and to get involved.
The link is here .
We will ask you a few short questions about why you want to join, what expertise you bring and what your expectations of it are.
The platform is designed to enable informal connections and provide an easy way into Cambridge through individuals.
It’s not a searchable website, it’s a live discussion forum with access to real people.
I look forward to seeing and connecting with you there!
Dr Kathryn Chapman Deputy Director of the Milner Therapeutics Institute and University Relationship Manager for the Cambridge-AstraZeneca Partnership
May 2021
Surgical robot
Credit: Shutterstock

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/business-and-enterprise/blog/spotlight-on-the-healthcare-sector:
Cambridge is one of the largest clinical research environments in the UK.
It brings together research excellence (both within the University and in the world-leading research institutes on its doorstep), the NHS and a determinedly entrepreneurial spirit.
More than 450 life sciences and healthcare businesses are based here, including global giants such as AstraZeneca as well as a whole host of start-ups and spin-outs bringing new ideas to market.
It is an inspiring environment to be a part of, one where academics, clinicians, businesses and patients can come together to deliver enormous benefits to society.
As the Sector Manager for Healthcare in the Strategic Partnerships Office, I have two main aims: to ensure that the University is working with the right external partners to make a positive difference to people’s lives and to work with colleagues across the University to develop a joined-up approach to working with business.
My role is a relatively new one.
I joined the Strategic Partnerships Office in July 2020 – mid-pandemic – but we are already making good progress, having carried out extensive consultation with industry partners and across the University to identify shared research priorities (see below) as well as building – and communicating - a clearer picture of our unique strengths.
These days, healthcare is not just about life sciences.
AI, big data and other technologies are an increasingly important part of the picture.
Cambridge, with its strengths in technology and the physical sciences is well placed to make advances where these disciplines intersect with life sciences and we are seeing a number of new initiatives designed to foster these new kinds of collaboration.
Connect: Health Tech is a great example.
It was set up as a University Enterprise Zone in 2019 with funding from Research England with the aim of building inter-disciplinary bridges between medicine and technology.
It is about to launch a new online collaboration space where the Cambridge life and physical sciences ecosystems – researchers, clinicians, investors, big companies, start-ups and funders – can come together to share new ideas and opportunities and make it easier for businesses outside of Cambridge to engage with our community.
Watch this space for more information!
Another interdisciplinary collaboration with huge potential is the Cambridge Centre for AI in Medicine (CCAIM), a partnership between the University, AstraZeneca and GSK which brings together Cambridge academics and clinicians, expertise in machine learning, engineering, mathematics, medicine, computer science, genetics, computational biology, biostatistics, clinical research, healthcare policy and more.
These experts are working closely with industry scientists and leaders to identify major challenges in drug discovery and development that can be solved through cutting-edge academic research.
Both Connect: Health Tech and CCAIM are about making connections between both individuals and organisations.
However brilliant a scientific or technological breakthrough, it can only have a significant impact on people’s lives if it is put into practice by organisations with global reach.
My role is to help create the conditions in which such collaborations can flourish.
We already have longstanding strategic partnerships with AstraZeneca and GSK which have taken many Cambridge ideas from bench to bedside – and which we hope will continue to do so for years to come.
We are also delighted to work with many other leading life science companies including Johnson & Johnson, Astex and Shionogi.
Alongside its ‘conventional’ research partnerships, the University is also developing new models of industry collaboration by bringing together different companies to work together pre-competitively on early drug discovery challenges.
The first of these partnerships is underway, exploring autophagy and its possible role in treating neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s.
If anything, COVID-19, has only served to reinforce the importance of collaboration.
Together with AstraZeneca and GSK, the University rapidly established a new state-of-the-art laboratory as part of the UK’s network of testing centres.
This involved hundreds of people from all three organisations - and the local community - in a remarkable display of how cross-sector partnerships can solve complex healthcare challenges.
The UK’s world-leading genome sequencing capability is also testament to the power of collaboration.
The COVID-19 Genomics UK (COG-UK) Consortium, led by Professor Sharon Peacock and run out of the University of Cambridge, involves Public Health Agencies, numerous other universities, the Wellcome Sanger Institute and diagnostic laboratory partners.
It was set up early in the pandemic to deliver large-scale genome sequencing of COVID-19.
Its researchers, together with Public Health England, were the first to discover that a variant first detected in Kent was quickly becoming dominant in the UK and elsewhere.
Internally, we are also taking steps to strengthen our collaborative capabilities.
One of the recommendations emerging from our strategic review is to establish Translational and Industry Champions, academics in key disciplines who are interested in seeing the clinical benefits of research.
They will play a vital role in increasing the understanding and awareness of the steps required in translation, commercialisation or clinical application of research, and promoting wider participation in translation and collaboration with industry.
As a sector, life sciences is of critical importance to the UK economy and one of the key pillars of the government’s 2017 Industrial Strategy.
It is also central to the Oxford-Cambridge Arc and its vision of achieving high-value growth, innovation and productivity along a corridor between the two world-leading life science clusters around Oxford and Cambridge.
Clearly, Cambridge – both the University and the wider ecosystem – has a critical role to play in ensuring that the UK’s capabilities in life sciences continue to deliver economic, social and health benefits.
We can only do that by working with others.
My role is to help make that happen by finding new ways to bring industry and academia together, to the benefit of all.
With so much going on in Cambridge across so many disciplines, this is not always a straightforward task – but it is a hugely rewarding one.
Dr Rui Mauricio Healthcare Sector Manager, Strategic Partnerships Office May 2021

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/business-and-enterprise/blog/innovating-during-a-crisis-lessons-for-university-industry-partnerships-in-a-post-covid-world:
Innovation will be required across the breadth and depth of our economy and country if we are to rebuild at pace and address the long-standing economic imbalances holding back the UK.
A robust system of universities, research institutes and technology development organisations, working in close partnership with the private and public sectors will have a critical role to play in making that happen.
However, while there is an increasing body of evidence to show how COVID-19 is adversely affecting R&D and innovation activities in key sectors, there has been less clarity about its effect on universities and their ability to contribute to innovation through the crisis, the economic recovery and beyond.
Which is why UKRI asked my team (the new University Commercialisation and Innovation Policy Evidence Unit at the University of Cambridge) and the National Centre for Universities and Business to find out what has been happening to UK universities and their industrial collaborations.
Through August-September 2020, we surveyed senior UK university leaders with responsibilities for innovation-focused activities and partnerships in 61 institutions.
What did we find?
A mixed picture, with just under half of the universities experiencing a decline in their innovation-related activities.
For one in six, those declines amounted to more than 20 per cent decreases in their activity levels.
A further third saw little change, while around two in ten experienced increases.
However, what these aggregate results disguise is the significant variation in how the pandemic has affected universities’ engagement with different sectors of the economy.
Across the board, many universities have experienced quite dramatic declines in their activities with sectors such as aerospace and automotive manufacturing, the creative industries, and with non-biomedical R&D, scientific and technical services.
By contrast, activities with the pharmaceutical industry and with human health and social work services have been much less affected.
At the time of the survey at least, projects were not necessarily being cancelled altogether.
Rather, deadlines were being extended, planned projects delayed, and the scale and scope of projects reduced or refocused on shorter term partner priorities.
Some partners were also looking to renegotiate financial and other contractual terms.
Overall the picture is one of trying to preserve projects – and hence relationships – as much as possible.
This begs the question: for how long is this a sustainable approach?
In this context, the survey highlighted the value of long-term strategic partnerships between universities and their industrial partners.
Strategic partnerships focus on developing win-win opportunities for each partner by aligning their strategic interests, building strong strategic and technical-level relationships and by taking steps to reduce the transaction costs of interactions.
These kinds of partnerships have proved much more resilient than those focusing on shorter-term interactions, more narrowly defined projects, with activity much less affected and, indeed, increasing in almost four in ten universities.
Both universities and companies in these types of collaboration were more likely to invest time and energy in finding ways to sustain them through the crisis.
We also investigated the impact of the pandemic on how universities work with their industrial partners.
In spite of severe national restrictions to combat the spread of the virus, university and industry teams found ways of coming together to fast-track new projects to address COVID-related challenges, such as developing vaccines and treatments, manufacturing ventilators and co-ordinating the supply of PPE.
The urgency of the situation, a collective vision, and a good amount of trust enabled them to agree objectives and broad terms of engagement at speed and start work while the finer legal details were ironed out – an approach that would not have been possible pre-pandemic.
As buildings were shuttered and staff switched to remote working, universities also found ways of sustaining a broad range of non-COVID related activities.
Those responding to the survey highlighted new practices that could help to improve the effectiveness and value of their innovation engagements beyond the pandemic.
For example, the move online increased the effectiveness of  certain activities, such as some types of workshop.
It made some activities more accessible, for example to senior executives with very limited bandwidth, and it enabled productive interactions with partners much further afield than previously.
Indeed, as university staff became more adept with online collaboration tools and no longer relied on periodic face-to-face meetings to drive relationships, some partners found that the quality of their interactions improved.
We also explored how universities may shift their strategic priorities to help drive the post-pandemic economic recovery.
Strengthening research portfolios remains a core preoccupation for university leaders.
However, it is clear from the survey that a number of other priorities are emerging alongside it.
University leaders see a growing need for more challenge-led programmes that more closely integrate research with its translation and commercialisation into applications.
They also envisage taking a more active and important role in supporting partners in the later stages of the innovation process and in adopting new technologies and processes to drive efficiency and productivity improvements.
Finally, the survey respondents see an increasingly important and strategic role for universities in investing to strengthen the enabling conditions of the local and sectoral systems within which innovation takes place.
As we move beyond the pandemic, nations are facing difficult decisions about where and how to invest in order to drive an economic recovery.
Core funding for research must be protected.
It is this knowledge base, built up over many decades, which enables universities to make breakthrough advances and develop technical solutions to a wide range of innovation challenges.
However, this is not sufficient in itself.
Universities were able to respond so rapidly to the health crisis because they had not only the necessary technical expertise, but they also had a mature knowledge exchange support system which enabled them to work productively with industrial partners, investors and others to further develop their ideas and inventions into real-world applications.
It is here that the university leaders who responded to our survey are calling for more action.
They would like to see more funding for challenge-driven programmes; greater and more coherent support for the translation and commercialisation of ideas and inventions; and to sustain the funding that allows universities to nurture their innovation partnerships, commercialisation and wider knowledge exchange activities.
COVID-19 has shown what university-industry partnerships can do under pressure.
Now is the moment to build on that experience and put in place the mechanisms that will enable them to drive an innovation-led national recovery.
We can and must do more.
Tomas Ulrichsen, Director, UCI Policy Evidence Unit , University of Cambridge March 2021
Lightbulb
Credit: Image by sergei akulich from Pixabay

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/business-and-enterprise/blog/creative-thinking-helping-students-and-employers-make-good-choices:
Organisations need talent.
Cambridge University has plenty of it.
In theory, therefore, running the Cambridge Careers Service should be the easiest job in the world.
In practice, of course, it’s not.
The sheer abundance of talent here combined with the University’s organisational complexity, makes this a noisy space both for those looking for a job and for those looking to hire.
Our role is to help filter out some of that noise, to bridge the gap between the University and the outside world and to give our students and post-docs good, impartial advice.
This Christmas, Covid-19 will not have stopped parents, grandparents, well-meaning aunts, uncles and family friends gathering on Zoom to quiz our students about what they are going to do with their lives - and giving them the benefit of their advice.
That’s great.
But the problem with it is that everyone’s got their own angle – and we don’t.
At the Careers Service, our students and post-docs can talk about their future with somebody who doesn’t have a direct stake in it.
We also work hard to make sure that everyone who comes to us is treated as an individual, that our advice is designed for, and specific, to them.
Our aim is to open their eyes to all the opportunities that are available to them – not just the obvious ones - whilst also providing them with the tools and skills to evaluate them critically and understand what matters to them.
This will not only help ease their transition into their first role but enable them to continue to make good choices as they progress in their career.
Working closely with employers is an important part of that process: we want to help them find the talent they need but always in ways that will benefit the students and post-docs.
There are two main ways we engage with employers: ‘recruitment’ and ‘education’.
By recruitment, I mean the conventional careers fair approach when you put recruiters in the same space as job hunters.
We run a number of these kinds of events and they are highly effective.
But the educational side is also important if we are to properly inform students about their options.
To do that, we invite alumni to talk about their careers and senior leaders to talk about their organisations.
We also run sector briefings and panel discussions, where, for example, we might bring together people with the same degree who are now doing very different jobs to show how one subject can take people on very different paths.
We are also fortunate to have access to national data on graduate destinations, supplemented by our own information about how individuals engage with the Careers Service and where they end up.
All of this valuable insight helps us both to better inform students and to help employers think about new ways to access talent and contribute to the knowledge base in the sector.
We initially wondered how we would run our careers fairs with everyone working from home during the pandemic.
Usually, we would have had stands in the University Centre staffed by representatives from a wide range of organisations but in 2020 we held them online for the first time.
We had a lot of positive feedback and there were some unforeseen benefits.
As well as listening to group presentations, our students were also able to book ten-minute, one-to-one appointments with individual recruiters.
We were able to get a wider range of representatives from the organisations involved, with different post-holders able to dip in for their session and not spend most of the day out of the office.
The students also valued the time that was ring fenced for one-on-one discussions which can be difficult to achieve in the physical setting with large number of people passing by the stands.
For some, this was perhaps a more fulfilling experience.
However, I worry that the online format is not helpful for students who are less confident or are perhaps not at the point in their career journey to take the step of booking a one-on-one.
In ‘real life’, those students might have been in the crowd around a stand, overheard conversations between employers and other students and then used that information to help them make decisions.
Some employers also found that they haven't had the number of conversations at online fairs that they would have expected in person.
This might be part of the same issue.
In an online environment, you might miss the conversations that arise when students pass by physical stands and stop to hear more.
Students really value the personal element and we have a couple of online platforms that can help facilitate some of these connections.
Handshake is a new platform which can be used by students, staff, alumni and employers from different universities.
It acts as a single interface where we host our careers fairs, a vacancy board and a networked messaging community.
Companies can message those students who have opted to make their details visible on the site to start a conversation about current vacancies.
The platform can also help employers find talent from a particular degree discipline or with a particular type of work experience.
One of the aims of the platform is to help employers engage with students who might not have thought that their skill set could be a good match for an organisation.
We are early adopters of the platform in the UK and potential employers can choose to post at Cambridge or across the network of eight (so far) other participating universities -  creating advantages of scale, for both the students and employers.
Alumni Careers Connect puts students in touch with people who have a Cambridge connection (such as our alumni) to get an insight into a particular role or organisation at a more personal level.
Encourage your Cambridge alumni employees to join this community.
In my experience, connecting on more of an individual level rather than through any kind of advertorial platform, results in greater interest and better engagement.
Students very quickly see through glossy presentations.
What they really value, both from the Careers Service and prospective employers, is time and meaningful conversations.
What I mean by this is the tendency for organisations to engage with the kinds of students that already know about them.
For example, if you are a law firm, by all means engage with the Law Society but be aware that those students are likely to be the ones that will apply to you anyway.
If you are looking for advocacy talent, why not cast your net a bit wider and try the debating society, for example?
We want to help employers find the talent that they wouldn't necessarily come across and show students how their skills and interests could lead them into a rewarding career they hadn’t necessarily considered.
Today’s students are graduating in uncertain times.
Some sectors are flourishing while others – such as the arts – are facing huge challenges.
In addition, many students are feeling isolated and disconnected right now.
But there are plenty of grounds for optimism, if they know what career they want to pursue and if they are able to be creative in how they pursue it.
We are here to support them in that process.
To make sure we do that as effectively as possible we are keen to engage with employers of all shapes and sizes to understand what works both for them and for us – and what doesn’t.
Ultimately, this will help us deliver a better experience for our students and postdocs and for our external partners.
Jenny Blakesley Director, University Careers Service
February 2021
General admission
Credit: Sir Cam

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/business-and-enterprise/blog/collaboration-in-action-the-astrazeneca-cambridge-science-symposium:
At the end of November, 1,562 people came together over two days for the AstraZeneca-Cambridge Online Science Symposium, an event that went from concept to delivery in just seven weeks.
It brought us the scientific inspiration we needed at the end of a difficult year and sparked new ideas for collaborations, giving us something to look forward to in 2021.
The organising team was thrilled with the attendance levels which were impressive by any measure.
For an event restricted to researchers at the University, clinicians at the Cambridge hospitals and R&D teams at AstraZeneca (plus a few colleagues from the nearby Sanger and Babraham Research Institutes), the level of participation was extraordinary.
It did not even cover the full extent of the AstraZeneca-Cambridge partnership: a separate, complementary event had taken place in September to discuss the latest developments in cancer research, diagnosis and treatment.
The Symposium not only gave us the opportunity to hear about new scientific advances but it also gave us time to reflect on our partnership and why it works so well.
The Symposium began with a keynote by Sir Mene Pangalos, Executive Vice President of Biopharmaceuticals R&D at AstraZeneca and was closed by the University’s Pro-Vice-Chancellor for Business and Enterprise, Professor Andy Neely.
The visible support of senior leadership in both organisations is a powerful statement demonstrating the value of the collaboration so far and its ambition for even greater things to come.
The scene was set with Mene’s announcement that there are currently more than 140 active research projects between AstraZeneca and the University which range from PhD studentships to long-term collaborative projects in 27 different Departments.
Mene also described the four laboratories in which AstraZeneca and the University are working hand in hand: the Antibody Alliance Laboratory and the Functional Genomics Centre (both part of the CRUK Cambridge Centre), the new Cambridge Centre for AI in Medicine (which I’ll come back to) and the Cambridge Testing Centre, a herculean joint effort by AstraZeneca, GSK and the University to repurpose a building into a dedicated COVID-19 testing facility in a matter of weeks.
The scale of the collaborative work across both organisations shows what a fruitful and integrated partnership has developed since our scientists first started working together more than 20 years ago.
A shared belief in the importance of curiosity-driven research enables open discussion and high quality peer-to-peer interactions between the partners.
The Symposium brought to life how working towards a common scientific goal enables our researchers to develop relationships where the different needs and drivers of academia and industry can be shared and accommodated successfully.
It also showcased some of the fantastic translational science emerging from the partnership in respiratory, immunological, cardiovascular, renal and metabolic disease as well as the developments taking place in data science and AI across medicine and healthcare.
Presenters ranged from world-leaders in their field to PhD students who, during the course of 54 live presentations, two panels and 617 Powerpoint slides, shared new findings about disease pathways and new approaches to disease management in the clinic.
For all of the speakers, the commitment to using their science to make a difference to people’s lives was palpable.
The PhD students, researchers and clinicians from both organisations talked passionately about their work and exemplified the value of collaborating at the interface of academia and industry.
Being able to hear from AstraZeneca about how the collaboration is having an impact on drug discovery generated a real sense of energy and purpose which will inspire us in our day-to-day research at the bench.
In any other year, we would have met in person.
After all, one of the reasons for AstraZeneca moving its global headquarters to Cambridge was to foster close working relationships through geographical proximity to scientists and clinicians on the Cambridge Biomedical Campus and throughout Cambridge.
While we definitely missed the benefits of networking (and cake) in the breaks, and gave a wry smile at the few ‘you’re on mute’ incidents, going digital definitely had some pluses.
It made it easier for people to dip into the sessions most relevant to them which, I’m sure, increased the overall number of attendees – and, therefore, the reach of the event.
We were able to have key presenters calling in from hospital (in full PPE) without needing to take a day or two out of the clinic to attend the full program.
The technology also makes it less intimidating to ask questions and we noticed how deeply the delegates were engaging with the science, asking for clarification and information in a way they might not have done with 1500 colleagues in the room, if indeed we could have fitted them all in!
We need to think about how we can retain some of the advantages of digital when we return to our analogue lives – which we hope will be soon, thanks in part, it seem likely, to the efforts of AstraZeneca and our brilliant friends at Oxford.
While many promising areas of research and innovation were discussed during the Symposium, one really stood out to me, which is the speed at which big data and AI are transforming the whole drug discovery process.
Already, we are seeing examples of the new techniques being developed and applied, such as harnessing large genomic datasets to explain why patients respond differently to treatments, achieving breakthroughs in our understanding and treatment of complex diseases and guiding the design of clinical trials.
The Cambridge Centre for AI in Medicine , a new collaboration between AstraZeneca, GSK and the University, has been launched to capitalise on the enormous potential of this cross-disciplinary research.
It was incredibly exciting to hear about the ambitions for the new Centre.
As the University’s Relationship Manager with AstraZeneca, I had some prior knowledge of the extent of our collaboration.
But seeing the two organisations come together – even virtually – made apparent the vitality of the partnership and of the individual relationships that lie behind it.
In his closing statement, Andy Neely talked about our shared commitment “to creating the conditions in which innovation can flourish, through nurturing new talent in both organisations and by encouraging new ideas for collaboration to emerge.”
That's exactly what we did during those two days in November.
There is no doubt that many of the insights and ideas we discussed will go on to have a profound impact on people’s lives in the coming years.
And that’s why we do what we do - together.
December 2020
AstraZeneca-Cambridge Science Symposium on Zoom
Credit: AstraZeneca

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/business-and-enterprise/blog/four-secrets-of-a-successful-business-university-partnership:
These are just some of the areas in which Cambridge is working with business partners to make a difference to all our lives.
It’s hugely rewarding to be able to play a part in connecting the people and organisations who, through their collaborations, are bringing Cambridge research to bear on real-world challenges and opportunities.
I’m often asked what a successful partnership looks like.
They come in many shapes and sizes and no one partnership is exactly like another but here are what I consider to be the four secrets of success.
As partners, we need to have a long-term vision for the relationship with a focal point that extends beyond the here and now.
Academics don’t know exactly where their research will take them.
That can make it difficult for executives to set out a conventional business case for a wide-ranging collaboration, the precise objectives of which may not be known at the start.
In these circumstances, having a belief in the possibilities of the partnership is important, as AstraZeneca ’s Executive Vice President, Biopharmaceuticals R&D, Sir Mene Pangalos articulates:
“I have no doubt that partnerships like the one we have with the University will lead to new and unanticipated scientific and medical breakthroughs.”
But this doesn’t mean we are not committed to achieving impact and value for our partners and ourselves.
Quite the opposite.
While we may not be able to predict exactly what form a breakthrough will take or when it may happen, we do broadly know what challenges the partnership is trying to address or what opportunities it wants to seize.
By putting in place support and oversight mechanisms we make sure that expectations and outcomes on both sides are properly managed.
Collaborations are often centred on research but the most successful ones are about much more than that.
Engaging with the University can support organisational development in lots of different ways.
It can help businesses find and recruit the talent and skills they will need going forward.
Different parts of the University can help them to develop their existing teams through our executive education and professional development programmes.
Or partners can benefit from harnessing the brilliant minds – and critical thinking – of our early-career researchers by setting them challenges or bringing them into their organisation on a temporary basis.
Becoming part of the ‘Cambridge family’ also connects partners with the wider Cambridge Cluster, bubbling with start-ups and spin-outs busy turning new ideas and technologies into commercial realities.
Having a shared vision is critical to success.
Particularly when dealing with uncertain outcomes, it is vital for organisations to be committed to the same objectives both at the strategic and operational level.
The University’s mission is to contribute to society and our business partnerships play a vital role in making that happen.
Research on its own can’t bring about change at scale.
We need strategic partners with the resources, know-how and commitment to put it into practice.
This is arguably more important than ever before as we try to tackle some of the world’s most urgent but complex challenges, including a global pandemic and a climate emergency.
At the same time, huge opportunities lie ahead enabled particularly (but by no means exclusively) by the so-called ‘Fourth Industrial Revolution’.
New digital technologies, big data and AI will have a critical role to play in addressing many of the societal challenges we face and in boosting the UK’s economic competitiveness as we enter a period of post-pandemic recovery and adjust to life outside the EU.
It is to everyone’s benefit that we are able to harness these technologies effectively to bring about positive change.
Creating the conditions in which new ideas can flourish is also key to a successful partnership.
There are many ways both partners can contribute, from organising networking events to building a consortium to sharing the same workspace.
Cambridge also benefits from being a small place.
There are countless examples of partnerships being forged because the right people have bumped into each other at the school gates or queuing for the coffee machine.
How COVID-19 has affected this aspect of partnerships remains to be seen.
It’s clear that people have adapted with remarkable speed to new ways of working.
Teams have come together online with extraordinary energy and purpose, in many cases making things happen in weeks that would otherwise have taken months, if not years, to accomplish.
What is less clear, however, is the toll remote working is taking on serendipity.
Those ideas that once took flight at a chance meeting may not be doing so over Zoom or Teams.
It’s almost certainly harder for initiatives like Project Beacon, a five-year ‘blue-skies’ collaboration with AstraZeneca, which “started over a shepherds’ pie” to get off the ground.
When we are able to meet in person again, we will need to focus our energies on bringing people together.
In the meantime, we continue to exploit the technology as best we can.
For example, we recently held a joint virtual Symposium which was attended by more than 1500 delegates from AstraZeneca and the University, at which PhD students and postdoctoral researchers (as well as very senior academics) talked about their work, sparking many new ideas for collaboration.
There is no question that some of the research presented at this event will go on to transform people’s lives.
Planning for serendipity also benefits from focus.
Cambridge is home to vast numbers of experts across many disciplines.
To make it easier for organisations to engage and to benefit from a critical mass of activity, we are concentrating our strategic partnerships in those sectors where societal and commercial priorities intersect with areas of research intensity:
By focusing our energies in these key areas, we hope to create even more opportunities for ground-breaking collaborations to emerge and thrive.
Dr Catherine Hasted Head of Business Partnerships, Strategic Partnerships Office

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/business-and-enterprise/blog/impact-through-collaboration-the-importance-of-strategic-partnerships:
For large companies, Cambridge can supply some of that new thinking and positive disruption.
Complementary capabilities – our blue-sky, longer-term thinking combined with a business’s ability to get things done – mean that we can do things together that we can’t achieve on our own.
Indeed, it is only through collaboration that we can address some of the world’s most pressing challenges and bring about positive economic and societal change.
However, we need to be mindful that those same differences that make our partnerships so fruitful can also lead to frustrations on both sides, if not carefully managed.
One of the challenges of working with Cambridge is our breadth and scale.
With more than 150 Faculties and Departments, nearly 12,000 staff and more than 22,000 students not to mention 31 independent Colleges, the opportunities for businesses to engage with us are plentiful.
Sometimes, we are told, too plentiful.
We know the University is complicated – but it’s not just us.
Almost all large companies also have labyrinthine organisational structures.
Trying to bring the right people together at the right time can take patience and persistence.
There can also be tensions around expectations and outcomes.
Academics are measured by the quality and quantity of their publications.
Firms seeking to achieve competitive advantage from these relationships don’t – understandably – always want to broadcast their findings to their competitors.
Developing the right intellectual property framework which gives each party sufficient rewards is, therefore, a precondition of a successful partnership.
It is also the case that curiosity-led research does not always result in an outcome which has a direct commercial application.
That can be a source of frustration if it has not been understood at the outset.
To help overcome these hurdles, our Strategic Partnerships Office plus a small army of knowledge exchange professionals dotted around the University are on hand to facilitate collaboration.
Having dedicated relationship managers on both sides of the partnership can also be helpful in keeping the lines of communication running smoothly and efficiently.
Anna Dalglish, Data Science Partnerships Lead at Aviva , attributes the success of its collaboration with Cambridge to having people in those roles: “Having a partnership lead on both sides has meant we can get things done really quickly.”
Our partnerships are built around three broad areas:
Research and innovation : Ways to engage include research collaborations ranging from large multidisciplinary collaborations with senior academics to sponsoring a PhD.
Firms can also join one of our industry clubs (and benefit from collaborating with other companies in a non-competitive or pre-competitive environment) or by sharing workspaces to promote the exchange of ideas and build productive relationships.
Relocating a team (or in AstraZeneca’s case, its global headquarters) to Cambridge can also help with both of these things as well as connecting organisations with promising spin-outs and start-ups across our flourishing innovation ecosystem.
Talent : Access to a talent pool of Cambridge graduates (and postgraduates) and the opportunity to recruit the next generation of leaders and innovators is usually near the top of any strategic partner’s wish list.
They can do this through Careers Services events, hosting student projects and funding PhDs and postgraduate training.
Cambridge can also help companies develop their own in-house talent through a programme of bespoke and open executive and professional development programmes.
Services : Businesses may also benefit from a range of professional support services that can help them, for example, license a particular technology or research tool, access labs and equipment or find investment opportunities.
Businesses can engage with the University in a very focused way by, for example, working with an individual academic or licensing a technology through Cambridge Enterprise.
And that's great.
But in order to do achieve significant and sustained impact, longer-term strategic partnerships have a critical role to play.
Broader collaborations are also of interest to, and hence often funded by, government which wants to see its investment in the research base lead to home-grown business success and the social and economic benefits that arise from it.
A great example of how a long-term relationship can build on its success is the University’s collaboration with Rolls-Royce which has, over 40 odd years, resulted in breakthrough after breakthrough.
Mark Jefferies, Chief of University Research Liaison at Rolls-Royce, says that its distinct model of university collaboration "means that we can create a core of activity around a particular specialism and by sharing knowledge and expertise with a trusted partner, together we are able to achieve considerably more than the sum of our parts.”
These collaborations are also very important for individual researchers.
In a recent article about another longstanding University partnership, I was struck by a remark made by Helena Rannikmae, a PhD student funded by AstraZeneca , who explained how having an industrial sponsor has enriched her research: “I definitely think my PhD would have less impact without AstraZeneca’s input.
They really pushed me both in terms of the underlying biology and in thinking about its long-term application.”
If these partnerships are to succeed, they have to deliver real benefits to both sides.
For our business partners, it’s ultimately about achieving and sustaining competitive advantage.
From the University’s perspective, they give academics an opportunity to put their research into practice to achieve real impact.
Issues arising at the commercial frontline also give rise to interesting research questions and new avenues to explore.
Students and postdocs can benefit from funding, industrial experience and career opportunities through collaborations, projects and placements.
Even if they choose to pursue a career elsewhere, they will have seen first-hand how business works and acquired some immensely valuable skills along the way.
We can’t talk about strategic partnerships without mentioning COVID-19.
The pandemic has affected every aspect of our lives – and our collaborations are no exception.
Different sectors, of course, have been impacted in different ways.
But all of us have had to adapt to new way of working and learn to deal with considerable uncertainty.
This has presented some significant challenges – but also some opportunities.
It has also raised interesting and important questions about priorities as we (eventually) emerge from our current situation.
Managing risk is clearly high on everyone’s agenda but so is the mental health and wellbeing of a workforce under intense and sustained pressure and the need to keep a focus on carbon zero commitments.
Right now we are all experiencing disruption on a massive scale and there is no doubt that further challenges lie ahead.
Together, universities and businesses have a vital role to play in tackling the immediate crisis but also in laying the foundations of our long-term recovery.
Photo: Professor Cecilia Mascolo and Dr Fahim Kawsar, Founding Director of Pervasive Systems Research at Nokia Bell Labs in Cambridge

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/business-and-enterprise/blog/the-cambridge-cluster-lessons-from-the-pandemic:
I recently introduced Beyond the pandemic , a new series of opinion pieces from Cambridge researchers on how the coronavirus is forcing us all to rethink what we do and how we do it and to ask if – amidst the devastation and uncertainty - there are any positive lessons to be learnt.
I have been thinking about this from the perspective of the Cambridge innovation ecosystem and its response to the pandemic.
The cluster has always been characterised by its ability to embrace change.
One of the reasons for this, I believe, is its dispersed but deceptively coherent nature.
It is a kaleidoscope of activity with people and organisations coming together in different patterns and combinations to do new things, all within a structured, supportive framework.
In 2020 it has demonstrated its ability to slip into new configurations with ease and with remarkable results.
I’ve noticed three key – and connected - dimensions to its response to the pandemic.
Collaboration .
COVID-19 created an environment in which new and unexpected alliances were formed to solve problems with collective drive and urgency.
We saw this first-hand at the start of the pandemic when GP surgeries, clinics and hospitals were experiencing shortages of PPE.
The University responded by offering equipment from its own labs.
But offers of help immediately arrived from Cambridge’s friends and alumni around the globe as well as from local companies and schools.
Within days, donations of surgical masks, gloves and gowns started to flood in.
It quickly became apparent that managing this influx would be a significant task.
Homerton, the college closest to Addenbrooke’s Hospital , offered storage space.
Researchers and students from the Institute for Manufacturing applied their knowledge of factory logistics and, using tracking technology developed by University spinout, RedBite, created a highly efficient warehousing operation.
Staff from the Strategic Partnerships Office took on the task of triaging offers of help as they came in.
Students volunteered to process the deliveries.
In five days, a brand new logistics hub was up and running.
Speed.
This was by no means the only example of rapid mobilisation – and collaboration.
It took just five weeks for Cambridge’s life sciences community to repurpose a building and set up a state-of-the-art, highly automated COVID-19 testing centre – a task that could take anything up to two years to plan and deliver in more normal times.
Teams from the University and our strategic partners AstraZeneca and GSK worked together to achieve this mammoth feat of organisation and commitment.
They were, in turn, supported by a whole host of other organisations: construction firms who built a new walkway at short notice and waived their fees for doing so; and manufacturers who developed complex scientific equipment in a fraction of the time it would usually have taken.
Creativity .
Early on in the pandemic, it became clear that ventilators were going to play a critical part in patient care.
Across the UK, manufacturers of all shapes and size scrambled to adapt their production lines to manufacture modified designs or completely new ones.
But conventional ventilators are expensive to produce and difficult to fix.
A team of Cambridge engineers and clinicians saw a need for an affordable version that could be manufactured using readily available components for use in low and middle-income countries.
The project to come up with a new design quickly gained momentum, bringing on board other universities and commercial partners both in the UK and Africa to refine the thinking and develop a prototype.
The ventilator is now on the next stage of its journey with a manufacturer in South Africa preparing for mass production.
Collaboration, speed and creativity are not new: they have always been at the heart of Cambridge’s dynamic ecosystem.
The pandemic has amplified those characteristics partly through an adrenalin-fuelled but largely unsustainable crisis response but partly as a result of remote working.
Swapping face-to-face meetings for Zoom or Teams, while it undoubtedly has its drawbacks, has played a perhaps unexpected role as an enabler of change.
Pre-pandemic, there was an assumption that meeting in person – where possible – was the gold standard for communication.
But cutting out the need to travel – even by bicycle across Cambridge - has made it faster and easier to reach people, to form new groups quickly and to coalesce around a shared vision.
It is, of course, important to acknowledge that the pandemic has had – and will continue to have – a calamitous effect on many businesses, and on the people who work in them.
But if there are some positive lessons to be learnt it is that the experience of these intense collaborations, enabled by remote working, has shown us what can be achieved in a very short space of time.
This is something that we can take with us into the future, whatever it may hold.
Picture credit: Jude Palmer/Royal Academy of Engineering
Cambridge engineers received a Royal Academy of Engineering President’s Special Award for Pandemic Service.
Credit: Jude Palmer/Royal Academy of Engineering

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/affiliations/strategic-partnerships-office:
The University of Cambridge and the Nanjing Municipal Government have broken ground on the Cambridge University-Nanjing Centre of Technology and Innovation.
The new joint centre will support innovative research into smart cities and fully integrated urban environments.
The collaborative venture will offer insights into the links between ethics and social change
Researchers met in New Delhi today to formalise the launch of a programme that aims to jointly address some of India’s most pressing food security challenges.
New panel will advise on University's engagement with Africa
Agreement will enable closer research ties and funding of joint projects
UC Berkeley, the University of Cambridge and the National University of Singapore to support collaborative projects in themes including Precision Medicine, Cities and Smart Systems.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/business-and-enterprise/contact-us/contact-business-team:
Our Business Partnerships team works with a network of knowledge exchange professionals across the University.
Tell us how you would like to work with us and we'll put you in touch with the right people.
Please complete this form to start a conversation with us.
If you encounter difficulties, or you have any queries, please email business@admin.cam.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/astrazeneca-partnership-functional-genomics:
The Functional Genomics Screening Laboratory (FGSL) is based in the Milner Therapeutics Institute at the University of Cambridge and provides researchers from across the UK with access to large-scale biological and technological tools and an advanced automated arrayed-CRISPR screening platform.
It is hoped that through the use of CRISPR gene editing, scientists will discover new opportunities to develop therapies for chronic diseases including cardiovascular, inflammatory, respiratory and metabolic disease.
Scientists from across the UK can apply to run projects with the new laboratory.
The FGSL is looking for people with deep expertise in a particular disease or biology who have assays that are amenable to functional genomic screening but who do not have the expertise or the capability to do the screening themselves.
“In setting up this new laboratory, we are building on a long and successful partnership with the Milner Therapeutics Institute which housed the previous functional genomics centre focused on oncology.”
Steve Rees , SVP, Discovery Sciences, R&D, AstraZeneca
" This collaboration with the MRC and AstraZeneca is a fantastic example of what can be achieved when academia and industry share expertise and resources, and I’m excited by the FGSL’s potential to deliver new diagnostics and treatments to people with chronic diseases."
Professor Sir Tony Kouzarides , Director of the Milner Therapeutics Institute
"The UK’s new Functional Genomics Screening Laboratory marks a key milestone in enhancing the national ecosystem needed to improve our understanding of how genetic variance impacts health and disease."
"The insights gained from the laboratory, along with the broader efforts of the MRC-led UK human functional genomics initiative, will pave the way for the next generation of diagnostics and targeted treatments."
Professor Patrick Chinnery , Executive Chair, Medical Research Council
Read more about the FGSL
Back to partnership homepage
Image Jeffrey Cheah Biomedical Centre, home of the new functional genomics screening laboratory: Credit: University of Cambridge
Veeva ID: GB-68347 Date of preparation: July 2025

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/astrazeneca-partnership-treating-cancer:
Professor Sir Steve Jackson, University of Cambridge Frederick James Quick and Cancer Research UK Professor of Biology
The story of this collaboration began in the 1990s when Professor Steve Jackson, a researcher at the University of Cambridge, connected a chance observation with a leap of thinking.
He realised that it was possible to switch off certain DNA repair mechanisms in cancer cells, causing them to die, while normal cells “just shrugged their shoulders and carried on growing and dividing.”
In 1997 Jackson founded a company, KuDOS, to explore the possibility of turning this discovery into a treatment for cancer.
Mark O’Connor, now Chief Scientist in Oncology R&D at AstraZeneca, was at that time a researcher at the Institute of Molecular Cell Biology in Singapore.
Their paths crossed a few times and Jackson mentioned he was setting up a company and asked O’Connor to join him.
O’Connor agreed, becoming team leader, and they started to see their work on PARP inhibitors produce promising results in BRCA1/2-mutated cancers.
They also realised that the next stages of clinical trials were going to be too expensive for a start-up company to resource.
The best way forward would be to join forces with a global biopharmaceutical company and in 2006, the company was acquired by AstraZeneca.
O’Connor became part of the AstraZeneca development team and headed the development of the lead PARP inhibitor, “leading the science all the way through to its first approval to treat patients with certain types of ovarian cancer.”
O’Connor was also appointed to lead one of AstraZeneca’s strategic biology areas, focussed on targeting the DNA Damage Response (DDR) – the field of study that underpins PARP inhibitors.
DDR has become a major pillar of AstraZeneca’s cancer drug discovery programme.
Combining breakthrough science originating at the University of Cambridge with AstraZeneca’s drug development capabilities has been a resounding – and very Cambridge – success story that has helped to advance care for patients.
Image Professor Sir Steve Jackson: credit: University of Cambridge
Veeva ID: GB-68348 Date of preparation: July 2025

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/astrazeneca-partnership-from-science-to-medicine:
Our scientific collaborations include:
The CAMS partnership started in 2018 between GSK, AstraZeneca, the MRC Toxicology Unit and the University of Cambridge.
Its purpose is to drive innovative partnerships between scientists and physicians in industry and academia with the aim of exploring and improving the predictive accuracy of future experimental safety studies.
CCAIM launched in 2020 with the aim of developing novel artificial intelligence and machine learning technologies to revolutionise biomedical science, medicine and healthcare.
The original collaboration, which included AstraZeneca and GSK, provided funding for facilities and equipment, as well as co-supervised PhD studentships and events.
Recently re-launched, CCAIM 2.0 involves a wider consortium of pharmaceutical companies alongside the founding partners.
It is focused on further developing cutting-edge technologies, industry challenges, PhD studentships and a host of wider training opportunities.
The iDMT supports the development of a sustained pipeline of new products and services for digital transformation of chemical synthesis.
From the outset, it has operated as an open innovation research centre, initially co-funded by the University of Cambridge, AstraZeneca, Shionogi and the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF).
It has provided support for UK subject matter experts in establishing new products and services to support the digital transformation of the molecular industries, and in exploiting the power of AI and machine learning in molecular sciences, technologies and products.
The Milner Therapeutics Consortium currently consists of nine pharmaceutical companies, including AstraZeneca and three academic institutions, University of Cambridge, Babraham Institute and the Wellcome Sanger Institute.
The Consortium connects companies with academics across Cambridge, facilitating pre-clinical research collaborations to discover and validate new therapeutic targets, apply novel technologies and better understand disease mechanisms in advanced cellular models across multiple disease areas.
SCI-TIF brings together industry and academic scientists with a shared interest in stem cells and technology to promote discussion, partnerships and translational research opportunities.
As a member of SCI-TIF, AstraZeneca is an active participant in challenge-led and industry-guided events, including hosting workshops and seminars for the Forum.
This includes partnerships on clinical trials of novel medicines, which help turn advances in science into advances in patient care.
AstraZeneca currently sponsors approximately one third of all clinical trials run by pharmaceutical companies at Cambridge University Hospitals.
This includes clinical trials for a variety of cancers – including lung, breast, prostate and gastric – as well as for respiratory and immunologic conditions, cardiovascular and renal conditions, and rare diseases.
ASCERTAIN , an innovative study to exploit genetic vulnerabilities in prostate cancer that may pave the way for new treatment approaches.
ATRiUM , a clinical trial to explore a novel investigational medicine in certain patients with advanced solid tumour cancers.
PARTNER , a clinical trial assessing the efficacy of chemotherapy treatments and targeted therapy in gap combination prior to surgery for patients with certain gene mutations.
SERENA-1 , a phase I clinical trial evaluating a new potential treatment for certain types of breast cancer, which has led to a phase III clinical trial which is currently underway.
WIRE , a “window of opportunity” clinical trial to evaluate novel treatment strategies in renal cell cancer prior to surgery.
Dr Simon Pacey , ASCERTAIN study co-lead, researcher at the University of Cambridge and consultant at Cambridge University Hospitals
Image Scientists in an AstraZeneca lab: credit: AstraZeneca
Veeva ID: GB-68349 Date of preparation: July 2025

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/astrazeneca-partnership-funded-Phd-case-study-one:
Sarah Folliet
Sarah studied for a PhD in synthetic chemistry at the University of Cambridge funded by AstraZeneca between 2017 and 2021.
She is now a Senior Research Scientist in AstraZeneca's Biochemical Assay Development team.
After my undergraduate degree in synthetic chemistry, I had the opportunity to undertake some internships in academic labs.
My curiosity and passion for problem-solving led me to pursue a PhD in chemistry after finishing my master’s.
I applied to several European universities, with Cambridge and Oxford my top choices.
Cambridge was the first to offer me a position, along with an AstraZeneca studentship, which I gladly accepted.
Access to expertise.
My PhD project focused mainly on synthetic chemistry.
However, the project shifted direction when we required biochemical assay expertise to validate our results and advance our studies.
My AstraZeneca supervisor introduced me to the biochemical assay team - the team I'm currently working in.
I was also assigned a ‘second’ AZ supervisor, a biochemistry expert, who mentored me in conducting basic assays.
This greatly benefited the project and allowed me to expand my scientific skillset beyond synthetic chemistry.
New opportunities.
My studentship allowed me to take a multidisciplinary approach to my PhD.
I not only designed and synthesized molecules for my project but also tested them in biochemical assay settings.
Exposure to the industry also enabled me to expand my network, learn new scientific topics, and explore other opportunities.
This ultimately facilitated my transition to a different field.
If you complete a PhD in a specialised scientific area like chemistry, it can be difficult to directly apply for jobs in entirely different scientific fields.
However, the collaboration with AstraZeneca provided me with two years of experience working with assays.
When a position in the biochemical assay development team opened up towards the end of my studies, I was intrigued by the prospect of pursuing a career as a biochemist.
I was encouraged to apply and secured the position.
Although I needed some further training, I successfully transitioned from chemistry to biochemistry.
I plan to continue advancing my career as an assay scientist and biochemist whilst remaining open to new opportunities.
Yes, I believe it’s an excellent opportunity that will provide access to expertise beyond your academic research and expand your scientific experience.
Find out more about the AstraZeneca-Cambridge PhD programme and how to apply
Image Sarah Folliet: credit: AstraZeneca
Veeva ID: GB-68350 Date of preparation: July 2025

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/astrazeneca-partnership-developing-drug-discovery-skills :
Experts from academia, clinical practice and the pharmaceutical industry cover a wide range of topics from drug discovery through to regulatory aspects.
The course focuses particularly on what is involved in taking a new compound into the clinic, how to navigate dosing in early clinical studies and how to monitor emerging medicine safety profile data and efficacy signals.
It has been designed so that it can adapt as new trends emerge, such as advances in artificial intelligence and its impact on drug discovery and clinical trial design.
"Ultimately, this is about developing cutting-edge science and advancing our speciality for the benefit of patients.
However, it also creates an opportunity to explore career pathways and inspire clinical pharmacologists, drug development scientists and pharmaceutical physicians of the future." Phil Ambery , Global Clinical Head, Cardiovascular-Renal-Metabolism (CVRM), R&D, AstraZeneca
"The Clinical Pharmacology Training Course was conceived to provide comprehensive coverage of the discipline from preclinical research through to execution of first-in-human studies.
It addresses a key gap in the translation of basic science into new therapies by expanding the number of people able to conduct early phase trials."
Ian Wilkinson , Professor of Therapeutics, University of Cambridge
The Clinical Pharmacology training course runs from October to May each year.
Get in touch if you would like more information or are interested in enrolling on the course.
Image AstraZeneca scientists in a lab: credit: AstraZeneca
Reference British Pharmacological Society joint report with ABPI on 'Ensuring UK leadership in experimental medicine' (2015).
Veeva ID: GB-68351 Date of preparation: July 2025

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/astrazeneca-partnership-funded-Phd-case-study-two:
Hannah Comfort
Hannah studied for a PhD in biochemistry at the University of Cambridge, funded by AstraZeneca, between 2021 and 2024.
As part of my undergraduate degree, I was able to spend a year in industry – at AstraZeneca, in fact.
During that year, I realised that I really wanted a career in the drug discovery industry.
I was looking at team leaders and thinking I would love to do that one day and I saw first-hand that having a PhD would make that so much easier.
Plus, I love doing research, so it was a pretty straightforward decision.
Potential impact .
Having an industry sponsor meant there was more chance that my PhD could have real impact.
That possibility was really motivating.
Different perspectives.
My AstraZeneca supervisors had a very different way of thinking about things than my academic supervisors.
It’s really helpful to have both perspectives, particularly when the project has potential to be translated into therapeutics.
During my PhD, I spent about six months working full-time with the team at AstraZeneca which was just amazing.
It gave me a really good feel for what everyone else was doing and what their jobs looked like.
Building my skillset .
It also helped me develop broader skills, such as learning how to present my work effectively.
I’ve also benefited from teaching undergraduates which has given me an insight into how to guide and support the next cohort of researchers.
My partner has just got a job in Switzerland so I’m looking for a role in a Swiss pharmaceutical or biotech company.
It’s very competitive so I’m hoping my industry experience combined with my PhD will help.
I’d love to be a team leader in a drug discovery company.
Definitely!
Image Hannah Comfort: credit: AstraZeneca
Veeva ID: GB-68352 Date of preparation: July 2025

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/astrazeneca-partnership-supporting-innovation-ecosystem:
The University and AstraZeneca are working together - and with many others - on a number of initiatives designed to strengthen Cambridge's life sciences cluster in the face of increasing global competition.
Launched in 2022, Innovate Cambridge is a locally-driven initiative to develop a compelling and inclusive vision and strategy for the region.
Its purpose is to ensure that Cambridge remains the leading innovation ecosystem in Europe, championing the UK on the global stage and driving growth and tangible benefits for society.
The University of Cambridge and AstraZeneca are sponsors of Innovate Cambridge and senior leaders from both organisations are members of Innovate Cambridge’s Advisory Council, launched in March 2025 by Lord Vallance, Minister of State for Science, Research and Innovation and Oxford-Cambridge Innovation Champion.
The Advisory Council will guide Cambridge’s role in shaping frontier technologies such as AI, life sciences and quantum computing, and catalyse its potential to deliver substantial societal, environmental and economic benefits regionally and nationally.
To strengthen Cambridge’s role in the UK’s national innovation strategy, Innovate Cambridge is driving collaboration with other cities to deliver UK-wide innovation partnerships.
This includes a pioneering collaboration with Manchester - backed by £4.8 million of government funding - to harness the combined strengths of both universities and cities, and boost innovation and growth for the whole of the UK.
AstraZeneca is helping to accelerate this growth agenda with its presence in both regions.
AstraZeneca and the University of Cambridge were among six founding members of the Oxford-Cambridge Supercluster Board, which was set up to drive the region’s potential in support of the UK’s ambition to become a scientific superpower.
The Board's remit includes attracting investment, fostering public-private partnerships, developing talent, and shaping policy to establish the area as a global science and technology hub.
The Board now comprises more than 40 organisations, all with the same shared vision.
Research for the Supercluster has shown that the region has the potential to add up to £78 billion to the UK economy by 2035, forming a key part of the UK Government’s Plan for Change to kick-start economic growth.
Image Aerial view of Cambridge Biomedical Campus: credit: AstraZeneca
Veeva ID: GB-68353 Date of preparation: July 2025

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/astrazeneca-partnership-mentoring:
Our mission is to advance understanding of lung and heart disease, revolutionise clinical trials and accelerate drug development through data curation and AI-powered decision-making.
We work with pharmaceutical companies, contract research organisations and hospitals, helping to accelerate approval of promising drugs for patients with lung and heart diseases.
At the same time as we founded the company, we were accepted onto Accelerate Cambridge , a three-month programme based at the Cambridge Judge Business School to support aspiring entrepreneurs.
We learned a huge amount about how to set up a new venture and we were introduced to a whole host of investors, lawyers and accountants – essentially all the people you are going to need when setting up a company.
A couple of the mentors were from AstraZeneca.
We started talking to them about what we were doing, and they invited us to The Discovery Centre (DISC) and made lots of useful introductions.
It gave us two things: credibility with potential industry partners and a really strong network.
In fact, AstraZeneca was not our first industry partner but through our prior connections, they heard we were working on imaging and fibrotic lung diseases and approached us to see if our technology could be applied to the medicines they were investigating.
Another significant benefit of the network is that four years ago we met Caroline Austin who is Vice-President, Head of Transactions UK, Business Development at AstraZeneca.
She subsequently joined Qureight’s Board of Directors as a non-executive director (NED) through AstraZeneca’s NED programme.
Caroline brings her expertise in life sciences business development to Qureight but her role with us is entirely separate from our partnership with AstraZeneca.
We have already shown that by using our deep learning and imaging technology in partnership with AstraZeneca, we are able to predict progression in a range of fibrotic lung diseases.
We have recently published our findings in a joint paper in the American Journal of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine , demonstrating that our approach supports shorter and smaller trials that are easier for both patients and investigators.
AstraZeneca is the principal sponsor of two initiatives at Lucy Cavendish, helping Cambridge students identify career opportunities in the life sciences and equipping them with the knowledge and skills to pursue those opportunities is an important aspect of the partnership.
Part of the College’s careers, employability and enterprise programme, the Life Sciences Community is a programme of activities designed to help students build their knowledge and understanding of career paths in the life sciences.
Many students aspiring to future leadership positions are seeking opportunities to understand the global context and challenges they will face – and how they will need to apply their deep course-specific learning to lead effectively.
Founders at the University of Cambridge is a University-backed accelerator providing structured engagement attracting investors, customers and partners.
AstraZeneca was one of six partners announced at launch in 2023, bringing deep industry knowledge and a commitment to encourage innovation in the life sciences sector.
The Founders initiative provides programmatic support for venture scientists and founding teams.
In addition, a community of more than 270 experts is on hand to inspire, advise and support the next generation of entrepreneurial talent.
University of Cambridge accelerator and mentorship programmes supported by AstraZeneca include: Founders at the University of Cambridge Accelerate Cambridge Murray Edwards Enterprising Women Lucy Cavendish Future Global Leaders Programme
Images People in a business meeting: credit: GettyImages/ 10'000 Hours Dr Muhunthan Thillai: credit: Qureight
Veeva ID: GB-68356 Date of preparation: July 2025

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/astrazeneca-partnership-community-engagement:
Both the University and AstraZeneca are deeply engaged in the Cambridge community – from championing STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) education to inspire the next generation, to volunteering and collaborating with local charities, to partnering with community organisations, events and initiatives.
The Cambridge Festival is a great example of where we come together.
An interdisciplinary mix of online, on-demand and in-person events, it covers all aspects of the world-leading research happening at Cambridge University.
Distinct platforms for the sciences and the arts, humanities and social sciences offer an eclectic mixture of events and activities from panel discussions, film premieres, and self-guided walking tours, to interactive activities for the whole family.
Topics cover the breadth of Cambridge research and are presented across the Festival’s main themes: Society, Health, Environment and Discovery.
AstraZeneca is both a major sponsor and participant in a wide range of events.
During the annual Festival it hosts activities for young people, opens the doors of the DISC to festival-goers and contributes to events on the Cambridge Biomedical Campus.
David Cain, Cambridge Festival Manager
Read more about the Cambridge Festival
Images All images of Cambridge Science Festival: credit: Cambridge Festival/Domininkas Zalys
Veeva ID: GB-68358 Date of preparation: July 2025

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/topics:
The crisis is forcing us all to change direction, to rethink what we do and how we do it.
In a new series, we ask our experts: beyond the pandemic, where should we go from here?
Cambridge researchers have played a vital role in the fight back against COVID-19, from the use of genomics to track its spread and mathematic modelling to understand infection rates through to innovative screening programmes to keep its students and staff safe.
Cambridge has played a central role in the story of genomics: from uncovering the structure of DNA through to inventing a super-fast way of reading the genetic code.
Today, researchers are using genomic information to make more accurate diagnoses, enable personalised medicine, tackle threats like COVID-19, and even reconstruct the ancient history of humans.
This International Day of Women and Girls in Science, meet some of the Cambridge researchers working on COVID-19.
Cambridge researchers are advancing understanding of mental illness and wellbeing – and putting this into practice.
Mussels are an indicator of the health of river ecosystems, and are threatened globally.
Explore our long reads...
Cambridge initiatives, projects and research that were made possible by a philanthropic donation.
Stories from the people that make Cambridge University unique.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/lessons-in-innovation:
Dr Jim Glasheen, CEO of Cambridge Enterprise (the University's innovation arm), Harvard PhD, investor in life sciences ventures and founder and board member of multiple companies.
To ensure Cambridge innovations have the greatest possible impact on society by building more connections with innovators, entrepreneurs and hubs around the world.
"We need the rest of the world to understand the gold that's coming out of Cambridge."
What sparked your interest in science?
As a child, I lived 100 yards from a creek and was endlessly fascinated by the wildlife that lived there with us.
Although there was no formal science or medicine in the family, we were constantly fixing cars and bikes.
One of my sisters was interested in biology (she's now a doctor) and she and I would dissect turkeys and stitch them back up before cooking them.
So the fun, practical elements of science and technology were an important part of my childhood and were encouraged by my family.
School was more complicated.
I wasn't a good fit for it.
At the end of first grade it turned out I hadn't really learnt anything at all and was offered the opportunity to do it again.
Things didn't get a whole lot better as I got older.
I probably have dyslexia.
I've never been good at reading, I have a terrible memory and I'm really bad at multitasking.
If I'm writing, I'm not hearing so note-taking is a problem.
None of these things are conducive to success at school.
In spite of that, you have had a stellar academic career?
The one thing I do have is focus.
My deficits forced me to cultivate this strength: when someone dives into something complex, I'm immediately trying to simplify it, distil it, understand its essence.
That became a kind of superpower.
After your PhD you were a postdoc at UC Berkeley.
At that point, did you see yourself becoming an academic?
Completely.
I was totally committed to an academic career.
What changed?
My PhD advisor, Tom McMahon, was a lovely man but he accidentally ruined my academic future.
As well as being a successful scientist in different fields, he also wrote fiction.
I watched him do the things that interested him, whether that was research in biology or engineering or writing novels.
It was clear to me that he was playing and serving no master.
That's what I wanted to do.
However, it slowly began to dawn on me that this is not how it works for most people in academia.
Once you've had success in one research area, the forces align to make you stay in that specialty.
You write the grant proposal that you are most likely to be awarded - based on your previous work - and your promotion is dictated by the number of grants you bring in.
And then you find yourself on a path which it's almost impossible to stray from.
When the penny dropped, I started to consider other options and applied for a more teaching-oriented role.
It occurred to me that I should get better at being interviewed as a general skill.
It turned out, McKinsey was hosting a reception for potential recruits.
I went along and was so impressed that I thought I would apply for a role and in going through the process might learn how to do these business-type interviews.
I continued through the process, figuring that if I liked it, I could always apply again later…once I was better at interviews.
But the opportunity was offered and I decided to make the leap straightaway.
What did you learn at McKinsey?
So much but it was a very difficult - often humbling - process.
Because I didn't have a business background, I was never going to be the smart person at the table expounding on strategy or finance.
But I used my time there to learn not only business disciplines, but also more team-based behaviours and crisper communication styles.
Thanks to my science background, I was able to establish credibility in healthcare and pharmaceuticals.
I started to specialise in that area and began to see the power of being able to bridge traditional scientific disciplines with business to achieve profound impact.
How did you make the leap into venture investing?
The late 1990s was a special time when a lot of fascinating science was reaching maturity and starting to have an impact on patients.
Seeing the possibilities, one of my clients recruited me to start a venture capital initiative within a corporate finance company.
I seized the moment.
It was a great opportunity to build relationships with general partners at various venture firms and to invest side-by-side with them in portfolio companies.
This led to an opportunity to become a general partner myself, co-leading the life sciences effort for another venture capital firm for 20 years.
Over that time we invested in numerous medtech, biopharma and therapeutics companies.
Are there any success stories that particularly stand out?
There were plenty of good exits where we made healthy multiples, but one recent outcome springs to mind.
Soleno just got its drug approval a little while ago after 20 years of sustained effort through many ups and downs.
The drug is one that can treat patients with a rare genetic disorder who - until now - had no therapeutic options.
After two decades it has become a multi-billion dollar company.
Alas, I co-led the Series A with a close friend 20 years ago and neither of us were able to hang on for long enough to enjoy that outcome… but the founder did!
Has being on both sides of the fence - as an investor and a founder - been a help or a hindrance?
Having the perspective of both is definitely a help.
As an investor, you benefit from having a portfolio and that in turn allows you to take the large risks that are inherent in venture capital and diversify them.
You also can use your broad activities to benefit your individual companies by fostering introductions to talent, partners, and capital.
It is a wonderful and privileged role.
At the same time, you are in the boat together with the founder; you can't just trade in and out when sentiment changes.
What you can try to do is turn down the risk a little bit.
As an entrepreneur, on the other hand, you are all in, trying to make your idea work, come what may.
It is a rawer experience where the highs are higher and the lows are lower.
If wealth is measured by the quality of the dramatic stories you have to tell to your grandkids, then I would suggest most every entrepreneur is wealthy indeed.
What attracted you to the role at Cambridge Enterprise?
Cambridge has a rich history of world-changing innovation and it has done a fantastic job of cultivating a local ecosystem to help get those innovations out of the lab.
But it seems to me there is an opportunity to go further.
Cambridge needs to engage more with the outside world.
We need to get better at maximising the value of the technologies and talent we have here on a global scale.
That means linking more effectively with global networks, not only in terms of capital but also in terms of networks of talent and strategic relationships with both partners and customers.
It's all about making connections, bridging Cambridge innovations and people to other hubs around the world.
What do you like about working with academics?
Their quirkiness!
The academic personality type is one I'm drawn to.
Their refusal to follow rules can be frustrating but it's also what enables them to unlock fundamental scientific innovations.
Does that mean academics make good entrepreneurs?
Not necessarily.
To be an entrepreneur you have to be this weird mix of super-flexible yet also crazily committed.
You also have to face up to your own strengths and weaknesses and to understand that you urgently need to deal with the latter by bringing in people to fill those gaps.
As an innovation leader yourself, what would you say is the most effective leadership style in an entrepreneurial context?
Leadership is acknowledging that you're not doing the work and you often don't know what questions to ask in order to get the work done.
In the kinds of environment we work in, where things are changing all the time and there is often a lack of clarity, you need to adopt a style which enables you to draw out the insights and learnings from your colleagues.
These will inevitably be complex, messy and with irreconcilable differences.
Your job is to absorb the knowledge that resides within the organisation and then reflect it back as a clear direction.
Do you have a piece of advice for your younger self?
To cut myself some slack.
I think many of us hold ourselves up to an unhelpful standard.
You need to acknowledge that you will make mistakes - and that everyone will see those mistakes - accept it and power through it.
I've also struggled in the past with stepping into the unknown.
I was often unprepared and found new experiences difficult to deal with.
But I don't regret embracing those new opportunities, however tricky they were at the time.
The things I regret are the opportunities I didn't take.
Do you have a piece of advice for someone starting out as an entrepreneur?
Invest in your network.
I used to think that people who are very networked and use that to their advantage, were somehow cheating.
I now see that's wrong-headed.
Individually, each of us knows so little and we need to connect with people whose insights we value.
I've come to realise just how valuable my network is and not only that, how enjoyable and easy it is to maintain one.
It can feel uncomfortable to ask someone to do something for you.
But if you are always looking for opportunities to connect others with people and for opportunities that might help them, growing a network becomes fun and rewarding.
Finally, what do you like to do in your spare time, assuming you have any?
I like to walk, to wander.
Nothing is more pleasant than not knowing where I'm going.
That’s changed.
It was ideas, now more people.
I aspire to be on time.
Lone wolf or team player?
That's also changed.
I was very much a lone wolf and am now more of a team player - but I retain a few wolfish markings.
Risk-taker or risk-averse?
Risk-taker.
I have lots of broken bones.
Are you lucky or do you make your own luck?
So it’s the arrogance of making your own luck versus the passivity of being lucky.
I hate the passivity, but I hope I’m not that arrogant.
Definitely work-life balance but I'm not sure what that means.
It's different for everyone, I guess.
Published June 2025

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/partnerships:
Enterprising Minds
Dr Tammy Dougan, Life Sciences and Healthcare Lead in the University's Strategic Partnerships Office.
She has a PhD in immunology and has worked for more than 25 years in healthcare, life sciences and biotech.
Tammy's speciality is bringing large and complicated organisations - the University and its industry partners - together to achieve something neither could do on its own.
She has an impressive track record, which includes the recently announced £50+ million translational immunology collaboration with GSK .
"I'm lucky.
The things I work on have a real impact on peoples’ health.
We have the ability to treat diseases – we just need to get organised and get it done."
How did you end up managing strategic partnerships?
It has been a bit of a logical progression, I guess.
I started out studying biological sciences in the UK, then got a research post before moving to Australia to do a PhD.
That sounds like an enterprising thing to do?
I've always loved travel and am actually dual British-Australian nationality.
I was applying to some UK universities to do a PhD when this opportunity came up.
There was absolutely no way I wasn’t going.
I took the kids who were four and six at the time and we just went.
Being in the tropics was so exciting as was the science I was doing, researching autoimmunity, infectious and inflammatory diseases.
The one downside was that I was spending a lot of time in the lab and after a while I realised I wanted to get out and interact with the world.
I joined the committee of the Australian Society for Immunology, organising lots of events and public engagement activities across Australia and New Zealand.
I loved it, having an input into the sector, being part of the bigger picture - and making new connections.
Living in Australia was amazing but I wanted to bring my girls back to the UK for their secondary education.
When I saw a role advertised for an Immunology Co-ordinator at Cambridge, I jumped at the chance.
I was working with Professor Ken Smith in the School of Clinical Medicine, coordinating Cambridge Immunology.
Soon after I started, he asked me to help him set up a new institute, the Cambridge Institute of Therapeutic Immunology & Infectious Disease .
This involved building a new home for the Institute, in the Jeffrey Cheah Biomedical Centre on the Cambridge Biomedical Campus.
It was a huge project.
I hadn't done anything like it before and I wasn't sure I was going to pull it off.
When I came in there was a very small team in place, under time pressure to get it done.
How did you set about such a daunting task?
My approach is always to look at the bigger picture and then break it down into manageable chunks.
The target that we were aiming for – an institute with lots of different components - needed lots of working groups to make sure we had all bases covered.
I chose experts from each area, covering everything from proteomics to office furniture, put them in working groups, then sat in each group and progressed things that way.
Making that happen is one of the things I'm most proud of in my career to date.
And that led to a role in partnership management?
After that, I moved over to manage Cambridge Cardiovascular, one of the University's Interdisciplinary Research Centres.
This role involved much more interaction with industry partners and then I was offered the chance to become the University's relationship manager for one of its most important industry partners, GSK.
As part of my role in immunology, I had already worked on a number of successful projects with GSK so it made sense for me to be brought in to manage the whole partnership.
Working with GSK made me realise the scale of opportunity we have for partnerships in the life sciences and healthcare sectors.
The University has fantastic expertise in many of the areas that companies are focused on.
We are particularly strong in clinical sciences, genomics and data science and there are many areas for potential collaboration.
I'm the Sector Lead for Life Sciences and Healthcare, based in the Strategic Partnerships Office.
I look after partnerships that span multiple disciplines and projects and my role is to help them grow and deliver value for both sides.
But it's important to acknowledge that I don't do any of this on my own.
By definition, partnership management is a very collaborative activity.
As well as working closely with our partners, there are lots of University people involved, all of whom are vital to a successful outcome: researchers, knowledge exchange professionals and the contracts team in the University's Research Operations Office.
What is it like working with industry partners?
Fantastic but hard work and time-consuming!
For example, the £50 million collaboration we recently announced with GSK took more than two years to come to fruition and involves hundreds of people from across the partner organisations, all of whom need to agree on the direction of travel and then play their part in making it happen.
In order to make it work, you need a huge degree of trust and goodwill between both organisations.
In particular, you need to have a really strong relationship with your opposite number so that together you can iron out problems as they arise.
Victoria Higgins (former Strategic Partnerships Director, GSK) with Tammy Dougan
Why do you think you are so effective at it?
Is there a secret sauce?
I'm good at spotting and bringing on board other people who like to make things happen.
This was essential for the Cambridge Institute of Therapeutic Immunology & Infectious Disease project and it's the same with strategic partnerships.
I find the industry and academic experts and put them in teams which are then able to work productively towards a shared goal.
I haven’t made an antibody or a hearing device or anything like that but there are lots of people like me working in universities doing innovative things.
I look at something, and work out how we can adapt it into something that industry would be interested in.
Ultimately, I think it's because I push, push, push.
I always try to stay open to new ideas and different ways of doing things.
What are the main challenges you are up against?
The fact that industry and universities have very different ways of working.
Cambridge is a huge and complex organisation with an 800-year history.
We have certain ways of doing things, which can take time.
And individual researchers, rightly, all have their own priorities.
When companies come with their objectives and targets and timelines, it can be difficult to bridge the gap.
This is where we come in, helping both sides navigate through the complexity so that everyone emerges with something useful - and we all make progress.
You have to keep in mind that people often change roles in industry and that companies change their strategies.
You have to be ready to adapt to new priorities and be able to read people and situations.
How do you deal with setbacks?
Things are always going wrong!
You can be working on a project for years, and suddenly your industry partner changes the target.
You have to reassess, regroup and keep on going.
What spurs you on?
The opportunity to make things happen, things which have a tangible benefit to people's health.
There are scientists all round the world having similar ideas, doing similar experiments.
Most of them never see the light of day.
Translating fundamental science into new treatments is so important.
To do that you need people like me, who can both see the potential and understand which routes are most likely to succeed.
Definitely an optimist, even when things are falling apart around me.
That’s a difficult one – I'm not sure you can have one without the other.
I like everything to run on time and get anxious if it isn't.
It's always about the destination, something I have to remind myself when the journey gets a bit painful.
A bit of both.
I’m a really good team player but sometimes I need to take time out and get some clarity.
Risk-taker or risk averse?
Risk taker – within the red lines, of course!
Be lucky or make your own luck?
I have no work-life balance apart from walking the dog.
That's how I retain my sanity.
Published February 2025

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/cambridge-innovation:
Kathryn Chapman, Executive Director, Innovate Cambridge .
After completing a PhD in molecular biology, Kathryn has had a hugely successful career in life sciences and innovation.
Innovate Cambridge is working with business, government, academia and the local community to deliver an ambitious innovation strategy for Cambridge.
To realise Cambridge’s potential as a driver for UK growth and ensure that the economic and social benefits reach everyone, particularly people who live and work in and around the region.
Were you always going to do something scientific?
My parents were both teachers so education was definitely important in the family but my interest in science came out of the blue.
Growing up, I was a musician, hoping to go to the Manchester School of Music, in spite of my parents' warning that a career in music can be tough.
Then in the sixth form, I fell in love with genetics.
I found it fascinating and wanted to understand more about the underlying causes of disease.
I ended up doing a degree at Manchester University in life sciences and the history of medicine.
The history aspect was important to me: I wanted to explore how society affects science and vice versa.
But after two years, I realised I wanted to be a scientist and to do that, I would need to focus on a specific scientific discipline to gain PhD.
At that stage, did you think you would have an academic career?
Absolutely.
I loved carrying out experiments in the lab.
My PhD was in osteoarthritis - which had affected my family directly - and we found a couple of genes which were linked to the disease.
I wanted to carry on and went to Harvard Medical School to learn about a new gene editing technique, a precursor of CRISPR.
What would you say the differences were between the UK and the US research environments at the time?
In those days, it was noticeable that my peers in the US had unlimited ambition and belief.
Walking around Boston, there was a feeling you could do anything, that the world was your oyster.
On the other hand, there was an expectation that you needed to work long hours, seven days a week.
In the UK we have a bit more time to think, to be innovative.
What next?
I came back to the UK as a postdoctoral researcher but began to realise that I could have more direct impact on tackling disease if I was working in industry.
I moved to GSK where there was a clearer link between your research and getting drugs to patients.
What were the main differences between being an academic and an industry researcher?
One thing I really liked about working in industry, is that you knew what you wanted to achieve and if you weren't meeting your milestones you would drop projects.
In academia, the tendency is to carry on trying to make it work.
I think the 'fail fast' approach is really important for innovation.
You then moved briefly to the Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute and then to NC3Rs - which promotes alternatives to the use of animals in science - as Head of Innovation and Translation.
What prompted those moves?
I'm someone who is always looking to make change and have an impact.
That's not always easy in a large organisation.
At the Sanger Institute we were looking at every gene in the genome to figure out what they were all doing.
At the time, we were using animals to do this and I thought that was a very inefficient way of working.
When the role came up at NC3Rs, I saw it as an amazing opportunity to work across industry, academia and government to make research more efficient and effective by using human rather than animal models.
Then you came to Cambridge and joined the fledgeling Milner Therapeutics Institute?
It was such an exciting prospect.
We created a new model in which industry and academia could collaborate very early on in the process of looking at disease pathways, with a view to speeding up the drug discovery process.
In just four years, we went from three people in the Institute to 70, working with 15 pharmaceutical companies.
Collaborations aren't easy.
How do you build trust and confidence between people?
I spend a lot of time trying to understand what it is that drives people.
Everyone comes to the table with different backgrounds and experience which means they all have different perceptions of the advantages and potential risks of a particular scenario.
It's trying to understand where they are all coming from and to show how for example, by sharing financial inputs, or pre-competitive data, you can work collaboratively to de-risk a project much more quickly for everyone.
When you play a musical instrument in an orchestra, you rely on everyone to get their parts right.
It's the same with innovation.
You need people who have ideas, people who de-risk those ideas and people who put those ideas into practice.
It doesn't work unless you have people with different attitudes and perspectives playing their part.
When an innovation fails, it's not always to do with how good or bad the idea is.
It's whether you've got the right team, the right conditions and the right connections.
Can you tell us what Innovate Cambridge is and why we need it?
As an innovation ecosystem, Cambridge is competing on an international stage and we have to keep up.
We are also delivering innovation driven economic growth to benefit the whole of the UK.
There's no doubt that a lot of our success to date has been a result of our amazing 'bottom-up' approach to innovation.
But the flip-side of 'bottom-up' can sometimes mean 'fragmented'.
If we don't work together to achieve critical mass, we won't attract the investment we need to realise our potential for economic growth and societal impact.
Innovate Cambridge is about orchestrating a strategy that the whole city and region can get behind.
And that strategy is not just about driving growth and increasing the number of unicorns but it's how we go about it in a way that doesn't entrench inequality.
We want to see innovation benefit us all.
Could we, for example, be just as well-known for our vocational and technical training as we are for our academic expertise?
We'll only be successful if people living in and around Cambridge feel that all this activity has had a positive effect on their lives.
Tell us about Innovate Cambridge's connection with Manchester?
In the UK, the system for allocating public funding forces cities and regions to compete with each other.
We are trying to break that down.
Manchester has a phenomenal amount of talent in areas such as computer science and manufacturing and it has the space for companies to grow.
Combine its capabilities with ours and you have something which is greater than the sum of their parts.
If we can make it work with Manchester, it will be a blueprint for how we can work with other cities and regions to grow the UK's innovation capabilities and create more jobs and opportunities across the country.
That's the ambition.
What are you most proud of in your career to date?
I think it has to be setting up the Milner Therapeutics Institute, where we had a stellar team of people creating a new way of doing research in partnership.
Accepting that setbacks are part of innovation is the first step.
You have to reframe them.
It's a mindset.
I see very few things as real setbacks, just as new challenges to deal with.
I think they would say that I can get people to buy into a vision.
So perhaps it's the ability to influence and lead.
What does an enterprising mind look like?
Resilience is key but also how they respond to challenges.
It's not always the person with the most ideas who succeeds.
You need to be able to prioritise those ideas, decide which are most likely to succeed and concentrate on those.
Ideas are coming at us all all the time and that kind of bombardment can be an innovation killer, if you let it.
Enterprising people have relentless focus combined with the ability to know when to stop and move on.
Do you have a piece of advice for someone starting a new venture?
Start with complete belief that you will succeed but remain open-minded about what success looks like.
Finally, what do you do in your spare time?
I stay sane by running 10 kilometres a day, generally very early in the morning.
Without that I would struggle.
People.
Running on time!
We should celebrate the destination but the key is to enjoy the journey.
Otherwise, why are we doing it?
Team player, for sure.
Risk-averse or risk-taker?
Evidence-based risk-taker.
Lots of irons in the fire or all your eggs in one basket?
I think it's got to be two irons, the main one and then a backup.
If you've got too many irons, you can't deliver anything.
Do you need to be lucky or make your own luck?
I would say work-life balance but I do work, work, work.
Published 21 October 2024

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/harnessing-innovation:
ENTERPRISING MINDS
Dr Diarmuid O'Brien, the Pro-Vice-Chancellor for Innovation and current CEO of the University's innovation arm, Cambridge Enterprise.
Responsible for how Cambridge creates impact from its research through its innovation partnerships and world-leading innovation ecosystem.
" So that Cambridge research translates into positive social and economic change.
My job is to make sure that we are always doing that to the very best of our abilities, by asking ourselves some tough questions."
When did you first become interested in the idea of translating research into something that will make a real difference to the world?
Probably not until I started my PhD.
Until then, science had simply been an exciting set of discoveries, interesting in their own right.
My PhD was in organic electronics and early on I was reading about how the field was going to revolutionise the electronics industry.
I suddenly realised that all this stuff I was having fun with in a lab may actually result in something that transforms the way we live our lives.
After my PhD I did a postdoc at Princeton, where we were patenting our research on small molecule display technologies.
I began to see how a technology can quickly go from the lab to a license to a company.
When I talk to researchers and they say 'but I’m just interested in the science', I was that person for a long time.
I didn’t necessarily see the relevance or the importance of the pathway for the science to innovation.
I think that makes me empathetic to that kind of mindset.
Did you think you were on a conventional academic career path?
I went from being a postdoc at Princeton to a lectureship at Trinity College Dublin.
But I only lasted a year before joining a university spinout.
Clearly, my experience at Princeton had started to colour where I wanted to spend my time.
Over the following seven or eight years, I worked in three different university spinouts, looking at how to make products, how to bring them to market, how to talk to customers, how to manage supply chains.
Suddenly, I found myself energised by a whole new set of topics that hadn’t previously been on my radar.
What's interesting is that I went through my whole undergraduate degree without having had any conversations about how research can have societal impact.
Now when I talk to students in Cambridge, they are exposed to enterprise training and entrepreneurship and they know all about IP, venture capital, angel investment.
The change that has taken place over the last 20 or 30 years is extraordinary - and welcome.
Was there someone who inspired you in the early part of your career?
The key person for me was Steve Forrest, a professor at Princeton.
Everyone else defined themselves as a scientist or a business person or an entrepreneur, but Steve was all of those things.
He could publish five or six Science and Nature papers a year, start a company, raise venture capital and run a department, all at the same time.
The really top people often excel both academically and entrepreneurially.
Researchers who think differently about things and are really disruptive in their science and the kind of breakthroughs they can achieve, definitely have an entrepreneurial mindset.
What characteristics make the biggest difference for people driving successful innovation?
I look at this through a rather simplistic lens.
There are people who say 'why?' and people who say 'why not?'.
The 'why not?' people are the ones to back.
Their attitude is, ‘I get it’s hard and and I get it’s disruptive but why can’t we do this exactly?’ I really embrace that as a philosophy.
As Pro-Vice-Chancellor for Innovation you will also be championing the University's collaborations with industry partners.
What are the mindsets needed for successful partnerships?
The biggest challenge with that kind of enterprise partnership is to align projects so that you are creating a win-win opportunity.
Too often they start on an uneven footing.
Either the academic is looking for a particular piece of research to be funded by the industry partner or the company is coming at it with a very fixed agenda.
What really works is if you can build a collaboration where there’s a listening capability as well as a speaking capability.
You need to hear what everyone wants to get out of it and then design a programme that meets everybody’s needs.
That’s why having something like a strategic partnership office is so important.
People who sit in on those meetings on a regular basis, can spot the tell-tale signs of miscommunication and say: 'You are both hearing what you want to hear but we need to go a step further'.
By adding value to those conversations you can scale up the ambition of what can be achieved.
What are you most proud of in your career?
I love getting things started.
That’s what’s energises me: seeing an opportunity and finding a way to deliver something.
Before Cambridge there were two highlights.
One is a partnership I set up between Trinity College Dublin and University College Dublin to create a venture fund called University Bridge Fund.
Neither of those universities could have done it by themselves.
We needed the collaboration and scale that you could only get through partnership.
The other highlight was setting up what’s now called Trinity East, a new campus for Trinity College Dublin - and imagining what it could unlock not just for Trinity but for Dublin as a city.
The first couple of buildings are now open and there's a real sense of momentum behind it.
We won’t know its full impact for another 20 or 30 years but to be the original parent of that idea and to deliver the first funding to support the buildings on that campus was a wonderful project to be involved in.
And what about at Cambridge Enterprise?
When I arrived the goal was to evolve it from being focused on transactions such as patenting or licensing to being more of an enabler, by understanding how we can better leverage the ecosystem here and how we better support translational funding and company creation.
We've been adding richness to that enterprise story by setting up a number of new initiatives that I'm really excited about such as Founders at University of Cambridge and the Technology Investment Fund.
But I guess the big thing that I've really loved being involved with is Innovate Cambridge .
It is a very collaborative initiative between the University, Cambridge Enterprise and Cambridge Innovation Capital - and a lot of other organisations - to define and deliver our ambitions for the Cambridge ecosystem.
When you look around the world you see a hundred different cities developing their innovation districts, coming up with new ways to organise themselves and making bold declarations about what they aspire to be into the future.
Cambridge - in spite of all its strengths - can't afford to rest on its laurels.
To get to the next level, we need a forward looking story that is ambitious, engaging and exciting.
We should celebrate our past but we also need to have a vision for the future that excites people, and not just within the University.
The local community needs to feel energised about what Cambridge can be for them and do for them.
And that's what Innovate Cambridge is trying to do.
What’s distinctive about Cambridge from an innovation perspective?
Obviously, the quality of the University and the research that happens here is truly different.
There are maybe only half a dozen places globally that can claim to have the same reach and capacity.
That breadth and quality of the research from arts and humanities, through life sciences through physical sciences to computer sciences is very unusual.
Being able to undertake cross-disciplinary research is going to be very important for the future.
The other thing that’s really distinctive about Cambridge is the quality of the ecosystem that surrounds it.
There’s probably no other location in the UK and, one could argue, in Europe that’s got the same richness of capability.
Very few places can claim the 5,000 plus knowledge-intensive companies and the 30 science and tech parks all in a 10-mile radius of Cambridge.
At the same time, you’ve got companies like Arm and AstraZeneca headquartered here.
To have that kind of anchor industry capability across different sectors all in one small city is pretty unique.
You have just started as the Pro-Vice-Chancellor for Innovation.
What are your immediate priorities?
The first thing I would aspire to do is to make sure that the innovation opportunity that sits in Cambridge is understood and we are organised to try to take advantage of it.
I think everybody understands fundamentally what education and research mean for a world-class university but I think people are still trying to understand what being exceptional at delivering on innovation and impact means for a university - and how do we best position ourselves and structure ourselves to take advantage of that.
Cambridge is a top three global university.
If we are not running a top three innovation business unit, we are underdelivering.
What that translates to in terms of initiatives, I would look at it through a number of different lenses.
You have to get the infrastructure right.
For Cambridge, that means a number of things.
We’ve got a huge opportunity around both the West Cambridge and Cambridge Biomedical campuses.
We’ve also got an amazing aspiration – one of the recommendations of Innovate Cambridge – to build a city–centre based innovation hub.
I feel incredibly excited about what that could deliver.
It’s really important that as we develop plans for those campuses, we think about how industry might co-locate there and how we have room for our spinout community.
How can we create different kinds of spaces that allow for interactions across disciplines, and not just research disciplines but between industry, start-ups and academics?
That porosity is really important.
We need to bring in more investment capital to support technologies coming out of the university in two ways.
The priority is to increase translational funding, but research funding rather than equity-driven capital.
To do that, we need to find a way to convince government that investing in a translational agenda is going to be vital for unlocking the innovation potential of our university system.
We see it right now.
The University has a patent portfolio of a couple of thousand patents but we can’t unlock all the possibilities embedded in those patents unless we can find a way to provide more of that translational funding.
We have a deficit, both as a country and as an ecosystem.
Similarly, we’ve got a deficit on venture funding.
We are very fortunate in Cambridge to have a better venture environment than most other places in the UK but if our aspiration is to be truly globally-leading then we have to recognise that we are way behind the US.
Being proactive about trying to fix that is important.
A key responsibility of my new role is to help understand what’s possible and what good looks like.
That means continually looking at and benchmarking against what’s happening on a global basis so that we can understand what we need to be doing to make sure we are in the right place now and in the next five and the next 25 years.
We also need to recognise that within our own community, we have the ideas and capability to dream that future up.
In a place like Cambridge, you don’t tell people what to do – that’s not the culture here.
And the ecosystem has achieved a lot by behaving in that way.
But I think you are entitled to challenge the institution about how we need to respond to what’s out there and to try to cultivate a response that people buy into and support.
What one piece of advice would you give your 20-year old self given what you’ve learnt in your life or career?
Say 'yes' more than you say 'no'.
I really believe that you've just got to try stuff and get on with it.
Having a positive mindset - saying 'let’s have that conversation, let’s try, let’s meet and see if we can do it' – that’s what gets things done.
'I don’t have time, I’m not interested or that doesn’t fit', closes things down.
That’s the advice I give everyone.
You've got to be open.
I don’t believe in a linear pathway.
Things happen because people are open to them.
Of course one has to put common sense on top of that, but saying 'yes' more than 'no' is a very healthy way of living your life.
What do you do when you are not working?
Family obviously, that’s the big one.
And I’m a sports nut.
I’ll read or watch anything to do with sport.
Does that mean you are competitive?
I’m competitive with myself.
If I go for a run, I like to be faster than I was the day before.
I prefer to be on time but am always running late.
Probably a risk-taker.
I do hate the ‘computer says no’.
Definitely lots of irons in the fire.
I'm a complete believer that you make your own luck.
There's that saying: 'Luck favours the prepared'.
Work, work, work or work-life balance : I'm afraid that’s a case of don’t do what I do, do what I say.
Published 4 June 2024

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/caring-for-cancer-patients:
Umaima Ahmad, former corporate lawyer and Cambridge alumna, now co-founder and CEO of medtech startup, 52North.
Neutrocheck®, a small, easy-to-use, low-cost device and app that allows patients undergoing chemotherapy to test their own blood on the move if they feel unwell.
To keep chemotherapy patients safe from infection while making their lives less stressful and reducing the burden on hospitals.
You started out as a corporate lawyer.
Was that where you saw yourself heading?
I'm not sure I thought I would stay in law long term but I knew that it would be a great place to start after university and give me a very broad skillset.
So what prompted the leap into entrepreneurship?
In 2016 I had just had twins and was on maternity leave from Citibank where I was senior in-house counsel.
I decided to use my maternity leave to do an MPhil in Bioscience Enterprise .
Run that by me again?
I know!
Lots of people did tell me I was crazy.
But I was living in Cambridge, surrounded by amazing people doing amazing things, particularly in healthcare.
Plus, I'm someone who loves to learn.
Prior to having my girls I was always taking courses and there are so many options on offer in Cambridge.
I spotted this programme which sounded as if it could be the perfect bridge from the world of banking and financial services to the world of life sciences and healthcare.
Actually, it was having kids that made me realise our time is so precious and that you have to use it well and wisely.
It's also made me become incredibly efficient.
I look back and wonder what on earth I was doing with my evenings before the kids came along.
What did you learn from the MPhil?
It's a mix of MBA-type courses combined with an introduction to the life sciences, medical devices and therapeutics sector.
There were around 25 of us, all from different backgrounds: medics, investment bankers, scientists, management consultants - and I was the lawyer.
We were put to work in teams and asked to solve problems, come up with innovations and make presentations on potential business ideas.
When you're working for a large firm, you tend to be in a silo in which everyone around you is doing the same job in the same industry.
Suddenly, I was working with a doctor, a scientist and a banker and we were all using our different skills to create something new.
Not only was I inspired by how other people think, I began to notice how I had been trained to think by my profession.
It's a fascinating process which enables you to develop completely new ways to approach problem-solving.
The course was intense and inspirational.
I think everybody on it has ended up doing something dramatically different.
It opened us all up to a new world of possibilities.
Did you come away with a fully-formed idea for a business?
No, but some seeds were definitely sown.
I spent a year asking anyone and everyone what problems they saw in healthcare.
That included my partner, oncologist, Dr Saif Ahmad (and co-founder and Chief Scientific and Medical Officer of 52North).
One day, he turned around and said: "You know, there's this awful thing for chemotherapy patients which badly affects the quality of their life and is a huge issue."
When he told me about it, it seemed like a problem we might be able to solve.
What is the issue?
Chemotherapy suppresses your immune system which means you have both a much greater risk of developing an infection and an impaired ability to fight that infection.
This can lead to a condition called neutropenic sepsis, which can be fatal.
When you are being treated with chemotherapy you are advised that if you get a fever or feel 'generally unwell', you must head straight to A&E.
This can be both difficult and stressful.
Not everyone has access to transport and it's not always easy to drop everything, particularly if you are looking after children, or have other caring responsibilities or work on a contract that doesn't give you paid sick leave.
Around half of patients, having rushed in to have full set of bloods taken, are fine and are sent home after a couple of hours.
However, those that aren't fine need to be given antibiotics really quickly: every hour’s delay increases the risk of death by about 8%.
The guidance both in the US and the UK is that they should have antibiotics within one hour of the onset of symptoms.
But many of the patients who need them don't get their antibiotics within that first hour.
One of the main reasons is that people delay calling in.
They think: "I'm probably fine, I'll see if it gets worse, then I'll call."
As well as being a problem for patients, the current system is also a resourcing issue for hospitals.
Trying to get people seen and tested within an hour also places a significant burden on an overstretched healthcare system.
How did you start to turn this challenge into a business?
Having done the MPhil, I had the skillset to start thinking about how we could solve the problem, what it might look like as a business and what resources would we need to make it happen.
But it was only when we entered the Chris Abell Postdoc Business Plan Competition run by Cambridge Enterprise , that it began to feel properly do-able.
Prior to that it had been more like an interesting project but when you enter the competition you spend a lot of time developing the business plan in a structured way and you work with a mentor.
We ended up winning £10,000 and didn't even have a business bank account to put it in.
But after a few months we used that initial funding to develop a high level proof of concept.
The competition was a game-changer.
It also spurred us on to apply to others, such as Pembroke College’s Parmee Prize , which also proved pivotal, through our meeting with its sponsor and successful entrepreneur, Richard Parmee.
Even though we didn’t win the prize, he turned out to be a very influential supporter.
I'll never forget the moment we first met him.
We had presented our idea and he was sitting at the back of the room and as we were walking out he said: "This is a really important thing you are trying to do.
If you ever need help, just ask."
You must take up those sort of offers if you get them.
In my previous life, I would have been reluctant to do so, assuming the person was just 'being nice'.
In spite of being an incredibly important and busy person, he made time to give us advice whenever we needed it.
What was particularly helpful was that he would be able to signpost how much information we needed to go forward to the next stage.
Novice entrepreneurs often struggle with understanding how much they need to do before taking the next step.
When developing Neutrocheck, one of the things we spent a lot of time doing was talking to patients and healthcare professionals.
Those conversations made us realise that whatever we came up with, it had to be portable so they could have it with them wherever they went.
What we've created is smaller than my hand, a finger-prick blood test that can be used anywhere.
It allows patients to test themselves anywhere and then give their doctor the results over the phone.
The doctor can then assess if you're at risk or not.
What stage are you at now?
We are just about to go into clinical trials and we are hosting studies in the US as well as here so that we can submit for regulatory approval both there and in Europe at the same time.
We already have a huge amount of support from NHS Trusts who want to adopt it.
We have oncologists across the UK reaching out to us, saying 'we would love to have this for our patients.' We've also been on accelerator programmes run by the Cedars Sinai Hospital in Los Angeles and the Texas Medical Center, which is helping us establish collaborations and build our footprint in the US while we go through all the approvals processes.
I'm incredibly proud of being the first company to receive investment from Macmillan Cancer Support.
We've worked closely with them for a couple of years, collaborating on grants and things like that.
But knowing that they really believe in what we are doing is a huge deal.
Have you had any setbacks along the way?
Of course - the entrepreneurial journey is incredibly tumultuous.
It's all about setbacks.
You can have a huge high and a huge low in the same day.
How do you deal with that?
By having the right mindset and remembering to celebrate all the positives.
You have to believe things will get better and that there are always solutions to every problem.
To get the right mindset, you need the right team.
One of the key things for me is having a great team around me.
We are all from different backgrounds and we have different personalities but we all have enormous respect for each others' perspectives.
I've learnt so much from all of them.
Has being in Cambridge been helpful?
Without a shadow of doubt.
I don't think it would have happened anywhere other than Cambridge.
Winning that first funding from the postdoc business plan competition gave us access to early funding but more importantly it gave us the belief that setting up the business would work.
Being in Cambridge can give you three things.
Firstly, access to a mix of formal scientific and business training, such as Saif’s PhD, my MPhil, and things like the Accelerate programme at the Business School.
Secondly, opportunities for proof of concept funding and further investment, for example through Cambridge Enterprise and others, and thirdly, the more informal support you can get from experienced mentors such as Richard.
Do you have a piece of advice for someone who wants to set up their own business?
Test it out with people and don't be shy.
Don't start by building a product and then see if people want it.
You don't need a prototype to do market research - you just need an idea on a piece of paper.
You'll be surprised at how much people like to give feedback.
What do you do in your spare time, if you have any?
I sit on a couple of boards as a non-exec which I really enjoy and find helpful.
Again, it's all about meeting people with different perspectives.
Outside work, I like to read fiction and I paint with acrylics.
There are no quality standards with painting, it's just about being creative and relaxing.
Optimist always.
Ideas are nothing without execution.
I always aim to be early.
It's important to set stretch goals.
Both are equally important.
In my world, both.
Risk taker or risk averse?
Tricky.
I'm going to say risk aware.
Lots of irons in the fire.
Always.
Do you need to be lucky or do you make your own luck?
It's a mixture.
People have different circumstances.
And there's always an element of luck involved.
Of course there is.
But hard work comes first.
We definitely have work-life balance within the company.
But for certain people like me, it's always going to be work, work, work.
Published 31 January 2024

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/making-peace:
For his PhD at Cambridge, João Costa took a philosophical idea and turned it into a practical tool for resolving real-world conflicts.
Reconciling warring villages in Guinea-Bissau using an intervention co-led with villagers to improve social cohesion, community resilience and wellbeing.
To give communities affected by violence a quick and effective way of resolving their differences - and transforming their lives.
You studied law as an undergraduate.
Was that part of a career masterplan?
Not at all.
I did humanities in high school and it seemed like a logical path.
I was always interested in the criminal justice system, why the state is allowed to punish people and how that relates to individuals' rights.
I guess I like academia so I thought I may end up teaching.
I never saw myself becoming a corporate lawyer.
How did you come across the idea that you would go on to champion?
I had the opportunity to spend a couple of months at Harvard and I chose to take a political philosophy course.
It was there that I started to learn more about John Rawls, his theory of justice and, in particular, his Veil of Ignorance (VOI) idea.
What exactly is that?
Put simply, Rawls imagines that if citizens are able to shed their own characteristics - for example, their gender, age, social and economic status - and talk to each other as if they are behind a 'veil of ignorance', they will choose outcomes that benefit everyone, not just themselves.
The theory made so much sense to me.
And it sowed the germ of an idea which led me to apply to Cambridge to do an MPhil at the Institute of Criminology.
I wanted to see if I could put the theory into practice.
Had anyone else attempted this before?
There have been a few studies which have tested the theory but only in laboratory settings, not involving real people, in real life.
So you jumped right in?
I had been thinking about Rawls' ideas of justice, particularly in relation to prison settings.
When prisoners first arrive in prison, they are all in the same boat: they have all been deprived of many of their freedoms and they have very few resources they can access.
It seemed like the ideal context in which to test the veil of ignorance theory.
I wanted to find out if prisoners could find some principles of justice that would be applicable to all of them, regardless of their crime, the length of their sentence, their ethnicity, their religious background or any other defining characteristics.
I asked prisoners to imagine they were entering prison not knowing what conditions they were going to be living in, how long they would be there for or whether they were going to make friends.
Having imagined that, I asked each of them to come up with one idea that would make life better for anyone about to walk through a prison door.
How did that go?
I was astonished at how quickly they found consensus on core ideas around autonomy and respect.
And did the process lead to change?
At the time, it was still more of a theoretical exercise to see if it would work.
But I did use it to make policy recommendations and doing it gave me confidence that it was workable in real-world settings.
Then what?
After finishing my MPhil I became involved in humanitarian, development and peace work, initially working for the International Committee of the Red Cross in Colombia, dealing with guerrilla leaders and local conflict in rural areas.
I started consulting on peace and security and saw how teams on the ground were often unable to put policies into action because they lacked rigorous theoretical models.
The way they evaluated outcomes was also hindering the effectiveness of interventions.
I thought there had to be a better way of doing things - and then it clicked.
Why don't we use the VOI idea in small, rural communities to help improve social cohesion, community resilience and wellbeing?
That idea essentially turned into my PhD.
That sounds like a very exciting idea but difficult to do, I imagine?
Definitely.
It was a very ambitious project.
As a researcher, you can't just storm into sensitive and violent settings.
I knew I was going to need a partner and the odds were not in my favour.
I went to a lot of conferences and had a lot of Zoom calls.
I felt people were excited and understood the idea and how innovative it was but it was very hard to get anyone to sign up to it.
How did you solve the problem?
By getting Cambridge Enterprise (the University's technology transfer arm) involved.
To say they played a pivotal role in making it all happen is an understatement.
The moment they came on board, everything changed.
Instead of asking prospective partners to work with a random researcher, we were asking them to work with the University of Cambridge, which in this case would be represented by me.
I never thought of myself as an entrepreneur until it was pointed out to me that I was essentially creating a start-up.
Having Cambridge Enterprise's backing made all the difference and unlocked funding and support from the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in Guinea-Bissau.
UNDP had been working in the country for decades and were aware of two pairs of neighbouring villages, both of which were embroiled in violent confrontations arising from land disputes.
In both cases, the violence had led to a number of deaths and everything that entailed: the destruction of positive social relationships, increasing scarcity of resources and, hence, further violence.
Joao Costa in Guinea Bissau
UNDP thought it would make sense to try the VOI approach in both cases.
We weren't going to decide who the land belongs to but to help them solve their own issues and, hopefully, improve their wellbeing.
These were neighbouring villages which prior to the dispute used to have regular social gatherings.
They are very rural communities with little access to any kind of resources so the sadness these communities felt about the conflict was compounded by lack of food and money.
It was a really tense situation.
How do you set about the process?
There was a preliminary phase of consultation with the villagers to explain the process and find out if they want to take part or not.
At the end of the day, it's their decision.
Because UNDP had worked with the communities in the past, they were able to go and explain, and we were granted access.
The core elements of the project were locally led.
This was absolutely not me coming in and imposing my views on what is a good way to live.
Once they had agreed to the intervention, the first phase of the VOI included meetings with each of the villages separately to better inform them about the project, manage their expectations and create indicators of success.
In other words, we sought to understand what peaceful coexistence meant to them in their daily lives and used these ideas to create a survey.
Then the villagers share stories about how the conflict has affected their lives.
They start to put themselves in each others' shoes and then we move on to the core of the exercise.
We asked them to imagine they had come there not knowing if they live in Village A or Village B.
We then ask them to quickly (and hence intuitively) come up with two things they believe would improve the lives of everyone in both villages.
We had around half an hour to find consensus - and we did.
In all the groups, the ideas were incredibly similar.
We had maybe 14 or 15 ideas to start with and then we asked them to choose two which everyone can rally around.
Part of the project was to offer them a relatively small amount of money ($2,500) which they could decide to spend on something that would help them rebuild their connections.
What that would be emerged from the consensus achieved in the VOI exercises: the ideas that most groups selected were the basis for the socioeconomic interventions that followed.
In one of the pilots, the communities decided that they wanted to start having village gatherings again, specifically a football tournament for the men and boys and a dance festival for the women and girls.
And they wanted to rehabilitate the rice fields they had stopped cultivating as a result of the dispute.
We sponsored the football tournament, provided food and drink for the dance festival and we brought in an engineer to analyse the rice fields.
He showed the villagers how they could rebuild the dams themselves and we paid for irrigation pipes.
The villagers then set up a joint committee to make sure it all happened.
When I went out there it was incredible to see what they had done.
For instance, they had decided that the football teams would not be Village A versus Village B but mixed teams from both villages in order to strengthen the bonds between them.
When I went to the rice fields, two village elders were working side-by-side rebuilding the dykes.
How successful was it?
You have to have a large dose of realism when talking about fragile, conflict-torn settings.
They can be very volatile and things can change very quickly.
Having said all that, the results surpassed my expectations.
One of the projects has resulted in a total re-set of the villagers' relationship.
A year on, I'm still receiving regular messages from them, telling me it's all going well.
Prior to that, they had been grieving their losses but were also in a state of confusion as to how they had arrived at that point.
They told me: "You came here not to decide whose land is whose but you helped us figure out a way for us to come back together.
From now on, our enemy is not each other but the famine we are facing."
Have you continued to apply VOI since you finished your PhD?
I was already consulting for a large peace-building NGO called Search for Common Ground .
I pitched them the VOI methodology which they liked and when they got a call for a proposal from the government of Canada they asked me to apply jointly.
That has resulted in six pilot projects in Burkina Faso aimed at countering violent extremism.
In that case, it would be too difficult for me to go in person so I created a manual, trained the team and monitor their progress.
That's how I'm scaling it: licensing the methodology and training other people to put it into practice.
I'm also exploring the idea of setting up a social enterprise.
The reason is very simple: I truly believe that VOI really works and is a cost-effective way of bringing people together quickly.
Where would you like to be in five years' time?
I would want the VOI methodology to be the first port of call for organisations trying to improve social cohesion in areas affected by violence.
I would like to see it being used by a wide range of reputable institutions, producing good results and being improved over time.
Having a palpable impact on people's lives.
That is the most rewarding feeling.
I became close to the communities in Guinea Bissau so it has been fantastic to see them take control of their situation.
I guess I'm also proud that people believed in me and helped me to put my idea into practice.
I spent a lot of time just hitting a wall, having lots of calls and meetings which didn't go anywhere.
And then there was the pandemic.
But I had the resilience to see it across the finish line.
What do other people say is your greatest strength?
I think I have a good attitude, I don't panic and I'm good with people.
Do you have a piece of advice for someone who wants to do something new and innovative?
Find people who want to do it with you.
If you try and do it all on your own, it's lonely.
Plus you need to work with people who have the skills you lack.
What do you do in your spare time?
Lots of things: hang out with my friends and family.
I like good wine and good chats.
I'm really into jazz, classical music and techno which is a fun mix.
I love football and go to as many matches as I can fit in.
I also used to play poker semi-professionally, which sponsored a lot of my education.
Realist.
People with ideas.
On time.
A journey with a  destination.
I like to work independently within a team.
Routine is an anchor which allows me to explore the chaos outside.
Calculated risk taker.
That's very hard to answer.
I'm a detail-oriented person in the sense that I like to control things and understand processes.
But if you're focusing too much on the details, they can become detached from the real world.
You need to put yourself in places that help you get lucky but luck is an important part of everyone's life.
Published 9 November 2023
All photography: credit João Costa

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/inclusion-innovation-and-cocktail-creation:
Jason Mellad , Cambridge PhD, tech transfer and innovation specialist, former CEO of University spinout, Cambridge Epigenetix (now Biomodal ) and currently CEO and co-founder of Start Codon .
Based in Cambridge, Start Codon invests in promising data-driven biotech start-ups from across the UK and guides them through the early stages of taking their ideas from lab to market.
In addition, Jason co-owns The Lab , a Cambridge cocktail bar offering customers '1920s luxury with a twist of science'.
WHAT ELSE?
Jason is also a longstanding supporter of Get In , a University programme which helps talented students from under-represented ethnic minority communities to study at Cambridge.
He is a visiting fellow at Jesus College where he regularly runs clinics for budding entrepreneurs.
"The people with the ideas and the wherewithal to solve our biggest problems are already out there, but most of them don't have access to the resources they need, or lack self-confidence.
Everything I do is about creating a future where, if you are capable and have the right mindset, you will get the professional and personal support you need to change the world."
You started out doing a PhD.
What made you  decide not to pursue an academic career?
I quickly realised that despite my love of science and discovery, I'm too restless to be an academic.
My father was one but my mother, having started out as a social worker, became an entrepreneur.
So I could see these two different paths and it became clear to me which one I should take.
What was your first foray into the commercial world?
There were two, simultaneously.
When I finished my PhD I went to King's College London as a postdoctoral researcher but I was straightaway looking for other opportunities.
One came up, an internship with King's technology transfer office, learning about intellectual property management and spinouts.
It really opened my eyes to the possibilities of that world.
I also entered a business plan competition with two friends.
We put together a pitch for a device called B-stable, designed to prevent falls in the elderly.
We ended up winning the competition and went on to start the company.
It didn't end up being successful for a variety of reasons.
But it was a great adventure: we learned how to put together a pitch, we won some money and we developed a prototype.
My first 'proper' job was with an innovation consultancy called Innovia Technology based in Cambridge where I worked on all kinds of wonderful projects.
It was an amazing way to learn about innovation, thinking through processes, products and unmet needs for some really impressive companies.
Then an opportunity came up at Cambridge Enterprise.
After my experience at King's, I knew that tech transfer was what I was really passionate about so this was perfect.
It allowed me to be in the academic world, supporting cutting-edge science without having to be an academic myself.
What was the best thing about working for Cambridge Enterprise?
Every day I got to meet academics with amazing ideas.
You are literally the first person to hear about their new inventions and can help them on their commercialisation journey, whether through licencing or securing a grant, filing IP or spinning out a company.
I loved it and it taught me that I really enjoy supporting others.
Did you ever feel it should be you out there, starting something new?
That's why I left!
A Cambridge Enterprise colleague (and friend) sat me down one day and said, "Jason, what is your path?" He suggested I get some industry experience to learn what life is like on the other side.
At the same time, another former colleague who was working for drug discovery company, Horizon Discovery, contacted me to say the company was looking for junior business development managers - and she thought I would really like it there.
What did you learn from your time at Horizon Discovery?
How to be thrown into the deep end with very little support, but a lot of encouragement.
I was part of a new business unit selling reagents to companies that are running diagnostic tests.
They said, "Here's your sales target - good luck!"
I'd never had a sales role but I set off anyway on a sales trip to the States.
That first trip, I got bed bugs from staying in dodgy motels.
I sometimes had to drive all night to get to meetings because I hadn’t thought to book a hotel in advance.
It was crazy, but I made it work and I learnt a heck of a lot.
But it was a relatively short stint because the same colleague (and friend) at Cambridge Enterprise who had originally suggested I should get some industry experience, called me up to say, "We're spinning out a company called Cambridge Epigenetix.
This is a great opportunity for you because you'd be part of starting a company from scratch."
When I joined Cambridge Epigentix, I was employee number three and when I left we had 50 people.
As with all start-ups, you wear multiple hats.
I had to learn how to lead on pitches, manage and grow a team, establish partnerships, sell products worldwide, troubleshoot, move to different locations and how to rebrand.
Having started as a business development manager, I was promoted to head of business development, then to vice-president of business development and partnerships.
Finally, I was promoted to CEO.
So I really had to learn a lot - quickly.
How important was the coaching and mentoring you received as you grew into your leadership position?
There seems to be a fallacy that entrepreneurs are self-made.
I have never met anybody in my life who's truly self-made and it's not something that people should aspire to.
The mark of a great leader is somebody who understands the gaps in their capabilities, as well as their strengths.
They know that you succeed by bringing together a team, not just of your peers but also of people who are more experienced than you.
Although, as a leader, you need to stand with conviction by whatever choices you make, you should leverage other people to make the best choices in the first place.
I thrive from being in a metaphorical room with people who are more experienced than me because that helps me grow.
That's my guiding light.
And now you are running Start Codon.
How did that come about?
There's a theme here of people coming to me with opportunities at the right time.
That's what happened with Start Codon too.
I was approached by a number of different people, all saying the same thing: that we needed a programme and a fund to help early stage companies get up and running.
And they were looking for someone to take the idea, run it and lead it.
At that point, I had been at Cambridge Epigenetix for six years and I was looking for a change.
The opportunity with Start Codon was perfect.
It leveraged all the experience I'd had in my career and it allowed me to work with my co-founder, Daniel Rooke, who is a perfect match.
Plus it was everything I'm passionate about: supporting people and advising on new technologies every day.
What is the ambition for Start Codon?
If you are a first-time founder or an inventor with an idea, you go to a venture capitalist.
These funds have to make their returns and can be risk averse, particularly in the UK.
So they'll say: "If you do x, y and z, we'll give you the money." And the founder goes: "If you give me the money, I can do x, y and z."
And they look at each other and nothing happens.
It's like a game of chicken.
Dan and I saw a gap, a need to help founders move the needle and turn their idea into an investable proposition.
What would you say is the greatest strength of the Cambridge ecosystem?
I'm a big proponent of diversity and inclusion and I take any opportunity I can to beat that drum.
It's so important if the ecosystem is to achieve its true potential.
I grew up in Louisiana and came to a completely different world in Cambridge.
But I was embraced here first as a student, then working at the University and Cambridge Enterprise, then building up a spinout and now funding spinouts myself.
Hand on heart, I believe that I would not have had the success I've had if I had stayed in the States, for a variety of reasons, predominantly that I was allowed to flourish here as opposed to people judging me for the colour of my skin.
Instead, they looked at my character and what I could bring to the table.
Cambridge is not only the generator of incredible ideas and great innovation, but it is also a home for people from anywhere in the world who want to have an opportunity to thrive.
I am a true product of the Cambridge ecosystem.
That's why I'm still here almost 20 years later.
And I want to spread the message that Cambridge is for all.
It's not an ivory tower that only a privileged few can access.
At Start Codon, about a third of our portfolio have come from Cambridge University, the rest come from across the UK and one from Singapore.
They come to us because they want to get access to what makes Cambridge amazing and contribute to our vibrant ecosystem.
Talking of amazing, you have also found time to start a cocktail bar in Cambridge.
This goes back to the early days of Cambridge Epigenetix when we were trying to find people who might buy and use our technology.
One of my team selling kits to the Gurdon Institute ended up going to a late-night party there.
I said: "They have parties at the Institute.
I've never heard of this." One day, I arranged to meet with one of the researchers and said, "Hey, I hear you have a party tonight.
Can I hang around and see what it's all about?"
So I snuck in.
You've got be enterprising, right?
I met Cambridge legend, Professor Tony Kouzarides and we hit it off right away.
During a long late-night session, he told me that one of his many dreams was to have a pub and cheekily call it PubMed.
Fast forward a couple years and I was with friends in a bar when we learnt that one of the owners was moving back to Spain and wanted to sell his stake.
I called up Tony and said: "It's not a pub, but it's a bar and it's in the middle of town.
What do you think?" And he said, "We should buy it!"
Now we've got a cocktail bar owned by three doctors: Tony the professor, me the entrepreneur and our other partner, Peter Niemczuk, a GP.
Have you had any setbacks in your career and, if so, how have you dealt with them?
During my PhD, I had a very challenging time.
I had two different advisors in two different locations with two different projects, and somehow I was magically meant to pull it all together into a coherent thesis.
I reached the point where I honestly thought I wouldn't be able to graduate.
At the same time, I had just come out to my family as gay and it did not go well initially so I felt isolated and alone.
I was very fortunate to have had some amazing people around me, to hold me up until I could get myself together and chart a new path.
What I learnt was that you need to eliminate the noise and focus only on what you need to do to take your next step.
You are not born with resilience, you build it over time.
There are always challenges in every career, whatever people might want you to believe.
You need to have supportive people around you through that period, knowing that you might be blindsided for a while because you're so overwhelmed.
And, then knowing that you can learn and grow from adversity, you can become a stronger person than you were before.
Suddenly, the challenge has become a blessing.
I no longer have a fear of failure in the traditional sense.
I have a fear of heights and I don't like spiders, but the idea that I might start something and fail at it, doesn't stop me.
If it fails, it's fine.
I have people who love and support me.
I'll figure it out.
I've trained my mind to not focus on whether I might fail but rather on how do I make something succeed.
I give lots of public presentations and speeches and I often get complimented on them.
I never prepare in advance.
I always speak from the heart.
But when I was young I used to have paralytic stage fright, even just raising my hand in class.
I couldn't stand up in a crowd to save my life but I forced myself because I knew that if I wanted to accomplish certain things I would have to be able to do it.
I made myself speak at as many opportunities as I could until now it's like second nature.
But people only see me as they see me now: I want them to know that I didn't pop out like this.
I worked hard at it.
I have had my own challenges and still do.
I'm always growing, I get support and I'm constantly trying to improve.
What would you say you are most proud of in your career so far?
Getting Start Codon up and running because it's the culmination of so many things that I've been through and it's driven by my passion for helping others be their best.
Do you have a piece of advice for someone wanting to start a new venture?
It'll be better if you do it with other people.
You don't get extra kudos or points for doing it on your own.
You know the expression, you can't see the forest for the trees?
I'm kind of the reverse.
It's like I can't see the trees for the forest.
For example, a company might pitch you story a, but the opportunity I see is story b or even stories c,d,e and f.
That's the way my ADHD brain works: I see how things can move together and synergise in ways that are not always obvious to other people.
What's next?
I like to do things in five year plans.
Anything shorter doesn't make sense.
Anything longer is a bit too far out.
I want to have as broad an impact as possible and everything I'm working towards is around diversity and inclusion which, I believe, will be the most disruptive innovation in the history of humankind.
I am spreading my wings to make sure that I have as big of an impact as possible.
For example, I'm supporting organisations like Cambridge Science Centre because it fits with that ethos and I’m passionate about STEM education.
Increasingly, I'm also undertaking a lot of strategy and policy work.
Spend time with my husband and our two energetic young children.
It's a weird thing, but I've never had hobbies.
I'm really into people and passionate people in particular.
I would never go swimming, say, or jogging on my own.
But if a friend phones me up and says, "Hey, Jason, do you want to go on a bike ride?" The answer is: "Sure.
Let's do it!"
Running late but I'm always in time for the important bits.
Half the time, I've no idea what the destination is.
I'm here for the ride: we'll get somewhere eventually.
Novelty, definitely.
A risk taker or risk averse?
Risk taker.
Lots of irons.
And do you need to be lucky or make your own luck?
Funnily enough, I don't make a distinction between work and life.
For me, it's all just life.
I'm really passionate about what I do for work and if it felt like work, I wouldn't do it.
Published 22 August 2023
Photography by StillVision .

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/diagnosing-mental-health-disorders:
Sabine Bahn is a practicing psychiatrist, Professor of Neurotechnology and head of the Cambridge Centre for Neuropsychiatric Research .
She has also found the time to start two companies.
Her first company, Psynova (acquired by Myriad Genetics in 2011), developed a blood test to diagnose psychiatric conditions, particularly schizophrenia.
In 2015, she co-founded Psyomics to help patients get a rapid diagnosis of their mental health disorders.
Its digital platform, Censeo, is already used by two NHS trusts and has assessed more than 1,000 patients to date.
"The way in which we diagnose psychiatric disorders has not changed in the last 100 years.
We need to find a better way of doing it so that the millions of people with mental health concerns do not struggle to access the treatment they need."
How did you end up founding two companies?
It's a long story and it goes back to my childhood.
My father suffered from bipolar disorder but this was not explained to me when I was young.
I found it confusing that he would switch from being one person to another and I'm sure that has played a part in my life choices, starting with my decision to study medicine at the University of Freiburg.
I was always interested in the brain.
From the first year of my medical training - with the support of my professors - I would head off to labs between lectures to do my own research.
I became very interested in neuropathology and started an MD thesis on neuropsychiatric disorders from a neuropathology point of view.
I was awarded a scholarship by the German National Scholarship Foundation which also allowed me to spend a year abroad.
I decided I wanted to spend that year at a particular lab in the world-famous LMB (Laboratory of Molecular Biology) in Cambridge.
I emailed them numerous times and became very upset when they didn't reply.
I didn't have a plan B.
Eventually, they answered my messages and I spent an inspirational year in Cambridge.
There were four Nobel laureates working at the LMB at the time.
Afterwards, I went back to Germany to finish my medical training but came straight back to the LMB to do my PhD.
I then had to decide whether to stay in science or go back to medicine.
A conversation with Sir Keith Peters, the then Regius Professor of Physic at Cambridge, steered me towards both neuropathology and psychiatry.
The former I was very comfortable with but the latter was an unknown quantity.
Two fantastic psychiatrists allowed me to sit in their clinics for six months and I found it fascinating.
I decided I would like to become a psychiatrist.
At the same time, I applied for funding to continue my research interests and I was lucky to get a small one-year grant from the Stanley Medical Research Institute which supports research into severe mental illness, particularly schizophrenia and bipolar disorder.
Your combination of clinical practice and research interests must make you pretty unique?
Everybody told me that I couldn't possibly train as a psychiatrist and set up my own lab at the same time.
I ignored them and started to research post-mortem brains of people with different psychiatric disorders.
At the time, I was also doing 56 hours of clinical work a week, including a night on call.
It was a very busy time but I had a lot of support from the head of department who gave me one day a week to focus on my research.
The Stanley Institute continued to fund my research on post-mortem brains.
But after a couple of years, they said: "Sabine, it's nice that you are doing this work and you are coming up with lots of interesting findings, but we would prefer it if you could research something which is more directly relevant to helping patients."
From my clinical work, I could see how long it was taking for patients to get a diagnosis, something that is still largely arrived at by asking questions.
Psychiatric evaluation is not an objective process and it can take a very long time for people to get the right diagnosis.
I wanted to look for biological evidence of brain abnormalities which could provide an instant answer and get patients on the right pathway straightaway.
We found changes in the cerebral spinal fluid, and based on these findings I was funded to look for biomarkers for certain psychiatric conditions - particularly schizophrenia - with the hope of being able to develop early diagnostic tests.
When did you start to think about founding a company?
I began to explore the idea when we started to get positive results.
I talked to Cambridge Enterprise but didn't have any business experience and no real idea of how to go about it.
At around the same time, I made the decision to move my lab from Babraham and, with the support of the University, moved into what was then the Institute of Biotechnology (which has since merged with the Department of Chemical Engineering).
It was there I met Professor Chris Lowe who has been the driving force behind many Cambridge spinouts.
He became the co-founder of Psynova and more or less took me by the hand and put me in touch with all the right people.
We got some grant money from the University to undertake a proof of concept study, followed by seed funding and then venture capital.
And within five years we had some nice results.
Eventually we were acquired by Myriad Genetics, a NASDAQ-listed company.
We did release a diagnostic blood test for schizophrenia, but unfortunately it has not survived into wider clinical application.
So it was a success in terms of entrepreneurship and having an exit, but it was a big disappointment that we weren't able to develop something which ultimately helps patients.
But you didn't give up on the idea?
I began to think about the limitations of the Psynova approach.
The blood had to be collected from the vein, spun down and then shipped on dry ice.
This cost a lot of money and the platform that we used was also very expensive.
So each test cost $2,600 which is just too much to roll out widely for any healthcare provider - even a private one.
I wondered, instead, if it would be possible to identify biomarkers in dried blood spots which could be collected by the patients themselves and mailed in an envelope.
I went to see Cambridge Enterprise again and asked if they thought it would be worth starting another company to develop this new technology.
They did.
However, the problem with biomarkers is even if they are highly sensitive, they produce high false positive and negative rates.
But if you enrich that data with symptoms, you will get much more accurate results.
In conjunction with the dried bloodspots, therefore, we developed a digital platform which emulated a full psychiatric assessment, asking patients about their psychiatric history and personal circumstances.
Cambridge Enterprise gave us some seed funding to support a large-scale trial in collaboration with my lab.
1,300 people sent us their dried blood spots and completed the online assessment.
The results took us completely by surprise: the digital platform significantly outperformed the biomarkers.
We decided to pivot and focus on the digital diagnosis instead.
Then COVID came along and our plans were delayed by a year to 18 months.
But we are very fortunate that our investors have stood by us.
They understood that we were operating in difficult circumstances and gave us more money and new investors came on board.
Where is Pysomics now?
We have launched our digital diagnostic platform, called Censeo.
It is currently being used in two NHS trusts and we have our first paying customer - which is a major milestone.
Why is it needed?
There are not enough psychiatrists in the NHS: we all have too many patients and too long waiting lists.
What often happens is that a patient is sent to a particular service and, after a long wait, they are told they are too ill, or not ill enough, or the wrong type of ill and then they have to join a waiting list for a different service.
This can happen over and over again, taking months and sometimes years before they end up in the right place and the patient has to retell their story every time and may not receive effective treatment.
By developing a platform which can assess large numbers of patients early on, we can direct them straightaway to the most appropriate intervention.
What about the biomarkers?
Have you given up on those?
We are continuing to work on them in the lab and we're just filing another patent which will be licensed to the company.
What would you say are the greatest challenges you've faced in starting your companies?
There is always the potential for things to go pear-shaped - and plenty of times when they did.
When that happens you need people who can support you, who give you a shoulder to cry on.
I was so lucky to have an inner circle of three or four people who have been by my side for decades.
It's almost like having a family.
How have they helped?
Sometimes you just want unconditional support but there are times when you need them to be critical - and you need to be able to accept that criticism.
After my first big conference presentation, one of my greatest supporters pulled me apart - legs, arms, everything.
I trusted this person and allowed them to 'destroy' me and then put me back together.
After setbacks, you have to be able to pick yourself up, dust yourself down and keep on going.
The other thing you need to be able to do, is to zigzag.
You can never pursue an idea in a linear fashion.
You have to be open to the idea that your original vision may turn into something completely different.
I had set out to develop a blood test and never envisaged that we would have a digital platform instead.
Which aspects of founding companies have you most enjoyed?
Having the idea.
I like developing the concept and then I need to hire excellent people to make it all happen.
This was a problem with my academic career.
Most academics are experts in a particular technique, whereas I'm interested in the vision and will use any tool I can lay my hands on to solve a problem.
This is a very unacademic approach and as a result I've had a lot of headwind from other academics.
Have there been other challenges combining an academic career with founding companies?
As academics, we are measured by the number of papers we publish in the highest ranked journals.
When I was doing pure research, I was publishing fantastic papers.
But once you start doing more translational work, you have to do a lot of 'handle turning' because you need to optimise your approach.
As a result, your papers become less exciting and are published in lower impact journals.
Do you have any advice for someone who is thinking of starting a company?
If you think you can do it, just go for it.
That was what I did, even when people told me I couldn't.
But you have to be prepared to pay a price and you are not going to know in advance what that price will be, except that it may be high.
I worked 80 to 90 hours a week for many years which meant having to sacrifice - or at least postpone - some personal things.
I only met my husband when I was 40.
It's quite difficult, particularly for a woman.
I don't think it would have been possible if I had had children.
Too much goal directedness can be a hindrance.
You can't plan everything, you can only look for opportunities and be ready to embrace them.
I never said I wanted to set up a company.
I just found it interesting.
You also need to recognise your own strengths and weaknesses and find the right people to collaborate with.
For example, I know I wouldn't make a good CEO.
I need to work with someone who understands how finance works and who is interested in the money.
We all need to find something which aligns with our personality and which interests us intellectually.
Has being in Cambridge helped you?
I've had a lot of help from individuals in the University and I'm very grateful to Cambridge Enterprise for all its support over the years, giving me lots of advice and putting me in touch with the right people.
I used to paint quite a lot but I haven't had the time to pursue that recently.
With the money from the sale of Psynova, we bought a boat which meant I was able to spend six months during lockdown working from a marina in Italy.
Optimist or a pessimist?
An optimistic pessimist, always prepared for the worst, but willing to go for it.
I love ideas.
I'm German.
I'm always a couple of minutes early.
Even when I want to be late, I'm still on time.
The destination.
I'm probably more of a lone wolf, to be honest.
I like routine and too much novelty is scary, but after a while I have to break out.
I get novelty by switching from an old to a new routine.
I hate risks but I will take them in order to move forward.
If I could avoid them, I would.
Big picture, if I have to make a choice, but detail is important.
You can be lucky once, but if it keeps happening, there's a reason for it.
It used to be work, work, work but it's now work-life balance and increasingly so.
It's important to know when to stop.
I certainly will not be hanging around in the University at the age of 70 or 80.
Published 9 February 2023

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/reimagining-supply-chains:
Jag Srai is a Director of Research in the Department of Engineering and Head of the Centre for International Manufacturing at Cambridge's Institute for Manufacturing (IfM).
He is also Co-Chair of the World Economic Forum Global Future Council on Advanced Manufacturing and Value Chains.
Supply chains, how they work and how to improve them.
Having come to Cambridge after a successful career at Unilever (where he had been a technical director at the age of 32 and its first supply chain director), Jag now works with some of the world's most successful businesses to put new supply chain thinking into practice.
In today's world we depend on supply chains for everything, from a tomato or a Tesla.
Those networks are increasingly global, complicated and digital - and increasingly susceptible to shocks such as pandemics, wars and climate change.
We need them to be both more resilient and less harmful to the planet.
Was it always the plan to go into industry after university?
When I graduated (in chemical engineering), I had an option to do a PhD and go down an academic route, but I was more attracted by real-world process engineering and manufacturing operations.
That path took me to Unilever.
They had two management trainee schemes: one general management and one engineering.
I applied to the engineering one because I wanted to use what I had learnt at university.
It turned out later that the difference between the two schemes was a bit of a branding exercise!
Unilever has a very fast-track system - and I was keen to be the fastest.
Would you say you were 'enterprising' while at Unilever?
I think you could say I was unconventional.
I get a kick out of finding unexpected ways round a problem.
One of my first projects was to upgrade a soapmaking manufacturing operation.
We made soap by putting the liquid raw materials in a tank which was heated by a hot-water jacket.
But the storage tank was going to be too heavy for the floor, which we were therefore going to have to reinforce at significant cost.
I got my old chemical engineering textbooks out and said, "Why don't we design it using limpet coils instead?" This was another way of heating tanks which hadn't been used at the Unilever site before.
We carried out a feasibility study and found that if we did this, we wouldn't have to reinforce the floor.
Like many large organisations, Unilever had a very structured way of doing things which you had to follow to the letter.
By having the confidence to stand back and look at the problem from first principles, I came up with a completely different solution.
Later, having spent time running factories in Europe, I moved to head office to undertake a review of Unilever's global detergents research strategy.
At the time, the heads of labs were the senior roles with the product category managers subordinate to them.
One of my proposals was to reverse that, so that the 'big barons' became more akin to facility managers.
That must have been a difficult process to manage?
We set up a transition organisation where the product category leads - who were mostly in their mid-30s - and the barons - who were mostly in their mid-50s - were now on a level playing field.
At that stage, there was still a culture of deference towards the owners of the facilities.
But you could see it gradually shifting.
The aim of the transition organisation was to keep everybody on board.
It was definitely not comfortable, but it was doable.
And it proved to be a game-changer for how Unilever carried out its R&D.
Being comfortable with being uncomfortable is definitely a recurring theme.
I wasn't afraid to make major organisational changes about who gets to take decisions and what constitutes good business performance.
Why did you switch to academia?
I originally came to Cambridge to do a one-year, funded MPhil as I wanted to learn about supply chains outside the sector and wasn't anticipating moving away from industry at that stage.
To my surprise, fast-moving consumer goods supply chains were more advanced than others and, now armed with some cross-sector knowledge, I went on to do my PhD at Cambridge.
Although the concept of integrated supply chains had already emerged from the research, people didn't know how to apply this new thinking.
As I had found, it was more through perspiration than inspiration that we were getting things done in an integrated way.
Understanding how to reconfigure supply chains to deal with major disruptions in markets and technologies is a key outcome of the work and one which has become even more resonant now.
After the PhD you decided to stay in research?
Yes - because at the IfM I can have a foot in both camps.
Through it and its commercialisation arm, IfMEngage, I've been able to continue to work with industry and also to drive the academic conversation.
The role suits me.
I wasn't comfortable with doing pure execution in industry, because it tends to favour the conventional and the short-term.
And I wasn't comfortable with sitting in an ivory tower and not involved in putting ideas into practice.
Do you still have scope to be enterprising?
If that's about doing new things or doing things differently - absolutely.
For example, we have set up the Digital Supply Chains Consortium at IfM in which firms share their successes and failures and we provide insight into why things have worked or not.
We work closely with many leading organisations.
For example, since 2014 we've been advising Schneider Electric, which typically leads supply chain excellence surveys.
With Caterpillar it's been 20 years and with IKEA maybe 10 years.
Working with sector-leading organisations on their forward supply chain strategies is really energising and chairing our annual symposium where ideas and practices are shared is a great example of knowledge exchange.
For a couple of years now, I’ve been Co-Chair of the World Economic Forum's Global Future Council on Advanced Manufacturing and Value Chains looking at new operating models and new business models and how digital platforms can enable them to connect suppliers with customers through digital infrastructure.
Chairing sessions at Davos these last few years, I have had the opportunity to consider policy impacts too, be they economic, social or environmental.
It's exciting that we are setting the forward research agenda, looking particularly at decarbonisation and circularity and how supply chains need to adapt to mitigate climate change.
What achievements are you most proud of?
I'm proud of coming from a very inner-city background and ending up in leadership positions in both academia and industry.
In 1968, Enoch Powell made his 'rivers of blood' speech.
In the run-up to that speech, he made the controversial claim that a constituent had told him that his child was the only white pupil in their class.
That was my primary school.
I went on to a comprehensive that didn’t offer O-levels, so I entered myself.
My older siblings had done it before me, so it was already a family tradition.
Were your parents focused on education?
They were first-generation immigrants, highly ambitious, but whose own education was interrupted by the Partition of India and Pakistan in 1947.
So I had parents who were not formally educated and I was going to the toughest schools in inner-city Wolverhampton.
I took my A-levels at a further education college.
The one thing my education taught me was to be an independent learner, making the transition to university very easy.
And then I got a place on the Unilever management scheme which only takes one in 1,000 applicants.
I wasn't an obvious pick, but they must have thought 'this guy looks interesting.
Let's see how far he goes.'
Another thing I'm proud of is the establishment of the first Gurdwara (Sikh temple) in Cambridge.
I'd say my activities outside work are as intense as those in work, whether it's the Sikh community or the local cricket club!
What drives you?
If I wasn't still pushing the boundaries, I'd probably retire.
It's not so much about proving oneself, it's about having a sense of purpose and having an impact.
I would also say that it's a privilege to be in my position.
If I'm just sustaining that position, not trying to push things forward, is that good enough?
How would your colleagues describe you?
I think they'd say that I’m quite calm, unflappable, resilient.
I don’t get too excited by successes or too disappointed when things don’t go my way.
What's next for you?
We’ve got about half a dozen projects all in the pharmaceutical supply chain space.
We are creating an interesting consortium of firms that span the whole supply chain from raw materials and the production of active ingredients, through manufacturing, packaging, wholesale and distribution right the way through to the patient.
This is an area we have been working on for a number of years, but it has been accelerated through advances in digital technologies which allow us to connect parts of the supply chain which were previously very siloed.
Of course, the net-zero agenda is critical.
We are contributing to that both academically and in practice, through our work with industry.
There are still not clear career paths for people like me.
I’m excited by operating across the academic-industry divide so I've created a role that allows me to do that.
With research funding bodies and other stakeholders asking more from universities in terms of impact, I suspect there will be more people like me.
Ideas.
Always running late.
That's a difficult one.
In terms of ideas, it’s more lone wolf.
In terms of execution, more team player.
Work, work, work but it’s how you define work.
I am as active outside work as I am in it, if not more.
It’s a workaholic-type mentality but it’s not on a single track.
Enterprising Minds has been developed with the help of Bruno Cotta , Executive Director of the Entrepreneurship Centre at the Cambridge Judge Business School.
Published 10 November 2022

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/combatting-ageing-and-disease:
Live long and prosper
Daniel Ives, Cambridge alumnus, CEO and co-founder (with his dad) of Shift Bioscience.
A Cambridge start-up trying to find a way to return cells and tissues to a youthful state.
If successful, these rejuvenation therapies could be used to address the 200 diseases and disorders that are primarily associated with ageing.
As Rick Klausner said: “So that we die young, after a very long time.”
What sparked your interest in this field?
After a degree and then a master's in biochemistry, I was thinking about next steps.
That summer, my dad and I went to a small conference in Cambridge on ending ageing.
It seemed like pretty wild science but there was nothing else like it.
The message was 'we don't have to accept the inevitable: we can do something about it'.
From that moment, I knew what I wanted to do.
I found out about a research project at the MRC Mitochondrial Biology Unit on the Cambridge Biomedical Campus, looking at the 'hallmarks of ageing' and how your function is gradually impaired as you age.
The project was focused on mitochondria, which are found in our cells and have a number of important jobs, one of which is to produce energy.
But mitochondria can go wrong.
They have their own genome and if that gets damaged they become dysfunctional and stop pulling their weight.
We found a way to get rid of the bad mitochondria by encouraging the 'good' ones to reproduce more.
I started a PhD looking at how this technology could be applied to rare diseases, and that is now progressing to clinical trials.
But all the time, I was thinking 'how can we apply this to ageing?'
When I finished my PhD I wanted to do some experiments in this new direction, but they were incredibly expensive.
I couldn't persuade anyone to take the risk.
Then my postdoctoral research contract was cut short by a month.
The silver lining was a redundancy payment which I spent with a contract research organisation in Cambridge, which allowed us to do a first experiment looking for mutations to the mitochondrial genome in people with age-associated Parkinson's.
Daniel Ives and the countdown to the launch of the 'Endure-1' experiment: Shift Bioscience's first attempt to rejuvenate human cells.
Why did you decide to start a company?
Around that time, the founder of Abcam and Cambridge investor, Jonathan Milner became aware of us.
My dad (and co-founder) is a serial Cambridge entrepreneur and knew a lot of great people, including Hermann Hauser.
When Dad found some time to read my thesis, he started to get excited.
He said we could move the research forward more quickly if we formed a company.
He took the idea to Herman who said it was too early for him but suggested we talk to Jonathan.
Jonathan agreed the research was too early but asked us to give him first refusal if we made any progress.
We went back to him in 2017 and that's when we received our first substantial investment and really got going.
It wasn't just money that we got from Jonathan.
He asked us if we had heard of Steve Horvath and his epigenetic clock, a biochemical test that can be used to measure age.
We hadn't, but we could immediately see its possibilities for our work.
We found out that Wolf Reik's team at the Babraham Institute had developed an epigenetic clock for mice.
We wondered if it would be possible to use their mouse clock to see if the approach we were testing in mice would affect ageing, and we were able to embed a researcher in Reik's lab to work on this.
Unfortunately, we ended up proving that what we were doing had no relationship with this clock whatsoever.
What did you do when you hit what looked like a dead end?
At this point, we needed to look elsewhere and we embarked on a slow and painful pivot.
I decided to go to Silicon Valley, hoping to solve all our problems by attracting big money from the Americans.
How did that work out?
It didn't.
It was mostly pain and a learning curve.
But one important thing came out of it.
I was invited to join a workshop run by XPRIZE, an organisation that offers millions of dollars to people with industry-changing technologies.
Our job was to brainstorm a prize that someone might actually be able to win.
All the stars of the longevity world were there.
I was keeping quiet, trying not to make a fool of myself.
But the discussion turned to how can we solve ageing if we can't measure it?
I put my hand up to say that we already know how to measure it, by using Steve Horvath's clock.
At which point, Steve stood up and said, 'I'm here.' And that's how I met Steve.
It was a moment which changed everything.
We got on really well and I told him we'd been using mouse clocks to see if we could slow the clock down through mitochondria - and the results were unexpected.
He told me that the person I really needed to talk to was back in the UK.
When we met Ken Raj at Public Health England we recognised he was on the very frontier of the science and had developed systems that would help us in our quest to develop drugs.
Around the same time, Jonathan Milner had given a talk at Churchill College and mentioned Shift Bioscience.
A Cambridge PhD student, Brendan Swain, was in the audience.
A few days later, he turned up on our doorstep asking if he could intern for us as part of his syllabus.
He was the type of person you find around Cambridge who has internal superpowers.
He's now our Chief Scientific Officer and it was Brendan who eventually forged a new path, creating single cell clocks which would allow us to do a CRISPR screen for ageing.
This sounds like an exciting new direction for the company?
It was, but in trying to take it forward we hit another set of problems.
This was a really difficult period when I was trying to roll Shift into a new company with new partners.
It didn't work out and we had to walk away.
But things have worked out now?
During that time, Altos Labs was being set up and attracting a huge amount of funding.
Suddenly, there was a lot of interest and we were seen as legitimate and investable.
We now have the investment we need to carry on.
We seek enough funding to get us quickly to the next milestone.
Right now we don't need to be a big company to do that.
Being big would slow us down.
Where are you now?
We've come a long way very quickly by embracing machine learning.
This powerful tool predicts a safe rejuvenation pathway and over the next 18 to 24 months we will be using our technology to prove out this prediction in human cells.
If our prediction fails, we build that failure into a new predictive model, so every experiment gets us closer to the answer.
And where do you hope to be in, say, five years' time?
We expect to be deep in the pre-clinical development phase of a drug for cellular rejuvenation of one or more human organs.
We don't know the identity of the minimal set of rejuvenation genes, so we can't say whether the future therapeutic will be one or more small molecules, or an mRNA based drug.
What we can say is that we will developing the drug for a specific disease, which offers speed advantages, and this is thanks to a curious finding: the types of interventions that rejuvenate cells, also rescue or reverse disease phenotypes.
What are some of the challenges you have faced?
Trying to get people to believe in us.
We are quite a young team and that means we’re perceived as a higher risk to most investors, which has led to some frustrating discussions.
What about when things got tough and you had to walk away from a new venture?
At first, I didn't listen to the advice I was getting from Jonathan and my dad.
But then I realised that these were two people who cared about me and their views deserved more attention.
I've learnt that my dad has a good radar about people that I don't always have.
And what about working with your dad...?
It's complicated because you have to share Christmas with that individual.
If there's conflict at work, it does bleed over.
You've almost got to be willing to risk the family relationship.
Fortunately, we are both quite rational people and have been able to reason our way out of conflicts.
But, yes, it's challenging.
If you do make the breakthrough you are hoping for, it will pose lots of ethical questions.
Is that something you think about?
Thinking about the new frontiers that open up with this technology serves as a continual source of energy and excitement.
It's why lots of people want to get involved.
People are right to consider the risks and unintended consequences, but this has to be balanced against the benefits to society.
One major benefit is safeguarding the fragile flame of human consciousness in a vast universe, an imperative frequently highlighted by Elon Musk.
If we can live much longer lives in good health, we will be able to settle other habitable planets at a much faster rate and safeguard this flame.
But we still have a responsibility to address the ethical ramifications.
Recently, I was asked to review a script for a fledgling film called ‘The Last Generation to Die’, to bring the science up to date.
By using characters to explore the arguments about whether this is a good or bad thing to do, the film can help people form a more informed and sophisticated view on the technology.
Finally, what do you do in your spare time, if you have any?
I used to fly first-person-view racing drones, tiny aircraft with an onboard camera that can travel at over 100mph.
Now my spare time is mostly spent entertaining our two-year old son.
Optimist, largely out of necessity.
The people, and increasingly, the very different people required to make a big thing happen.
On time – it’s a precious resource for everyone.
The journey or the destination?
The journey – we can’t fully understand the magnitude of the challenge upfront, so we better find a way to love the long haul.
Team player or lone wolf?
Team player - ego quickly becomes an obstacle to progress.
Routine is the foundation of a long-haul endeavour.
Big picture or fine detail?
Scientific discovery requires both.
Lots of irons in the fire or all your eggs in one basket?
All in as soon as you can.
Make luck.
The challenge is to make a ‘work’ success, a ‘home’ success - otherwise you can slowly disappear from your family's universe.
I'm trying to solve this by tying work success to fun family trips and by delegating more.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/spinout-powering-green-revolution:
Powering a green revolution
Giorgia Longobardi
Engineer, founder and CEO of Cambridge GaN Devices , Dr Giorgia Longobardi , was a Royal Academy of Engineering Young Engineer of the Year in 2019 and has been the winner of numerous accolades including Business Weekly 's Woman Entrepreneur of the Year in 2021.
Based on Longobardi's original research, Cambridge GaN Devices has developed a range of power devices using the energy-efficient semiconductor, gallium nitride (GaN), heralding a new era of greener electronics.
"As our lives becomes increasingly digital, our need for more energy-efficient ways to power them becomes ever more pressing.
Swapping gallium nitride for silicon in electronics will save up to 50% of the energy used in everything from fast-charging our phones to running the vast data centres that keep our digital world turning."
Why gallium nitride?
I came to Cambridge initially as an Erasmus student and was given a choice of topics to research.
One was silicon power devices, which the group in the Engineering Department already knew a lot about.
The other was the energy-efficient 'material of the future' which I would be the first in the group to work on.
Of course, I chose the latter.
I like a challenge!
It was particularly difficult because I was having to learn English at the same time.
But somehow I got through and as soon as I finished I was given the opportunity to continue my research as a PhD student, this time working in collaboration with a major semiconductor company, NXP (now called Nexperia).
How was that?
It was like a dream come true.
I was doing research at one of the best universities in the world but I was also spending time in industry, getting to know how markets work and what customers want.
The company had operations in both the Netherlands and Belgium so it was also a fantastic opportunity to travel, one of my other passions.
You got your PhD.
I could see the potential for gallium nitride so I applied for EPSRC Follow-on Funding which gave me a year to start bridging the gap between the research and commercialisation.
After that, I was awarded a Junior Research Fellowship at Gonville and Caius College which was perfect: it gave me the flexibility to pursue my own research - and to really think.
I had so many ideas during that time and the College was so supportive.
What about founding a company?
When did you start to think that might be a good idea?
When I applied for the Junior Research Fellowship, my application was based on the idea of spinning out a company.
To be honest, I didn't have any real idea of what it meant and what it would take to do it.
During my Fellowship, I continued to work with industry, consulting with two of the main semiconductor companies, Infineon and Vishay, getting good market knowledge and insight.
I founded the company in 2016, with my PhD supervisor - and serial entrepreneur - Professor Florin Udrea.
This all seems like a very smooth path?
Yes and no.
After raising the first £20k by winning the Cambridge Enterprise post-doc competition in 2016, I pitched  to Cambridge Enterprise again, this time for a Fast50 £75,000 convertible loan.
On the same day, I also told them, "I'm going to go to Japan for a year."
I had been offered a fellowship by the Japanese Society for the Promotion of Science.
For me, it was an amazing opportunity.
Cambridge is fantastic but I needed to see something different.
And this was the moment in my life when it would be possible, before partners, families or companies could get in the way.
I managed to convince Cambridge Enterprise that it would be beneficial for the company - which it was.
In what way?
We all talk about the need for diversity and the importance of listening to other people's ideas and perspectives.
It was only when I went to Japan, that I properly understood the difference between cultures.
In Europe, we have so much in common.
But this was totally different.
And that lesson informs everything I do.
There are 32 people at CGD at the moment and 19 different nationalities.
What about gender diversity?
Your board members are all male, bar one.
Yes - because all the investors are men.
It hasn't been a problem in that the board is very supportive.
But I do think it's a challenge, if you are in a meeting, whether with your board, your customers or your own staff, and you are different from everyone else around the table.
That's why I'm involved in lots of activities to promote STEM subjects to young women such as the Global Semiconductor Alliance's Women in Leadership Initiative .
Did you show any entrepreneurial flair at a young age?
When I was starting out at university, I would sell beauty products at fairs to make a little extra money.
I had no training but good instincts as to how to display things so that people would buy them.
What I think I've always had is a leadership mindset.
At school, I was always the class representative, listening to different views and then presenting our case in a way that was focused on getting a solution.
And my family makes fun of me for always telling them what needs to be done.
So it's something I've always had but it has definitely changed in the last few years.
In confidence.
The more you grow as an entrepreneur, the more you learn, the more you can realise your full potential.
Has being in Cambridge helped you achieve your goals?
There are so many helpful people and programmes here.
Cambridge Enterprise was hugely important in the early stages when I didn't know how to file a patent or how to pitch to investors.
Having Florin as my co-founder was also really important.
He has five spinouts now and back then it was two or three.
He made me believe it was possible.
I must also mention the Royal Academy of Engineering SME Leaders' programme which gave me £10,000 to spend on training courses and meant I was able to do a finance course, which was invaluable.
Where is CGD now?
At a very exciting time.
We have launched our product range and have just rebranded.
We are coming out to the world.
Our first focus is the consumer electronic market but as we head into 2023 and 2024, we will have products for industrial and data centre markets.
By 2025 we will have entered the automotive market with transistors that can be used in onboard chargers for electric vehicles.
For me, it's all about leadership rather than making money, about the impact our technology can have.
Gallium nitride is the most energy-efficient semiconductor and if our technology is used by data centres, it will save more than nine million tonnes of CO 2 emissions, equivalent to the greenhouse emissions from more than 20 million barrels of oil consumed.
That's our ambition.
And we are growing fast.
By the end of 2023 there should be 100 of us.
How are you finding scaling up?
Anyone who says this is not a challenge, is lying.
It's a challenge personally, and for the company.
You have to adapt to whatever stage you are at and hire the right people to cover the aspects that can no longer be your primary focus.
Understanding that this is necessary and letting those parts of the business go is vital.
Of course, the CEO gives the direction but the people you hire are the key to the company's success.
It's not about telling them what to do, it's making sure they share their ideas.
If you do that, you can create an avalanche of innovation.
It's beautiful.
I'll always say that it's the people.
I wouldn't have been able to do what I've done without the people in my company.
I believe I'm a good entrepreneur and a good leader but a leader alone is nothing.
Have you had any setbacks?
Several!
For example, making sure there has been enough support for the team as it grew during COVID hasn't been easy.
Being a leader and inspiring others when you are struggling yourself was really challenging.
Pitching online was so hard.
You are just talking to a screen, you can't read the room as you would do in person.
If there are a lot of them, their microphones are muted so you can't even hear them breathing.
It's weird.
I hope they would say that it's listening, bringing the whole team's view into decision-making.
I would also hope they would say it's my ability to look at the details and the short-term as well as the big picture and the future.
As a CEO, you are often zooming in and out many times a day.
If someone has a great idea for a business, what piece of advice would you give them?
To believe in it.
Don't listen to the 'maybe not' voice in your head.
Talk to people.
In Cambridge there are so many people willing to share advice for free.
Scuba diving when I can, but I also run and and I enjoy yoga.
I love to travel by train, with a good book.
I've missed that in the last couple of years.
Optimist, my whole life.
Difficult to choose, but people.
On time – I have to be.
Oh my gosh, novelty!
Big picture - but also fine detail.
I make my own luck.
If you just wait to be lucky, there is no possibility of doing anything.
The ideal is work-life balance.
The reality is work, work, work.
Published 23 May 2022

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/deeplearning:
Marcel Gehrung co-founded Cyted with his PhD advisor, Rebecca Fitzgerald, Professor of Cancer Prevention at the University of Cambridge and with Maria O’Donovan, lead pathologist for upper gastrointestinal cancer and diagnostic cytology at Cambridge University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust.
A rapidly growing start-up, Cyted combines AI with a new technique for detecting oesophageal cancer, invented at Cambridge by Rebecca Fitzgerald.
Oesophageal cancers are the eighth most common cancer and the sixth most common cause of cancer death.
Fitzgerald's Cytosponge (or 'sponge on a string') identifies people who may go on to develop it.
But analysing the samples creates extra work for an already overstretched health service.
WHAT NEXT?
Finding markers for oesophageal cancer is just the beginning.
The platform technology can be applied to lots of other diseases including prostate, skin and bowel cancer.
You came to Cambridge to do a PhD and ended up founding a company.
How did that happen?
It may be helpful to know that when I was 18, I started a software consultancy company and ran that on the side while I did my undergraduate degree.
I had up to 15 contractors working for me but it was all project-based so, in theory, manageable around my studies.
That's still a major undertaking.
What did you learn from it?
That I wouldn't recommend it.
With hindsight, I should have given it to someone else to run.
At certain points, I was spending all day firefighting because people escalated their problems to me.
That's always going to happen when you are working with freelancers and contractors.
If they are not dedicated to the company, it's hard to build a culture where taking responsibility for problems is the foundation.
It's completely different now with Cyted.
So where did the idea for Cyted come from?
My background was in data science, particularly applying machine learning to healthcare data.
My PhD advisor was Professor Rebecca Fitzgerald who had invented the Cytosponge, a diagnostic for Barrett's oesophagus, a pre-cancerous condition that can increase the risk of developing oesophageal cancer.
I had the idea for the business pretty much straightaway and took it to Rebecca.
We incorporated the company in 2018 but it sat there for a while doing nothing while I got on with my PhD.
By the end of 2019, when I was halfway through, we started to raise funds.
By January 2020, we had raised just under £9 million and we started hiring in March.
By the time I submitted my PhD that September we already had 13 people working for Cyted and were about to acquire another company.
You make that all sound very straightforward.
Was it?
It certainly was not.
Although we had a clear strategy, we needed quite a lot of money in order to de-risk something that was actually very high risk.
But we knew that if it worked, it would work quickly.
It wasn't until we started talking to American investors, Morningside Venture Capital, that we got what we needed.
And just as that was all falling into place, COVID struck which meant we had to do everything remotely, including hiring all our staff.
We now have more than 60 people, working across two sites, the vast majority of whom were recruited during lockdown.
That sounds tough.
It was.
Towards the end of last year it was intense.
It's not often talked about but it's a very lonely job being at the top of an organisation.
You are the person who ultimately has to make the decisions and that isolates you.
You need to make sure there's a balance between the things that give you energy and the things that drain your energy.
If someone says to me that they are always positive and nothing ever upsets them, I don't believe them.
In fact, I would be concerned about them.
Healthy self-reflection is important.
How do you cope with the isolation?
I seek help.
Martin Frost, who founded CMR Surgical, is a non-exec director and he has become both a personal mentor and a friend.
I am also working with an executive coach.
What do you think are your greatest strengths?
It turns out, I'm really good at selling the company, particularly to job applicants.
This proved useful when trying to recruit during lockdown.
Even though the company has grown, I'm still involved in the later stages of recruitment.
Hiring the right people is critical.
What's your greatest achievement?
The cheap answer is being able to hold everything together while the company is growing so quickly.
The more considered answer is getting myself out of the operational sink I was in last year by weaning myself off the 'my baby' syndrome.
You have now moved to bigger premises in Huntingdon.
Have you been involved in deciding what the new offices should look like?
That's very much a 'yes'.
I love all that, going back and forth with interior designers, talking them through the brand guidelines and how they will be realised.
We are doing this again for our new Cambridge offices which will be ready later this year.
Do you have a piece of advice for someone thinking of starting their own business?
Have at least one other full-time person in the trenches with you from the start.
I didn't - and paid the price.
Has it been helpful to be part of the Cambridge ecosystem?
Cyted wouldn't exist without the University.
It's where the Cytosponge was invented and where I did my PhD.
And it has built an environment in which founders have been thriving for decades.
Most importantly, it encourages people to try.
Where do you see Cyted heading?
We have realised that what we are really good at is the diagnostic infrastructure which takes tests like Cytosponge to market.
Our vision is to become one of the big diagnostic providers in the UK but also in the US and Europe.
To do this we are embarking on a quite aggressive funding round.
Because the business is already generating revenue and is operating in a growing market, we are getting a lot of positive signals which is exciting.
I'm into aquariums.
I spend a lot of time aquascaping – creating intricate underwater landscapes.
People + destination is more powerful than ideas + journey, in my opinion.
Team player .
Both.
I work best where they meet.
Probably more risk-taker, these days.
I used to be more risk-averse when the company started.
I'm a 'make your own luck' kind of person.
Work, work, work or work-life balance.
Aquariums are beautiful places.
Published 7 April 2022

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/cambridge-infosys-ai-centre:
By Sarah Collins
A group of Cambridge researchers say that the answer to the last two questions is yes.
But this is not because of some mysterious breakthrough or wishful thinking, but the relentless march of computational power.
“What’s changed isn’t the methods – we’ve had most of those since the 1970s,” said Dr James Fergusson from Cambridge’s Department of Applied Mathematics and Theoretical Physics (DAMTP).
“What’s changed is that we now have enough computing power and data to make them work.”
If Moore’s Law holds – as it has for the past 50 years – computing power will keep growing by a factor of 30 every decade.
Even without smarter algorithms, hardware power alone will drive AI systems to become exponentially more capable and more embedded in our lives in the coming years.
“Most of the AI tools in widespread use today are essentially mimicking things humans already do, but just doing them faster,” said Fergusson.
“We want to really push the maths of AI, so we can get it to do new things.
We don’t want it to mimic data, but to tell you how it works and break it down.
That’s where the real change will happen.”
Dr James Fergusson
In addition to his role in DAMTP, Fergusson is Director of the Infosys-Cambridge AI Centre, which was opened in the autumn of 2024 at Infosys’ London premises in Canary Wharf.
The AI Lab is part of a wider University partnership with the multinational technology and consulting company, meant to make Cambridge’s cutting-edge AI research accessible to industry.
“In the past, companies have found it hard to navigate Cambridge,” said Fergusson.
“We want to create a gateway: somewhere businesses can come to ask their questions, and find out what AI can really do for them, and we can learn what challenges they face.
We hope this partnership with Infosys is a model of how that could be done.”
There are three main research themes in the AI Centre:
Dr Boris Bolliet from Cambridge’s Cavendish Laboratory and Agentic AI Research Lead at the Infosys-Cambridge AI Centre is developing these custom multi-agent systems, based on large language models (LLMs) such as ChatGPT, Claude and Gemini.
Bolliet and his team use multi-agent systems, such as CMBAgent and DENARIO , to plan and execute complex tasks, from financial simulations and cosmological data analysis, to autonomous research and paper writing.
“I believe that a lot of things are going to change in the way we do research,” said Bolliet, whose research background is in cosmology and computational astrophysics.
“Maybe that means that a lot of repetitive, time-consuming tasks that I spend a lot of my energy on will soon be automated, giving me more time and space to do more interesting things.”
Dr Boris Bolliet
Multi-agent systems work by breaking complex problems into smaller tasks, verify their own outputs, and work like digital research assistants.
They are more robust than single AI models because they can plan, review, and cross-check their own work.
The multi-agent model allows Bolliet to assign a role or even a ‘personality’ to each agent.
For example, one agent could be a researcher and one an engineer, or one could be an idea generator and one could be a ‘hater’, relentlessly challenging and criticising to make the end product more robust.
Bolliet says that using these multi-agent systems, AI will not only be able to generate research but can also review and correct scientific literature at scale.
And unlike humans, it will be able to seamlessly jump across academic fields, from astronomy to oncology, to find the best solutions.
“We want to use AI to accelerate the exchange of information across fields,” said Bolliet.
“AI agents don’t have these barriers.
They’re not stuck in one discipline like we human researchers are.”
Bolliet says that while we often think of LLMs as black boxes prone to hallucinations, using the multi-agent model allows him to check every step of the research process.
“I can see every single step that has occurred and go through the code line by line,” he said.
“I can reproduce the research entirely, which is not necessarily true when you talk to your colleagues and ask them what they did in their paper.”
Using tools such as multi-agent systems, the coming AI revolution is poised to replace many tasks that require human intelligence – everything from legal drafting to scientific research.
For many people, this raises a worrying question: if machines can do our jobs, what’s left for us to do?
The answer, Fergusson says, is surprisingly hopeful.
As AI systems increasingly take over routine and specialised tasks – writing code, analysing data, automating customer service – the most valuable commodity becomes something machines can’t yet replicate: original ideas.
“To paraphrase Edison, AI might handle 99% of the perspiration, but it still takes a human for that 1% of inspiration,” he said.
“This shift could unlock extraordinary potential.”
For example, a student who has a great idea for an app who doesn’t know how to code can now describe their idea to an AI, and it will write the code, test it, and launch it.
As implementation becomes easier, the emphasis will move from skills to creativity.
The future, Fergusson says, will belong to those who can ask the best questions.
“There is a transformational opportunity to change the way scientific research is done using AI,” he said.
“It will no longer be something only humans can do, but as something we do in collaboration with machines, that can carry out high-level scientific analysis, fast and accurately.”
The research happening at the AI Centre is also relevant to business because, ultimately, the problems they are trying to solve are the same.
How do we harness the enormous volumes of data at our fingertips into real knowledge?
“Businesses want to have explainability,” said Fergusson.
“They want to have simulations that can run faster and can be trusted.
They want to use the power of multi-agent systems to automate business processes for knowledge processing tasks.
This centre connects Cambridge and the business world, so knowledge can be shared globally across all sectors.
“The universality of the challenge of AI is bringing science and industry together – we all face the same challenges in adopting it and using it for our work.”
Of course, AI is far from perfect.
The amount of water and energy used by the data centres powering most AI technology is gigantic, and risks derailing the progress humans are making towards achieving net zero.
And language models still make things up, or forget their own logic in longer responses.
They’re more convincing than correct.
But Fergusson says these flaws can be managed – especially with agent-based systems that check each other’s work and bring in outside data sources.
He also warns against viewing AI as purely hype or purely harmful.
“Most people’s experience of AI is a chatbot that’s trying and failing to get you to buy a washing machine,” said Fergusson.
“But under the surface, it’s changing everything, from scientific discovery to creative industries.”
Published 21 July 2025

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/clean-air-research:
By James Levine
Photo by Håkon Grimstad on Unsplash
Researchers from every school and more than 20 departments across the University of Cambridge gathered in February to explore the links between air quality and climate, their impacts on human health, and the challenges and opportunities for Clean Air and Net Zero.
Air pollution and climate change pose the greatest environmental risk and a fundamental threat to human health, according to the World Health Organisation.
Air pollution claims three million lives each year.
Their causes and  related health impacts, call us to tackle these problems together.
Air pollution from burning fossil fuels is responsible for the loss of one in five lives globally.
Cambridge Zero and the Centre for Atmospheric Science held a Research Symposium to bring together a wide range of Cambridge academics with overlapping research interests, aiming to build bridges between departments and consolidate a multidisciplinary Cambridge ‘Clean Air’ research community.
Dr Irene Dedoussi , Professor Alex Archibald .
Credit: Cambridge Zero.
The question is, would achieving Net Zero (alone) guarantee Clean Air?
The symposium comprised three sessions, focusing on:
Global/Outdoor Air Quality-Climate Interactions;
Convolved Health Impacts of Air Quality and Climate; and
Synergies and Trade-offs in Pursuit of Clean Air and Net Zero in Buildings.
In our first session, chaired by Dr James Levine from Cambridge Zero, we explored how air quality and climate are closely connected.
Professor Alex Archibald , from the Yusuf Hamied Department of Chemistry, explained how rising temperatures and changes in humidity can affect the levels of air pollutants like ozone, which can irritate our lungs.
He also discussed how climate change can influence plant life, which in turn can change the makeup of the air we breathe.
Photo by Geio Tischler on Unsplash
Climate refers not only to the typical weather expected in a place at a certain time of year, but also encompasses broader patterns, such as the direction and strength of winds that transport air over long distances.
These wind patterns are important because they help determine which areas end up being affected by air pollution, even if that pollution comes from far away.
Dr Irene Dedoussi , from the Department of Engineering, explained how emissions from aviation can have effects far from where the planes fly.
She also discussed how climate change could shift these “source-receptor” pathways, meaning that pollution could end up in new places over time.
In the second session, chaired by Dr James Smith from the Department of Public Health and Primary Care, the focus turned to how air pollution and extreme heat combine to affect our health.
This is especially common in cities, where high-pressure weather can lead to both very hot conditions (made worse by the urban heat island effect) and still air, which allows pollution to build up.
Road traffic is the biggest contributor to outdoor air pollution in cities.
While electric vehicles (EVs) can play an important role in reaching Net Zero, provided their entire life cycle and the electricity they use are carbon neutral, they only go part of the way toward solving our air quality problems.
60% of the tiny harmful particles (PM2.5) from vehicles no longer originate from the exhaust.
Instead, they come from brake dust, tyre wear, and the breakdown of road surfaces.
These sources of pollution aren’t reduced by switching to electric cars and may even get worse, since EVs are often heavier due to their large batteries.
Dr Irene Dedoussi , Credit: Cambridge Zero.
Dr James Smith , Credit: Cambridge Zero.
David O'Loughlin (from the MRC Toxicology Unit) and Siriel Saladin (from the Yusuf Hamied Department of Chemistry) discussed some of the key uncertainties around pollution from tyre wear, which has long been thought to be the biggest non-exhaust source of particulate emissions.
David O'Loughlin, Credit: Cambridge Zero
David focused on the size and toxicity of the particles released.
Smaller particles can travel deeper into our lungs, and their toxicity plays a major role in how harmful they are to our health.
Siriel shared new research suggesting we might have been overestimating the pollution from tyre wear and underestimating how much comes from road surface wear.
Even so, the overall amount of pollution from non-exhaust sources remains a serious concern, and reducing emissions where tyres meet the road is still a top priority.
Photo by Arjun Lama on Unsplash
Dr Robert Rouse , from the Department of Applied Mathematics and Theoretical Physics, spoke about how climate, and in particular extreme heat, can directly affect our health.
His research focuses on developing new ways, using statistics and machine learning, to better predict when and where people are likely to be exposed to dangerous levels of heat.
Crucially, he’s working on improving forecasts of exposure to heat that can be life-threatening, not just uncomfortable.
In the final session, chaired by Dr James Levine, the focus turned to indoor environments and the difficult choices we sometimes face when trying to achieve both clean air and Net Zero goals.
Dr Ronita Bardhan , from the Department of Architecture, explained how important good ventilation is for reducing harmful indoor air pollutants, especially the tiny particles (PM2.5) released during cooking.
This is particularly urgent in places where people regularly cook indoors over open fires, where daily indoor exposure to PM2.5 can be ten times higher than daily outdoor exposure.
Following this, Dr Lia Chatzidiakou , from the Yusuf Hamied Department of Chemistry, introduced new tools and techniques for measuring people’s personal exposure to indoor air pollution.
Her work aims to help design indoor spaces that reduce this exposure in ways that respect local cultures and traditions.
Photo of Dr Robert Rouse , Credit: Cambridge Zero
Dr Ronita Bardhan, Dr Lia Chatzidiakou , Credit: Cambridge Zero.
Something as simple as opening a window can help improve indoor air quality, and doesn't increase energy use.
But mechanical ventilation systems, while more effective, can come with a trade-off: if they require extra energy that doesn’t come from renewable sources, they may work against our climate goals.
Professor Peter Guthrie , from the Department of Engineering and Chair of the National Engineering Policy Centre’s report on healthy and sustainable buildings , highlighted other trade-offs we must consider.
Ventilation is crucial—not just for clearing out air pollution, but also for reducing the spread of airborne diseases like COVID-19.
It also helps prevent damp and mould, both of which can harm health.
At the same time, efforts to make buildings more energy efficient, such as by sealing them more tightly, can limit airflow.
This creates a challenge: how do we design heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) systems that keep us healthy while also being sustainable?
The problem is even bigger when we consider that around 80% of the buildings we’ll be using in 2050 already exist today and will need to be retrofitted.
At the University of Cambridge, the Clean Air research community brings together experts in health, environmental science, and engineering to tackle these complex challenges.
As we reflect on the insights shared and gather feedback from attendees, it’s clear this interdisciplinary approach has real potential to make a difference, for both people and the planet.
In response to the initial question, ‘Will Net Zero (Alone) Deliver Clean Air?', the answer from a human health perspective is ‘No’: Net Zero is a necessary, but insufficient, condition for Clean Air, and whole systems approaches are needed to realise both.
(Editing by Annie McKenzie)
Photo by De an Sun on Unsplash
Photo by Sam Schooler on Unsplash

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/subjects/clean-technology:
Cambridge researchers are working to solve one of technology’s biggest puzzles: how to build next-generation batteries that could power a green revolution.
Meet the winner of the Vice-Chancellor's Awards 2023 for Research Impact and Engagement and learn more about their projects.
Cambridge Zero Director Professor Emily Shuckburgh took centre stage at the world's biggest climate event of its kind in New York to talk to global leaders of government, business and philanthropy about Cambridge’s efforts to tackle climate change.
Analysis of energy RD&D investment in major economies also found that commitments at COP21 yielded some positives.
Ultimately, however, trends over this century are not consistent with the ‘cleantech’ funding levels needed to meet climate goals, say researchers.
Startups funded by US agency ARPA-E file patents at twice the rate of similar cleantech firms.
The UK should trial its own climate-focused ARPA as part of COVID-19 recovery package, argues a Cambridge professor.
More than 100 future leaders from the UK and Latin America have gathered at the University of Cambridge to discuss the future of work and education in an increasingly global digital era at this year’s Shaping Horizons summit.
Collaboration between government and startups could help meet the climate challenge while growing small businesses.
Findings could inform discussions on Green New Deal or any “forward-looking policy package” say researchers.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/subjects/industry:
Could it change how universities like Cambridge carry out one of their core functions: research?
Could AI be a technological transformation unlike anything we’ve seen before?
Climate change will move and reduce the land suitable for growing food and timber, putting the production of these two vital resources into direct competition, a new study has found.
Researchers from the University of Cambridge have developed a method to produce very low-emission concrete at scale – an innovation that could be transformative for the transition to net zero.
Millions of historical employment records show the British workforce turned sharply towards manufacturing jobs during the 1600s – suggesting the birth of the industrial age has much deeper roots.
Professor Rob Miller, Director of the Whittle Laboratory, shares his thoughts on COP28 and the ambition for zero emission aviation.
The COVID-19 pandemic highlighted the interconnected nature of global supply chains, and showed how a disruption in one part of the world can have global effects.
In 2021, supply disruptions were cost the global economy an estimated $1.9 trillion.
Researchers have found that robots can have a ‘U-shaped’ effect on profits: causing profit margins to fall at first, before eventually rising again.
Professor Tim Minshall, Head of Cambridge's Institute for Manufacturing, says it's time for a change in how we talk about manufacturing in the UK - and that means we must change how we think about it as well.
Those in ex-mining areas are also less likely to vote for new populist and nationalist parties compared to socio-economic counterparts elsewhere.
Researchers argue that the modern Left may have lost these communities to “apathy and cynicism”.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/people/howard-stone:
Researchers at Cambridge are working with Rolls-Royce to make aeroengines greener.
The Periodic Table may not sound like a list of ingredients but, for a group of materials scientists, it’s the starting point for designing the perfect chemical make-up of tomorrow’s jet engines.
Rolls-Royce and the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council will work jointly with the Universities of Cambridge, Birmingham and Swansea in a new £50 million strategic partnership.
Only a single class of engineering materials can withstand the extreme conditions deep within a jet aeroplane engine – the nickel-base superalloys.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/people/ljiljana-fruk:
Cambridge scientists have developed a urine test for early detection of lung cancer.
The test, the first of its kind, detects ‘zombie’ cells that could indicate the first signs of the disease.
A major new research hub led by the University of Cambridge and UCL aims to harness quantum technology to improve early diagnosis and treatment of disease.
Today, on International Women's Day, we celebrate the achievements of women, raise awareness against bias and take action for equality.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/affiliations/department-of-chemical-engineering-and-biotechnology:
Eleven senior researchers at the University of Cambridge have been awarded Advanced Grants from the European Research Council – the highest number of grants awarded to any institution in this latest funding round.
An ‘AI scientist’, working in collaboration with human scientists, has found that combinations of cheap and safe drugs – used to treat conditions such as high cholesterol and alcohol dependence – could also be effective at treating cancer, a promising new approach to drug discovery.
Over 500 KS2 and KS3 students from as far away as Warrington got the chance to experience studying at the University of Cambridge with a selection of lectures and workshops held as part of the Cambridge Festival.
Sixty-five Centres for Doctoral Training – which will train more than 4000 doctoral students across the UK – have been announced by Science, Innovation and Technology Secretary Michelle Donelan.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/affiliations/department-of-materials-science-and-metallurgy:
Nine outstanding Cambridge scientists have been elected as Fellows of the Royal Society, the UK’s national academy of sciences and the oldest science academy in continuous existence.
Technology that could transform the future of hip replacement surgery is being pioneered by a team of experts in Cambridge.
Three Cambridge researchers – Professors Manish Chhowalla, Nic Lane and Erwin Reisner – have each been awarded a Royal Academy of Engineering Chair in Emerging Technologies, to develop emerging technologies with high potential to deliver economic and social benefits to the UK.
The University of Cambridge is a partner in the new £11m Innovation and Knowledge Centre (IKC) REWIRE, set to deliver pioneering semiconductor technologies and new electronic devices.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/affiliations/queens%27-college:
Scientists explore a seafloor area newly exposed by iceberg A-84; discover vibrant communities of ancient sponges and corals.
Google DeepMind co-founder tells Cambridge audience 'digital biology’ could reduce the amount of time it takes to identify new drugs from years to weeks.
Clare Bryant, Professor of Innate Immunity, is a molecular detective.
Clare allows us to see how inflammation functions across species, and when our defence systems go too far.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/affiliations/sidney-sussex-college:
A simple blood test is being rolled out across the UK as part of a new study to detect early signs of dementia decades before it develops and help identify treatments.
SARS-CoV-2 triggers the production of the antiviral protein IFN- γ , which is associated with fatigue, muscle ache and depression.
New research shows that in Long COVID patients, IFN- y production persists until symptoms improve, highlighting a potential biomarker and a target for therapies.
Dr Diarmuid O’Brien has been appointed as the University of Cambridge’s new Pro-Vice-Chancellor for Innovation.
He is currently Chief Executive of Cambridge Enterprise , the University’s commercialisation arm which supports academics, researchers, staff and students in achieving knowledge transfer and research impact.
The facility, based at the Milner Therapeutics Institute, will support the discovery of new medicines and diagnostics for chronic diseases by applying advanced biological and technological tools, including CRISPR gene editing.
An ambitious new strategy to nurture and grow its innovation ecosystem has been unveiled at Cambridge summit.
A new fleet of nine electric buses will operate on an extended Universal bus route from October, after the University of Cambridge and Whippet buses announced a new 8-year contract for the popular Cambridge service.
Cambridge scientists have shown that the hypothalamus, a key region of the brain involved in controlling appetite, is different in the brains of people who are overweight and people with obesity when compared to people who are a healthy weight.
An international team of researchers has found a genetic variant that may explain why some people of African ancestry have naturally lower viral loads of HIV, reducing their risk of transmitting the virus and slowing progress of their own illness.
For the first time, the James Webb Space Telescope has observed the chemical signature of carbon-rich dust grains in the early universe.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/affiliations/school-of-the-physical-sciences:
This September the public can enjoy tours of College gardens, exhibitions from hidden archives, tours of University sites not usually open to the public as well as open sites across the city, all free of charge.
A treasure trove of exceptionally preserved early animals from more than half a billion years ago has been discovered in the Grand Canyon, one of the natural world’s most iconic sites.
Researchers from the University of Cambridge are using AI to speed up landslide detection following major earthquakes and extreme rainfall events—buying valuable time to coordinate relief efforts and reduce humanitarian impacts.
Astronomers have detected a giant exoplanet – between three and ten times the size of Jupiter – hiding in the swirling disc of gas and dust surrounding a young star.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/affiliations/school-of-technology:
Three Cambridge academics have been appointed to the UK Department for Energy Security and Net Zero’s new Science and Technology Advisory Council (STAC), which met for the first time on Wednesday 9 July 2025.
This week, UK Ambassador to the United States of America Lord Mandelson visited the University of Cambridge to explore its world-leading strengths in innovation and its deepening academic and industrial partnerships with the USA.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/external-affiliations/tata-steel:
A long-term collaboration between the University and industry has resulted in a super-strong form of steel, which is now being manufactured in the UK for use as stronger and cheaper armour for front-line military vehicles.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/news/uk-ambassador-to-the-us-visits-cambridge-to-discuss-opportunities-for-deepening-uk-us-tech:
Cambridge has unique capabilities to help drive the UK-US tech partnership forward, and we’re excited to build on this momentum.
As the world’s most intensive science and technology cluster, Cambridge is driving breakthrough research and attracting global investment across quantum, life sciences, and biotech.
During his visit, hosted by Founders at University of Cambridge and Innovate Cambridge, the Ambassador heard about the University’s success in securing funding for these critical areas and its bold plans to fuel national economic growth—most notably through the National Innovation Hub and the West Cambridge Innovation District, set to become Europe’s leading centre for AI, quantum, and climate research.
At the heart of the visit was a tour of the new Ray Dolby Centre, home to the historic Cavendish Laboratory.
Hosted by Professor Mete Atatüre, Head of the Department of Physics, Lord Mandelson learned about Cambridge’s leadership in quantum technologies and the rapidly growing portfolio of real-world applications emerging from this research.
Vice-Chancellor Professor Deborah Prentice then hosted a roundtable lunch at Cambridge Enterprise, the University’s commercialisation arm, where leaders from high-growth companies in quantum, AI, and life sciences joined to discuss opportunities for deepening UK-US tech collaboration.
The visit follows the recent signing of the UK-US trade agreement, which lays the groundwork for a future technology partnership between the two countries.
As both nations turn to innovation as a key driver of economic growth and global problem-solving, Cambridge stands ready to play a pivotal role.
Recent Dealroom research for Founders at the University of Cambridge highlights Cambridge’s momentum: the area now attracts more venture capital investment in deep tech per capita than anywhere else globally.
The region’s tech ecosystem is valued at $222 billion—18% of the UK’s total tech value, second only to London.
Prof Deborah Prentice said: "It was a pleasure to join the Ambassador and colleagues to showcase the full depth and breadth of Cambridge’s research and business strengths - from personalised vaccines and genomics to qubits and semiconductors.
Cambridge has unique capabilities to help drive the UK-US tech partnership forward, and we’re excited to build on this momentum."
Lord Mandelson and Professor Deborah Prentice with the Cambridge Enterprise team.
Credit: Domininkas Photography

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/the-language-of-justice:
Meet Bhumika Billa: the legal scholar with the eye of a poet.
Bhumika Billa at Peterhouse College.
To generate meaning, our languages rely on shared rules.
But rules are not neutral: they set boundaries, limit what can be expressed, and shape our thoughts.
When it comes to the language of the law, these rules set the path of people’s lives.
Legal definitions determine what is valuable, who can access justice, and who is excluded.
In translating our world into ‘legalese’, the legal system aims at consistency and precision – producing texts that leave the average person bemused by jargon and specialist terms.
Who gets to be a translator between justice and the people?
Can the general public participate in that translation?
And what should our legal systems strive toward?
Bhumika Billa wants to see a legal world optimised for inclusion, justice and fairness.
She’s a Jawaharlal Nehru Memorial Cambridge International scholar with a poet’s love of language.
As a PhD candidate and Research Associate at the Centre for Business Research , she spends most of her time in the Faculty of Law.
Bhumika qualified as a lawyer in Delhi, then researched for the Indian government before coming to Cambridge.
“My first love was literature and poetry,” Bhumika says.
“I channelled that passion into my study of law.
I want to know how language shapes people, power, and societies.”
Bhumika likes being the only lawyer in conferences on philosophy or storytelling, and the only poet in conferences on law .
She translates her research into creative modes, including poetry, dance, animation and films.
Her latest short on women lawyers made headlines in the Indian press and inspired a debate with a former judge of the Supreme Court.
Bhumika performing at Unislam.
Bhumika Billa
“Currently, legal language makes meanings that are exclusive,” says Bhumika.
“It serves the interests of a certain few at the cost of many others.”
Bhumika finds inspiration in an unlikely source: Claude Shannon’s information theory , originally developed for maths and computer science.
Shannon realised that any communication seeks to limit the possibilities of error , while passing through many layers of noise.
His insights underpin the modern information age, where we efficiently compress huge amounts of data into smaller packages that can be reliably reconstructed by whoever receives them.
According to Shannon, we can improve our communication systems by better preserving message accuracy and optimising the efficiency of the transfer.
Bhumika modifies these goals when applying them to the legal system.
Where Shannon prized efficiency, Bhumika prioritises fairness.
In the legal world, it’s not enough for information to be streamlined – it has to be just.
She’s confident that Shannon’s ideas can reveal the law’s inner workings.
They can show us how information flows through the legal system: who gets to decide what is information and what is noise.
A schematic diagram of Shannon’s model of communication, as taken from his paper: A Mathematical Theory of Communication (1948).
Last year, Bhumika’s paper ‘ Law as Code ’ won the Gavin C.
Reid Prize for the Best Paper by an Early Career Researcher.
The law ‘codes’ the screen you read this on as ‘moveable property’.
The content of Bhumika’s paper becomes ‘intellectual property’, its author a ‘legal subject’.
“In classifying information, we always leave something out,” Bhumika says.
To redesign our legal systems for people instead of power, “we need to adapt our legal language to include information that has been excluded.”
Why does the law translate our societies into its own language?
“Partly, it’s to define rules that are consistent across many contexts and enable coordination.
Legal language makes things specific and predictable.
Translation happens in many places: in parliaments, in courtrooms, in the newspapers.
At every stage, the people making that translation – legislators, judges, lawyers, police officers, journalists – are prey to bias.”
Bhumika implores these different nodes in the legal system to talk to one another.
She wants to see a world where legal experts draw on the latest research and data to make more inclusive meanings.
One model for this interconnected world is Cambridge’s Centre for Business Research .
Here, lawyers, economists and journalists work on pressing issues, like the effect of artificial intelligence on legal systems .
Elsewhere in Cambridge, other researchers are interrogating the language of our legal system.
Bhumika’s supervisor Professor Simon Deakin also writes on how the law evolves, while her fellow scholar Dr Ira Chadha-Sridhar argues that vagueness can actually help us in more inclusive legal interpretations.
After witnessing legal systems in two continents, Bhumika couldn’t ignore female lawyers’ shocking experiences of inequality.
Only 15% of India’s practising lawyers are women , while women hold only 18% of partner positions in the UK’s top law firms .
Bhumika’s film (In)visible , funded by Cambridge Creative Encounters , is a poetic response to this issue.
Viewers hear testimonies from female lawyers who have faced injustice in their professional lives, alongside expressive poetry and dance.
Bhumika interviewed lawyers, bureaucrats and judges to learn about their experiences of legal translation.
“It was astonishing how many interviewees brought up gender inequality.
These women felt excluded, marginalised, or erased.
These are real cases where the law is reinforcing power gaps and inequalities.”
In October 2024, the Society for Democratic Rights screened the film to celebrate 100 years of women being able to practice law .
The UK marked the occasion just a few years earlier, with centenary celebrations in 2019.
Together with former Indian Supreme Court judge Justice Hima Kohli and an expert panel, Bhumika stressed that the legal profession needs to be inclusive for women of all castes and religious backgrounds .
“The panel sparked discussions about merit and quotas – whether we need to reserve seats in the judiciary for women, for example, to ensure equality.”
Bhumika at the Delhi launch of the (In)visible film.
The film has been screened at venues across the UK and India, inspiring conversations across national media .
It’s a timely example of how creative responses can capture new forms of information for researchers, and make findings accessible to a wider audience.
A creative mind makes unexpected connections between disparate areas of knowledge.
In building bridges between computer science and law, between poetry and jurisprudence, and between Delhi and Cambridge, Bhumika is rewriting our definitions of what a legal scholar can be.
Published on 18 June 2025.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/news/cambridge-and-manchester-partnership-to-boost-uk-innovation-and-growth-gets-government-backing:
Cambridge will join forces with Manchester as part of a pioneering collaboration to harness the combined strengths of both universities and cities – and boost innovation and growth for the whole of the UK
This pioneering initiative brings together the combined strengths of Cambridge and Manchester to create something that is truly groundbreaking.
The Cambridge x Manchester Innovation Partnership – the first trans-UK innovation collaboration of its kind – will receive £4.8m of funding from Research England over 3 years, it has been announced.
With further investment from the 2 universities, the total funding for the partnership will be £6m.
The initiative aims to strengthen research networks, accelerate scale-up growth, drive private sector investment into research and development, and attract new foreign direct investment.
Led by the universities of Cambridge and Manchester, ‘CBG×MCR’ is supported by 2 mayoral combined authorities, city councils, key businesses (such as AstraZeneca, ARM, ROKU, and Microsoft), venture capitalists (Northern Gritstone and CIC), and angel investors (Cambridge and Manchester Angels).
As well as strengthening relations within and between the 2 cities, the partnership – fronted by Innovate Cambridge and Unit M – will pilot new approaches for delivering inclusive growth, providing insights to other cities, the wider higher education sector community, and local and national governments in the UK and internationally.
In the UK, collaboration has traditionally been focused on geographically proximate areas, such as Manchester-Liverpool, or Edinburgh-Glasgow.
This new model of hyper-connected, place-to-place partnering – similar to those developed in the USA’s Northeast Corridor, Coastal California, and China’s Greater Bay Area – combines complementary innovation capabilities to create globally competitive connected ecosystems.
Amplifying what each city can achieve independently, the model aims to drive national economic growth, responding directly to the UK government’s national industrial strategy.
Professor Deborah Prentice, Vice-Chancellor of the University of Cambridge, said: “This pioneering initiative brings together the combined strengths of Cambridge and Manchester to create something that is truly groundbreaking.
By connecting our cities, we’re helping to build a more collaborative and dynamic environment in which innovative research can connect with industry, venture capital, and entrepreneurs, to drive economic growth and deliver real benefits for people and places across the UK.”
Paul Bristow, Mayor of Cambridgeshire and Peterborough, said: "This is exactly the kind of partnership working we need to fire up innovation-led growth in both our regions.
I’m delighted to see it backed with new funding.
By joining forces to drive the discoveries of tomorrow, we can bring in investment, support exciting new businesses, and deliver real jobs and opportunity for our communities."
Professor Duncan Ivison, President and Vice-Chancellor at the University of Manchester, said: "Our partnership with Cambridge marks a new model of collaboration between UK universities.
It brings together the distinctive strengths of each of our universities and cities, connecting 2 of the great innovation ecosystems to scale up what we can achieve.
This new approach to innovation accelerates the time between discovery and impact, getting ideas into the real economy and our communities even more quickly to drive inclusive growth.”
Jessica Corner, Executive Chair of Research England, said: “This investment underscores our commitment to fostering innovation and collaboration across England.
By connecting the vibrant ecosystems of Cambridge and Manchester, we aim to drive significant economic growth and create a model for place-based innovation that can be replicated nationwide."

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/news/cambridge-is-the-uks-most-innovation-intensive-city-says-report-0:
Globally, it ranks fourth behind US innovation powerhouses San Francisco, Boston and New York.
Dealroom’s Global Tech Ecosystem Index analyses and compares start-up ecosystems in 288 cities across 69 countries.
To measure innovation intensity, it looks for ecosystems that are performing well relative to their population size.
These hubs typically have high start-up activity, research intensity and strong links with local universities.
Diarmuid O’Brien, Pro-Vice-Chancellor for Innovation at the University of Cambridge, said: “It’s great to see that, as a relatively small city, Cambridge continues to lead the UK in innovation intensity but it’s no accident that we punch above our weight.
In recent years, the University and the wider ecosystem have put in place a range of initiatives to ensure that we realise our potential and are able to bring transformative science and technologies out of the lab and into the real world.”
Gerard Grech, Head of Founders at the University of Cambridge, which supports new ventures emerging from the University, added: “Cambridge is proof of what happens when world-class research meets relentless ambition.
While global venture capital funding in 2024 pulled back, Cambridge doubled investment – a powerful signal that deep tech innovation is increasingly leading the way in shaping our future economies.
“What makes Cambridge unique is its cutting-edge science, an increasing flywheel of people who have successfully scaled ventures, and a culture built to turn ground-breaking ideas into transformative companies.”

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/AI-and-the-future-of-work:
By Karly Drabot
Whether it's automating tasks, collaborating on creativity, or redefining decision-making processes, AI is reshaping the way we work – and think about work.
So, how will it affect our roles and workplaces?
And how can we, as individuals and organisations, prepare for this new reality?
Three leading experts at the University of Cambridge and KPMG UK’s Head of AI share their insights.
First, we need to keep in mind that “AI is a moving target because it is the frontier of what we’ve developed so far,” says Virginia Leavell, Assistant Professor of Organisational Theory and Information Systems.
And, as we imagine and plan for the future of AI, we're not just predicting it —we're actively creating it.
If the dominant discourse is that AI is going to lead to existential threats to humanity and mass job loss, “this matters because people will make decisions now on the basis of that anticipated future,” says Leavell.
How, then, should we be thinking about AI and its role in the future of work?
Some of the excitement people have for AI comes from the expectation that, by making administrative tasks more efficient, it frees up time to focus on more creative work.
But what if AI can do the creative stuff too?
David Stillwell, Professor of Computational Social Science, explores this question and how it may impact organisations and workers.
“Our research shows that AI is as creative as the average human right now.
It’s almost bang on the 50th percentile,” says Stillwell.
Stillwell believes the most-likely future will involve collaboration between the two, whereby AI acts as a team member (you say some things, it says some things in response, and you go back and forth), or an idea generator (you get it to list 50 ideas and then you pick the best ones), or a sounding board (you come up with the ideas and it tells you what could go wrong and what to look out for).
“We don’t know yet which is the most successful approach to use – or when.”
“Another key question we are researching is, who benefits from this collaboration?
Is it people who are already creative that get even better, or does it help those who struggle with creativity?" Stillwell asks.
Along with creativity, Stillwell is looking into other OECD 21st century skills – skills considered critical for the future – like critical thinking and problem solving:
"We’re doing research on teams of AI collaborating together.
They are assigned different roles or expertise and you get them to talk to each other to come up with the best ideas.”
Those organisations that are embracing aspects of AI are already seeing productivity benefits.
Leanne Allen, Head of AI at KPMG UK said: "Many organisations are already designing, building and implementing AI, enhancing productivity by augmenting human capabilities such as summarising and drafting documents, drafting emails and fast information retrieval over curated knowledge bases.
This is the first wave of AI implementation.”
As AI moves into areas previously thought to be exclusively human and can collaborate not only with humans but with other AI, we may need to reimagine what skills will be most valuable for the future of work.
Allen added: “Many organisations have already entered the second wave of AI agents that are bringing greater effectiveness and accuracy in addition to efficiencies such as in fraud detection, tracking customer behaviour or medical imagery.
As the effectiveness of AI grows, so will the controls for responsible use.
Future waves will then see AI transform business models and operating structures, altering the skills needed for today's roles towards value-added work and critical thinking.
“However, to be successful in these future waves, the focus needs to be on adjusting workloads as replacing mundane tasks with continuous critical thinking, problem-solving and decision-making is not sustainable and could lead to cognitive overload and burnout in employees.”
Given that AI can perform tasks ranging from administrative to creative, does this mean fewer jobs for people?
It doesn’t need to, Stillwell argues.
He explains: “There’s usually more demand than there is ability to service that demand.
So, organisations that integrate AI, while keeping the same number of employees, are going to have more efficiency, which means more clients or productivity, and therefore more money."
"For example, if AI can automate some animation, it doesn’t have to mean that we need fewer animators, it can also mean that more animation films are made.
And then society also benefits because there's more art in the world.”
The integration of AI into work may be inevitable, but how organisations choose to integrate it is not.
It’s not just about implementing technological change; it's about ensuring workplaces remain human-centered amidst it: using technology to enhance – not replace  – humans.
Allen shared: "Technological change necessitates a learning curve, making it crucial to provide training alongside these new technologies, to both manage risk but also maximise employee capabilities and give them the tools to engage."
"At KPMG UK, we provide comprehensive learning and development opportunities around AI, including courses like our AI for Leaders and AI ethics programmes.
We have also developed a set of bespoke KPMG tools to help employees with AI adoption as well as using third party solutions such as Microsoft Copilot."
"For the past two years, we've engaged colleagues across our business through our 'Summer of AI' initiative, providing colleagues with insights from industry experts on advances in AI, deep knowledge sharing sessions, hackathons and much more."
However, while human-centered organisations place individuals’ needs and well-being at the core of organisational decisions and practices, the idea of human-centered organisations is “meaningless if it overlooks inequalities within the organisation,” says Eleanor Drage, Senior Research Fellow in AI Ethics.
As Drage puts it, “which humans are we centering around?
Indeed, as AI becomes more embedded in people’s working lives, ethical considerations are critical.
“It is very important that AI can be trusted for it to be fully accepted across industries and society and ethics must play a big part in that,” Allen explains.
“Organisations need to ensure they are designing, building and using AI in a responsible and ethical way.
Aligning to ethical principles such as transparency, fairness, accountability, and security are critical for this.
"However, ethics aren’t clear-cut.
It’s a grey area requiring diversity of thought on what is and isn’t ok, as well as identification and mitigation of risks, including potential bias and harms.”
One of the primary concerns is that AI is perpetuating bias in decision-making processes, such as hiring.
AI systems are trained on data, and if that data reflects societal inequalities, the AI can reinforce these biases.
“AI is only as good as the data it is built upon, so if you have a historically biased, incomplete or unrepresentative data sets, you are likely to get biased results,” Allen added.
In response to this, some companies suggest we train AI to debias recruitment processes by removing information on things like gender and race.
However, "it’s a real problem if people think that AI can simply remove bias from the hiring process by deleting or ‘scraping’ away aspects of people's identities, like race and gender, as some of these AI hiring companies claim," Drage warns.
This approach, she explains, is based on a fundamental misunderstanding of what diversity really means.
“Improving diversity is not about injecting more women or more people of colour at the beginning of the corporate journey.
It’s about addressing the culture and inequalities entrenched within the organisations."
"This cannot be outsourced to AI.
It's about doing the hard work, addressing things like equal pay and microaggressions.
It's going to feel difficult.
If it doesn’t, it probably won’t work.”
On the other hand, Drage advocates for using AI technologies in recruitment for job specifications.
“AI is very good at using pattern recognition to point out, for example, the use of language in job specs that might be inadvertently appealing more to male or female candidates – so let’s use AI for that.”
AI is reshaping roles, organisations, and industries.
So, how can we, as workers and leaders, prepare for this new reality?
Our experts have some recommendations.
Actively engage in technological change – when and where possible.
Stay informed about AI developments in your sector.
This can be useful for identifying how you might like to upskill or reskill.
If you can, use AI tools to assist with your work.
Get familiar with their capabilities and limitations.
Leavell suggests that you should see yourself as an agent of change.
“The way the AI tools are right now, everything you do is being fed back into the model, so you are literally building it.”
Stillwell encourages people to remember the popularised phrase, “doctors won’t be replaced by AI, but doctors who use AI will replace those who don’t."
AI tools will continue to become increasingly powerful, but they will still rely on human input and oversight.
Allen believes that: "Leaders need to take a strong and clear governance approach that looks at AI's alignment with the organisational strategy, risk elements such as ethics and regulatory compliance, and technical elements such as data and systems."
Organisations should set up systems for employees to experiment with AI tools.
"This must be done in an environment where mistakes are seen as learning opportunities rather than failures, which is crucial for innovation," Leavell explains.
“And organisations need to incentivise employees to share what worked, so the organisation can roll it out,” Stillwell adds.
In sectors where workers may have less agency to experiment, leaders need to ensure that AI isn’t being implemented in a top-down way that alienates the very people it’s supposed to support.
For AI to be integrated effectively, and for organisations to be truly human-centric, workers need to be involved in how AI is used in their roles.
Leavell says: “There should be time spent on truly figuring out what employees want the technology to do, so that they can build the AI in a way that improves their work and their lives.”
Drage adds: “It’s important to integrate AI in a way that builds employee trust.
Otherwise, you won't have the employee buy-in that you need.”
The integration of AI in workplaces is a cultural change just as much as it is a technological change.
“Think about the way you frame the use of AI in your organisation: it should be seen as an enabler and an opportunity, not a threat,” Allen suggests.
As Leavell summarises: "We need more people and more diversity in the room when talking about AI and the future of work.
We need workers in the room, not just managers and developers."
"And we need to talk about it in a way that's radically different from the way it’s usually discussed – because what people think is possible and probable for the future shapes the decisions and actions we make today."
Professor David Stillwell is the Academic Director of the Psychometrics Centre at the University of Cambridge.
Dr Virginia Leavell is Assistant Professor in Organisational Theory and Information Systems at Cambridge Judge Business School.
Dr Eleanor Drage is Senior Research Fellow at the Leverhulme Centre for the Future of Intelligence at the University of Cambridge and previous AI Ethics advisor to the UN.
Dr Leanne Allen is a Partner and Head of AI at KPMG UK
Published May 2025
Images Banner: Getty Images, credit: gorodenkoff Data analytics team: Getty Images, credit: cofotoisme

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/cambridge-ai-spinouts:
AI has the potential to solve some of the world's most pressing challenges.
But to make that happen, we need people who can turn that potential into a reality.
The University's innovation arm, Cambridge Enterprise , helps brilliant researchers start new ventures that take AI out of the lab and into the real world.
Their aim is to address some of our most intractable problems, such as hard-to-treat diseases and the climate emergency.
Meet 10 of these spinouts, all hoping to harness the potential of AI for the good of the planet and its people.
"Cambridge Vision Technology's  success will transform how we detect and manage Alzheimer's.
"By enabling early diagnosis through a simple eye exam, we empower individuals to take control of their health, access timely interventions, and improve their quality of life.
"This technology has the potential to revolutionise healthcare systems worldwide, reducing the burden of Alzheimer's on individuals, families and society as a whole."
Dr Andrew Kadis, Co-founder, Cambridge Vision Technology Department of Engineering
“Carbon Re is connecting the biggest challenge of our time, climate change, with the biggest opportunity, advances in AI.
"We have built a technology that directly reduces CO 2 emissions today and is helping the industries that literally support our modern world - cement, steel, glass, transition to a net-zero future.
"Our mission is to have gigatonnes of impact, starting with kilotonnes of real-world reductions today.
With each evolution of our product, we move closer to achieving that goal.”
Dr Daniel Summerbell, Co-founder and CSO, Carbon Re Department of Engineering
"CardiaTec is redefining cardiovascular drug discovery by taking a radically different approach.
Powered by our network of more than 65 hospitals across the US and the UK, we are building the largest proprietary human heart tissue multiomics dataset.
"By integrating insights across genetics, gene expression, epigenetics, and proteomics, we aim to construct a comprehensive understanding of disease mechanisms, paving the way for first-in-class therapeutics."
Thelma Zablocki, Co-founder and COO, CardiaTec MPhil in Bioscience Enterprise
Other academic co-founders : Raphael Peralta, CEO MPhil in Bioscience Enterprise, Professor Namshik Han, CTO Milner Therapeutics Institute
“The uncertainty of knowing whether a treatment will be effective for a cancer patient is one of the cruellest and most damaging aspects of the disease.
Concr was founded to directly address that problem.
Our cutting-edge technology integrates oncology research and clinical data to simulate cancer biology, enabling precise therapeutic predictions with minimal diagnostic input.
Our mission is to give more confidence to patients, clinicians, and drug developers in understanding whether and how their treatment will be effective to help each individual receive treatment that works best for them.”
Dr Matthew Griffiths, Co-founder and CTO, Concr Department of Physics
"Machine learning is transforming R&D by enabling faster, more efficient innovation.
Traditional experimentation is slow and costly, often limited by the sheer complexity of materials, chemicals, and life sciences research.
"With advanced AI, we can extract deep insights from existing data, guiding researchers toward the best solutions with fewer experiments.
This accelerates discovery, reduces costs, and allows for breakthroughs that would otherwise take years.
"Our roots in the University of Cambridge drive us to push the boundaries of AI in science and engineering, ensuring that machine learning becomes a fundamental tool for the next generation of researchers and innovators."
Dr Gareth Conduit, Co-founder and CTO, Intellegens Department of Physics
"The clock is ticking in the fight against climate change.
At Matnex, we're united by a vision of green cities powered by clean energy, and we see novel sustainable materials as the most impactful way to get there.
"We're revolutionising materials discovery, replacing the expensive, decades-long, status quo with our AI- and quantum mechanics-powered approach to deliver rapid, cost-effective innovation, enabling the sustainable future that we urgently need, and may otherwise never see."
Dr Robert Forrest, Co-founder and CTO, Matnex Department of Materials Science & Metallurgy
Academic co-founder and CEO : Dr Jonathan Bean , Department of Materials Science & Metallurgy :
“Small molecule therapeutics have been the front-runner in drug discovery for centuries.
Today, however, there has been an explosion of new drug modalities and small molecules risk being overlooked.
"At PharmEnable, we want to make small molecules shine again by pushing the boundaries of what can be achieved with a small-molecule medicine.
"We are using AI to discover and  develop novel small molecules with new properties to provide patients with safer and more effective treatments that can be taken from the comfort of their homes.”
Dr Hannah Sore, Co-founder and CEO, PharmEnable Yusuf Hamied Department of Chemistry
“With the right datasets, vision algorithms have immense potential to unlock insights that the human eye, and conventional cameras, can’t detect.
"These include optimising agricultural yields or advancing environmental monitoring to enhancing healthcare diagnostics or ensuring product quality.
"Prospectral’s mission is to democratise the technology that collects and processes this data, with scalable, ultra-compact camera modules that interface with computer vision in a fundamentally more efficient way.”
Gwenhivir Wyatt-Moon, Co-founder and CEO, Prospectral Department of Engineering
Other academic co-founders : Thomas Albrow-Owen, CTO , Dr Oliver Burton, CSO and Dr Peter Christopher, CIO , all Department of Engineering
“At RoboK, we’re all about helping people on the ground work safely and with confidence.
Our AI-powered computer vision technology transforms existing CCTV into a smart tool that supports workers, not watches them.
"By providing useful insights, we help teams stay aware of potential risks, prevent incidents, and create a safer, more efficient workplace.
We believe technology should empower people, and we’re committed to using AI responsibly to support those who keep industries running.”
Hao Zheng , Co-founder and CEO, RoboK Faculty of Economics
Other academic co-founders : Liangchuan Gu and Chao Gao, Department of Computer Science and Technology
“Now more than ever, commercial and industrial businesses need to focus on improving their energy management.
"Running their buildings accounts for 30% of global final energy consumption and 26% of global energy-related emissions.
"xWatts is uniquely positioned to help businesses significantly reduce carbon emissions whilst also making their operations more profitable.”
Alexander Allen, Co-founder, xWatts Department of Engineering
Academic co-founder : Yigit Akar, CEO MBA, Cambridge Judge Business School
Published April 2025
Founders and their Colleges Dr Andrew Kadis: Clare Hall (2018) Daniel Summerbell: Gonville & Caius (2006) Thelma Zablocki: Selwyn College (2020) Matthew Griffiths: Trinity College (2009) Gareth Conduit: Selwyn College (2002) Robert Forrest: Girton College (2018) Hannah Sore: Gonville & Caius (2006) Thomas Albrow-Owen: Queens' (2014) Oliver Burton: Fitzwilliam (2015) Peter Christopher: Peterhouse (2016) Hao Zheng: King's College (2016) Yigit Akar: Hughes Hall (2018)
Images Banner: Getty Images.
Credit: dlewis33 Cambridge Vision Technology: Getty Images.
Credit: Andriy Onufriyenko Carbon Re: Getty Images.
Credit: Wirestock CardiaTec Biosciences: Getty Images.
Credit: ArtemisDiana Concr: credit: Concr Intellegens: Getty Images.
Credit: your_photo Matnex: Credit: Matnex PharmEnable: Credit: PharmEnable Prospectral: Credit: Ryo Mizuta Graphics RoboK: Getty images.
Credit: Nitat Termmee xWatts: Getty Images.
Credit: Mint Images

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research/news/university-spin-out-secures-funding-to-improve-ai-energy-efficiency-and-bandwidth:
CamGraPhIC - co-founded Professor Andrea Ferrari, Director of the Cambridge Graphene Centre , and Dr Marco Romagnoli of CNIT in Italy - is developing new types of photonic circuits for energy-efficient, high-bandwidth, optical interconnect technology.
The investment will support continued innovation in graphene photonics transceivers, a technology that could improve energy efficiency, reduce latency, and increase bandwidth for artificial intelligence (AI) and cellular data transmission.
With the investment, CamGraPhIC will enhance its research and development capabilities and establish a pilot manufacturing line.
The facility will demonstrate a scalable mass production process compatible with commercial semiconductor and photonics foundries.
The funding round was co-led by CDP Venture Capital, NATO Innovation Fund, Sony Innovation Fund, and Join Capital, with participation from Bosch Ventures, Frontier IP Group plc, and Indaco Ventures.
CamGraPhIC’s graphene-based transceivers provide a viable, stable, and scalable alternative to current silicon-based photonics.
These transceivers deliver higher bandwidth density, and exceptional latency performance, while consuming 80% less energy than traditional pluggable data centre optical transceivers.
The company say their innovation is particularly effective for transferring large volumes of data between graphic processing units (GPUs) and high bandwidth memory (HBM), which are fundamental to generative AI and high-performance computing.
The transceivers operate efficiently across a broad temperature range, eliminating the need for complex and costly cooling systems.
Thanks to a simplified device architecture enabled by the integration of graphene into the photonic structure, these transceivers are also more cost-effective to manufacture.
Thanks to this funding, CamGraPhIC will expand to applications in avionics, automotive advanced driver-assistance systems (ADAS), and space, where rugged, high-performance transceivers offer significant technical and commercial advantages over existing technologies.
“We are thrilled for this new phase in the journey towards commercialisation of CamGraPhIC groundbreaking and energy efficient devices, to speed up development of AI hardware, without impacting global emissions,” said Ferrari.
“Having Sony, Bosch and NATO as shareholders and board members will help focus the work towards the most relevant applications, including defence and security.”
“With the backing of renowned investors, we are excited to propel towards commercialisation the Graphene Photonics technology to overcome the interconnection bottleneck of regenerative AI processing systems and driving the next leap in scaling bandwidth and reducing energy consumption for the future of optical data communications, ” said Romagnoli, former Head of Research Sector - Advanced Technologies for Photonic Integration of the Pisa National Inter-University Consortium for Telecommunications (CNIT), and now Chief Scientific Officer of CamGraPhIC.
Marco Romagnoli (L) and Andrea Ferrari (R)
Credit: CamGraPhIC

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research/news/nhs-active-10-walking-tracker-users-are-more-active-after-using-the-app:
Even though activity levels fell over time, people still using the app after more than two years were doing more physical activity than before they started using it
In a study published in npj Digital Medicine , the researchers found that while activity levels then slowly declined over time, even after 30 months those users who were still using the app were more active than they had been beforehand.
Lack of physical activity is linked to poor health, including higher rates of heart disease and stroke, type 2 diabetes, cancers, dementia, depression and early death.
Almost 4 million premature deaths per year – and healthcare costs of US$27 billion (more than £20 billion) – are attributable to physical inactivity.
In England, more than one in three (37%) adults do not reach the recommended 150 minutes per week of moderate-intensity activity – which can include brisk walking – and around one in four (26%) adults does less than 30 minutes per week.
Recently, mobile health apps have grown in popularity, allowing users to track their physical activity, offering tailored feedback, goal setting opportunities and activity reminders throughout the day.
One such app is NHS Active 10, launched in 2017 to increase brisk walking levels, as walking is the most common form of activity reported by English adults.
The app has been downloaded over 1.5 million times since its introduction.
In the first formal evaluation of its effectiveness, researchers from the University of Cambridge examined anonymised data from more than 200,000 users of the app – those who used the app for at least a month – collected between July 2021 and January 2024.
These users had agreed for their anonymised data to be collected and shared for research purposes.
Three quarters of those users who provided demographic information were women, and the average age of users was 51 years.
One in three users (32%) was aged 60 years or over.
Following download, the app requested permission from users to access their historical walking data.
This revealed that prior to using the app, individuals spent on average 12.3 minutes per day in brisk walking and 30.4 minutes per day in non-brisk walking.
On the first day the app was downloaded, users walked on average an additional 9.0 minutes per day briskly.
Their non-brisk walking increased by 2.6 minutes per day.
Over time, the amount of brisk walking done by users declined, falling on average 0.15 minutes per day for each month that passed.
The amount of non-brisk walking also fell, by 0.06 minutes per day for each month that passed.
Over a third of users (35%) were still using the app after six months and a fifth (21%) after a year.
This is much higher than the average for health and fitness apps worldwide, where typically fewer than three in 100 users (2.8%) are still using the app after 30 days.
At the end of 30 months, users were still walking an average of 4.5 minutes more per day briskly and 0.8 minutes per day more non-briskly than before they began using the app.
First author Dr Dharani Yerrakalva, from the Department of Public Health and Primary Care at the University of Cambridge, said: “Even though activity levels fell over time, people still using the app after more than two years were doing more physical activity than before they started using it.
“At the population level, other research has suggested that we would see significant health benefits from even modest increases in activity such as this.
Previous work by colleagues at Cambridge suggests that just 11 minutes a day of brisk walking could prevent one in 10 premature deaths.”
Senior author Professor Simon Griffin, from the Department of Public Health and Primary Care and  the Medical Research Council Epidemiology Unit at the University of Cambridge, said: “Active 10 appears to have a been a success, in that it encouraged 200,000 people to increase their levels of moderate physical activity.
We should now consider whether apps such as this can be integrated into NHS practice, for example providing data to GPs so they can monitor their patients’ progress and provide tailored advice, to help us move towards a more personalised approach to medicine.”
Simon Willcock, aged 71, said: “I am a big fan of Active 10.
Following a successful cardiac ablation in January 2023, I set out to get fit and start looking after my heart.
Active 10 has enabled me to change my behaviour especially when walking my two dogs twice a day.
I now consciously walk faster and rarely amble.
“I set myself a minimum of three Active 10s a day and usually manage four or five.
My measured ‘brisk minutes’ recorded usually average 40 to 55% of my total walking.
I have lost over a stone [6kg], feel fitter and are rarely out of breath when walking the Surrey Hills near where I live.
Much cheaper than going to the gym!”
The research was funded by the National Institute for Health and Care Research (NIHR) and Medical Research Council, with support from the NIHR Cambridge Biomedical Research Centre.
Yerrakalva, D et al.
Evaluation of the NHS Active 10 Walking App Intervention through time-series analysis in 201,688 individuals.
npj Digital Medicine; 6 Aug 2025; DOI: 10.1038/s41746-025-01785-x
Sonali Shukla is a careers consultant at the University of Cambridge.
Living in Cambridge, she was used to cycling to work, but when her daughter was born, she found that a combination of looking after her and the recent Covid lockdowns meant she had become less active.
“I started using the NHS Active 10 app around six months after my daughter was born,” she says.
“I was looking for ways to get a bit more active.
I was intrigued because I've used the step counter on my phone, but what was interesting about this one is that it tracks your brisk walking.”
Sonali initially downloaded the app out of curiosity so see whether or not she walked briskly, but then found herself hooked, motivated by the trophies and celebrations it gave when she completed 10 minutes of brisk walking.
She found the results illuminating as it highlighted the impact her daughter had on her physical activity levels, even when she thought she was getting enough exercise.
“I might go for an hour long walk, but when I've got small children in tow, it's too leisurely to really count as proper exercise.”
Even now, three years later, she still uses the app.
“The version that I have on my phone has a little tracker that you don't have to log into the app to see.
It tracks your brisk walking on the face of your phone.
So it's right there in my face if I've been lazy!”
Sonali has managed to keep active, and although the app isn’t the only reason why, she says it certainly helps.
“When the weather's bad and it's not as easy to just go for a walk, I might notice that it's been a couple of days before I've really moved.
It encourages me to go outside and get moving.”
People walking beside a graffitied wall
Credit: NHS Better Health

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research/news/new-treatment-could-reduce-brain-damage-from-stroke-study-in-mice-shows:
Stroke is a devastating disease.
Even for those who survive, there is a significant risk of damage to the brain that can lead to disabilities and a huge impact on an individual’s life
As many as one in four people will have a stroke during their lifetime.
This is when a blood clot prevents oxygen from reaching a part of the brain.
The first few hours following a stroke are crucial – the blood clot needs to be removed quickly so that the oxygen supply to the brain can be restored; otherwise, the brain tissue begins to die.
Currently, the outcome for stroke patients receiving even the best available treatment, known as mechanical thrombectomy, is still poor, with fewer than one in 10 patients leaving hospital with no neurological impairment.
Professor Thomas Krieg from the Department of Medicine at the University of Cambridge said: “Stroke is a devastating disease.
Even for those who survive, there is a significant risk of damage to the brain that can lead to disabilities and a huge impact on an individual’s life.
But in terms of treatment, once the stroke is happening, we have only limited options.”
Mechanical thrombectomy is a minimally invasive medical procedure involving the insertion of a thin tube, known as a catheter, into a blood vessel, often through the groin or arm.
This is guided to the blood clot, where it is removed by a tiny device, restoring normal blood flow.
Restoring blood flow too suddenly can make things worse, however.
This is called ischaemia-reperfusion injury.
When blood rushes back into the oxygen-starved tissue (a process known as reperfusion), the damaged cells struggle to cope, leading to the production of harmful molecules called free radicals that can damage cells, proteins, and DNA.
This triggers further damage and can cause an inflammatory response.
The Cambridge team has previously shown that when the brain is starved of oxygen, a build-up occurs of a chemical called succinate.
When blood flow is restored, the succinate is rapidly oxidised to drive free radical production within mitochondria, the ‘batteries’ that power our cells, initiating the extra damage.
This occurs within the first few minutes of reperfusion, but the researchers showed that the oxidation of succinate can be blocked by the molecule malonate.
Professor Mike Murphy from the Medical Research Council Mitochondrial Biology Unit said: “All of this happens very rapidly, but if we can get malonate in quickly at the start of reperfusion, we can prevent this oxidation and burst of free radicals.
“We discovered in our labs that we can get malonate into cells very quickly by lowering the pH a little, making it a bit more acidic, so that it can cross the blood-brain barrier better.
If we inject it into the brain just as we’re ready to reperfuse, then we can potentially prevent further damage.”
In a study published in Cardiovascular Research, the team has shown that treating the brain with a form of the chemical known as acidified disodium malonate (aDSM) alongside mechanical thrombectomy greatly decreased the amount of brain damage that occurs from ischaemia-reperfusion injury by as much as 60%.
Dr Jordan Lee, a postdoctoral researcher in the group, developed a mouse model that mimics mechanical thrombectomy, allowing the team to test the effectiveness of aDSM against ischaemia-reperfusion injury.
Dr Lee said: “This approach reduces the amount of dead brain tissue resulting from a stroke.
This is incredibly important because the amount of dead brain tissue is directly correlated to the patient’s recovery – to their disability, whether they can still use all their limbs, speak and understand language, for example.”
Mechanical thrombectomy is increasingly used in the NHS, and the researchers hope that with the addition of aDSM as a treatment alongside this intervention, they will be able to improve outcomes significantly when the procedure is more widely adopted.
The team has launched Camoxis Therapeutics, a spin-out company, with support from Cambridge Enterprise, the innovation arm of the University of Cambridge.
It is now seeking seed funding to develop the drug further and take it to early-stage clinical trials.
Professor Murphy added: “If it’s successful, this same drug could have much wider applications for other instances of ischemia-reperfusion injuries, such as heart attack, resuscitation, organ transplantation, and so on, which have similar underlying mechanisms.”
The research was supported by the British Heart Foundation, Medical Research Council, Wellcome Trust and the National Institute for Health and Care Research Cambridge Biomedical Research Centre.
Lee, JJ et al.
Local arterial administration of acidified malonate as an adjunct therapy to mechanical thrombectomy in ischemic stroke.
Cardiovascular Research; 27 Jun 2025; DOI: 10.1093/cvr/cvaf118
Woman visiting an elderly man in hospital
Credit: Sean Anthony Eddy (Getty Images)

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/mice-are-vital-in-dementia-research:
By Jacqueline Garget
According to Alzheimer’s Research UK, if nothing changes one in two of us will be affected by dementia in our lifetime, either by caring for someone with the condition, developing it ourselves, or worse, both.
David Harrison is no exception: his mother was diagnosed with Alzheimer’s disease several years ago – and he sees the effects of dementia on a regular basis.
“There are many devastating neurodegenerative conditions that we just haven’t got effective ways to treat,” he says, adding:
In the last few years, new drugs have come onto the market for Alzheimer’s disease that can slow the rate of cognitive decline - but they don’t work for everybody, can have serious side effects, and their insufficient cost effectiveness has prevented healthcare adoption in the NHS.
Harrison says many pharmaceutical companies have lost confidence in working in this area because the risk of failure is too great.
“In the past, drug companies put a lot of money and effort into finding treatments for dementia,” he says, “but we’re talking about a range of really complex diseases and there’s been a high, and costly, failure rate in clinical trials and drug development.
While there are new drugs coming out, which offer great hope for patients, they're not ideal and we need to find better ones.”
This is where ‘academic drug discovery’ steps in.
With professional and personal motivations driving him, Harrison - a senior researcher at Cambridge’s ALBORADA Drug Discovery Institute – is part of a team dedicated to finding new dementia medicines.
The Institute is part of the University of Cambridge, funded by Alzheimer’s Research UK , and based on the Cambridge Biomedical Campus.
David Harrison, senior researcher at Cambridge’s ALBORADA Drug Discovery Institute
An academic approach to drug discovery
Many research groups are working to identify potential new drug targets that could lead to better treatments for dementia.
The aim of the ALBORADA Drug Discovery Institute is to develop these ideas to the point where pharmaceutical partners can then more confidently take things forward.
That point is when a new drug molecule is proven to effectively treat the hallmarks of dementia in an animal model of the disease.
With expertise in drug discovery, the team is designing and making chemical molecules - the basis of future drugs - and testing whether they work on novel targets in the body.
Harrison says:
"The effectiveness of any drug depends on its ability to interact with the right target in the body.
We’re building on Cambridge’s world-leading research expertise into the biology behind dementia, and aiming to validate promising new drug targets."
“Alzheimer's disease, and other neurodegenerative diseases like Parkinson's and Huntington's, all involve the formation of aggregates of misfolded proteins that spread throughout the brain - causing brain cells to stop functioning properly and die, which results in the dementia symptoms we’re familiar with like memory loss and behaviour change,” says Harrison.
“The new drugs that have come out recently remove beta amyloid - one of these misfolded proteins - which is found in the brains of people affected by Alzheimer’s disease.
They don’t work for everybody, but their discovery has given us added confidence that other treatments can be found.
We’re looking for different ways of treating neurodegenerative disease."
Two principal approaches are being explored by the ALBORADA Drug Discovery Institute.
The first is to harness the cells’ own mechanisms to break down and remove misfolded proteins before they cause irreparable damage to nerve cells and their connections in the brain.
The second is to reduce the damaging inflammation these misfolded proteins cause in the brain.
Together, the interventions could halt neurodegenerative disease before the debilitating effects take hold.
David Harrison
Before any new drug can go into human clinical trials with the aim of being approved for human use, it must be tested for efficacy and safety as thoroughly as possible.
One approach being used by the team is to give mice a drug that causes inflammation in the brain, to model what happens in neurodegenerative disease.
The inflammation is too low-level to cause symptoms, but molecular changes in the brain can be detected - and these changes can then be reversed using molecules developed by the Institute’s chemists.
The mouse brains are then removed so the team can assess these inflammatory changes - either by measuring the expression of key inflammatory genes, or by slicing the brains and looking at the changes under a microscope.
This allows the team to select the molecules which show the best activity, for further development.
“We’re really excited to have developed a mouse model that represents a key feature of many neurodegenerative diseases,” says Harrison, adding: “the brain is such a complex organ that it’s very difficult to model outside a live animal.”
While the team uses test-tube and computer-based models routinely as part of its work, animal models are vital in understanding how the many different cell types in the brain interact together in disease.
They are also vital in understanding how potential drugs are metabolised and distributed throughout the body, and in looking for any adverse effects that may occur in other tissues.
“We need to test on whole brains because they’re complex.
We also need to understand how the whole body is affected by the drug, to work out the right dosage and look for side-effects,” says Harrison.
The University only allows research using animals when it is considered necessary and justified, and reviews work regularly to ensure that the researchers treat all animals humanely and use as few of them as possible.
Even when the researchers find that potential drugs have no effect, the mice have played an important role.
The team publishes negative results so others working in the field don’t try the same thing.
Successful results, on the other hand, are presented to pharmaceutical companies as partnership opportunities for further development.
Harrison says: “Almost one million people are estimated to be living with dementia in the UK.
We need to find better treatment options for them, and for future sufferers."
This cross section of a mouse brain shows where changes in gene expression occur (in yellow) following treatment with a therapeutic drug.
A highly magnified image of the mouse hippocampus - a brain region known to be affected in neurodegenerative diseases.
The brain has a defensive barrier that stops toxins entering, but this can stop drugs too.
The team uses a non-reproducing virus, injected into the veins and labelled with a green fluorescent protein, to carry drugs across the barrier.
"The animals we use are an essential part of the drug discovery process - they could help us change people’s lives.”
Published 30 July, 2025
Image of black mouse (top): anyaivanova/ Getty

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research/news/discovery-of-role-of-gut-hormone-in-chronic-diarrhoea-could-aid-development-of-new-tests-and:
I often get asked why we would have a hormone that gives you diarrhoea.
I think of it as a kind of poison sensor
The research, published in the journal Gut , could help in the development of a blood test and points towards a potential new treatment.
When we eat, the liver releases bile acid to break down fats so that they can be absorbed into the body.
Bile acid is released into the top end of the small intestine and then absorbed back into the body at the lower end.
However, around one person in every 100 is affected by a condition known as bile acid diarrhoea (also known as bile acid malabsorption), whereby the bile acid is not properly re-absorbed and makes its way into the large intestine (colon).
It can trigger urgent and watery diarrhoea, and patients can risk episodes of incontinence.
Bile acid diarrhoea can be difficult to diagnose as there are currently no routine clinical blood tests.
Many individuals are given a diagnosis of irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), an umbrella term for a range of conditions.
As many as one in 20 people is thought to have IBS, of which an estimated one in three patients with diarrhoea as their main symptom have undiagnosed bile acid diarrhoea.
Studies in mice have previously suggested that the gut hormone known as Insulin-Like Peptide 5 (INSL5) – present in cells at the far end of the colon and rectum – may play a role in chronic diarrhoea.
INSL5 is released by these cells when irritated by bile acid.
Researchers at the Institute of Metabolic Science, University of Cambridge, have been exploring whether this hormone might also underlie chronic diarrhoea in humans.
This has been possible thanks to a new antibody test developed by pharmaceutical company Eli Lilly, with whom the team is collaborating, which allows them to measure tiny amounts of INSL5.
A study at the University of Adelaide looking at ways to trigger release of the gut hormone GLP-1 – the hormone upon which weight-loss drugs are based – previously found that giving a bile acid enema to healthy volunteers triggered release of GLP-1, but had the unintended consequence of causing diarrhoea.
When the Cambridge team analysed samples from this study, they found that the bile acid enema caused levels of INSL5 to shoot up temporarily – and the higher the INSL5 levels, the faster the volunteers needed to use the toilet.
This confirmed that INSL5 is likely to play a role in chronic cases of diarrhoea.
When the team analysed samples obtained from Professor Julian Walters at Imperial College London, which include samples from patients with bile acid diarrhoea, they found that while levels of INSL5 were almost undetectable in healthy volunteers, they were much higher in patients with bile acid diarrhoea.
In addition, the higher the INSL5 level, the more watery their stool samples.
Dr Chris Bannon from the University of Cambridge, the study’s first author, said: “This was a very exciting finding because it showed us that this hormone could be playing a big part in symptoms of this misunderstood condition.
It also meant it might allow us to develop a blood test to help diagnose bile acid diarrhoea if INSL5 levels are only high in these individuals.
“When you go to the doctor with chronic diarrhoea, it’s likely they’ll test for food intolerances, rule out an infection or look for signs of inflammation.
There has been significant research interest in the microbiome, but gut hormones have been neglected.
But it’s becoming increasingly clear that gut hormones play an important role in things like gut health and weight management.”
INSL5 also provides a potential target for treatment.
Dr Bannon and colleagues obtained further samples from Professor Robin Spiller at the University of Nottingham, who had given the anti-sickness medication ondansetron – known to block the action of INSL5 in mice – to patients with IBS.
Analysis of these samples by the Cambridge team showed that around 40% of these patients had raised levels of INSL5, even though they had had bile acid malabsorption ruled out, and these patients responded best to ondansetron.
Exactly why ondansetron is effective is currently unclear, though a known side effect of the drug is constipation.
The team will now be investigating this further, hopeful that it will allow them either to repurpose the drug or to develop even better treatments.
Bile acid diarrhoea is usually treated with so-called bile acid sequestrants, but these are only effective in around two-thirds of patients.
Dr Bannon added: “I often get asked why we would have a hormone that gives you diarrhoea.
I think of it as a kind of poison sensor.
Bile acids aren't meant to be in the colon – they're an irritant to the colon and they're toxic to the microbiome.
It makes sense that you would have something that detects toxins and helps the body rid itself of them.
But a problem develops if it’s always being triggered by bile acid, causing very dramatic symptoms.”
Dr Bannon is a clinical fellow in the group led by Professors Fiona Gribble and Frank Reimann at the Institute of Metabolic Science, University of Cambridge.
The research was supported by the Medical Research Council and Wellcome, with additional support from the National Institute for Health and Care Research Cambridge Biomedical Research Centre.
Bannon, CA et al.
Insulin like peptide 5 is released in response to bile acid in the rectum and is associated with diarrhoea severity in patients with bile acid diarrhoea.
Gut; 23 July 2025; DOI: 10.1136/gutjnl-2025-335393
Stomach ache
Credit: Kinga Krzeminska (Getty Images)

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/news/cambridge-part-of-new-global-talent-fund-plan-to-attract-worlds-best-rd-to-uk:
This investment will be pivotal in securing and supporting international academic expertise and strengthening the strategic opportunities the University is seeking to catalyse.
Because of its track record in recruiting and supporting top international researchers, the University will get a share of the new £54 million Global Talent Fund , along with 12 of the UK’s leading universities and research institutions.
From AI to medicine, the Fund is designed to attract a total of 60-80 top researchers (both lead researchers and their teams) to the UK, working in the eight high priority sectors critical to the Government’s modern Industrial Strategy.
By bringing the very best minds in fields that will be critical to the future of life and work to the UK, the Government aims to pave the way for the products, jobs and even industries that define tomorrow’s economy, to be made and grow in Britain.
Professor Deborah Prentice, Vice-Chancellor of Cambridge University, said: "The University is grateful for this award of funding.
It will bolster emerging and accelerating research areas, in line with the goals of the Government's Industrial Strategy.
This investment will be pivotal in securing and supporting international academic expertise and strengthening the strategic opportunities the University is seeking to catalyse for both the University and the UK more widely.
We look forward to the opportunities this will unlock."
From Argentine – and former Cambridge scientist – César Milstein’s work on antibodies, to Hong Kong-born Sir Charles Kao who led the development of fibre optics, through to the efforts of German Ernst Chain – another former Cambridge scientist – to make penicillin usable in medicine, there is a long pedigree of overseas researchers making great breakthroughs whilst working in the UK.
The Government says that driving new tech innovations and scientific breakthroughs will fire up the UK economy and put rocket boosters on the Government’s Plan for Change.
The IMF estimates that breakthroughs in AI alone could boost productivity by as much as 1.5 percentage points a year, which could be worth up to an average £47 billion to the UK each year over a decade.
Other technologies could be gamechangers too: quantum computing could add over £11 billion to the UK’s GDP by 2045, while engineering biology could drive anywhere between £1.6-£3.1 trillion in global impact by 2040.
The Global Talent Fund, administered by UKRI, is just one part of over £115 million funding that is being dedicated to attracting the very best scientific and research talent to the UK.
Work to cultivate top AI research talent in the UK is further bolstered through the Spärck AI scholarships , founded in partnership with Cambridge, which will provide full funding for master’s degrees at nine leading UK universities specialising in artificial intelligence and STEM subjects.
Science Minister Lord Vallance said: "Genius is not bound by geography.
But the UK is one of the few places blessed with the infrastructure, skills base, world-class institutions and international ties needed to incubate brilliant ideas, and turn them into new medicines that save lives, new products that make our lives easier, and even entirely new jobs and industries.
Bringing these innovations to life, here in Britain, will be critical to delivering this Government’s Plan for Change.
"My message to the bold and the brave who are advancing new ideas, wherever they are, is: our doors are open to you.
We want to work with you, support you, and give you a home where you can make your ideas a reality we all benefit from."
Chancellor of the Exchequer Rachel Reeves said: "The UK is home to some of the world’s best universities which are vital for attracting international top talent.
Supported by our new Global Talent Taskforce, the Global Talent Fund will cement our position as a leading choice for the world’s top researchers to make their home here, supercharging growth and delivering on our Plan for Change."

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/algae-coolant:
The student with a cool idea for building design
By Paul Seagrove
Hauwa Busari with her certificate
As the world grapples with rising temperatures and the challenges a rapidly changing climate poses for human survival, a Mastercard Foundation Scholar at the University of Cambridge has devised a novel way to help keep buildings cool in the heat.
Hauwa Busari , from Nigeria, has been studying for an MPhil in Architecture and Urban Studies at Cambridge over the last year.
Her idea is to place panels in the walls to absorb the heat from the sun.
These panels contain a naturally occurring substance – algae!
“The algae panel acts as a thermal shade against the sun keeping the building cooler” says Hauwa.
“We spend 90% of our lives in buildings and if we don't find a solution to how climate change is impacting us, there’s going to be a big problem and the most vulnerable in society are going to be the most affected.
"I come from a low-income community in Nigeria which means I feel I have a duty to look for a solution to the challenges posed by climate change which can’t be too expensive and out of reach of communities like mine.”
The panels are fitted with transparent tubes filled with spirulina, a blue-green algae which is also now being used as a dietary supplement because of its beneficial nutrient content.
Through the natural process of photosynthesis, these panels could cool the interiors of buildings by around 8-10°C without having to resort to air conditioning systems.
The algae panels also have the potential to help decarbonise the environment by absorbing CO₂ and filtering the air.
A mock-up image of how the panels would look
“The great thing about this product,” Hauwa adds, “is that it can be fitted in new buildings as well as existing ones.
The panels are easy to retrofit.
They could also be used in shelters used by people who have been displaced.
The problem we have with air-conditioning systems is that they radiate heat so are a net contributor to climate change.”
Earlier in the summer, Hauwa entered her business idea into the Mastercard Foundation Scholars Entrepreneurship Fund Competition.
This is held each year to give students the chance to pitch for the top cash prize and further mentoring support.
Hauwa says the last year on the programme has changed her life entirely: “I grew up with nothing and here I am doing something big.
I'm really grateful to the prize organisers for believing in my idea.
"It’s all thanks to the Mastercard Foundation.
They believed in me, they believed in my idea and now I can dream big.
I’m very, very happy."
Hauwa with the three runners-up
The runners-up in this year’s competition were Allen Chafa , an engineer from Zimbabwe, and Sally Musonye and Laura Wathe , both from Kenya.
Sally and Laura, who are on the MPhil Engineering for Sustainable Development course, have a plan for placing solar panels in rural schools across Kenya to help them supply energy to the classrooms.
Currently around 65% of people living in rural communities do not have a regular, reliable electricity supply.
Allen, who's also an MPhil student on the same course, is developing smart-water technologies to improve access to safe drinking water in Harare where more than 60% of people lack access to safe piped water.
His system combines real-time water quality monitoring with cost-effective purification to address some of the challenges these underserved communities face.
Published 12th August 2025

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/icj-climate-opinion-cambridge-expert:
Published on 24 July 2025
A storm blowing in on the Pacific Island of Vanuatu.
The International Court of Justice (ICJ), the judicial arm of the United Nations – known as the ‘world court’ – has issued a historic Advisory Opinion on the legal obligations of States in respect of climate change.
The ICJ opinion came after a two-year proceeding unprecedented in scale, which followed a UN resolution on a 2023 motion from Vanuatu: a Pacific island nation facing existential threats from global warming.
Prof Jorge Viñuales , from Cambridge’s Department of Land Economy, was one of the top legal experts brought in by Vanuatu to help draft the original request to the Court, and has remained a key member of the counsel team.
Here, Viñuales shares his initial reflections on this landmark legal opinion:
Prof Jorge Viñuales
T he ICJ’s opinion is remarkable in its scope, with the potential to open a new front in climate litigation.
The opinion’s conclusions are deployable in the domestic courts of many nations as well as in international litigation to seek accountability for past climate harm.
No less importantly, the opinion was rendered unanimously by all members of the Court, despite differences of view aired in individual explanations of vote.
The Court largely sided with the Global South and small island developing States.
It concluded – based on responses to a question asked by a judge at the end of the hearing – that legal responsibility encompasses not just greenhouse gas emissions, but also conduct that leads to emissions, such as production of fossil fuels, as well as subsidies that lead to increased production and consumption.
A government might claim it is reducing emissions, but, in the view of the ICJ, if it’s supporting fossil fuel extraction or providing subsidies those actions are now expressly subject to climate obligations.
The Court stated that such obligations include the regulation of non-State actors such as corporations as part of conduct attributable to individual States in assessing their due diligence on climate change mitigation.
While the opinion itself does not carry legal force, the legal principles clarified by the Court are binding as part of international law, and the ICJ opinion points overall in the direction of climate justice.
These principles will likely be used in courts the world over.
Some of the major fossil fuel-producing and greenhouse gas-emitting States had strongly argued against any reference to obligations beyond the comfort zone of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Paris Agreement, noting that these instruments are a lex specialis : treaties that exclude the application of all the other obligations.
But the ICJ rejected this use of the lex specialis argument, opining that a wide range of obligations of treaty and customary law apply, from the UN charter to the law of the sea, human rights or customary international law, far beyond just the UNFCCC and Paris Agreement.
Recognising that the conduct of States which are large fossil fuel producers and GHG emitters is not shielded by the broad language of the UNFCCC and the Paris Agreement is fundamental for climate litigation, international and domestic.
The Court further confirmed that climate justice claims are governed by the general international law of State responsibility.
This may pave the way for a fundamental shift in the legal architecture of climate justice claims.
Under this law of responsibility, the Court pointed to legal solutions for the recurrent arguments used by nations with large emissions to escape liability for climate harm.
As a general matter, the ICJ has now accepted the principle of responsibility for climate harm, in a manner analogous to domestic climate litigation.
The application of the law of State responsibility means that where restitution is not possible States have an obligation to compensate and, remarkably, the Court recognised that this compensation may be due for “loss and damage”.
The ICJ has advised that each injured State can act against any State that has breached its obligations and caused injury through climate damage.
The ICJ also reasoned that, from a legal perspective, existing maritime spaces or Statehood would not necessarily be put at risk by sea level rise.
This is a fundamental point for Pacific nations that fought for the Advisory Opinion, several of which have maritime boundaries threatened by changing coastlines.
Location of the nation of Vanuatu.
Climate devastation is increasingly common for low-lying South Pacific island nations such as Vanuatu.
Warming temperatures create conditions for ferocious tropical cyclones, which – combined with coastal erosion – threatens lives right across the archipelago.
Housing for more than a quarter of the population are at risk of sinking into the ocean within decades.
The recognition by the ICJ of a right to a clean, healthy and sustainable environment is another very significant step.
Previous resolutions from the Human Rights Council and UN General Assembly were insufficient, and this had not been robustly recognised in international law until this important opinion from the ICJ.
The legal focus on holding warming to 1.5 degrees above pre-industrial levels is also of considerable importance.
While it is familiar to many, and has been a bedrock of the science for years, treaties such as the Paris Agreement were drafted to focus on a larger temperature increase.
The ICJ’s opinion moves the focus from 2 to 1.5 degrees as the core objective.
In addition, the ICJ opinion strengthens the obligations arising from the Paris Agreement, stressing their due diligence character and the obligation for each State to display its “highest possible ambition”.
This conclusion of the Court is a key one, as it signals that the Nationally Determined Contributions – each country's commitments to reduce emissions – are not simply at the discretion of individual States, but under a genuine obligation that may be breached if such contributions lack stringency or are not implemented in good faith.
During the 2015 negotiations in the lead up to the Paris Agreement there was immense push back against this view.
Now, we have it in an opinion from the top court in the world.
Given the global nature of the problem, this opinion should be welcomed really by everyone, particularly by the students and youth groups that came up with the idea in the first place and put so much heart and dedication into making this happen.
Read more about the background of Prof Jorge Viñuales's work with the Vanuatu student legal team here: www.cam.ac.uk/stories/climate-ICJ
Top image credit: Diane Keough/Getty images
Published 24 July 2025 The text in this work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research/news/researchers-use-ai-to-see-landslides-and-target-disaster-response:
On 3 April 2024, a magnitude 7.4 quake—Taiwan’s strongest in 25 years—shook the country's eastern coast.
Stringent building codes spared most structures, but mountainous and remote villages were devastated by landslides.
When disasters affect large and inaccessible areas, responders often turn to satellite images to pinpoint affected areas and prioritise relief efforts.
But mapping landslides from satellite imagery by eye can be time-intensive, said Lorenzo Nava, who is jointly based at Cambridge’s Departments of Earth Sciences and Geography.
“In the aftermath of a disaster, time really matters,” he said.
Using AI, he identified 7,000 landslides after the Taiwan earthquake, and within three hours of the satellite imagery being acquired.
Since the Taiwan earthquake, Nava has been developing his AI method alongside an international team.
By employing a suite of satellite technologies—including satellites that can see through clouds and at night—the researchers hope to enhance AI’s landslide detection capabilities.
Triggered by major earthquakes or intense rainfall, landslides are often worsened by human activities such as deforestation and construction on unstable slopes.
In certain environments, they can trigger additional hazards such as fast-moving debris flows or severe flooding, compounding their destructive impact.
Nava’s work fits into a larger effort at Cambridge to understand how landslides and other hazards can set off cascading ‘multihazard’ chains.
The CoMHaz group, led by Maximillian Van Wyk de Vries, Professor of Natural Hazards in the Departments of Geography and Earth Sciences, draws on information from satellite imagery, computer modelling and fieldwork to locate landslides, understand why they happen and ultimately predict their occurrence.
They’re also working with communities to raise landslide awareness.
In Nepal, Nava and Van Wyk de Vries teamed up with local scientists and the Climate and Disaster Resilience in Nepal (CDRIN) consortium to pilot an early warning system for Butwal, which sits beneath a massive unstable slope.
Nava is training AI to identify landslides in two types of satellite images—optical images of the ground surface and radar data, the latter of which can penetrate cloud cover and even acquire images at night.
Radar images can, however, be difficult to interpret, as they use greyscale to depict contrasting surface properties and landscape features can also appear distorted.
These challenges make radar data well-suited for AI-assisted analysis, helping extract features that may otherwise go unnoticed.
By combining the cloud-penetrating capabilities of radar with the fidelity of optical images, Nava hopes to build an AI-powered model that can accurately spot landslides even in poor weather conditions.
His trial following the 2024 Taiwan earthquake showed promise, detecting thousands of landslides that would otherwise go unnoticed beneath cloud cover.
But Nava acknowledges that there is still more work needed, both to improve the model’s accuracy and its transparency.
He wants to build trust in the model and ensure its outputs are interpretable and actionable by decision-makers.
“Very often, the decision-makers are not the ones who developed the algorithm,” said Nava.
“AI can feel like a black box.
Its internal logic is not always transparent, and that can make people hesitant to act on its outputs.
“It’s important to make it easier for end users to evaluate the quality of AI-generated information before incorporating it into important decisions.”
This is something he is now addressing as part of a broader partnership with the European Space Agency (ESA), the World Meteorological Organization (WMO), the International Telecommunication Union’s AI for Good Foundation and Global Initiative on Resilience to Natural Hazards through AI Solutions.
At a recent working group meeting at the ESA Centre for Earth Observation in Italy, the researchers launched a data-science challenge to crowdsource efforts to improve the model.
“We’re opening this up and looking for help from the wider coding community,” said Nava.
Beyond improving the model’s functionality, Nava says the goal is to incorporate features that explain its reasoning—potentially using visualisations such as maps that show the likelihood of an image containing landslides to help end users understand the outputs.
“In high-stakes scenarios like disaster response, trust in AI-generated results is crucial.
Through this challenge, we aim to bring transparency to the model’s decision-making process, empowering decision-makers on the ground to act with confidence and speed.”
Reference: Lorenzo Nava, Alessandro Novellino et al.
' Brief Communication: AI-driven rapid landslides mapping following the 2024 Hualien City Earthquake in Taiwan .' Natural Hazards and Earth System Sciences (2025).
DOI: 10.5194/nhess-25-2371-2025
Rescue teams at one of the landslides following the Taiwan earthquake
Credit: Taitung County Government via Wikimedia Commons

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research/news/clearing-rainforest-for-cattle-farming-is-far-worse-for-nature-than-previously-thought-finds:
In the largest ever survey of rainforest birdlife, scientists have discovered that deforestation to create pastureland in Colombia is causing around 60% more damage to biodiversity than previously estimated.
The food we eat comes with a much great environmental cost than we thought.
We need policy makers to think much more about the larger scale biodiversity impact of deforestation.
Researchers have conducted the world’s biggest ever bird survey, recording 971 different species living in forests and cattle pastures across the South American country of Colombia.
This represents almost 10% of the world’s birds.
They combined the results, gathered over a decade, with information on each species’ sensitivity to habitat conversion to find that the biodiversity loss caused by clearing rainforest for cattle pasture is on average 60% worse than previously thought.
Until now, understanding the biodiversity impact of land-use change has generally involved small-scale, local surveys.
The researchers say that this approach does not represent the larger-scale damage caused to nature.
When forests are converted to pasture, some species win and others lose.
Measuring the biodiversity loss at local scale does not capture the larger-scale effect of forest conversion, which is occurring across the ranges of many different species.
While the same species usually survive on pastureland, a wide range of other species don’t, so overall biodiversity is more severely reduced at large scale.
The results are published today in the journal Nature Ecology and Evolution .
Professor David Edwards in the University of Cambridge’s Department of Plant Sciences and Conservation Research Institute, senior author of the report, said: “This is a really surprising result.
We found that the biodiversity loss caused by clearing rainforest for pastureland is being massively underestimated.”
He added: “When people want to understand the wider impact of deforestation on biodiversity, they tend to do a local survey and extrapolate the results.
But the problem is that tree clearance is occurring at massive spatial scales, across all sorts of different habitats and elevations.
“When we looked the biodiversity impact of deforestation across thirteen different eco-regions in Colombia, we found a 62% greater biodiversity loss than local survey results would indicate.”
The study also showed that at least six different eco-regions – that is, regions containing distinct types of plants and animals - must be considered for an accurate assessment of overall biodiversity impact.
This is because the species in different eco-regions have different sensitivities to habitat conversion.
Biodiversity offsetting schemes, which aim to compensate for species losses caused by developments in one place by boosting biodiversity in another, rely on accurate measures of biodiversity.
Trees are also being cleared at huge scales in Colombia and other tropical regions to create growing space for major agricultural crops including rubber, oil palm, sugar cane and coffee.
Edwards said: “The food we eat comes with a much great environmental cost than we thought.
We need policy makers to think much more about the larger scale biodiversity impact of deforestation.”
The team studied Columbia’s birdlife across its diverse landscapes for over seven years, recording the song of hundreds of bird species to help them identify the species present in landscapes across the country, from pasture to mountain forest.
In about 80% of cases the birds were heard but not seen, requiring the team to make identifications from the sounds alone.
With information about the birds, including their size and diet, the team could predict which other species were likely to be living in the same regions and how they too would respond to deforestation.
Colombia is home to some of the most beautiful and exotic animal and plant life in the world, with almost one third made up of rainforest.
Particularly biodiverse areas, including the Caqueta moist forests and the Napo moist forests, can have 500-600 different bird species within an area of ten square kilometres – but many of these species have very specific habitat requirements.
The study showed that if trees are cleared across their range these species are likely to die out.
Land-use change, particularly in the highly biodiverse tropics, is one of the main causes of the global biodiversity crisis.
This research was funded by the Research Council of Norway and the Natural Environment Research Council.
Socolar, J B et al: ‘ Tropical biodiversity loss from land-use change is severely underestimated by local-scale assessments .’ Nature Ecology and Evolution, July 2025.
DOI: 10.1038/s41559-025-02779-4
Savanna hawk is a widespread species that invades formerly forested areas after clearance
Credit: David Edwards

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/news/uk-government-appoints-3-cambridge-academics-to-new-net-zero-council:
Evidence-based decision-making is fundamental to the drive for clean power
Engineering Professor Julian Allwood (St Catharine's), Cambridge Zero Director Professor Emily Shuckburgh (Darwin) and Cambridge Energy Policy Research Group Director Emeritus Professor David Newbery (Churchill) join a panel of 17 expert advisors on STAC, which has been created to provide robust, scientific, evidence-based information to support key decisions as the UK overhauls its energy system to reach clean power by 2030.
The Council is expected to also offer independent viewpoints and cutting-edge research on topics from climate science, energy networks and engineering, to the latest technologies and artificial intelligence.
“Evidence-based decision-making is fundamental to the drive for clean power and tackling the climate crisis, with informed policymaking the key to securing a better, fairer world for current and future generations,” UK Energy Secretary Ed Miliband said in the Government’s announcement.
Professor Allwood is Professor of Engineering and the Environment at the University of Cambridge and directs the Use Less Group .
Uniquely, his research aims to articulate a pathway to zero emissions based on technologies that already exist at scale.
His projects include ground-breaking innovations such as electric cement .
Professor Shuckburgh is Director of Cambridge Zero , the University’s major climate change initiative.
A mathematician and data scientist, Emily Shuckburgh is also Professor of Environmental Data Science at the Department of Computer Science and Technology , Academic Director of the Institute of Computing for Climate Science, and co-Director of the Centre for Landscape Regeneration and the UKRI Centre for Doctoral Training on the Application of AI to the study of Environmental Risks ( AI4ER ).
As a climate scientist, Professor Shuckburgh worked for more than a decade at the British Antarctic Survey where her work included leading a UK national research programme on the Southern Ocean and its role in climate.
Professor Newbery is the Director of the Cambridge Energy Policy Research Group , an Emeritus Professor of Economics at the Faculty of Economics and a Professorial Research Associate in the UCL Bartlett School of Environment, Energy and Resources at University College London.
STAC’s expert advice is expected to allow ministers to access the most up-to-date and well-informed scientific evidence, improving decision-making and effectiveness of policy implementation.
STAC is led by Professor Paul Monks, STAC Co-Chair and Chief Scientific Adviser and Director General, Department for Energy Security and Net Zero (DESNZ); and Professor David Greenwood FREng, STAC Co-Chair and CEO of Warwick Manufacturing Group (WMG) High Value Manufacturing Catapult Centre.
Read the UK Government announcement
UK Energy Secretary Ed Miliband at London Climate Action Week
Credit: Cambridge Institute for Sustainability Leadership (CISL)

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research/news/banking-on-ai-risks-derailing-net-zero-goals-report-on-energy-costs-of-big-tech:
With countries such as the UK declaring ambitious goals for both AI leadership and decarbonisation, a new report suggests that AI could drive a 25-fold increase in the global tech sector’s energy use.
By 2040, the energy demands of the tech industry could be up to 25 times higher than today, with unchecked growth of data centres driven by AI expected to create surges in electricity consumption that will strain power grids and accelerate carbon emissions.
This is according to a new report from the University of Cambridge’s Minderoo Centre for Technology and Democracy, which suggests that even the most conservative estimate for big tech’s energy needs will see a five-fold increase over the next 15 years.
The idea that governments such as the UK can become leaders in AI while simultaneously meeting their net zero targets amounts to “magical thinking at the highest levels,” according to the report’s authors.
The UK is committed to net zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050.
Researchers call for global standards in reporting AI’s environmental cost through forums such as COP, the UN climate summit, and argue that the UK should advocate for this on the international stage while ensuring democratic oversight at home.
The report, published today, synthesises projections from leading consultancies to forecast the energy demands of the global tech industry.
The researchers note that these projections are based on claims by tech firms themselves.
At the moment, data centres – the facilities that house servers for processing and storing data, along with cooling systems preventing this hardware from overheating – account for nearly 1.5% of global emissions.
This figure is expected to grow by 15-30% each year to reach 8% of total global greenhouse gas emissions by 2040, write the report’s authors.
They point out that this would far exceed current emissions from air travel.
The report highlights that in the US, China, and Europe, data centres already consume around 2-4% of national electricity, with regional concentrations becoming extreme.
For example, up to 20% of all power in Ireland now goes to data centres in Dublin’s cluster.
“We know the environmental impact of AI will be formidable, but tech giants are deliberately vague about the energy requirements implicit in their aims,” said Bhargav Srinivasa Desikan, the report’s lead author from Cambridge’s Minderoo Centre.
“The lack of hard data on electricity and water consumption as well as associated carbon emissions of digital technology leaves policymakers and researchers in the dark about the climate harms AI might cause.”
“We need to see urgent action from governments to prevent AI from derailing climate goals, not just deferring to tech companies on the promise of economic growth,” said Desikan.
The researchers also use data from corporate press releases and ESG reports of some of the world’s tech giants to show the alarming trajectory of energy use before the AI race had fully kicked into gear.
Google’s reported greenhouse gas emissions rose by 48% between 2019 and 2023, while Microsoft’s reported emissions increased by nearly 30% from 2020 to 2023.
Amazon’s carbon footprint grew around 40% between 2019 and 2021, and – while it has begun to fall – remains well above 2019 levels.
This self-reported data is contested, note the researchers, and some independent reporting suggests that actual emissions from tech companies are much higher.
Several tech giants are looking to nuclear power to defuse the energy timebomb at the heart of their ambitions.
Sam Altman, CEO of OpenAI, has argued that fusion is needed to meet AI’s potential, while Meta have said that nuclear energy can ‘provide firm, baseload power’ to supply their data centres.
Microsoft have even signed a 20-year agreement to reactivate the Three Mile Island plant – site of the worst nuclear accident in US history.
Some tech leaders, such as former Google CEO Eric Schmidt, argue that environmental costs of AI will be offset by its benefits for the climate crisis – from contributing to scientific breakthroughs in green energy to enhanced climate change modelling.
“Despite the rapacious energy demands of AI, tech companies encourage governments to see these technologies as accelerators for the green transition,” said Professor Gina Neff, Executive Director of the Minderoo Centre for Technology and Democracy.
“These claims appeal to governments banking on AI to grow the economy, but they may compromise society's climate commitments.”
“Big Tech is blowing past their own climate goals, while they rely heavily on renewable energy certificates and carbon offsets rather than reducing their emissions,” said Prof Neff.
“Generative AI may be helpful for designing climate solutions, but there is a real risk that emissions from the AI build-out will outstrip any climate gains as tech companies abandon net zero goals and pursue huge AI-driven profits.”
The report calls for the UK’s environmental policies to be updated for the ‘AI era’.
Recommendations include adding AI’s energy footprint into national decarbonisation plans, with specific carbon reduction targets for data centres and AI services, and requirements for detailed reporting of energy and water consumption.
Ofgem should set strict energy efficiency targets for data centres, write the report’s authors, while the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero and the Department for Science, Innovation and Technology should tie AI research funding and data centre operations to clean power adoption.
The report’s authors note that that UK’s new AI Energy Council currently consists entirely of energy bodies and tech companies – with no representation for communities, climate groups or civil society.
“Energy grids are already stretched,” said Professor John Naughton, Chair of the Advisory Board at the Minderoo Centre for Technology and Democracy.
“Every megawatt allocated to AI data centres will be a megawatt unavailable for housing or manufacturing.
Governments need to be straight with the public about the inevitable energy trade-offs that will come with doubling down on AI as an engine of economic growth.”
Technicians walking through a vast data centre for AI and cloud computing in the US
Credit: halbergman/Getty

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research/news/british-academy-elects-12-cambridge-researchers-to-fellowship-in-2025:
It couldn't be a more important time to mobilise the social sciences and humanities to address some of the most critical issues of our era.
They are among 92 distinguished scholars to be elected to the fellowship in recognition of their work in fields ranging from medieval history to international relations.
The Cambridge academics made Fellows of the Academy this year are:
Professor Jeremy Adelman (Faculty of History; Global History Lab; Darwin College)
Professor Anthony Bale (Faculty of English; Girton College)
Professor Annabel Brett (Faculty of History; Gonville and Caius College)
Professor Hasok Chang (Dept.
of History and Philosophy of Science; Clare Hall)
Professor Jennifer Howard-Grenville (Cambridge Judge Business School; Trinity Hall)
Professor Barak Kushner (Faculty of Asian and Middle Eastern Studies; Corpus Christi College)
Professor Marta Mirazón Lahr (Dept.
of Archaeology, Clare College)
Professor Yael Navaro (Dept.
of Social Anthropology; Newnham College)
Professor Joanna Page (Faculty of Modern and Medieval Languages and Linguistics; Centre of Latin American Studies; Robinson College)
Professor Clare Pettitt (Faculty of English; Emmanuel College)
Professor Diane Reay (Faculty of Education)
Professor John Robb (Dept.
of Archaeology; Peterhouse)
Founded in 1902, the British Academy is the UK’s national academy for the humanities and social sciences.
It is a Fellowship consisting of over 1700 of the leading minds in these subjects from the UK and overseas.
Current Fellows include the classicist Professor Dame Mary Beard, the historian Professor Sir Simon Schama and philosopher Professor Baroness Onora O’Neill, while previous Fellows include Dame Frances Yates, Sir Winston Churchill, Seamus Heaney and Beatrice Webb.
The Academy is also a funder of both national and international research, as well as a forum for debate and public engagement.
In 2025, a total of 58 UK Fellows, 30 International Fellows and four Honorary Fellows have been elected to the British Academy Fellowship.
Professor Marta Mirazón Lahr said: “I am honoured and delighted to be elected a Fellow of the British Academy.
As a native of South America who has been welcomed and encouraged throughout my career in the UK, I feel particularly privileged to join the academy.
My work spans anthropology and archaeology and it is pleasing to see inter-disciplinarity recognised.
Research in human origins is very dependent upon official and community support across many countries, and I am deeply grateful to the people of Brazil, India, Libya, Melanesia and specially Kenya who have made my work possible (and so enjoyable!), and I look forward to contributing to the Academy’s global mission.”
Professor Joanna Page said: “I am deeply honoured to be elected a Fellow of the British Academy, and I look forward to supporting its mission.
It is more important than ever to uphold the value of the humanities and interdisciplinary approaches in forging more just and sustainable futures.
Learning from the perspectives and experiences of other regions, including Latin America, is essential to that work.
I would particularly like to thank the vibrant community of Latin Americanists at Cambridge – staff and students, past and present – who have made this such a stimulating place to do research.”
Professor Barak Kushner said: “It is an honour to be recognised by the British Academy, though also a bit daunting to be put on par with scholars I have looked up to for years.
Recognition of this kind brings more attention to the importance of transnational history when researching East Asia and the need to look beyond national borders.”
Professor Yael Navaro said: “I feel truly honoured to be elected a Fellow of the British Academy.
It couldn't be a more important time to mobilise the social sciences and humanities to address some of the most critical issues of our era."
Welcoming the Fellows, Professor Susan J.
Smith PBA, new President of the British Academy, said: “One of my first acts as the incoming President of the British Academy is to welcome this year’s newly elected Fellows.
What a line-up!
With specialisms ranging from the neuroscience of memory to the power of music and the structural causes of poverty, they represent the very best of the humanities and social sciences.
They bring years of experience, evidence-based arguments and innovative thinking to the profound challenges of our age: managing the economy, enabling democracy, and securing the quality of human life.
“This year, we have increased the number of new Fellows by nearly ten per cent to cover some spaces between disciplines.
Champions of research excellence, every new Fellow enlarges our capacity to interpret the past, understand the present, and shape resilient, sustainable futures.
It is a privilege to extend my warmest congratulations to them all.”
The exterior of the British Academy in London
Credit: The British Academy

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research/news/ai-can-accelerate-search-for-more-effective-alzheimers-medicines-by-streamlining-clinical-trials:
Scientists have used AI to re-analyse a clinical trial for an Alzheimer’s medicine, and identified a group of patients who responded to treatment.
The work demonstrates that AI can inform the design of future clinical trials to make them more effective and efficient, accelerating the search for new medicines.
With our AI model we can finally identify patients precisely, and match the right patients to the right drugs
Scientists have used an AI model to reassess the results of a completed clinical trial for an Alzheimer’s disease drug.
They found the drug slowed cognitive decline by 46% in a group of patients with early stage, slow-progressing mild cognitive impairment – a condition that can progress to Alzheimer’s.
Using AI allowed the team to split trial participants into two groups: either slowly or rapidly progressing towards Alzheimer’s disease.
They could then look at the effects of the drug on each group.
More precise selection of trial participants in this way could help select patients most likely to benefit from treatment, with the potential to reduce the cost of developing new medicines by streamlining clinical trials.
The AI model developed by researchers at the University of Cambridge predicts whether, and how quickly, people at early stages of cognitive decline will progress to full-blown Alzheimer’s.
It gives predictions for patients that are three times more accurate than standard clinical assessments based on memory tests, MRI scans and blood tests.
Using this patient stratification model, data from a completed clinical trial - which did not demonstrate efficacy in the total population studied - was re-analysed.
The researchers found that the drug cleared a protein called beta amyloid in both patient groups as intended - but only the early stage, slow-progressing patients showed changes in symptoms.
Beta amyloid is one of the first disease markers to appear in the brain in Alzheimer’s disease.
The new findings have significant implications: using AI to separate patients into different groups, such as slow versus rapidly progressing towards Alzheimer’s disease, allows scientists to better identify those who could benefit from a treatment approach - potentially accelerating the discovery of much-needed new Alzheimer’s drugs.
The results are published today in the journal Nature Communications .
Professor Zoe Kourtzi in the University of Cambridge’s Department of Psychology, senior author of the report, said: “Promising new drugs fail when given to people too late, when they have no chance of benefiting from them.
With our AI model we can finally identify patients precisely, and match the right patients to the right drugs.
This makes trials more precise, so they can progress faster and cost less, turbocharging the search for a desperately-need precision medicine approach for dementia treatment.”
She added: “Our AI model gives us a score to show how quickly each patient will progress towards Alzheimer’s disease.
This allowed us to precisely split the patients on the clinical trial into two groups – slow, and fast progressing, so we could look at the effects of the drug on each group.”
Health Innovation East England, the innovation arm of the NHS in the East of England, is now supporting Kourtzi to translate this AI-enabled approach into clinical care for the benefit of future patients.
Joanna Dempsey, Principal Advisor at Health Innovation East England, said: “This AI-enabled approach could have a significant impact on easing NHS pressure and costs in dementia care by enabling more personalised drug development - identifying which patients are most likely to benefit from treatment, resulting in faster access to effective medicines and targeted support for people living with dementia.”
Drugs like this are not intended as cures for Alzheimer’s disease.
The aim is to reduce cognitive decline so that patients don’t get worse.
Dementia is the UK’s leading cause of death, and a major cause of mortality globally.
It costs $1.3 tr per year, and the number of cases are expected to treble by 2050.
There is no cure, and patients and families face high uncertainty.
Despite decades of research and development, clinical trials of treatments for dementia have been largely unsuccessful.
The failure rate for new treatments is unreasonably high at over 95%, despite $43 bn having been spent on research and development.
Progress has been hampered by the wide variation in symptoms, disease progression and responses to treatment among patients.
Although new dementia drugs have recently been approved for use in the US, their risk of side effects and insufficient cost effectiveness have prevented healthcare adoption in the NHS.
Understanding and accounting for the natural differences among individuals with a disease is crucial, so that treatments can be tailored to be most effective for each patient.
Alzheimer’s disease is complex, and although some drugs are available to treat it they don’t work for everybody.
“AI can guide us to the patients who will benefit from dementia medicines, by treating them at the stage when the drugs will make a difference, so we can finally start fighting back against these cruel diseases.
Making clinical trials faster, cheaper and better, guided by AI has strong potential to accelerate discovery of new precise treatments for individual patients, reducing side effects and costs for healthcare services,” said Kourtzi.
She added: “Like many people, I have watched hopelessly as dementia stole a loved one from me.
We’ve got to accelerate the development of dementia medicines.
Over £40 billion has already been spent over thirty years of research and development - we can’t wait another thirty years.”
This research was funded by the Royal Society, Alan Turing Institute and Wellcome.
Vaghari, D.
V.
et al: ‘ AI-guided patient stratification improves outcomes and efficiency in the AMARANTH Alzheimer’s Disease clinical trial .’ Nature Communications, July 2025.
DOI: 10.1038/s41467-025-61355-3
Credit: Michael Hewes/ Getty

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/asteroid-named-after-first-woman-at-cambridge-paid-to-observe-the-heavens:
Annie Walker's true role in observing hundreds of stars has been uncovered more than a century later
An asteroid has been named in honour of a Victorian woman astronomer whose pioneering work at the University of Cambridge has been uncovered more than 100 years later.
Annie Walker spent 25 years employed as a ‘computer’ at Cambridge Observatory, where she assisted male colleagues – who at the time had the exclusive use of telescopes – with complex calculations based on their observations of the position of stars and planets.
But new research has discovered that Annie’s role at the Observatory was actually much more significant, with records showing that while continuing her work as a computer she rapidly progressed to observing stars herself, later observing all 1,585 stars in a major Appendix published in her name 16 years after she resigned.
The findings confirm her to be Cambridge’s first, and Britain’s second – after Caroline Herschel – female professional observing astronomer.
Her original colleagues and mentors Professor John Couch Adams and First Assistant Andrew Graham noted her regular observing in annual reports in the late 1800s, but their successor Professor Robert Ball chose not to.
But now, researchers Mark Hurn, Information Manager of the Library at Cambridge’s Institute of Astronomy, and Roger Hutchins of Magdalen College, Oxford, have pieced together Annie’s previously unknown career using historical records, including Cambridge’s astronomical reports and publications, to clarify her career in astronomy and ensure her true historical status is established.
Mark, whose research with co-author Roger has been published in The Antiquarian Astronomer , said: “There’s something of a tragedy to this, really – in that she almost certainly never saw her work formally recognised.
And that’s really been part of our motivation, to redress things and see her given the sort of recognition she deserves.
We felt that we wanted to really do her justice and try and find out everything we could about her story.”
Annie, the daughter of a Suffolk corn miller, had a Biblical religious upbringing which imbued her with “a strong Protestant independence and work ethic”, according to the new research.
She had an aptitude for mathematics and attended Cavendish House boarding school in Cambridge from the age of 10.
In 1879, aged 15, and while waiting to sit the Local Senior mathematics exam, she gained part-time employment as a computer at Cambridge Observatory.
Aware of her father’s increasing financial difficulties, the position allowed her to be partially self-sufficient.
South Front of Cambridge Observatory, late 1890s.
Credit: Institute of Astronomy, Cambridge
An active supporter of girls’ education, Adams had been convinced of the “useful and affordable potential of mathematically educated women” by Annie’s predecessor Harriet Hardy, Cambridge Observatory’s first woman computer.
And after spotting Annie’s promise – and after she had passed the Local Seniors examinations with distinction in mathematics – promoted her to a full-time position and began training her as an observer when she turned 18, in 1882.
She was paid £10 per quarter plus a room and coal worth close to £30 per year – just enough to enable her to be independent.
As Mark and Roger’s research notes, Annie “was clearly attracted to astronomy, saw possibilities as Graham aged, and promptly sought and maximised the opportunity to observe.
By doing so she transcended the norm for women calculators, transforming her own potential and career.”
Within the Cambridge Observatory Annual Reports from 1879 to 1904, Adams records in 1881-82 that: “The only change in the Observatory Staff since the last Report is that Miss Hardy left at her own desire at the end of August, and that her place has been taken by Miss Walker, who had distinguished herself in the Junior and Senior Local Examinations, and who already bids fair to become a good observer and efficient calculator.”
Annie was again recorded in the Annual Reports when her work was interrupted by an earth tremor on 22 April, 1884, when she had to stop while the wires in the eyepiece vibrated.
Although, as the new research paper notes, it was Annie’s “unusual good fortune to gain the mentoring and encouragement of both Graham and Adams”, it is also clear that she “was recruited and then retained by them on merit as a calculator.
She swiftly worked her way up from routine calculations to observing, and later compiling her own catalogue, all by her own dedicated talents, and was retrospectively published and credited.”
Records show that in 1895, Annie’s salary was £90 a year with free board, and although she was officially still a computer, it made her the highest paid woman in British astronomy at that time – recognition of the vital work she was doing for Adams and Graham as an observer.
Cambridge Observatory Transit Circle, taken in April 1896.
The astronomer is almost certainly Andrew Graham.
Credit: Institute of Astronomy, Cambridge.
But with a change in the leadership of the Observatory came a change in Annie’s fortunes.
Adams died in 1892 and was succeeded by Robert Ball as Director.
Ball’s vision was of a new era in astronomy – he sought modern instrumentation and a new generation of graduate mathematician assistants with new skills.
The records indicate that Annie was effectively frozen out at the Observatory as part of this shift, with no hope of promotion beyond her official computer status.
In 1902, Ball appointed two women graduates as computers on lower salaries, and in 1903, at the age of 40, Annie resigned.
A few months later she emigrated to Australia, where she was reunited with her family who had relocated there almost 10 year earlier.
The Electoral Roll for 1905 for the District of Flinders, south-east of Melbourne, recorded Annie as ‘astronomer’, her chosen identity, but computers there were deliberately segregated and denied access to telescopes, and there is no recorded evidence that she continued her career in astronomy in Australia.
After 1910 her situation on the Roll was recorded as ‘home duties’.
She died in Glen Huntly, a suburb of Melbourne, on March 2, 1940, aged 76.
The research paper pays tribute to her:  “Annie Walker’s career was defined by her mathematical ability, her independence and adaptability, enthusiasm for and aspirations in astronomy, and her loyalty and self-sacrifice to the interests of two elder mentors.
In the 1880-90s she could only ever have been appointed as a computer in a British observatory but in practice she transcended that role.”
Among her most notable observational achievements at Cambridge was her Appendix of the Enlarged Edition of the Cambridge Zone Catalogue , part of the first great international effort in mapping the heavens, and entitled Revision Observations Made by Miss Walker in the Years 1896 to 1899 .
It was Ball’s successor Arthur Eddington who scrupulously credited her in 1919, 16 years after she left the Observatory.
The Appendix alone amounts to around 10% of the whole Catalogue, it was the closest she came to a publication in her own name.
The discovery of Annie’s work on the Cambridge Zone Catalogue – for which she made about 4,800 observations in total, with each star normally being observed three times – along with her separate subsequent observations for the Ecliptic Catalogue, has, according to the researchers: “at last clarified Annie’s career in astronomy and the extent of her observing between 1882 and 1903.”
But Mark and Roger also wanted to find out as much as they could about Annie as a person – and are asking anyone who has more information about Annie, in particular photographs of her, to get in touch with the Institute of Astronomy .
“The really sad thing is that we haven’t been able to find a photograph of her,” said Mark.
“But we have looked as closely as possible at all of the records we have, even down to the little remarks she made as part of her observations, about the weather conditions, such as ‘night unsatisfactory’, ‘sky thick’, and ‘bad night’.
And, in particular, Roger and I were incredibly struck that she described herself as an astronomer when she arrived in Australia.
She must have felt very proud of what she had done at Cambridge.”
And now, as part of the efforts to assert Annie’s place in history, Cambridge’s Institute of Astronomy has secured International Astronomical Union naming for her of an asteroid in the outer main belt Themis group, now called ‘(5400) Anniewalker = 1989 CM’ .
“It’s wonderful news,” said Mark.
“And it’s a really good asteroid as well!
One with a very low number, which means it was one of the first discovered.
It feels like a very fitting, real-world, tribute to Annie – a tangible way to celebrate her.
And, of course, we also hope her story will inspire the new generation of women astronomers.”
Cambridge PhD student Stephanie Buttigieg, co-chair of the Women's Network at the Institute of Astronomy, which works to celebrate women in astronomy and raise awareness about gender equality issues, said: “This is such an inspiring story.
Astronomy back then would have been a typically male career, so to step up in the way Annie did would have taken a lot of courage, and it’s great that she’s finally getting the credit she deserves.
As a society we have progressed in terms of gender equality, but there is still a challenge – not just in astronomy but in other scientific fields – in that girls often don’t have the confidence to go into science.
Representation is so important, for women to see other women who have succeeded, and that’s why stories like this are so important.”
Words: Stephen Bevan Main image: 'The Melbourne Observatory's Measuring Bureau', 1901.
Credit: The Australasian , 1901, courtesy of Dr Toner Stevenson.
The women computers, or measurers, were measuring stellar coordinates for the Carte du Ciel project.
There is no evidence that Annie Walker continued her career in astronomy in Australia.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/nostalgia-on-sea:
The seaside is more likely to make us nostalgic than green places.
A new  psychology study explores why.
People in the UK and US are more likely to feel nostalgic towards places by the sea, lakes or rivers than they are towards fields, forests and mountains, according to new research.
The study suggests that coastlines may have the optimal visual properties to make us feel positive emotions, and argues that ‘place nostalgia’ offers significant psychological benefits.
Seaside and oceanside spots account for over a quarter of nostalgic places identified by UK residents (26%) and one-fifth (20%) of US residents in the University of Cambridge-led study.
Rivers and lakes raise the figure to around a third (35% UK; 30% US).
Over one-fifth of nostalgic places are urban (UK 20%; US 22%), while agricultural areas only account for around 10% (UK and US).
Mountains and forests also only account for 10% each.
Today, the researchers behind the study published maps showing the most nostalgic regions of the UK and US, identified by participants from each country.
The maps, published below, supplement a study published in Current Research in Ecological and Social Psychology .
“We expected people to be more often nostalgic for green places since so many studies emphasise the psychological benefits of green, natural environments.
We were surprised to find that blue places are the hallmark feature of place nostalgia,” says Dr Elisabeta Militaru, who led the research during her PhD at Cambridge’s Psychology Department.
“ Our findings add to the growing evidence that blue places are associated with increased psychological well-being,” Militaru says.
The maps were created for illustration purposes, showing where around 100 UK and around 400 US participants’ nostalgic places are.
“Although this number is not representative of the UK’s and US’ population, the maps probably rhyme with our intuition” says Militaru.
Around 800 US residents and 200 UK residents took part in the study.
Participants – ranging in age from 18 to 94 years and evenly split between men and women – were asked to identify and describe the places they were nostalgic about.
The team of psychology researchers from the Universities of Cambridge, Essex, Southampton and Korea University isolated the defining characteristics of nostalgic places by contrasting them against ordinary places.
“The idea that places serve as an emotional anchor is not new.
Nearly 3,000 years ago, Homer wrote of Ulysses’ longing to return to his homeland, Ithaca.
We wanted to understand what makes certain places more likely to evoke nostalgia than others.
What are the physical and psychological features that give a place its nostalgic pull?” says Militaru.
“This is the first study to combine natural language analysis and geolocation data to identify what makes places more likely to resurface in our minds at a later date.”
Militaru suggests that places by the coast, river or lake make people feel nostalgic because they have particular visual properties.
Participants often described nostalgic places with words like ‘beautiful’, ‘aesthetic’, or ‘views’.
Previous studies involving the researchers have shown that brightness, colour saturation, and contrast all contribute to the feelings which places elicit.
Blue places are often bright, saturated and high in contrast which may contribute to their restorative effects.
Militaru also points to the potential power of a landscape’s ‘fractal property’, which refers to how often the elements of a scene are repeated.
“Past research suggests that landscapes with moderate fractal structure, like coastlines, tend to generate positive emotions,” continues Militaru.
“People don't like extremely chaotic outlines of the kind you might see in the middle of the forest, where you don’t get a sense of openness.
“People also don't like too little complexity.
With an urban skyline, for instance, there are very few breaks in the scene’s pattern .”
“Seaside, rivers and lakes may give us the optimal visual complexity, but more work is needed to fully understand this.”
Over one-fifth of nostalgic places identified by US and UK participants were in towns and cities.
The researchers believe this is partly because the majority of people in both countries live in urban locations, increasing the likelihood of them having personal memories in urban places.
“It’s important to note that urban places are more often classed as being ‘ordinary’ than nostalgia-inducing”, clarifies Militaru.
But the researchers also point to the emotional impact of visits to unfamiliar cities.
“We are particularly nostalgic about memorable one-time experiences and about unique places which we have visited,” Militaru says.
“Holidays, including trips to cities, can leave a deep emotional imprint.”
“Back in the 17 th century, nostalgia had a negative reputation, it was regarded as a disease of the mind,” says Militaru, now based at the University of Amsterdam’s Social Psychology Department.
“Scientific investigation changed that.
Now we know that nostalgia is a psychological resource; it emerges when we are faced with psychological discomfort, like feeling lonely or socially excluded.
Emerging research finds that nostalgia can also have a positive role in caring for people with dementia.”
The study finds that reminiscing about a nostalgic place bestows significant psychological benefits.
When people think about nostalgic places, they feel more connected to others, their lives seem more meaningful, their self-esteem increases, as does their sense of authenticity.
“Nostalgia brings places into focus, much like a magnifying glass.
Meaningful places tend to be physically far away from us, yet nostalgia brings them back into focus and, in so doing, connects our past self to our present and future self,” Militaru explains.
Militaru argues that nostalgia can be used as a guide for conservation efforts and urban design.
“Our research suggests that access to coasts, rivers, parks, and natural landscapes should be prioritised, especially in dense urban areas”.
Nostalgia can also be used to identify areas that are important for local communities since many nostalgic places are relatively small-scale.
“Communities need to be involved in urban planning decisions implemented in their neighbourhoods.
Only then can we identify the local landmarks that need to be preserved,” Militaru says.
Ioana E.
Militaru, Wijnand A.P.
van Tilburg, Constantine Sedikides, Tim Wildschut, Peter J.
Rentfrow, ‘ Searching for Ithaca: The geography and psychological benefits of nostalgic places ’, Current Research in Ecological and Social Psychology (2025).
DOI: 10.1016/j.cresp.2025.100223
Windermere in England's Lake District
Epping Forest in Essex, England
Published 10th July 2025
Deckchairs : Stephen & Claire Farnsworth via Flikr Seagulls at the beach : Frank Mckenna on Unsplash Maps : Dr Elisabeta Militaru Windermere : www.staceymacnaught.co.uk Epping Forest : G Travels via Flikr

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research/news/large-scale-dna-study-maps-37000-years-of-human-disease-history:
Researchers have mapped the spread of infectious diseases in humans across millennia, to reveal how human-animal interactions permanently transformed our health today.
We’ve long suspected that the transition to farming and animal husbandry opened the door to a new era of disease – now DNA shows us that it happened at least 6,500 years ago
A new study suggests that our ancestors’ close cohabitation with domesticated animals and large-scale migrations played a key role in the spread of infectious diseases.
The team, led by Professor Eske Willerslev at the Universities of Cambridge and Copenhagen, recovered ancient DNA from 214 known human pathogens in prehistoric humans from Eurasia.
They found that the earliest evidence of zoonotic diseases – illnesses transmitted from animals to humans, like COVID in recent times – dates back to around 6,500 years ago, with these diseases becoming more widespread approximately 5,000 years ago.
The study detected the world’s oldest genetic trace of the plague bacterium, Yersinia pestis , in a 5,500-year-old sample.
The plague is estimated to have killed between one-quarter and one-half of Europe’s population during the Middle Ages.
In addition, the researchers found traces of many other diseases including:
Malaria ( Plasmodium vivax ) – 4,200 years ago
Leprosy ( Mycobacterium leprae ) – 1,400 years ago
Hepatitis B virus – 9,800 years ago
Diphtheria ( Corynebacterium diphtheriae ) – 11,100 years ago
This is the largest study to date on the history of infectious diseases and is published today in the journal Nature .
The researchers analysed DNA from over 1,300 prehistoric humans, some up to 37,000 years old.
The ancient bones and teeth have provided a unique insight into the development of diseases caused by bacteria, viruses, and parasites.
“We’ve long suspected that the transition to farming and animal husbandry opened the door to a new era of disease – now DNA shows us that it happened at least 6,500 years ago,” said Willerslev.
He added: “These infections didn’t just cause illness – they may have contributed to population collapse, migration, and genetic adaptation.”
The significant increase in the incidence of zoonoses around 5,000 years ago coincides with a migration to north-western Europe from the Pontic Steppe – that is from parts of present-day Ukraine, south-western Russia and western Kazakhstan.
The people embarking on this migration – and who to a large extent passed on the genetic profile found among people in north-western Europe today – belonged to the Yamnaya herders.
The findings could be significant for the development of vaccines and for understanding how diseases arise and mutate over time.
“If we understand what happened in the past, it can help us prepare for the future.
Many of the newly emerging infectious diseases are predicted to originate from animals,” said Associate Professor Martin Sikora at the University of Copenhagen, and first author of the report.
Willerslev added: “Mutations that were successful in the past are likely to reappear.
This knowledge is important for future vaccines, as it allows us to test whether current vaccines provide sufficient coverage or whether new ones need to be developed due to mutations.”
The sample material was primarily provided by museums in Europe and Asia.
The samples were partly extracted from teeth, where the enamel acts as a lid that can protect the DNA against degradation as a result of the ravages of time.
The rest of the DNA was primarily extracted from petrosa bones - the hardest bone in humans - located on the inside of the skull.
The research was funded by the Lundbeck Foundation.
Sikora, M et al: ‘ The spatiotemporal distribution of human pathogens in ancient Eurasia .’ Nature, July 2025.
DOI: 10.1038/s41586-025-09192-8
Adapted from a press release by the University of Copenhagen.
Late Neolithic skull from Madesø.
Credit: Marie Louise Jørkov

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/putting-womens-health-in-the-spotlight:
Putting women’s health in the spotlight
How is it possible that a woman is fifty percent more likely to receive the wrong initial diagnosis for a heart attack than a man?
Or that men who report pain to a doctor tend to be prescribed pain medication, but women are more likely to be given sedatives or antidepressants?
The historically male-dominated medical profession has driven a male bias in health research and care.
For centuries, many aspects of female biology were not discussed – and in some cultures this is still the case today.
Women have been sidelined or excluded from research into health conditions and drug treatments, their fluctuating hormones thought to be too much of a complication to getting reliable results.
The result is an alarming lack of understanding of many women’s health conditions, the ways women experience illness and disease differently to men, and the differences in their response to treatments.
“Research that wasn’t designed with women in mind has contributed to a healthcare system that doesn’t meet women’s needs.”
Professor Amanda Sferruzzi-Perri, Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience and St.
John’s College
Professor Amanda Sferruzzi-Perri says the waves of hormonal changes that happen throughout a woman’s reproductive years, which don't occur in men, affect the body's immune system,  metabolic system, and cardiovascular and respiratory systems.
“Puberty, pregnancy, breastfeeding and menopause can all permanently alter the female body, and are associated with a range of female-specific health issues and benefits,” she says.
“This leads to different rates of certain conditions in men and women, as well as differences in how these conditions are experienced.
We can’t simply generalise medical treatment across the sexes.”
A new network of Cambridge experts, led by Sferruzzi-Perri, is trying to redress the balance.
Brainwaves.
Credit Sean Gladwell/Getty
Professor Amy Milton in the Department of Psychology studies mental health conditions with the aim of developing a personalised approach for more effective treatments, grounded in a deeper mechanistic understanding of what causes an individual’s symptoms.
Professor Amy Milton
She notes that the prevalence of certain mental health disorders can differ significantly between sexes, with hormonal differences likely to play a role.
“Post traumatic stress disorder, PTSD, is about twice as common in women as it is in men – and we don’t understand why,” says Milton.
“This is largely because it has only recently become a requirement to include both sexes in pre-clinical medical research.”
“There can be a big variation in symptoms between two patients with the same mental health diagnosis too,” she says.
“This could be due to sex differences, or a range of other factors – but unless scientists include both males and females in their studies, they won’t know where those sex differences exist.”
“If it turns out that there are no sex differences for a particular mental health disorder, then we can confidently generalise treatments between males and females.
But if differences do exist, it might mean that some therapies are more effective in one sex than the other.”
Milton says that effective treatment of PTSD can depend on being more aware of a woman’s fluctuating hormone levels – not ignoring them.
“Oestrogen and progesterone levels can make a difference to how well a person responds to exposure therapy.
So in terms of the timing of PTSD therapy, if it's just about scheduling appointments at a specific point in the menstrual cycle then that's such an easy win,” she says.
“Just think how many other easy wins we might be missing out on because we haven’t been considering how female hormones influence the effectiveness of treatments.”
Professor Amy Milton, Department of Psychology and Downing College
Human milk cells grown in culture.
Image: Alecia-Jane Twigger
Breastfeeding is a uniquely female biological process.
Human milk provides the best source of nutritional, developmental and immune support for babies, and the World Health Organisation recommends breastfeeding for the first year of an infant’s life.
Yet breastfeeding difficulties are common, and despite its importance this is a greatly understudied area of women’s health.
Dr Alecia-Jane Twigger in the Departments of Biochemistry and Pharmacology says this is because breastfeeding has traditionally been seen as a natural process, where any difficulties must be solved by the individual, rather than by society.
“There’s a lot of bias in thinking that breastfeeding is easy.
But I've talked to so many women who have done their absolute best, and they've had amazing support, but they’re just not able to do it,” says Twigger.
“I’m trying to figure out why, and what we can do about it.”
At the Cambridge Lactation Lab , Twigger is dedicated to understanding the biology of human milk production.
She’s found a way around the need to take invasive biopsies from lactating breasts, which could jeopardise breastfeeding.
“The key is to develop reliable models for studying lactation,” says Twigger, whose work is supported by a prestigious UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship.
“I discovered that breast milk contains the very secretory cells responsible for producing milk.
We can extract these and grow them into 3D structures called organoids.”
Dr Alecia-Jane Twigger
“I want to get these organoids to produce milk in the lab - like mini boobs - so I can explore key questions about human lactation.”
Dr Alecia-Jane Twigger, Departments of Biochemistry and Pharmacology
Through her CAMB MOM study Twigger is collecting breast milk samples from volunteers, to study the composition of milk and establish the organoid models.
Her goal is to use them to better understand and address breastfeeding challenges, especially low milk supply.
She’ll look at the genetic underpinnings of the products being secreted in the milk, including proteins, fats and metabolites which influence the growth of the baby, to uncover which genes are essential for milk production.
She’ll also investigate another big question: whether medicines taken by a breastfeeding mother are passed to her baby in the milk.
“There’s currently a huge limitation in advising pregnant and breastfeeding women about what medicines they can take, because we can't include them in clinical trials.
Our organoid model will let us test whether drugs taken by the mother are passed into the milk, and whether they could be harmful to the baby.”
For more information about the CAMB MOM study email cambmom@bioc.cam.ac.uk or visit the website .
Neanderthal reconstruction.
Credit Charles R.
Knight
Dr Emma Pomeroy , Associate Professor in the Evolution of Health, Diet and Disease in the Department of Archaeology, is turning to the past to shed light on how women’s health might be improved today.
As an archaeologist studying human bones dating from the present day back to 400,000 years ago, she’s gaining a long-term perspective on the origins of contemporary health issues.
Dr Emma Pomeroy.
Credit Graeme Barker.
“I want to understand which aspects of our health we might have the power to change, and which are so deeply embedded in our biology that they’re beyond our control.”
Professor Emma Pomeroy, Department of Archaeology and Newnham College
Pomeroy is using innovative methods to uncover evidence of key transitions in women's lives - such as puberty, the onset of menstruation, pregnancy, childbirth, and menopause – and wants to understand how these milestones intersect with broader aspects of health.
One area where historical insight may prove valuable is obstructed labour, a complication where the baby becomes stuck in the birth canal.
The traditional narrative is that evolution has led to a tight fit between a baby’s head and the birth canal in the mother’s pelvis, due to the development of upright walking and larger brain size.
This has long been seen as unchangeable, but recent research suggests otherwise.
For example, early-life nutrition can significantly influence pelvic development.
“By examining skeletal remains, we can see that girls who had access to a nutritious diet grew taller and developed larger pelvises - reducing the risk of obstructed labour,” she explains.
“Preventing overnutrition is just as important: the rapid transition to obesity we’re seeing across many countries increases the likelihood of bigger babies, which can also heighten the risk of obstructed labour.”
Even menopause, once thought impossible to detect in bones, might be visible through changes in tooth cementum - layers that form annually like tree rings and whose width is reduced during periods of physiological stress.
Within the tooth crown itself, disruption to the layers of enamel during growth can also tell us about periods of poor nutrition and health.
Pomeroy is investigating how these methods might tell us more about the lives of our close evolutionary relatives, the Neanderthals.
“Accessing information about past lives can really help us understand women’s health today, particularly the major changes in women’s lives like menopause that have been largely ignored by society,” she says.
Image: Getty.
Biological sex is a major factor in how the body responds to most drugs and vaccines.
Men and women also feel and manage pain in different ways.
Women are much more sensitive to heat stress than men, because their bodies store fat in different ways and regulate temperature differently.
Infectious diseases can affect men and women in distinct ways.
The list goes on.
Awareness of the male bias in health research is finally starting to drive change.
And many aspects of female reproductive biology - key life processes – that have traditionally been largely ignored by research are gaining greater attention.
Research funders now ask scientists to take sex into account in their proposed cell and animal investigations where this might be relevant, or to justify why not.
Pharmaceutical companies, too, want to know whether their drugs are safe to give to women, which means involving both sexes in clinical trials.
Professor Amanda Sferruzzi-Perri
“It’s crazy that biological sex has been so overlooked in understanding the body’s responses to drugs and treatments.
It’s time we made a concerted effort to address this, and drive forward a personalised approach to improving human health.”
Professor Amanda Sferruzzi-Perri, Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience
Sferruzzi-Perri hopes that Cambridge's research focus on women’s health will help drive a vastly improved understanding, so that in future everyone receives the best quality health information and care.
Article published: 2 July 2025
Read more about Cambridge's Women's Health Network
Top image: Ryan McVay/GettyImages

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research/news/evolution-made-us-cheats-now-free-riders-run-the-world-and-we-need-to-change-new-book-warns:
To save democracy and solve the world's biggest challenges, we need to get better at spotting and exposing people who exploit human cooperation for personal gain, argues Cambridge social scientist Dr Jonathan Goodman.
If we accept that we all have this ancient flaw, we can change our societies for the better
In Invisible Rivals , published by Yale University Press on 17 June, Dr Goodman argues that throughout human history we have tried to rid our social groups of free-riders, people who take from others without giving anything back.
But instead of eliminating free-riders, human evolution has just made them better at hiding their deception.
Goodman explains that humans have evolved to use language to disguise selfish acts and exploit our cooperative systems.
He links this ‘invisible rivalry’ to the collapse of trust and consequent success of political strongmen today.
Goodman says: “We see this happening today, as evidenced by the rise of the Julius Caesar of our time—Donald Trump— but it is a situation that evolution has predicted since the origins of life and later, language, and which will only change form again even if the current crises are overcome.”
Goodman argues that over the course of human evolution “When we rid ourselves of ancient, dominant alphas, we traded overt selfishness for something perhaps even darker: the ability to move through society while planning and coordinating.”
“As much as we evolved to use language effectively to work together, to overthrow those brutish and nasty dominants that pervaded ancient society, we also (and do) use language to create opportunities that benefit us … We use language to keep our plans invisible.
Humans, more than other known organisms, can cooperate until we imagine a way to compete, exploit, or coerce, and almost always rely on language to do so.”
Goodman, an expert on human social evolution at the University of Cambridge, identifies free-riding behaviour in everything from benefits cheating and tax evasion, to countries dodging action on climate change, and the actions of business leaders and politicians.
Goodman warns that “We can’t stop people free-riding, it’s part of our nature, the incurable syndrome… Free riders are among us at every level of society and pretending otherwise can make our own goals unrealistic, and worse, appear hopeless.
But if we accept that we all have this ancient flaw, this ability to deceive ourselves and others, we can design policies around that and change our societies for the better.”
Goodman points out that humans evolved in small groups meaning that over many generations we managed to design social norms to govern the distribution of food, water and other vital resources.
“People vied for power but these social norms helped to maintain a trend toward equality, balancing out our more selfish dispositions.
Nevertheless, the free-rider problem persisted and using language we got better at hiding our cheating.”
One academic camp has argued that ancient humans used language to work together to overthrow and eject “brutish dominants”.
The opposing view claims that this never happened and that humans are inherently selfish and tribal.
Goodman rejects both extremes.
“If we accept the view that humans are fundamentally cooperative, we risk trusting blindly.
If we believe everyone is selfish, we won’t trust anyone.
We need to be realistic about human nature.
We’re a bit of both so we need to learn how to place our trust discerningly.”
Goodman points out that our distant ancestors benefitted from risk-pooling systems, whereby all group members contributed labour and shared resources, but this only worked because it is difficult to hide tangible assets such as tools and food.
While some hunter-gatherer societies continue to rely on these systems, they are ineffective in most modern societies in our globalized economy.
“Today most of us rely largely on intangible assets for monetary exchange so people can easily hide resources, misrepresent their means and invalidate the effectiveness of social norms around risk pooling,” Goodman says.
“We are flawed animals capable of deception, cruelty, and selfishness.
The truth is hard to live with but confronting it through honest reflection about our evolutionary past gives us the tools to teach ourselves and others about how we can improve the future.”
Goodman, who teaches students at Cambridge about the evolution of cooperation, argues that we reward liars from a young age and that this reinforces bad behaviour into adulthood.
“People tell children that cheaters don’t prosper, but in fact cheats who don’t get caught can do very well for themselves.”
“Evolutionarily speaking, appearing trustworthy but being selfish can be more beneficial to the individual.
We need to recognise that and make a moral choice about whether we try to use people or to work with them.”
At the same time, Goodman thinks we need to arm ourselves intellectually with the power to tell who is credible and who is not.
“Our most important tool for doing this is education,” he says.
“We must teach people to think ethically for themselves, and to give them the tools to do so.”
But Goodman cautions that even the tools we use to expose exploiters are open to exploitation: “Think about how people across the political sphere accuse others of virtue signalling or abusing a well-intentioned political movement for their own gain.”
Goodman believes that exposing free-riders is more beneficial than punishment.
“Loss of social capital through reputation is an important motivator for anyone,” he argues, suggesting that journalistic work exposing exploitation can be as effective at driving behaviour change as criminal punishment.
“The dilemma each of us faces now is whether to confront invisible rivalry or to let exploiters undermine society until democracy in the free world unravels—and the freedom of dissent is gone.”
Dr Jonathan R Goodman is a research associate at Cambridge Public Health and a social scientist at the Wellcome Sanger Institute.
Invisible Rivals: How We Evolved to Compete in a Cooperative World was published by Yale University Press on 17 June 2025 (ISBN: 9780300274356)
Close up of a handshake between two men wearing suits, with US dollar bills in the background
Credit: Ralph via Pixabay

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/news/cambridge-university-academics-recognised-in-kings-birthday-honours-2025:
Academics at the University of Cambridge are among those featured in the King's Birthday Honours 2025, which recognises the achievements and contributions of people across the UK.
Cambridge Zero Director Professor Emily Shuckburgh (Fellow of Darwin, Trinity alumna) has received a CBE for services to Climate Science and to the Public Communication of Climate Science.
"I am deeply honoured to accept this recognition, which is a reflection of the collective efforts of many scientists, communicators, educators, and advocates who strive every day to make climate science accurate, accessible and actionable at a time when honesty, clarity and urgency are more important than ever,” Professor Shuckburgh said.
Alongside leading the University of Cambridge’s major climate change initiative, Cambridge Zero, Emily is also Professor of Environmental Data Science at the Department of Computer Science and Technology.
Her primary research is focused on the application of artificial intelligence to climate science and in this context she is Academic Director of the Institute of Computing for Climate Science, and co-Director of the UKRI Centre for Doctoral Training on the Application of AI to the study of Environmental Risks (AI4ER).
Professor Gordon Dougan (Fellow of Wolfson College), an Emeritus Professor who continues to work in the University’s Department of Medicine, and former Director of the Infection Health Challenge area at Wellcome, UK, has been awarded a CBE for services to Vaccines and to Global Health.
Professor Dougan is an internationally recognised expert in vaccinology, global health and infections.
He was Head of Pathogens at the Wellcome Sanger Institute (WTSI) for over a decade and worked in the pharmaceutical industry (Wellcome Foundation/GSK) for part of his career, developing novel vaccines and other medicines.
He has worked as an advisor to health agencies, industry, academia and regulatory agencies.
He is an expert on the molecular basis of infection with a strong emphasis on pathogenic mechanisms/immunity, genomics, disease tracking and antibiotic resistance.
He is currently President of the Microbiology Society of the UK.
He said: “I am delighted to receive this important recognition for my work and the people I have worked with and for.
Applying science to the benefit of people and health is what I have been working toward throughout my career.
I can recommend this path to anyone.”
Details of University alumni who are recognised in the King's Birthday Honours will be published on the University's alumni website .
The University extends its congratulations to all academics, staff and alumni who have received an honour.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research/news/cambridge-scholar-helps-bring-ukraines-pain-and-power-to-the-stage-in-critically-acclaimed-creative:
The Reckoning is an intimate work of documentary theatre composed from a verified archive of witness testimonies chronicling Russia’s war of aggression.
It is now playing at London’s Arcola Theatre to universal acclaim.
We are too often tempted to turn our eyes away from Ukraine
The Guardian calls it ‘shattering’ .
The Stage heralds it as a ‘challenging, artfully constructed indictment of Russian war crimes in Ukraine .’
Written by Anastasiia Kosodii and Josephine Burton, and directed by Burton, The Reckoning channels voices of Ukrainians across the country – a priest, a volunteer, a dentist, a security guard, a journalist – who are forced to confront the sudden horrors of invasion and occupation and to repair bonds of trust amid violence and fear.
These voices are real, drawn from witness statements collected and conserved by the journalists and lawyers behind The Reckoning Project .
Rory Finnin , Professor of Ukrainian Studies and a Fellow of Robinson College at Cambridge, collaborated with Burton to help shape the play.
His decades of research into Ukraine’s culture and society formed the basis for a grant in support of The Reckoning from the University of Cambridge’s AHRC Impact Starter Fund account.
“Our collaboration with Rory Finnin has been invaluable throughout the making of The Reckoning,” said Burton, who is also Artistic Director and Chief Executive of Dash Arts .
“Rory’s insights into Ukraine’s past and present gave me deeper grounding as a director and co-writer and helped sharpen the questions the play asks of its audience.”
The Reckoning blends dynamic storytelling with movement, music, and food to forge new routes of solidarity and understanding with the audience.
As Everything Theatre notes in a glowing review, “We leave not as passive spectators but as an active part of the struggle.”
Attendees share in a summer salad made over the course of the play by the Ukrainian and British cast – Tom Godwin, Simeon Kyslyi, Marianne Oldham, and Olga Safronova – who bring empathy, humour, and integrity to each scene.
The conclusion of each performance features an invited speaker from the audience who comes to the stage to reckon with their own experience of the play from different ethical and intellectual perspectives.
Professor Finnin spoke on the play’s first night at the Arcola Theatre.
“Over three years into Russia’s full-scale invasion, we are too often tempted to turn our eyes away from Ukraine,” said Finnin.
“But The Reckoning empowers us to look closely and to see with new purpose.
It has been an incredible privilege to support a dynamic work of art that brings Ukrainian voices to the fore and challenges us to listen and respond to them, with urgency and moral clarity.”
The Reckoning runs through 28 June at London’s Arcola Theatre .
The Reckoning being performed at the Arcola Theatre, London, in 2025
Credit: Dash Arts

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/news/cambridge-and-dsit-announce-prestigious-sparck-ai-scholarships-to-support-next-generation-of-ai:
On 9 June, the Department for Science, Innovation and Technology (DSIT) announced the launch of the Spärck AI Scholarships, a major new initiative to nurture the next generation of AI leaders, with Cambridge proud to join as a founding partner.
We are delighted to be a founding partner in this ambitious initiative, which reflects a shared commitment to attracting exceptional talent and reinforcing the UK’s position as a home for world-class AI.
The scholarships, aimed at exceptionally high-potential domestic and international students, will support study towards AI-related Masters degrees and provide an unparalleled package of benefits.
Students will receive full tuition fees, a living stipend, and access to priority work placements with leading UK artificial intelligence companies and government institutions.
The programme, which will open to its first cohort in the 2026–27 academic year, intends to enrol 100 scholars over its first 4 years.
Scholars will be selected from the top 1% of AI talent worldwide, with applicants required to demonstrate academic excellence, leadership, and ambassadorial potential, alongside a STEM background.
Uniquely, the Spärck AI Scholarships will provide its students with priority access to work placements within UK-based AI companies and organisations, including the UK government’s AI Security Institute (AISI) and i.AI, their in-house AI incubator.
The scholarships are named in honour of Professor Karen Spärck Jones (1935–2007), pictured, a pioneering British computer scientist whose ground breaking work at Cambridge laid the foundations for modern search engines and natural language processing.
One of the most remarkable women in computer science, her seminal 1972 paper introduced the concept of inverse document frequency, a fundamental principle still central to information retrieval today.
Professor Deborah Prentice, University of Cambridge Vice-Chancellor, said: “Cambridge combines academic excellence with a dynamic, interdisciplinary AI community, from foundational research to real-world impact.
We are especially proud that these scholarships are named after Karen Spärck Jones, a brilliant Cambridge computer scientist.”
A long-time member of the Cambridge community, Professor Spärck Jones was an undergraduate at Girton College (1953 to 1956), a Research Fellow at Newnham College (1965 to 1968), an Official Fellow of Darwin College (1968 to 1980) and a Fellow of Wolfson College (2000 to 2007).
She began her research career at the Cambridge Language Research Unit in the late 1950s and later taught for the MPhil in Computer Speech and Language Processing, on language systems, and for the Computer Science Tripos on information retrieval.
She supervised many Cambridge PhD students across a wide range of topics and was a tireless advocate for women in computing, famously declaring: “I think it's very important to get more women into computing.
My slogan is: computing is too important to be left to men.”
Her international influence was recognised by numerous awards, including the ACM SIGIR Salton Award, the BCS Lovelace Medal, and election as a Fellow of the British Academy (of which she was also Vice-President from 2000 to 2002) and the American Association for Artificial Intelligence.
The University of Cambridge is delighted to honour her legacy by co-founding this exciting new programme, which was formally announced at London Tech Week.
University of Cambridge students walking into the Senate House for their graduation ceremony.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/news/creative-spark-new-cambridge-musical-based-on-haunted-summer-of-1816-and-birth-of-frankenstein:
Cambridge students – one a researcher in the electrical currents of heart tissue – have created a new musical partly inspired by the genesis of Mary Shelley's monster, which was brought to life by electricity.
Nat Riches, who studies Natural Sciences at Trinity College, and Natasha Atkinson, who graduated from Downing College with a Law degree in 2024, were intrigued by the ‘haunted summer’ of 1816, when tumultuous weather confined writers including Lord Byron, Percy Shelley and Mary Godwin (later Mary Shelley) to a villa beside Lake Geneva.
1816: The Year Without A Summer is one of 2 Cambridge student productions selected by the Cambridge University Musical Theatre Society for the Camden and Edinburgh Fringe festivals this summer.
The musical brings to life the literary characters and Byron’s personal doctor John Polidori and his lover Claire Clairmont, who were cooped up in Villa Diodati by the terrible weather wrought by the huge volcanic eruption of 1815 in the then Dutch East Indies.
As rain lashes down, the wind gets up and it’s dark by the afternoon, Byron sets the assembled guests a challenge: write the most chilling ghost story.
The challenge led to the conception of Mary Shelley’s Frankenstein and John Polidori’s The Vampyre , 2 of the greatest horror stories of the last 2 centuries.
1816: The Year Without A Summer premieres at the Camden Fringe Festival on 6 and 7 August.
Read more about the musical on Trinity College's website.
Natasha Atkinson, left, and Nat Riches have created the new musical based on the legendary 1816 meeting of minds.
Credit: Graham CopeKoga/Trinity College

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/song-of-wade-lost-english-legend-decoded:
Decoding a lost English legend, solving a Chaucerian mystery, and revealing a medieval preacher’s meme
A medieval literary puzzle which has stumped scholars including M.R.
James for 130 years has finally been solved.
Cambridge scholars now believe the Song of Wade , a long lost treasure of English culture, was a chivalric romance not a monster-filled epic.
The discovery solves the most famous mystery in Chaucer's writings and provides rare evidence of a medieval preacher referencing pop culture in a sermon.
The breakthrough, detailed in The Review of English Studies , involved working out that the manuscript refers to ‘wolves’ not ‘elves’, as scholars previously assumed.
Dr James Wade and Dr Seb Falk, colleagues at Girton College, Cambridge, argue that the precious literary fragment, first discovered by M.R.
James in Cambridge in 1896, has been “radically misunderstood” for the last 130 years.
“Changing elves to wolves makes a massive difference.
It shifts this legend away from monsters and giants into the human battles of chivalric rivals.”
Seb Falk is back in Cambridge's University Library with James Wade.
The research partners, fellow medieval sleuths, are happily skimming through a document which they have wrestled with for years.
“It wasn’t clear why Chaucer mentioned Wade in the context of courtly intrigue," Wade says.
“Our discovery makes much more sense of this.”
Illustration from the early 14th-century chivalric romance, the Prose Lancelot
“Here we have a late-12 th -century sermon deploying a meme from the hit romantic story of the day,” Seb Falk says.
“This is very early evidence of a preacher weaving pop culture into a sermon to keep his audience hooked.”
“Many church leaders worried about the themes of chivalric romances – adultery, bloodshed, and other scandalous topics – so it’s surprising to see a preacher dropping such “adult content” into a sermon,” Wade explains.
For the first time, the researchers have identified the great late-medieval writer Alexander Neckam (1157–1217) as the most likely author of the Humiliamini sermon.
The 800-year-old document is part of MS 255, a Peterhouse Cambridge collection of medieval sermons.
Seb Falk (left) and James Wade (right)
In 1896, M.
R.
James was looking through Latin sermons in Peterhouse’s Perne library in Cambridge when he was surprised to find passages written in English.
He consulted another Cambridge scholar, Israel Gollancz, and together they announced that these were verses from a lost 12th-century romantic poem which they called the Song of Wade .
James promised further comment but this never came.
Nearly 130 years passed with no new evidence coming to light.
Several scholars have attempted to work out the meaning of the sermon’s Wade quotation and speculated on what the full legend might have been like.
“Lots of very smart people have torn their hair out over the spelling, punctuation, literal translation, meaning, and context of a few lines of text,” says James Wade.
The researchers argue that three words have been misread by scholars, because of misleading errors made by a scribe who transcribed the sermon.
Most problematically, the letters ‘y’ and ‘w’ became muddled.
Correcting these and other errors transforms the translated text from:
‘Some are elves and some are adders; some are sprites that dwell by waters: there is no man, but Hildebrand only.’
to:
‘Thus they can say, with Wade: ‘Some are wolves and some are adders; some are sea-snakes that dwell by the water.
There is no man at all but Hildebrand.’
Hildebrand was Wade’s supposed father.
While some folk-legends and epics refer to Hildebrand as a giant, if the Wade legend was a chivalric romance, as this study argues, Hildebrand was probably understood to be a normal man.
The Perne Library in 1894
Let's take a closer look at the sermon
The names 'Wade' and 'Hildebrand' (Wade's father) leap off the page.
Other words are trickier to decipher...
Errors made by a scribe muddled the letters 'w' and 'y' meaning scholars have assumed this word meant 'elves'.
It actually means 'wolves'.
And this word was thought to mean 'sprites' but it actually means 'sea-snakes'.
This word says 'adders' which fits with 'sea-snakes' better than 'sprites'.
The full sentence reads: 'Some are wolves and some are adders; some are sea-snakes that dwell by the water'.
'Powerful tyrants': The sermon laments that some people 'are wolves, such as powerful tyrants' who take 'by any means'.
Here 'Adam' appears above 'non-humans'.
The full sentence reads: 'Thus Adam was, from a human, made as if he was non-human; not only Adam, but almost everyone becomes as if non-humans.'
The Song of Wade was hugely popular throughout the Middle Ages.
For several centuries, its central character remained a major romance hero, among other famous knights such as Lancelot and Gawain.
Chaucer twice evoked Wade in the middle of this period, in the late 1300s, but these references have baffled generations of Chaucer scholars.
At a crucial moment in Troilus and Criseyde, Pandarus tells the ‘tale of Wade’ to Criseyde after supper.
Today’s study argues that the Wade legend served Pandarus because he not only needed to keep Criseyde around late, but also to stir her passions.
By showing that Wade was a chivalric romance, Chaucer’s reference makes much more sense.
In ‘The Merchant’s Tale’, Chaucer’s main character, January, a 60-year-old knight, refers to Wade’s boat when arguing that it is better to marry young women than old.
The fact that his audience would have understood the reference in the context of chivalric romance, rather than folk tales or epics, is significant, the researchers argue.
“This reveals a characteristically Chaucerian irony at the heart of his allusion to Wade’s boat,” says James Wade.
Chaucer depicted as a pilgrim in the Ellesmere manuscript of the Canterbury Tales (c.1400-1410)
To make sense of the fragment, the researchers gave more attention to the Humiliamini sermon in its entirety than scholars have previously.
“The sermon itself is really interesting,” says Seb Falk.
“It’s a creative experiment at a critical moment when preachers were trying to make their sermons more accessible and captivating.”
“I once went to a wedding where the vicar, hoping to appeal to an audience who he figured didn’t often go to church, quoted the Black Eyed Peas’ song ‘Where is the Love?’ in an obvious attempt to seem cool.
Our medieval preacher was trying something similar to grab attention and sound relevant.”
The sermon offers a lesson in humility, a central concern of medieval theologians, but does so in unusual ways.
It focuses on a debased Adam and compares human behaviours to animal traits.
It presents powerful men who become like wolves because they plunder what doesn’t belong to them.
And it compares the actions of cunning, deceitful and rapacious people to those of adders or water-snakes.
A rapacious wolf in the Cambridge University Library Bestiary, (early 13th Century)
“This sermon still resonates today,” James Wade says.
“It warns that it’s us, humans, who pose the biggest threat, not monsters.”
The preacher brings in a second topical reference to underline this point, telling the story of a real-life knight and crusader named Hugh of Gournay, who switched sides four times between England and France.
The story doesn’t appear in any other surviving source, but the way the preacher tells it, he must have known his listeners would recognise it.
“It’s a bold image”, said Seb Falk: “the repentant Hugh wrapping a noose around his neck and throwing himself on the mercy of the French king is a powerful and really fresh symbol of chivalric humility.”
The researchers noticed multiple similarities in the arguments and writing style of Alexander Neckam, leading them to believe that he probably wrote the sermon.
But whether Neckam himself or an acolyte, the author must have been familiar with Wade and confident that his intended audience would get the reference.
Seb Falk said: “This sermon demonstrates new scholarship, rhetorical sophistication, and inventiveness, and it has strategic aims.
It’s the ideal vehicle for the Wade quotation which served an important purpose.”
Fulk of Neuilly preaching in northern France (1199-1201)
An asp being enchanted by a musical snake charmer in The Bodley bestiary (13th Century)
The following is an extract from the new translation of the sermon referring to Wade:
‘Dear [brothers], as to the fact that he says, ‘humble yourselves’, etc.
– it could be considered that humility which is against the mighty hand of God is of a particular kind.
For there are three kinds of humility: the humility of guilt; the humility of punishment; and the humility of penance.
Now, by the humility of guilt our first parent [Adam] was so humbled that, although he was made master of the whole world before his sins and ruled over everything that was in the world, after his sin, on the other hand, he could not even defend himself from a worthless worm, that is, from a flea or louse.
He who was similar to God before sin, was made dissimilar through sin; since ‘by this poison a rose is sometimes turned into spikenard.’
Thus Adam was, from a human, made as if he was non-human; not only Adam, but almost everyone becomes as if non-humans.
Thus they can say, with Wade:
‘Some are wolves and some are adders; Some are sea-snakes that dwell by the water.
Similarly, today some are wolves, such as powerful tyrants, who if they can justly take the things of those subject to them, take them; but if not, [do so] by any means.
Some imitate serpents, of which there are three kinds.
Others become lions, like the proud ones whom God opposes; enough has been said of pride in the art of preaching.
Others are foxes, such as cunning detractors and flatterers who speak with a double heart, who have honey in their mouth but bile in their heart.
Others are gluttons like pigs, of whom the prophet says ‘their throats are open graves’; and thus each is judged similarly.
Indeed, this humility is bad and perverse.’
References
Cambridge, Peterhouse MS 255
S.
Falk & J.
Wade, ‘ The Lost Song of Wade : Peterhouse 255 Revisited’, The Review of English Studies (2025).
DOI:10.1093/res/hgaf038
Find out more in the following short film:
Published 16th July 2025
Peterhouse MS 255 photographed courtesy of the Master and Fellows of Peterhouse, Cambridge, and The University Library by LLoyd Mann for University of Cambridge.
The Bodleian Library, University of Oxford: MS Ashmole 828, Prose Lancelot Cycle, Branch 3, fol.001r and fol.69r; Fulk of Neuilly preaching in MS-Laud-Misc-587_c1330_fol.
1r; asp in MS.
Bodl.
764, The Bodley bestiary, fol.96r The University Library, University of Cambridge : Wolf from CUL Ii.4.26, Cambridge University Library bestiary, fol 17r The Fitzwilliam Museum, University of Cambridge : Perne Library in 1894 The Huntington Library San Marino California : The Ellesmere Chaucer, fol.153v

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research/news/ai-art-protection-tools-still-leave-creators-at-risk-researchers-say:
Even when using tools like NightShade, artists are still at risk of their work being used for training AI models without their consent
So say a team of researchers who have uncovered significant weaknesses in two of the art protection tools most used by artists to safeguard their work.
According to their creators, Glaze and NightShade were both developed to protect human creatives against the invasive uses of generative artificial intelligence.
The tools are popular with digital artists who want to stop artificial intelligence models (like the AI art generator Stable Diffusion) from copying their unique styles without consent.
Together, Glaze and NightShade have been downloaded almost nine million times.
But according to an international group of researchers, these tools have critical weaknesses that mean they cannot reliably stop AI models from training on artists’ work.
The tools add subtle, invisible distortions (known as poisoning perturbations) to digital images.
These ‘poisons’ are designed to confuse AI models during training.
Glaze takes a passive approach, hindering the AI model’s ability to extract key stylistic features.
NightShade goes further, actively corrupting the learning process by causing the AI model to associate an artist’s style with unrelated concepts.
But the researchers have created a method – called LightShed – that can bypass these protections.
LightShed can detect, reverse-engineer and remove these distortions, effectively stripping away the poisons and rendering the images usable again for Generative AI model training.
It was developed by researchers at the University of Cambridge along with colleagues at the Technical University Darmstadt and the University of Texas at San Antonio.
The researchers hope that by publicising their work – which will be presented at the USENIX Security Symposium , a major security conference, in August – they can let creatives know that there are major issues with art protection tools.
LightShed works through a three-step process.
It first identifies whether an image has been altered with known poisoning techniques.
In a second, reverse engineering step, it learns the characteristics of the perturbations using publicly available poisoned examples.
Finally, it eliminates the poison to restore the image to its original, unprotected form.
In experimental evaluations, LightShed detected NightShade-protected images with 99.98% accuracy and effectively removed the embedded protections from those images.
“This shows that even when using tools like NightShade, artists are still at risk of their work being used for training AI models without their consent,” said first author Hanna Foerster from Cambridge’s Department of Computer Science and Technology, who conducted the work during an internship at TU Darmstadt.
Although LightShed reveals serious vulnerabilities in art protection tools, the researchers stress that it was developed not as an attack on them – but rather an urgent call to action to produce better, more adaptive ones.
“We see this as a chance to co-evolve defenses,” said co-author Professor Ahmad-Reza Sadeghi from the Technical University of Darmstadt.
“Our goal is to collaborate with other scientists in this field and support the artistic community in developing tools that can withstand advanced adversaries.”
The landscape of AI and digital creativity is rapidly evolving.
In March this year, OpenAI rolled out a ChatGPT image model that could instantly produce artwork in the style of Studio Ghibli, the Japanese animation studio.
This sparked a wide range of viral memes – and equally wide discussions about image copyright, in which legal analysts noted that Studio Ghibli would be limited in how it could respond to this since copyright law protects specific expression, not a specific artistic ‘style’.
Following these discussions, OpenAI announced prompt safeguards to block some user requests to generate images in the styles of living artists.
But issues over generative AI and copyright are ongoing, as highlighted by the copyright and trademark infringement case currently being heard in London’s high court.
Global photography agency Getty Images is alleging that London-based AI company Stability AI trained its image generation model on the agency’s huge archive of copyrighted pictures.
Stability AI is fighting Getty’s claim and arguing that the case represents an “overt threat” to the generative AI industry.
And earlier this month, Disney and Universal announced they are suing AI firm Midjourney over its image generator, which the two companies said is a “bottomless pit of plagiarism.”
“What we hope to do with our work is to highlight the urgent need for a roadmap towards more resilient, artist-centred protection strategies,” said Foerster.
“We must let creatives know that they are still at risk and collaborate with others to develop better art protection tools in future.”
Hanna Foerster is a member of Downing College, Cambridge.
Reference: Hanna Foerster et al.
‘LightShed: Defeating Perturbation-based Image Copyright Protections.’ Paper presented at the 34th USENIX Security Symposium.
https://www.usenix.org/conference/usenixsecurity25/presentation/foerster
Artist at work
Credit: Anastasia Babenko via Getty Images

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research/news/cambridge-researchers-awarded-advanced-grants-from-the-european-research-council:
The successful Cambridge grantees’ work covers a range of research areas, including the development of next-generation semiconductors, new methods to identify dyslexia in young children, how diseases spread between humans and animals, and the early changes that happen in cells before breast cancer develops, with the goal of finding ways to stop the disease before it starts.
The funding, worth €721 million in total, will go to 281 leading researchers across Europe.
The Advanced Grant competition is one of the most prestigious and competitive funding schemes in the EU and associated countries, including the UK.
It gives senior researchers the opportunity to pursue ambitious, curiosity-driven projects that could lead to major scientific breakthroughs.
Advanced Grants may be awarded up to € 2.5 million for a period of five years.
The grants are part of the EU’s Horizon Europe programme.
The UK agreed a deal to associate to Horizon Europe in September 2023.
This competition attracted 2,534 proposals, which were reviewed by panels of internationally renowned researchers.
Over 11% of proposals were selected for funding.
Estimates show that the grants will create approximately 2,700 jobs in the teams of new grantees.
The new grantees will be based at universities and research centres in 23 EU Member States and associated countries, notably in the UK (56 grants), Germany (35), Italy (25), the Netherlands (24), and France (23).
“Many congratulations to our Cambridge colleagues on these prestigious ERC funding awards,” said Professor Sir John Aston, Cambridge’s Pro-Vice-Chancellor for Research.
“This type of long-term funding is invaluable, allowing senior researchers the time and space to develop potential solutions for some of biggest challenges we face.
We are so fortunate at Cambridge to have so many world-leading researchers across a range of disciplines, and I look forward to seeing the outcomes of their work.”
The Cambridge recipients of 2025 Advanced Grants are:
Professor Clare Bryant (Department of Veterinary Medicine) for investigating human and avian pattern recognition receptor activation of cell death pathways, and the impact on the host inflammatory response to zoonotic infections.
Professor Sir Richard Friend (Cavendish Laboratory/St John’s College) for bright high-spin molecular semiconductors.
Professor Usha Goswami (Department of Psychology/St John’s College) for a cross-language approach to the early identification of dyslexia and developmental language disorder using speech production measures with children.
Professor Regina Grafe (Faculty of History) for colonial credit and financial diversity in the Global South: Spanish America 1600-1820.
Professor Judy Hirst (MRC Mitochondrial Biology Unit/Corpus Christi College) for the energy-converting mechanism of a modular biomachine: Uniting structure and function to establish the engineering principles of respiratory complex I.
Professor Matthew Juniper (Department of Engineering/Trinity College) for adjoint-accelerated inference and optimisation methods.
Professor Walid Khaled (Department of Pharmacology/Magdalene College) for understanding precancerous changes in breast cancer for the development of therapeutic interceptions.
Professor Adrian Liston (Department of Pathology/St Catharine’s College) for dissecting the code for regulatory T cell entry into the tissues and differentiation into tissue-resident cells.
Professor Róisín Owens (Department of Chemical Engineering and Biotechnology/Newnham College) for conformal organic devices for electronic brain-gut readout and characterisation.
Professor Emma Rawlins (Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience/Gurdon Institute) for reprogramming lung epithelial cell lineages for regeneration.
Dr Marta Zlatic (Department of Zoology/Trinity College) for discovering the circuit and molecular basis of inter-strain and inter-species differences in learning
“These ERC grants are our commitment to making Europe the world’s hub for excellent research,” said Ekaterina Zaharieva, European Commissioner for Startups, Research, and Innovation.
“By supporting projects that have the potential to redefine whole fields, we are not just investing in science but in the future prosperity and resilience of our continent.
In the next competition rounds, scientists moving to Europe will receive even greater support in setting up their labs and research teams here.
This is part of our “Choose Europe for Science” initiative, designed to attract and retain the world’s top scientists.”
“Much of this pioneering research will contribute to solving some of the most pressing challenges we face - social, economic and environmental,” said Professor Maria Leptin, President of the European Research Council.
“Yet again, many scientists - around 260 - with ground-breaking ideas were rated as excellent, but remained unfunded due to a lack of funds at the ERC.
We hope that more funding will be available in the future to support even more creative researchers in pursuing their scientific curiosity.”
Scientist pipetting samples into eppendorf tube
Credit: Westend61 via Getty Images

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/medieval-murder-maps-noblewoman-priest:
Published 6 June 2025.
Story: Fred Lewsey
The case is among hundreds catalogued by the Medieval Murder Maps project at Cambridge University’s Institute of Criminology, a database of unnatural death in England during the 14 th century.
This one, however, has a few twists.
Records traced by Prof Manuel Eisner suggest that John Forde’s slaying in 1337 was a revenge killing orchestrated by a noblewoman ordered to enact years of degrading penance after the Archbishop of Canterbury discovered the clergyman was her lover – possibly from Forde himself.
A letter written by the Archbishop five years earlier accuses the aristocrat Ela Fitzpayne of a wide variety of adultery, including with the priest John Forde, and demands she undertake barefoot walks of shame across Salisbury Cathedral.
Another record found by Eisner shows that, around the time of these allegations, Ela Fitzpayne conspired with her husband and John Forde to lead a gang of extortionists that raided a church priory, breaking into buildings and holding livestock to ransom.
While explicit connections remain unclear, the records suggest that John Forde went from Ela Fitzpayne’s crime gang and possibly her bed, to a player in her denunciation by the church, and, years later, a murder victim – with one of Forde’s killers recognised as Ela Fitzpayne’s brother, and two others her recent servants.
Eisner says the brazen murder of Forde near St Paul’s Cathedral, as early evening crowds milled about, was perhaps a brutal show of strength: reminding the clergy of the power of the nobility, and that Ela Fitzpayne doesn’t forget or forgive.
Digital copies of the coroner report and letters are published together for the first time on the University’s website.
A new paper on the Medieval Murder Maps is published in Criminal Law Forum , and a series of podcasts are available, with each episode taking an in-depth look at an individual case, including that of Forde and Fitzpayne.
“We are looking at a murder commissioned by a leading figure of the English aristocracy.
It is planned and cold-blooded, with a family member and close associates carrying it out, all of which suggests a revenge motive,” said Eisner.
“Attempts to publicly humiliate Ela Fitzpayne may have been part of a political game, as the church used morality to stamp its authority on the nobility, with John Forde caught between masters,” he said.
Prof Manuel Eisner
Listen to a podcast episode of Prof Eisner discussing the case of Forde and Fitzpayne:
Eisner leads the Medieval Murder Maps, a digital resource that plots crime scenes based on translations of the coroners’ rolls, mainly from the 14 th century.
The project has produced maps for London, Oxford and York to date.
Written in Latin, the rolls are records of sudden or suspicious deaths as investigated by a jury of local men called together by the coroner to establish facts and reach a verdict – a cornerstone of medieval justice.
Most juries consisted of a dozen men, some of whom were witnesses.
The jury for Forde’s killing totalled 33 men – one of the highest in all murders mapped by the project, and a sign that the sheriff and coroner considered this a high-profile case.
Westcheap – a homicide ‘hotspot’
The jury record that John Forde had been walking up Cheapside after vespers but before sunset on Friday 3 rd May 1337 when a fellow priest, Hasculph Neville, distracted Ford with “pleasant conversation”.
As they approached St Paul’s, four other men, including Hugh Lovell, brother of Ela Fitzpayne, attacked Forde.
Lovell used a 12-inch dagger to open Forde’s throat, while two other men – Hugh Colne and John Strong, who, until recently, had worked for the Fitzpaynes – stabbed Forde in the belly.
Above: site of the murder on Westcheap, using the Historic Towns Trust map.
Below: site of the murder as it is now.
The jury, including a rosary-maker and a hatmaker, identified all assassins but claimed ignorance of their whereabouts.
They also noted the Fitzpaynes were in a longstanding feud with Forde.
“Despite naming the killers and clear knowledge of the instigator, when it comes to pursuing the perpetrators the jury turn a blind eye,” said Eisner.
“A household of the highest nobility, and apparently no one knows where they are to bring them to trial.
They claim Ela’s brother has no belongings to confiscate.
All implausible.
This was typical of the class-based justice of the day.”
Former Fitzpayne servant Colne was eventually indicted for the crime five years later in 1342, and imprisoned in Newgate – the only charge brought in the case.
The area of Westcheap, where Forde was slain, was London’s most prominent medieval homicide “hotspot”, according to the latest paper from the research project.
Home to numerous markets, taverns and alehouses, and many powerful guilds, such as the goldsmiths and saddlers, it was a centre of trade and revelry, where events could get out of hand.
Common triggers for violence in Westcheap included quarrels between merchants or artisans, and group fights between guild apprentices akin to turf wars between gangs.
Records also show that the area hosted several premeditated revenge killings, such as the one that ended John Forde.
“Westcheap was a site for displays of civic justice, such as the pillory or stocks,” said Eisner.
“As a setting for public rituals of punishment, this appears to have included extrajudicial killings.”
Map of homicide 'hotspots' in medieval London.
The Archbishop’s letters
Looking into the Forde case, Eisner found a letter from Archbishop of Canterbury Simon Mepham to the Bishop of Winchester, sent in January 1332, claiming Ela Fitzpayne conducted sexual liaisons with ‘‘knights and others, single and married, and even with clerics in holy orders’’.
Punishment for her behaviour included a ban on wearing gold, pearls or precious stones, and large sums to be paid to monastic orders and donated to the poor.
The most public penance was a walk of shame in bare feet the length of Salisbury Cathedral – the longest nave in England – carrying a four-pound wax candle to the altar, which Fitzpayne was told she must do every autumn for seven years.
The letter indicates that Fitzpayne, led by a “spirit of pride” and the devil, is refusing, and has abandoned her husband, with a further letter sent in April claiming Ela is hiding in Rotherhithe – then in the Diocese of Winchester – and is excommunicated.
Only one alleged lover is named in the letters, John Forde, suggesting his involvement in alerting the Archbishop.
At the time, Forde was the rector of the church of Okeford Fitzpaine, a village on the Fitzpayne family’s Dorset estate.
“The archbishop imposed heavy, shameful public penance on Ela, which she seems not to have complied with, but may have sparked a thirst for vengeance,” said Eisner.
“Not least as John Forde appears to have escaped punishment by the church.”
The image of the original Coroner’s Report of John Forde’s murder.
Credit: The London Archives.
Inquest number 15 on 1336-7 City of London Coroner’s Rolls (in CLA/041/IQ/01/006).
The first of the Archbishop’s letters: Credit: Register of John de Stratford.
Reproduced with permission of Hampshire Archives and Hampshire County Council.
Priory raiders
Another record, from March of 1322, reveals Ela Fitzpayne and John Ford were both indicted by a Royal Commission.
The pair had raided a Benedictine priory the previous year, along with the knight Sir Robert Fitzpayne – Ela’s husband and lord of Stogursey, the nearby castle.
The crew smashed priory gates and buildings, felled trees and robbed the quarry, seizing up to 18 oxen, along with 30 pigs and some 200 sheep and lambs, and driving them back to the castle.
Despite its location, the priory was an outpost of a French abbey.
This was a time of increasing animosity between France and England, with recently crowned King Edward III working on a claim to the French throne.
By 1337, when Forde is murdered, the Hundred Years’ War was beginning.
Taken from the Calendar of Patent Rolls, Edward III: Volume 2, 1330-1334.
6 Edward III, membrane 21d, 8 March 1332.
Ford’s parish was around fifty miles from Stogursey.
“Ela would have visited Okeford, and Forde may have spent significant time at the castle,” said Eisner.
He suggests that Forde colluded with the Fitzpaynes to take advantage of diplomatic tensions by raiding the priory.
“John Forde may have had split loyalties,” said Eisner.
“One to the Fitzpayne family, who were likely patrons of his church and granted him the position.
And the other to the bishops who had authority over him as a clergy member.”
“We know that Archbishop Mepham was keen to enforce moral discipline among the gentry and nobility, and act against those who displayed moral failings,” said Eisner.
“Taking part in the raid would have shown Forde’s loyalty to the Fitzpaynes rather than the church, which would not have gone down well with the Archbishop.”
Ford may have confessed his liaison with Ela, perhaps under pressure following the raid.
The Archbishop then weaponised sexual slander to pronounce humiliating punishment on a high-ranking noblewoman who defied the moral authority of the church.
“Public humiliation can have poisonous effects, breeding hatred and revenge in humans both today and in the distant past,” said Eisner.
“Feeling humiliated motivates wars, extremism, mass killings, and here it's probably a motivation for assassination.
Humiliation creates emotions of anger and shame in the short term.
Over time this can harden into a desire for violence.”
The Archbishop dies in 1333, but Ela Fitzpayne waits a further four years before taking revenge on the betrayer John Forde, using her brother and other associates to cut him down in the shadow of St.
Paul’s as the crowds watched.
“The public execution style of Forde’s killing, in front of crowds in broad daylight, is similar to the political killings we see now in countries like Russia or Mexico.
It’s designed to be a reminder of who is in control,” said Eisner.
“Where rule of law is weak, we see killings committed by the highest ranks in society, who will take power into their own hands, whether it's today or seven centuries ago.”
Interestingly, Eisner points out there is no evidence of acrimony between Ela and Robert Fitzpayne – a baron and early parliamentarian, and Ela’s second husband.
Robert dies in 1354 still married to Ela, who then inherited all his property.
Added Eisner: “A woman in 14th century England who raided priories, openly defied the Archbishop of Canterbury, and planned the assassination of a priest.
Ela Fitzpayne appears to have been many things, including an extraordinary person.”
Images: Top: Detail from the Luttrell Psalter 1325-1340 Add MS 42130 Folio 35r .
Courtesy of the British Library.
Middle: Judges 4:21.
Biblia Porta, France 13th century.
Bibliothèque cantonale et universitaire de Lausanne, U 964, fol.
76v.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/lawnmower-poetry:
Britain’s poetic obsession with the humble lawnmower revealed and explained
Over the last half-century, British poets including Philip Larkin and Andrew Motion have driven a ‘lawnmower poetry microgenre’, using the machine to explore childhood, masculinity, violence, addiction, mortality and much more, new research shows.
The study, published in Critical Quarterly , argues that the tradition goes back to the 17 th -century poet Andrew Marvell who used mowing – with a scythe – to comment on the violence of the English Civil War.
“Lawnmower poetry had its highpoint in the late 20 th century but now would be a good moment for a revival,” says the study’s author, Francesca Gardner , from Cambridge’s English Faculty and St Catharine’s College.
“It might seem random to write poetry about mowing but it’s a great vehicle for exploring our relationship with nature and with each other.
Andrew Marvell wrote about mowing with scythes after the English Civil War and modern poets continue to use lawnmowers to think about their own ups and downs.
“In a time of eco-crisis, conflict and societal problems, perhaps another poet will be inspired to write one soon.
They might reflect the growing anti-lawn movement or something else entirely.”
In 1651, Andrew Marvell wrote a poem in which a mower accidentally kills a bird crouched in the grass.
In ‘Upon Appleton House’, he wrote that the ‘Edge’ of the scythe was left ‘all bloody from its Breast’.
Gardner argues that the poem makes us think about ‘the Flesh untimely mow’d’ as a result of powerful undeviating cycles including the seasons and warfare which dominate our lives and determine our actions.
In 1979, another poet from Hull, Philip Larkin, described killing a hedgehog with his own motorised machine.
In The Mower , Larkin wrote that his mower had 'stalled, twice' and that he found 'A hedgehog jammed up against the blades, / Killed.’
Inspired by ‘Upon Appleton House’, Larkin also admired Marvell’s four mower poems, ‘The Mower’s Song’, ‘Damon the Mower’, ‘The Mower Against Gardens’, and ‘The Mower to the Glow-Worms’, describing them as ‘charming and exquisite in the pastoral tradition’, and Gardner points out numerous similarities between the two poets.
“Larkin had a deep awareness of pastoral and georgic poetry and this makes his poem more unsettling.
While he felt terrible about killing the hedgehog, which really happened, his poem is disturbing because it presents an uneasy affinity between the natural and the mechanical.”
“Every time Larkin cuts the grass, it grows back so he’s forced to use a machine that completes the job efficiently and repeatedly.
By mirroring nature’s cruel, relentless forces, mowers like Larkin commit their own acts of cruelty and violence.”
And yet, Gardner argues, it is often through their violence that the human mowers in these poems discover a capacity to be careful, sensitive and empathetic.
Larkin’s is one the best-known lawnmower poems from the UK and USA discussed by Gardner but not the only one to tackle traumatic events.
In 2007, Andrew Motion based a moving elegy for his father on happy memories of him mowing the lawn.
By contrast, Michael Laskey’s 1999 ‘The Lawnmower’ uses the machine to describe fatherly ‘despotism and neglect’, Gardner argues.
“Mowing a lawn is often viewed as a victory over nature but these poems reflect an increasing sense that this is a pyrrhic or ignoble victory,” Gardner says.
“The father in Michael Laskey’s poem is so intent on mowing straight lines that he misses out on the joyful messiness of life with his children.”
Laskey’s poem ends: ‘We keep back, / do as we’re told, don’t touch.
/ It must be overgrown now, the grave’.
Gardner says: “British poets are very interested in the lawn as a nostalgic space so lawnmowers are often associated with childhood memories, especially of fathers working.
The lawn is a safe domestic, often suburban, space in which unexpected violence can occur, as when Larkin kills a hedgehog.”
Gardner’s favourite lawnmower poem is Mark Waldron’s 2017 ‘I wish I loved lawnmowers’ which explores alienation, obsession and drug addiction.
The speaker tells us that, if he loved lawnmowers, he would take a trip to the British Lawnmower Museum in Southport.
But he doesn’t and the poem ends: ‘Now crack cocaine — that I loved’.
Most of the poems Gardner studied were written by recognised poets but she also found examples written by lawnmower enthusiasts.
In 2013, Grassbox , the Old Lawnmower Club’s magazine, published Tony Hopwood’s parody of the hymn ‘Morning Has Broken’ which laments: ‘Mower has broken, / Gardener’s in mourning.
/ Missus has spoken, / Had the last word.’
“Lawnmowers draw people to poetry as much as poetry draws people to lawnmowers,” Gardner says.
Gardner points out that to-date most British lawnmower poems have been written by men but has found examples of women poking fun at mower-obsessed men.
In 2002, Grassbox published ‘A Lawnmower Widow’s Lament’, a poem by Peggy Miller, which opens: ‘I once was loved and cherished by a man who was quite handsome / But now I’m second fiddle to a Dennis or Ransomes’.
Francesca Gardner, a Harding Distinguished Scholar , is an expert on early modern pastoral, georgic, and 'nature' writing.
She explains that British and American lawnmower poetry is rooted in two forms of ancient nature poetry.
The pastoral form presents an idyllic form of nature in which shepherds stroll through fields and the land yields things up to them.
By contrast, georgic poetry involves people having to work hard and use tools because nature isn’t so generous.
Gardner points out that Andrew Marvell's ‘Upon Appleton House’ is an unusual mixture of both pastoral and georgic.
“Poets inspired by Marvell appreciate that clash between idyllic nature and what it takes to maintain the lawn as an ideal space, the georgic conception of work,” Gardner says.
The final lines of Larkin’s poem were widely quoted during the Covid-19 pandemic: ‘we should be kind / While there is still time.’
“That remains a useful lesson whether we’re mowing or not,” Gardner says.
Francesca Gardner, ‘Lawnmower Poetry and the Poetry of Lawnmowers’, Critical Quarterly (2025).
DOI: 10.1111/criq.12818
Find out more from Francesca in this short film:
Francesca Gardner at St Catharine's College, Cambridge
Portrait of Andrew Marvell attributed to Godfrey Kneller in the collection of his Marvell's alma mater, Trinity College, Cambridge
Francis Place (1647-1728), A mower with a scythe (undated)
Mowing the meadow at King's College, Cambridge in 2022
Published 17th May 2025
University of Cambridge : Title image; Francesca Gardner Sarah Laval via Flikr : mower in motion (banner) Trinity College, Cambridge : Portrait of Andrew Marvell Yale Center for British Art, Paul Mellon Collection : Mower with a scythe Mike Finn via Flikr : Hedgehog Dave's Archive via Flikr : two archive photographs of men mowing Lloyd Mann : Meadow mowing at King's College, Cambridge

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/a-level-results-day-2025:
Congratulations to the students who've achieved the grades they need to get in to Cambridge
Rafik Fatalijeva will be studying medicine at Gonville & Caius College after securing four A*s (Biology, Chemistry, Maths and Further Maths).
Rafik will be coming to Cambridge from Liverpool where he was a student at the Blue Coat School.
"Through hard work and determination, I am grateful to have the opportunity to study at the University of Cambridge.
The next chapter in my life is to embark on a journey into medicine and to become a doctor.
By achieving a place at the University of Cambridge, I will have the tools and preparation to achieve my future aspirations and dreams.
I thank my parents, friends and the teachers at the Liverpool Blue Coat school for helping me achieve a place at my dream university."
Lois Cullen will be coming to Cambridge to read History and Modern Languages at Pembroke College.
She achieved A*s in French and German and an A in History while studying at the City of Stoke-on-Trent Sixth Form College.
“I’m very pleased with my results – all my hard work has paid off!
My ambition is to work in international relations, and achieving these grades has given me the confidence to go for any job opportunity in the future.
I’d like to give a special thank you to Sian Holah, Lee Dawson and Colin Lindley for all their extra support throughout my studies.”
En Liang will be studying Engineering at Pembroke College.
He has been a student at Torbay Boys Grammar where he achieved A*s in Maths, Further Maths and Physics and an A in Chemistry.
"I am really excited to finally study at Cambridge as it has been a lifelong dream of my family ever since we moved here.
I'm glad I was able to achieve this, but I was initially unsure if this would be doable.
It wasn't until I went to the STEM SMART residential, where I received amazing support from the tutors there as well as that from my sixth form teachers, that I realised this really was possible."
Sara Lindsay will be coming to Corpus Christi College to study Natural Sciences.
From Derry in Northern Ireland, she's been studying for her A-levels at Thornhill College.
"I’m so delighted to have the opportunity to study at Cambridge and am infinitely grateful for all of the support and advice I’ve received from my teachers; Miss Rice, Mr McCafferty, Mr McCloskey and Mr McSorley.
Over the past two years they have each played a vital role in making it possible to achieve these grades and encouraging me to apply.
It is such a dream to have got in and I’m very proud to be an incoming Corpus Christi student."
Alfie Thomson, a student at the University of Liverpool Mathematics School, will be studying Maths at Girton College.
And he's not alone...two of his mates from the same School, Jamie Little and Ahmad Adebowale, are also coming to Cambridge to study Computer Science.
Jamie's heading to St John's College and Ahmad will be at Queens' College.
“I’m endlessly grateful for the opportunities that have empowered me to reach this point.
I’d like to thank my secondary teacher Mrs Murray for helping me access such an amazing college and pushing me to improve early on.
From my college I’d like to thank Samuel for entrance exam support especially, Jamie for helping me through mental obstacles near exam season and all the other staff who taught me and/or maintain such a high quality learning environment.
I’m very excited for what will come next for me in academia at Cambridge!”
Alfie's friends from the same school are also coming to Cambridge
Freya Gallagher from The Sixth Form College Colchester will be coming to Cambridge to study Design at Christ's College.
"I am from Clacton-on-Sea, Essex.
I am lucky to have had such an amazing experience at Colchester Sixth form where I have been fully supported by great teachers.
I am excited for my next chapter studying my dream course at Christ's College."
Blake Lawrence is on his way to Jesus College after achieving A*s in History, Economics and Psychology.
He's been a student at the Isleworth and Syon School in west London and has received valuable mentoring from Target Oxbridge.
"I am so excited to be starting a new chapter studying Law at Jesus College after two very challenging, yet rewarding years.
The journey has not been easy for me – from getting excluded a number of times in my early secondary school years to going through a significant character change and eventually becoming Head Boy.
As I head off to Cambridge and reflect, I am truly grateful for all that my school experience has taught me.
Even during A Levels, I faced immense obstacles.
I was hospitalised the month before my exams after two major health crises.
But I didn’t give up.
Through my faith and the dedicated support of family, friends and my teachers at Isleworth & Syon School, I persevered.
I want to especially thank the team at Target Oxbridge – special shout out to Andi Marsh, Marie-Jo Beaubrun and my mentor Bertrand Nzabandora.
Before applying, imposter syndrome and lack of belief made me think a goal like studying at Cambridge wasn’t for me.
However, the belief, drive and vision instilled by Target Oxbridge has helped me and many of my peers to dream big and achieve our goals!
My journey so far shows anything is possible.
I am eager to begin studying Law, engaging in supervisions, meeting new people and laying a strong foundation for my dream career as a commercial lawyer."
Jessica Goodwin Lewis who achieved A*s in Geography and Maths and As in Further Maths and Physics at Winstanley College in Wigan.
Jessica is on her way to Cambridge to read Geography at Magdalene College.
"I'm both very excited and nervous to start studying Geography at Magdalene College.
I was surprised to get an offer as I found the interview challenging, but I am glad I was successful.
I am very grateful for support from all the staff at Winstanley College, especially those in the Geography department."
Noah Clegg from Ackworth School, West Yorkshire, will be studying Music at Homerton College.
He achieved A*s in Music and English Literature and an A in History.
"Being an Ackworth student has felt like being part of the greatest family in the whole world, and I can't wait to bring these values with me to a new place!
Thank you to all the amazing teachers that have helped me achieve my lifelong dream of going to Cambridge.
I can't wait to start making music there!"
Teagan Rice from Dominican College in Belfast, Northern Ireland, will be heading to Corpus Christi College to study English.
"I really enjoyed studying my A levels and am proud to have achieved a place to study English at Cambridge despite taking an unconventional route with English, Politics, Media Studies, and Moving Image Arts, and despite suffering from an autoimmune disease.
I hope this stands as evidence to prospective future applicants that there is no one route into Cambridge, and that systematic barriers should not be a deterrent.
I can’t thank my parents and teachers, and in particular my past English teachers Mrs Boyle and Ms Vaughan, enough for all the support they provided me in my application.
I’m grateful too for the outreach from Corpus Christi College, as without their visit to my school I never would have realised it was possible for someone like me, living in Ireland, to attend Cambridge."
Joshua Davies from York College & University Centre who achieved A*s in Physics, Maths and Further Maths and an A in Music Technology.
He will be studying Engineering at Trinity Hall.
"I chose York College as I knew it was the best option to help me prepare for university.
My tutors have been excellent throughout my time here.
I’m now progressing to the University of Cambridge to study BA (Hons) Engineering."
Archie Pennycook from South Wilts Grammar School, Wiltshire, who will be studying Maths at Robinson College.
"I was home-schooled from year 5 up until year 11 because I didn't fit in well at school.
I found GCSEs quite difficult because I had to self study them - funnily enough I particularly struggled with maths.
I decided to try and return to school for sixth form.
I was accepted by South Wilts Grammar School and started there in year 12 and was able to adjust well to school thanks to the amazing teachers there.
Shout out to Mrs Brown for being such a supportive tutor and Mrs Argyle for giving up her free time to mark my STEP mocks for me."
"I'm extremely happy to have achieved A*A*A*A* in Maths, Further Maths, Physics and Computer Science, and grades 1 and S in the STEP papers.
I look forwards to starting my degree in maths at Cambridge and am incredibly grateful to everyone who helped me get here."

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/news/celebrate-cambridges-iconic-landmarks-and-uncover-new-treasures-this-september-at-open-cambridge:
With over 70 drop-in and bookable events, Open Cambridge encourages people to discover more about their local history and communities.
Taking place over 10 days, here is a preview of some of the events taking place.
Experience 2 iconic Cambridge sites this September by booking on to guided tours of the Mullard Radio Astronomy Observatory (MRAO) and the University of Cambridge’s Senate House .
At MRAO, discover more about mysterious dishes which are dotted over the Cambridgeshire countryside.
You’ll get up close to the One-Mile Telescope, 5-km Ryle Telescope, and the Arcminute Microkelvin Imager as well as see inside some of the control rooms and learn about the unique history of the site and some of the important discoveries made here.
In the tours of Senate House, led by the University’s Ceremonial Officer, find out what goes on in this Grade 1 listed building during graduations as well as some of the incredible history to which the building has played host.
Learn about the experiences of over 2000 Cambridgeshire soldiers who were sent last minute by Churchill to the failed defence of Singapore in WWII in a special talk by Lewis Herbert, former Leader of Cambridge City Council .
On the 80th anniversary of the release from Japanese Army slavery of our Far East Prisoners of War (FEPOWs) in September 1945, this talk will pay tribute to them and their families, particularly over 800 locally who never made in home – over 4 in every 10.
This year marks 250 years since the birth of Jane Austen and to celebrate, King’s College Library and Archives are hosting an exhibition showcasing first and early editions of the author’s much-loved novels, alongside the autograph manuscript of her unfinished novel Sanditon and treasures highlighting the Austen family’s connection with the College.
This one-day event is a rare opportunity to look inside the College’s beautiful early nineteenth-century library designed by the architect William Wilkins.
Back in May, The Sainsbury Laboratory here in Cambridge were part of a team winning a silver-gilt medal at the RHS Chelsea Flower Show .
For Open Cambridge, enjoy a behind-the-scenes tour of the lab , see some of the award-winning display and have a go at some of the interactive activities the team took to Chelsea.
Try your hand at the world’s fastest growing sport, Padel, in a free 55-minute taster session at the Cambridge University Sports Centre.
A fun, sociable mix of tennis and squash, each session is led by a qualified coach and great for beginners, so you’ll learn the rules, try out some shots, and experience what makes padel so popular.
Cambridge Samaritans will be joining Open Cambridge for the first time this year.
For over 60 years, they have been there – day or night – for anyone struggling to cope or in distress, offering a safe space to talk without judgement or pressure.
Join a special online event to find out more about the work the charity is doing on the helplines and in the local community and discover Samaritans’ unique approach to supporting those in emotional distress and our work in reducing the number of suicides.
Also, in the programme for the first time, are 2 tours of the Biomedical Campus.
The first, delivered by Sociologists and residents David Skinner and Will Brown , considers the past, present, and future of the Campus from the perspective of the people who live around it.
The second tour will explore landmark institutions like Addenbrooke’s and Royal Papworth Hospitals, the Laboratory of Molecular Biology, and AstraZeneca’s global HQ as well as give visitors the opportunity to learn about the upcoming Cancer and Children’s Hospitals, world-first surgeries, and the collaborative spirit that drives breakthroughs from bench to bedside.
Zoe Smith, Open Cambridge Manager, said: “Each year we’re blessed with such an incredible and unique programme of events.
From garden and walking tours, to learning more about some of the amazing work our local community organisations undertake, this year’s programme is opening doors to the residents of Cambridge”.
Jo McPhee, Civic Engagement Manager at the University of Cambridge, said: “Open Cambridge is a great way for our University and local communities to come together and celebrate our shared history and incredible stories behind our spaces, places and people.
This year’s programme is full of exciting events that bring those stories to life, showcasing the the depth and diversity of our collective heritage.”
You can view the full Open Cambridge programme on our website.
Open Cambridge is part of the national Heritage Open Days.
It is designed to offer special access to places that are normally closed to the public or charge admission.
The initiative provides an annual opportunity for people to discover the local history and heritage of their community.
Open Cambridge is run by the Public Engagement team at the University of Cambridge, who also deliver the Cambridge Festival, which takes place each spring.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/news/cambridge-innovation-capital-commits-ps100m-to-back-university-of-cambridge-spinouts:
New Entrepreneur in Residence programme builds on work by Cambridge Enterprise and will match serial entrepreneurs with academics to develop world-leading ideas and IP.
Cambridge is at the forefront of innovation in deep tech and life sciences.
Our new EIR programme will provide academics and researchers with access to the £100m we are committing to University of Cambridge spinouts as they continue to develop breakthrough technologies.
Cambridge Innovation Capital (CIC), the VC firm investing in the UK’s highest-potential deep tech and life sciences companies, is committing at least £100m to invest in spinouts from the University of Cambridge.
The funding will seek to take advantage of the vast commercial potential in science and technology innovation developed by Cambridge researchers and follows a series of recent initiatives from the university designed to support entrepreneurial academics.
These include plans for four million sq.
ft of high-tech development at Cambridge West and a new Innovation Hub in central Cambridge to host spinouts, startups, and entrepreneurs.
Dr Diarmuid O’Brien, Pro-Vice-Chancellor for Innovation at the University of Cambridge, welcomed the investment that will help build on current success: “In 2024, the University of Cambridge created more spinout companies than any other university.
It has also produced the most unicorns of any European ecosystem and generates £23 billion in economic interest linked to research and commercialisation each year.”
To coincide with the funding commitment, CIC is launching a new Entrepreneur in Residence (EIR) programme, in partnership with the university, to identify IP with the potential for commercialisation and support academic founders as they begin to build a company.
By matching experienced deep tech and life sciences executives, many of whom have achieved significant exits with their previous businesses, with academics and high-potential IP, the EIR programme will increase the number of quality spinouts and accelerate the path towards viable commercialisation of the technology.
The EIR programme, will maintain a rolling cohort of up to six EIRs.
This is the latest initiative to support spinouts from the university.
The University of Cambridge, through its innovation business, Cambridge Enterprise, has also launched the Founders programme to support new company creation; the Technology Investment Fund (TIF), a new proof of concept fund to de-risk world class research and enable faster commercialisation; and invested an additional £30m of new capital into the £100m AUM Cambridge Enterprise Ventures (CEV) fund to support increasing University investment in spinouts.
“We are determined to do even more, and faster, through initiatives such as the new EIR programme and by attracting investment into our spinout companies working with partners like Cambridge Innovation Capital” added Dr O’Brien.
CIC is committing at least £100m as part of the launch of Fund III, its latest £250 million early-stage venture fund focused on the Cambridge ecosystem, to invest in University of Cambridge spinouts.
Companies created within the EIR programme can access the new funding to support development from inception through proof-of-concept to early-stage growth.
Andrew Williamson, Managing Partner, CIC, explained the reasons for focusing on Cambridge University spinouts: “Cambridge is at the forefront of innovation in deep tech and life sciences.
This expansion of CIC’s long-standing partnership with the University of Cambridge, which provides unique access to the university’s academics and research, will help support the UK’s economic growth by developing the next generation of world-class companies.”

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/news/new-chancellor-elected-at-the-university-of-cambridge:
To be elected as Chancellor of the University I love is a huge honour.
I’m thrilled.
I look forward to being the best possible ambassador for Cambridge, to being a strong voice for higher education more generally, and to working closely together with the Vice-Chancellor and her team.
Lord Smith, the outgoing Master of Pembroke College, Cambridge, becomes the 109th Chancellor and will hold the office for ten years.
He said: “To be elected as Chancellor of the University I love is a huge honour.
I look forward to being the best possible ambassador for Cambridge, to being a strong voice for higher education more generally, and to working closely together with the Vice-Chancellor and her team.”
Lord Smith’s election follows a process which attracted ten candidates.
For the first time the election was opened to online voting and more than 23,000 alumni and staff participated.
In addition, almost 2,000 chose to vote in person at the University's Senate House.
Professor Deborah Prentice, the Vice-Chancellor, said: "On behalf of everyone at the University, I offer my warm congratulations to Chris on his election.
I very much look forward to working with him and building on the strong relationship that we have developed since I became Vice-Chancellor.
Chris has had a long involvement with the University and brings a wealth of relevant experience to this important role.”
“I would like to thank the other nine candidates for standing for the role and their willingness to serve Cambridge.”
Lord Smith has been the Master of Pembroke since 2015 and steps down at the end of July.
In 1992 he joined the Shadow Cabinet and held a number of front bench posts before Labour came to power in 1997.
In July 2008 he became Chairman of the Environment Agency.
The position of Chancellor stretches back more than 800 years to the foundation of the University.
Although the role is primarily ceremonial and without executive responsibilities, the Chancellor has an important part to play in acting as a sounding board for senior figures within the University, in supporting fundraising and in acting as an ambassador for Cambridge.
The most significant commitment for the Chancellor is to advocate and support the University’s aims and strategic interests.
The election was held between 9 and 18 July.
It was conducted under the single transferable vote system and administered on behalf of the University by Civica Election Services.
The results, based on the final numbers of votes allocated to each candidate, were as follows:
Read the full results

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/teachers-awards-2025:
The teachers after being presented with their awards.
For the third year in a row, the University of Cambridge has awarded prizes to teachers who’ve put in extra effort to help their students secure a place to study on a degree course.
Five teachers were nominated by their former students who wanted to see them recognised for helping to steer them on the path to higher education.
Each student spoke about their dedication and their desire to see and develop their potential.
Nicola Craig teaches at the St John Ogilvie High School in Hamilton, South Lanarkshire, Scotland.
She was nominated for the Reaching Cambridge award by Francesca Marrocco who’s now studying Law at Peterhouse.
She described Mrs Craig as a role model who helped her settle on her university subject choice.
Nicola says: “Francesca's hard work and determination has led to her tremendous academic achievement and I am so proud of her.
I am honoured that she feels I played a part in her journey to Cambridge.
She has always had a genuine desire to learn, but more importantly to put that learning to a useful purpose.
I am inspired by the knowledge that Francesca will use her success to benefit others.”
Nicola Craig
Jo Pearson teaches at the Archbishop McGrath Catholic High School in Bridgend, Wales.
She was nominated for the Student Support Champion award by Natasha Leeson who has just completed her first year reading Psychology and Behavioural Sciences at Girton College.
Natasha described Jo’s dedication to her job and students as admirable and she said many of her pupils keep in touch with her after they leave.
Miss Pearson says she’s happy to be part of a team that takes a student’s academic career path so seriously:
“Tasha’s resilience, commitment and championing of others, in the light of continuing personal wellbeing issues, was awe inspiring and the contributions she made to the whole life of the school made her a real asset to Sixth Form and a joy to teach.
She achieved A* in all her A levels and I was delighted when she achieved her place reading Psychology and Behavioural Science at Cambridge.
"I am a small cog in a very big wheel of educators and support staff for whom being a part of each student’s academic and personal journey is a 24/7 vocation and true privilege.”
Joanne Pearson
Dan Lyndon-Cohen teaches history at Park View School in Tottenham, London.
He was nominated for a Subject Star Award by Surajat Bello, now a student at Newnham College studying History and Politics .
She said he made history more accessible, particularly Black British history, and consistently gave encouragement.
He says: “It was special to be nominated by Surajat, who had left the school four years before (we don't have a 6 th Form) and was part of the cohort that ended their year 11 early because of Covid.
"Spending the day with Surajat will live long in the memory, she is such a wise, driven and grounded woman, who has grabbed all the opportunities that have come her way.
She is a really inspiring role model for our students.”
Dan Lyndon-Cohen
Tim Harrison is a Science teacher at Farlingaye High School in Woodbridge, Suffolk.
He was also nominated for a Subject Star by Barney Steventon-Barnes who’s now reading Medicine at Emmanuel College.
Tim is thrilled to see Barney now studying at Cambridge:
“It’s humbling to have been nominated for this award by a former student.
My aim each day is to give my students a good experience.
"Teaching Barney was straightforward!
He was so capable and keen to learn that he just needed pointing in the right direction.
I am thrilled that he now has the chance to spread his wings at Cambridge."
Tim Harrison
Another award was presented to Tom Lloyd from Dudley College of Technology in the West Midlands.
He was nominated for a special award to mark the support he gave to Elijah Denning to get a place on the University’s Foundation Year .
Elijah has now completed the course with a Distinction meaning he’ll remain in Cambridge to do his full undergraduate degree.
Congratulations Elijah!
Read more about this particular award.
Tom Lloyd
The awards were presented by the University's Director of Recruitment, Admissions and Participation, Mike Nicholson: " It is clear that the teachers who were recipients of the Inspiring Educator Awards have made a major contribution to the outcomes of the students who nominated them.
"The engagement and support given by the teachers provided students with the confidence to make their application to Cambridge and explore the super-curricular elements of their chosen subject.
"The Inspiring Educator Awards recognise the significant contribution that teachers make, particularly where students have limited prior experience of higher education."
Each award winner went home with a certificate and £300 cash prize for their school to spend on books or equipment.
Published 18th July 2025

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/artistic-beauty-abstract-thinking:
Published: 7 May 2025.
Since the dawn of philosophy, thinkers from Plato to Kant have considered how beauty affects human experience, and whether it has the power to transform our state of mind.
Now, a new study from the University of Cambridge suggests that stopping to contemplate the beauty of artistic objects in a gallery or museum boosts our ability to think in abstract ways and consider the “bigger picture” when it comes to our lives.
Researchers say the findings offer empirical evidence that engaging with artistic beauty helps us escape the “mental trappings of daily life,” such as current anxieties and to-do lists, and induce “psychological distancing”: the process of zooming out on your thoughts to gain clarity.
People contemplate a painting in Kettle's Yard, the University's modern art gallery and site of the study's experiment.
A team of Cambridge psychologists conducted an experiment using the University’s modern art gallery, Kettle’s Yard, as a “living laboratory” to compare the cognitive effects of merely seeing art with actively judging how beautiful it is.
Researchers found that study participants who focused on the beauty of objects in an exhibition of ceramics were more likely to experience elevated psychological states enabling them to think “beyond the here and now”, and more likely to report feeling enlightened, moved, or transformed.
This was compared to participants who were simply asked to look intently at the artistic objects to match them with a series of line drawings.
The findings are published in the journal Empirical Studies of the Arts .
The study, among the first to explore how aesthetic experiences in a gallery or museum can affect cognitive processing, reinforces the importance of art creation as well as access to artistic spaces, say researchers.
“Many philosophers throughout history have suggested that engaging with aesthetic beauty invokes a special kind of psychological state,” said Prof Simone Schnall, senior author of the study and Professor of Experimental Social Psychology at Cambridge.
“Our research indicates that engaging with the beauty of art can enhance abstract thinking and promote a different mindset to our everyday patterns of thought, shifting us into a more expansive state of mind.”
“This is known as psychological distancing, when one snaps out of the mental trappings of daily life and focuses more on the overall picture.”
“Visiting an art museum is not just a pleasant way to spend an afternoon, it may actually change how we think about our lives”
Prof Simone Schnall
Watch Prof Simone Schnall discuss her research into art and cognition.
Examples of the ceramics in the Lucie Rie exhibition at Kettle's Yard.
Half the participants were asked to consider and rate the beauty of these objects.
For the latest study, 187 people were recruited to visit Kettle’s Yard gallery during an exhibition of handmade clay objects by pottery artist Lucie Rie.
“Ceramics were ideal for our purposes,” said Schnall.
“A glorious painting by an Old Master would be too striking.
We needed art that is subtle in form, requiring a focused contemplation of the nature of beauty.”
The Lucie Rie exhibition at Kettle's Yard.
Participants were randomly split into two groups: the ‘beauty’ group was asked to actively consider and then rate the beauty of each ceramic object they viewed, while the second group just matched a line drawing of the object with the artwork itself.
Example of the line drawing test used in the experiment.
All participants were then tested on how they process information, and if it’s in a more practical or abstract way.
For example, does ‘writing a letter’ mean literally putting pen to paper or sharing your thoughts?
Is ‘voting’ marking a ballot or influencing an election?
Is ‘locking a door’ inserting a key or securing a house?
“These tests are designed to gauge whether a person is thinking in an immediate, procedural way, as we often do in our day-to-day lives, or is attuned to the deeper meaning and bigger picture of the actions they take,” said Dr Elzė Sigutė Mikalonytė, lead author of the study and a researcher at Cambridge’s Department of Psychology.
Across all participants, those in the beauty group scored almost 14% higher on average than the control group in abstract thinking.
While they were told the study was about cognitive processes, participants were asked about interests, with around half saying they had an artistic hobby.
Among those, the effect was greater: those with an artistic hobby in the ‘beauty’ group scored over 25% higher on average for abstract thinking than those with an artistic hobby in the control group.
Emotional states of participants were also measured by asking about their feelings while completing the gallery task.
Across all participants, those in the beauty group reported an average of 23% higher levels of “transformative and self-transcendent feelings” – such as feeling moved, enlightened and inspired – than the control group.
“Our findings offer empirical support for a long-standing philosophical idea that beauty appreciation can help people detach from their immediate practical concerns and adopt a broader, more abstract perspective,” said Mikalonytė.
Importantly, however, the beauty group did not report feeling any happier than the control group, suggesting that it was the engagement with beauty that influenced abstract thinking, rather than any overall positivity from the experience.
The latest study is part of a wider project led by Schnall exploring the effects of aesthetic experiences on cognition.
The project, supported by the Templeton Religion Trust , aims to address whether art can contribute to human flourishing and positive values.
Prof Simone Schnall, Director of the Cambridge Body, Mind, and Behaviour Laboratory.
“People today are often tethered to their devices, and we usually think in very concrete terms when we’re doing something on a screen,” added Schnall.
“It’s becoming much rarer to zone out and just let the mind wander, but that’s when we think in ways that broaden our horizons.
Admiring the beauty of art may be the ideal way to trigger the abstract cognitive processes increasingly lost in a world of screens and smartphones.”
Published 7 May 2025
Photograph credits (from top to bottom): Grant Feint/Getty My Linh Lee/Kettle's Yard Jo Underhill/Kettle's Yard Templeton Foundation The text in this work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research/news/adolescents-with-mental-health-conditions-use-social-media-differently-than-their-peers-study:
Young people with a diagnosable mental health condition report differences in their experiences of social media compared to those without a condition, including greater dissatisfaction with online friend counts and more time spent on social media sites.
This is according to a new study led by the University of Cambridge, which suggests that adolescents with ‘internalising’ conditions such as anxiety and depression report feeling particularly affected by social media.
Young people with these conditions are more likely to report comparing themselves to others on social media, feeling a lack of self-control over time spent on the platforms, as well as changes in mood due to the likes and comments received.
Researchers found that adolescents with any mental health condition report spending more time on social media than those without a mental health condition, amounting to an average of roughly 50 minutes extra on a typical day.*
The study, led by Cambridge’s Medical Research Council Cognition and Brain Sciences Unit (MRC CBU), analysed data from a survey of 3,340 adolescents in the UK aged between 11 and 19 years old, conducted by NHS Digital in 2017.**
It is one of the first studies on social media use among adolescents to utilise multi-informant clinical assessments of mental health.
These were produced by professional clinical raters interviewing young people, along with their parents and teachers in some cases.***
“The link between social media use and youth mental health is hotly debated, but hardly any studies look at young people already struggling with clinical-level mental health symptoms,” said Luisa Fassi, a researcher at Cambridge’s MRC CBU and lead author of the study, published in the journal Nature Human Behaviour .
“Our study doesn’t establish a causal link, but it does show that young people with mental health conditions use social media differently than young people without a condition.
“This could be because mental health conditions shape the way adolescents interact with online platforms, or perhaps social media use contributes to their symptoms.
At this stage, we can’t say which comes first – only that these differences exist,” Fassi said.
The researchers developed high benchmarks for the study based on existing research into sleep, physical activity and mental health.
Only findings with comparable levels of association to how sleep and exercise differ between people with and without mental health conditions were deemed significant.
While mental health was measured with clinical-level assessments, social media use came from questionnaires completed by study participants, who were not asked about specific platforms.****
As well as time spent on social media, all mental health conditions were linked to greater dissatisfaction with the number of online friends.
“Friendships are crucial during adolescence as they shape identity development,” said Fassi.
“Social media platforms assign a concrete number to friendships, making social comparisons more conspicuous.
For young people struggling with mental health conditions, this may increase existing feelings of rejection or inadequacy.”
Researchers looked at differences in social media use between young people with internalising conditions, such as anxiety, depression and PTSD, and externalising conditions, such as ADHD or conduct disorders.
The majority of differences in social media use were reported by young people with internalising conditions.
For example, ‘social comparison’ – comparing themselves to others online – was twice as high in adolescents with internalising conditions (48%, around one in two) than for those without a mental health condition (24%, around one in four).
Adolescents with internalising conditions were also more likely to report mood changes in response to social media feedback (28%, around 1 in 4) compared to those without a mental health condition (13%, around 1 in 8).
They also reported lower levels of self-control over time spent on social media and a reduced willingness to be honest about their emotional state when online.*****
“Some of the differences in how young people with anxiety and depression use social media reflect what we already know about their offline experiences.
Social comparison is a well-documented part of everyday life for these young people, and our study shows that this pattern extends to their online world as well,” Fassi said.
By contrast, other than time spent on social media, researchers found few differences between young people with externalising conditions and those without a condition.
“Our findings provide important insights for clinical practice, and could help to inform future guidelines for early intervention,” said Cambridge’s Dr Amy Orben, senior author of the study.
“However, this study has only scratched the surface of the complex interplay between social media use and mental health.
The fact that this is one of the first large-scale and high-quality studies of its kind shows the lack of systemic investment in this space.”
Added Fassi: “So many factors can be behind why someone develops a mental health condition, and it's very hard to get at whether social media use is one of them.”
“A huge question like this needs lots of research that combines experimental designs with objective social media data on what young people are actually seeing and doing online.”
“We need to understand how different types of social media content and activities affect young people with a range of mental health conditions such as those living with eating disorders, ADHD, or depression.
Without including these understudied groups, we risk missing the full picture.”
*Study participants were asked to rate their social media use on a typical school day and a typical weekend or holiday day.
This was given as a nine-point scale, ranging from less than 30 minutes to over seven hours.
Responses from adolescents with any mental health condition approached on average ‘three to four hours’, compared to adolescents without a condition, who averaged between ‘one to two hours’ and ‘two to three hours’.
The category of all mental health conditions in the study includes several conditions that are classed as neither internalising or externalising, such as sleep disorders and psychosis.
However, the numbers of adolescents suffering from these are comparatively small.
**The survey was conducted as part of NHS Digital’s Mental Health of Children and Young People Survey (MHCYP) and is nationally representative of this age group in the UK.
The researchers only used data from those who provided answers on social media use (50% male, 50% female).
*** Previous studies have mainly used self-reported questionnaires (e.g.
a depression severity questionnaire) to capture mental health symptoms and conditions in participants.
**** The researchers point out that, as responses on social media use were self-reported, those with mental health conditions may be perceiving they spend more time on social media rather than actually doing so.
They say that further research with objective data is required to provide definitive answers.
***** For data on social media use, study participants were asked to rate the extent to which they agree with a series of statements on a five-point Likert scale.
The statements ranged from ‘I compare myself to others on social media’ to ‘I am happy with the number of friends I have on social media’.
Researchers divided responses into 'disagree' (responses 1 to 3) and 'agree' (responses 4 and 5) and then calculated the proportion of adolescents agreeing separately for each diagnostic group to aid with public communication of the findings.
Teenage boy with smart phone
Credit: D-Keine via Getty

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research/news/harmful-effects-of-digital-tech-the-science-needs-fixing-experts-argue:
The scientific methods and resources we have for evidence creation at the moment simply cannot deal with the pace of digital technology development
Scientific research on the harms of digital technology is stuck in a ‘failing cycle’ that moves too slowly to allow governments and society to hold tech companies to account, according to two leading researchers in a new report published in the journal Science .
Dr Amy Orben from the University of Cambridge and Dr J Nathan Matias from Cornell University say the pace at which new technology is deployed to billions of people has put unbearable strain on the scientific systems trying to evaluate its effects.
They argue that big tech companies effectively outsource research on the safety of their products to independent scientists at universities and charities who work with a fraction of the resources – while firms also obstruct access to essential data and information.
This is in contrast to other industries where safety testing is largely done ‘in house’.
Orben and Matias call for an overhaul of ‘evidence production’ assessing the impact of technology on everything from mental health to discrimination.
Their recommendations include accelerating the research process, so that policy interventions and safer designs are tested in parallel with initial evidence gathering, and creating registries of tech-related harms informed by the public.
“Big technology companies increasingly act with perceived impunity, while trust in their regard for public safety is fading,” said Orben, of Cambridge’s MRC Cognition and Brain Sciences Unit.
“Policymakers and the public are turning to independent scientists as arbiters of technology safety.”
“Scientists like ourselves are committed to the public good, but we are asked to hold to account a billion-dollar industry without appropriate support for our research or the basic tools to produce good quality evidence quickly.”
“We must urgently fix this science and policy ecosystem so we can better understand and manage the potential risks posed by our evolving digital society,” said Orben.
In the latest Science paper , the researchers point out that technology companies often follow policies of rapidly deploying products first and then looking to ‘debug’ potential harms afterwards.
This includes distributing generative AI products to millions before completing basic safety tests, for example.
When tasked with understanding potential harms of new technologies, researchers rely on ‘routine science’ which – having driven societal progress for decades – now lags the rate of technological change to the extent that it is becoming at times ‘unusable’.
With many citizens pressuring politicians to act on digital safety, Orben and Matias argue that technology companies use the slow pace of science and lack of hard evidence to resist policy interventions and “minimize their own responsibility”.
Even if research gets appropriately resourced, they note that researchers will be faced with understanding products that evolve at an unprecedented rate.
“Technology products change on a daily or weekly basis, and adapt to individuals.
Even company staff may not fully understand the product at any one time, and scientific research can be out of date by the time it is completed, let alone published,” said Matias, who leads Cornell’s Citizens and Technology (CAT) Lab.
“At the same time, claims about the inadequacy of science can become a source of delay in technology safety when science plays the role of gatekeeper to policy interventions,” Matias said.
“Just as oil and chemical industries have leveraged the slow pace of science to deflect the evidence that informs responsibility, executives in technology companies have followed a similar pattern.
Some have even allegedly refused to commit substantial resources to safety research without certain kinds of causal evidence, which they also decline to fund.”
The researchers lay out the current ‘negative feedback cycle’:
Tech companies do not adequately resource safety research, shifting the burden to independent scientists who lack data and funding.
This means high-quality causal evidence is not produced in required timeframes, which weakens government’s ability to regulate – further disincentivising safety research, as companies are let off the hook.
Orben and Matias argue that this cycle must be redesigned, and offer ways to do it.
To speed up the identification of harms caused by online technologies, policymakers or civil society could construct registries for incident reporting, and encourage the public to contribute evidence when they experience harms.
Similar methods are already used in fields such as environmental toxicology where the public reports on polluted waterways, or vehicle crash reporting programs that inform automotive safety, for example.
“We gain nothing when people are told to mistrust their lived experience due to an absence of evidence when that evidence is not being compiled,” said Matias.
Existing registries, from mortality records to domestic violence databases, could also be augmented to include information on the involvement of digital technologies such as AI.
The paper’s authors also outline a ‘minimum viable evidence’ system, in which policymakers and researchers adjust the ‘evidence threshold’ required to show potential technological harms before starting to test interventions.
These evidence thresholds could be set by panels made up of affected communities, the public, or ‘science courts’: expert groups assembled to make rapid assessments.
“Causal evidence of technological harms is often required before designers and scientists are allowed to test interventions to build a safer digital society,” said Orben.
“Yet intervention testing can be used to scope ways to help individuals and society, and pinpoint potential harms in the process.
We need to move from a sequential system to an agile, parallelised one.”
Under a minimum viable evidence system, if a company obstructs or fails to support independent research, and is not transparent about their own internal safety testing, the amount of evidence needed to start testing potential interventions would be decreased.
Orben and Matias also suggest learning from the success of ‘Green Chemistry’, which sees an independent body hold lists of chemical products ranked by potential for harm, to help incentivise markets to develop safer alternatives.
“The scientific methods and resources we have for evidence creation at the moment simply cannot deal with the pace of digital technology development,” Orben said.
“Scientists and policymakers must acknowledge the failures of this system and help craft a better one before the age of AI further exposes society to the risks of unchecked technological change.”
Added Matias: “When science about the impacts of new technologies is too slow, everyone loses.”
Illustration representing potential online harms
Credit: Nuthawut Somsuk via Getty

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research/news/news-article-or-big-oil-ad:
A sneaky form of advertising favoured by oil giants influences public opinion with climate action misperceptions, but researchers are studying potential solutions.
In the battle against climate disinformation, native advertising is a fierce foe.
A study published in the journal npj Climate Action by researchers from Boston University (BU) and the University of Cambridge, evaluates two promising tools to fight misleading native advertising campaigns put forth by big oil companies.
Many major news organisations now offer corporations the opportunity to pay for articles that mimic in tone and format the publication’s regular reported content.
These ‘native advertisements’ are designed to camouflage seamlessly into their surroundings, containing only subtle disclosure messages often overlooked or misunderstood by readers.
Fossil fuel companies are spending tens of millions of dollars to shape public perceptions of the climate crisis.
“Because these ads appear on reputable, trusted news platforms, and are formatted like reported pieces, they often come across to readers as genuine journalism,” said lead author Michelle Amazeen from BU’s College of Communication.
“Research has shown native ads are really effective at swaying readers’ opinions.”
The study is the first to investigate how two mitigation strategies — disclosures and inoculations — may reduce climate misperceptions caused by exposure to native advertising from the fossil fuel industry.
The authors found that when participants were shown a real native ad from ExxonMobil, disclosure messages helped them recognise advertising, while inoculations helped reduce their susceptibility to misleading claims.
“As fossil fuel companies invest in disguising their advertisements, this study furthers our understanding of how to help readers recognise when commercial content is masquerading as news and spreading climate misperceptions,” said co-author Benjamin Sovacool, also from BU.
“Our study showed that communication-led climate action is possible and scalable by countering covert greenwashing campaigns, such as native advertising, at the source,” said co-author Dr Ramit Debnath from Cambridge’s Department of Architecture.
“The insights we’ve gained from this work will help us design better interventions for climate misinformation.”
The research builds on a growing body of work assessing how people recognise and respond to covert misinformation campaigns.
By better understanding these processes, the researchers hope that they can prevent misinformation from taking root and changing people’s beliefs and actions on important issues like climate change.
Starting in 2018, readers of The New York Times website encountered what appeared to be an article, titled “ The Future of Energy ,” describing efforts by oil and gas giant ExxonMobil to invest in algae-based biofuels.
Because it appeared beneath the Times’ masthead, in the outlet’s typical formatting and font, many readers likely missed the small banner at the top of the page mentioning that it was an ad sponsored by ExxonMobil.
The ad, part of a $5-million-dollar campaign, neglected to mention the company’s staggering carbon footprint.
It also omitted key context, The Intercept reported , like that the stated goal for algae-based biofuel production would represent only 0.2% of the company’s overall refinery capacity.
In a lawsuit against ExxonMobil, Massachusetts cited the ad as evidence of the company’s “false and misleading” communications, with several states pursuing similar cases.
The researchers examined how more than a thousand participants responded to “The Future of Energy” ad in a simulated social media feed.
Before viewing the ad, participants saw one, both, or neither of the following intervention messages:
An inoculation message designed to psychologically ‘inoculate’ readers from future influence by broadly warning them of potential exposures to misleading paid content.
In this study, the inoculation message was a fictitious social media post from United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres reminding people to be wary of online misinformation.
A disclosure message with a simple line of text appearing on a post.
In this study, the text “Paid Post by ExxonMobil” accompanied the piece.
Studies have shown that more often than not, when native ads are shared on social media, this disclosure disappears.
The team found that the ad improved opinions of ExxonMobil’s sustainability across the study’s many participants, regardless of which messages they saw, but that the interventions helped to reduce this effect.
Some of the key findings include:
The presence of a disclosure more than doubled the likelihood that a participant recognised the content as an ad.
However, the participants who had seen a disclosure and those who had not were equally likely to agree with the statement “companies like ExxonMobil are investing heavily in becoming more environmentally friendly.”
Inoculation messages were much more effective than disclosures at protecting people’s existing beliefs on climate change, decreasing the likelihood that participants would agree with misleading claims presented in the ad.
“Disclosures helped people recognise advertising.
However, they didn’t help them recognise that the material was biased and misleading,” said Amazeen.
“Inoculation messaging provides general education that can be used to fill in that gap and help people resist its persuasive effects.
Increasing general awareness about misinformation strategies used by self-interested actors, combined with clearer labels on sponsored content, will help people distinguish native ads from reported content.”
Michelle A Amazeen et al.
‘ The “Future of Energy”?
Building resilience to ExxonMobil’s disinformation through disclosures and inoculation .’ npj climate action (2025).
DOI: 10.1038/s44168-025-00209-6
Adapted from a Boston University story .
Fueling the Fire of Misinformation - stock photo
Credit: rob dobi vai Getty Images

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/subjects/social-psychology:
Psychological experiment suggests actively considering the beauty of art increases abstract thinking and “transformative” emotion – helping us escape the “mental trappings” of day-to-day living.
Scientists say the findings might shed light on the link between loneliness and mental health conditions such as anxiety disorders, which are on the rise in young people.
While divisive social media posts get more traction in countries such as the US, a new study shows that celebrating national unity is the way to go viral in Ukraine.
Study using data from 10,000 people in the UK found that those who had a closer bond with their parents at age 3 tended to display more socially-desirable behaviours like kindness, empathy and generosity, by adolescence.
How rich or poor young people think they are compared to their friendship group is linked to wellbeing and even bullying during the shift between childhood and teenage years.
Analysis of posts from thousands of social media users either side of a scandal – the dramatic fall of YouTube celebrity Logan Paul – shows how hard it is for us to update our beliefs about those we support, even when they behave in appalling ways.
Research shows that there is no bias toward selecting people with muscular bodies or facial characteristics perceived as threatening when identifying criminal suspects in line-ups.
Massive study of almost two million US residents reveals rising housing costs may drive increases in “openness” of character among both long-term and new inhabitants of a city.
Researchers argue that a desire for “conformity and obedience” as a result of COVID-19 could boost authoritarianism in the wake of the pandemic.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/subjects/social-media:
How Big Oil influences climate conversations on social media.
New 2-minute test launched; developed using ChatGPT technology and validated by expert panel and series of experiments involving thousands of participants.
YouGov used the test in US polling, and found Americans know real from fake headlines two-thirds of the time, but worst performers are under-30s who spend most time online.
Researchers argue that the findings hold lessons for social media companies and the “perverse incentives” driving political polarisation online.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/subjects/us-politics:
Data also suggests that Democrat appeals to unity were popular across the board, but “politicians need to do more to understand why some people feel under threat”.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/people/jon-roozenbeek:
Briefly exposing social media users to tricks behind misinformation boosts awareness of dangerous online falsehoods – even amid intense ‘noise’ of world’s second-most visited website.
Russia's years-long information war has failed to build support among Russian-speaking Ukrainians, especially in Donbas, argues Dr Jon Roozenbeek.
A study of the propaganda that flooded Donbas for years reveals a failure to build pro-Russian 'in-group' identities in the region, despite Putin’s claims of support.
Latest research on digital interventions deployed by UK government and UNESCO suggests that exposing people to a “microdose” of techniques used by misinformation merchants helps “inoculate” them against fake news about the pandemic.
A short online game in which players are recruited as a 'Chief Disinformation Officer' and use tactics such as trolling to sabotage elections in a peaceful town has been shown to reduce susceptibility to political misinformation in its users.
An international study finds that people who rate coronavirus conspiracy theories as more reliable are much less likely to say they will get vaccinated.
Go Viral!
is a new game developed by Cambridge psychologists in partnership with the UK government to help fight the ‘infodemic’: the deluge of false information about COVID-19.
Study of thousands of players shows a simple online game works like a 'vaccine', increasing skepticism of fake news by giving people a “weak dose” of the methods behind disinformation.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/affiliations/department-of-psychology:
By tying together more than a century of memory research at Cambridge, the Memory Lab gives us tangible ways to improve, preserve and understand our memory.
Findings from a major Cambridge-led study inspired psychologists to co-produce a picture book that helps parents develop a deeper understanding of how their child is coping with the first year of school.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/affiliations/school-of-the-biological-sciences:
Making advances in patient care through scientific collaboration and partnering on clinical trials.
New Cambridge laboratory supports the UK’s ambition of having the most advanced genomic healthcare system in the world.
A case study of how AstraZeneca is nurturing the talent of the future through its funded PhD programmes.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/affiliations/king%27s-college:
Professor George Efstathiou has been awarded the Shaw Prize in Astronomy, one of the biggest prizes in the field.
A major review of over 67,000 animal species has found that while the natural world continues to face a biodiversity crisis, targeted conservation efforts are helping bring many species back from the brink of extinction.
Three Cambridge Colleges have teamed up to co-host an outreach event in the North-East of England with the aim of encouraging more applications from students in the area.
They were joined by colleagues from Oxford.
For the past 300 years, the Gibbs Building at King’s College, Cambridge, has been home to many of history’s most influential characters.
A new book explores the hidden – and in many cases, not-so-hidden – stories of some of its queer fellows.
Chris Tagnon is the first Cambridge University student to be awarded a Masters in Motorsport scholarship.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/ai-and-public-benefit:
By Elinor Pegler
Jessica Montgomery and Neil Lawrence
There’s no shortage of buzz around artificial intelligence (AI).
From self-driving cars to the promise of revolutionising healthcare, AI is being hailed as the technology that will change the world around us.
But what does this really mean for our everyday lives?
And how can we ensure that AI is used to serve all of us across society, not just the interests of a few?
At the University of Cambridge, ai@cam is at the forefront of developing artificial intelligence with real purpose.
Led by Professor Neil Lawrence and Jessica Montgomery, the University’s flagship mission on AI unites expertise from across research domains, businesses, policy-makers, and civil society to ensure AI supports practical, community-driven solutions that benefit all in society.
One of the biggest misconceptions around AI is the hype surrounding Artificial General Intelligence (AGI), or machines that could outperform humans in all tasks.
Lawrence refers to this as “AGI vaporware,” promises of a technology that haven’t yet been built but are marketed to attract investment.
“There is no doubt that these technologies are utterly transformational, but we need to be careful,” he explains.
“The term AGI is being used as a marketing tool, but marketing doesn’t solve the real-world problems we care about, like healthcare or education.”
The focus on this speculative future distracts attention from where AI could make an immediate difference.
The challenge of translating that potential into practice couldn’t be more true than when it comes to our public services.
“There’s often a sense that experts from industry or research can simply hand down a ‘one size fits all’ solution to public service professionals,” Montgomery points out.
But the reality is far more collaborative.
“If we’re going to make AI tools useful for the public sector, we need to start by understanding the issues that public servants and people using public services are grappling with” she says.
“AI won’t offer a quick fix.
The real challenge is tackling the complex issues - whether it’s healthcare, education, or crime - by working through these problems together.
We need to co-create solutions that truly serve the public and that’s by involving them at the v ery beginning of A I design.”
People have long expressed hopes about what AI should deliver.
Recent public dialogues , led by ai@cam, have contributed to a growing body of evidence that shows the public’s desire for AI to be used in a way where they can see tangible benefits to their lives.
From better healthcare, more responsive public services to practical solutions for our frontline workers, their expectations are clear.
“Time and time again, we hear how people hope AI could alleviate nurses and doctors from the burden of tedious admin tasks so it could free time to spend with patients.
They imagine AI could support teachers by personalising learning while reducing their paperwork.
Or help make their interactions with public services easier, and more ‘human’.
These aren’t outside the realms of possibility, but to do this successfully, we need to place public benefit at the core of AI innovation” explains Jess Montgomery.
Yet, behind public aspirations for AI, a growing mistrust is forming.
ai@cam’s recent public dialogue highlights an underlying scepticism about the current trajectory for AI development.
“People are rightly worried about their data and privacy and the concentration of power in the hands of large technology companies.
There is a sense that AI is now something that's being done to us, rather than something that is genuinely here for the benefit of all of us.”
Creating a meaningful dialogue with the public is fundamental to the work of ai@cam and is key to building the trust and accountability needed for successful AI integration.
All too often, AI systems are designed without proper consideration of the people using them or are deployed without the necessary feedback loops.
This is made even more evident by scandals like the Horizon Post Office and the Lorenzo scandal where flawed technology and disregard for frontline feedback led to serious failings.
At a crucial time in AI development, the stakes couldn’t be higher.
“It's absolutely critical to listen to public voices and bring them into discussions around the future of our society.
Our frontline workers need to be front and centre of how we design and implement AI systems into public services - it's not ludicrous to imagine a future in which we can engage teachers or nurses directly in the process of software design, but it does require a whole new model of innovation and one in which they are in the driving seat” emphasises Neil Lawrence.
To do this, ai@cam are doing things differently.
By facilitating new collaborations between academia and the public sector with a focus on real world problems, a new vision for AI can begin to appear.
With the announcement of the latest cohort of “AI-deas challenges” and local government engagements through their Policy Lab , change is already underway.
“We want to remove traditional barriers so that those who are closest to the problems are the ones working with us to design the solutions” says Neil Lawrence.
“This isn’t just about creating technology just for technology’s sake - it’s about creating lasting impact for the benefit of everyone.”
Local government is at the heart of everyday life - delivering essential services that support communities, from housing and social care to transport and education.
As councils grapple with rising demand, and reduced budgets, artificial intelligence is being looked to as a tool with the potential to enhance how these services are designed and delivered.
One of the key areas where AI is making an impact is in local council contact centres.
“We’re often handling high volumes of routine queries which range from finding the correct bin day to people’s housing benefits,” explains Liz Watts, Chief Executive of South Cambridgeshire District Council.
“We need to provide our residents with accurate information about the services they rely on, and that means using tools which can deliver that safely and effectively.”
By identifying a clear vision of the core functions needed and categorising their most common questions into key themes, they’ve been able to develop AI-powered assistant, “Sam.” The AI tool can provide immediate, automated answers and, if necessary, escalate more complex matters for human support.
“We needed a system which was cost-effective and could integrate into our current processes - it needs to fit into the way we work and support the services already on offer.” While the technology is still new, the initial feedback has been positive.
“We’re confident that it will help reduce demand.
Ultimately, we want to reinvest the resources saved into other critical community services, ensuring that we continue to support our residents in the most impactful way possible.”
AI’s integration into local government services presents new opportunities to support the most vulnerable in society, particularly those who may need vital access to social care or housing support.
Many local councils are adopting ‘Magic Notes’, an AI tool that was designed to reduce the time social workers spend on taking notes when they’re with clients, so they can focus on the client and their needs.
By using Large Language Models (LLMs) which have been customised for frontline casework, the tool creates structured case notes that are compliant with service requirements.
Co-developed in collaboration with social workers and piloted across local authorities in England, the tool is a prime example of AI specifically designed to tackle some of the challenges faced by councils.
“It directly addresses the needs of social care teams and the residents they serve” says Watts.
Despite the visible benefits of AI, the adoption of AI systems in local councils is not without its challenges.
Smaller councils, in particular, struggle to develop and implement AI solutions due to limited staff and budget.
“AI adoption in local government isn’t systematic - it’s more like word of mouth,” says Watts.
“There’s no unified approach or official guidance on how to implement AI effectively.
What we need is access to expertise through collaboration with universities and government or a space for knowledge-sharing.
The stakes are high here - the systems we choose to implement have very real consequences for our residents and service users.
We must get this right.”
Liz Watts
Kwadwo Oti-Sarpong and Terry de Sousa
Dr Kwadwo Oti-Sarpong and his team are all too aware of the pressures facing local government.
As one of five winners of ai@cam’s flagship AI-deas programme, he leads the Decision-making with AI in Connected Places and Cities project - working on developing practical guidance to help local authorities make ethically-informed decisions about using AI in their digital transformation efforts.
“Our project is about giving local authorities the knowledge and confidence to make decisions around AI that are not only technically sound, but socially responsible,” says Dr Oti-Sarpong.
“We want to ensure that as digitalisation accelerates, it does so in a way that prioritises ethics, and reflects the values of the communities it’s meant to serve.”
The AI-deas team are already putting those principles into practice.
Through a collaboration with Greater Cambridge Sh ared Planning Service (GCSP), they’re supporting the introduction of a new AI tool designed to streamline the thousands of comments received from residents, community groups and the public, submitted during consultations on planning policies.
“The Local Plan sets the future for the area for the next 15 to 20 years.
It covers everything - housing, transport, infrastructure, environmental policies.
Every planning application will need to comply with these policies once the Plan is adopted” explains Terry de Sousa, Planning Policy and Strategy Team Leader at GCSP.
But processing over 9,500 consultation comments is no small feat.
Terry’s team calculated it requires around 450 officer days to review, summarise, and categorise the feedback.
“Comments can vary from a single line to a 100-page technical document with multiple datasets,” he says.
“Our whole team is dedicated to this for months.
The Local Plan can shape people’s lives for decades, so every comment must be considered and accounted for.”
With a clear target to reduce the time taken for analysis, GCSP partnered with the University of Liverpool, Anglia Ruskin University, and University of Cambridge to create a bespoke AI tool that could be responsibly deployed to support their work.
Using 55,000 comments gathered over 15 years of public consultations to train the model, the dataset ensures the tool understands the planning context, terminology, and specific terms unique to Greater Cambridge.
“It’s not simply about efficiency - it’s about ensuring the model can grasp the complexity and nuance of the comments” notes de Sousa.
To develop the tool successfully, it was crucial that clear ethical principles were considered from the start.
“We’ve acted as ‘critical friends’ throughout the process,” Oti-Sarpong explains.
“AI tools must be designed to minimise bias or exclusion.
If these systems aren’t transparent and inclusive, there is a serious risk of reinforcing existing inequalities or further marginalisation of certain groups."
Through ongoing consultation, the team has helped raise and prioritise the need for ethical considerations to be at the forefront of the project.
Oti-Sarpong’s team is also working with other local authorities and the Local Government Association to broaden this work and develop the support available to local authorities and other public sector bodies.
“We want to learn from this case study and apply those lessons to other AI-based tools” he says.
“Local authorities don’t just deliver services - they shape the communities we live in.
There are still many unknowns when it comes to AI in the public sector but we want to support local councils to navigate these challenges in a way that builds public trust.”
Professor Neil Lawrence and Jessica Montgomery explain how universities can bridge the gap between those who develop AI systems and those who will use and be affected by them.
26 March 2025

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/ai-and-health:
By Craig Brierley
Professors Andres Floto, Mihaela van der Schaar and Eoin McKinney, Cambridge Centre for AI in Medicine
GP practices
Mental health
Fertility
Cancer research
In 2024, Professor Zoe Kourtzi in the Department of Psychology showed that an AI tool developed by her team could outperform clinical tests at predicting whether people with early signs of dementia will remain stable or develop Alzheimer’s disease.
At a time of intense pressure on the NHS, tools such as this could help doctors prioritise care for those patients who need it most, while removing the need for invasive and costly diagnostic tests for those whose condition will remain stable.
They can also give patients peace of mind that their condition is unlikely to worsen, or, for those less fortunate, it can help them and their families prepare.
These tools could also be transformational in the search for new drugs, making clinical trials more effective, faster and cheaper, says Kourtzi.
Recently, two dementia drugs – lecanemab and donanemab – have shown promise in slowing the disease, but the benefits compared to the costs were judged insufficient to warrant approval for use within the NHS.
Beyond these, there’s been limited progress in the field.
Part of the problem is that clinical trials often focus on the wrong people, which is where AI may help to better decide who to include in trials.
“If you have people that the AI models say will not develop pathology, you won't want to put them in your trial.
They'll only mess up the statistics, and then [the trials] will never show an effect, no matter if you have the best drug in the world.
And if you include people who will progress really fast, it might be already too late for the drug to show benefit.”
Kourtzi is leading one of ai@cam’s AI-deas projects to create a ‘BrainHealth hub’ to tackle the global brain and mental health crisis.
It will bridge the gap between engineers, mathematicians and computer scientists who have the tools but lack the data, and clinicians and neuroscientists who have the data but lack advanced tools to mine them.
“Our idea is to create a ‘hothouse’ of ideas where people can come together to ask and answer challenging questions.“
University researchers, industry partners, the charity sector and policymakers will explore questions such as: how can we use AI for drug discovery, to accelerate clinical trials and develop new treatments, and how can we build interpretable AI models that can be translated to clinical tools?”
The need for such AI to be reliable and responsible is a theme that comes up frequently when Kourtzi speaks to patient groups.
“When doctors are using a complex diagnostic tool like an MRI machine, patients don't query whether they understand what's in this machine, why it works this way.
What they want to know is that it's gone through regulatory standards, it's safe to use and can be trusted.
It’s exactly the same with AI.”
Professor Niels Peek from The Healthcare Improvement Studies (THIS) Institute believes that AI could have a major impact on primary care services, such as GP practices, by tackling some of their most mundane tasks.
One such application involves the use of ‘digital scribes’ to record, transcribe, and summarise conversations between GPs and patients.
“If you look at the amount of time that clinicians spend on that type of work, it’s just incredible,” he says.
“Considering that clinician time is probably the most precious commodity within the NHS, this is technology that could be transformational.”
It is likely that the NHS will increasingly adopt digital scribe technology in the future, so it will be important to ensure the summaries are accurate and do not omit key points or add things that were not mentioned (a ‘hallucination’).
With support from The Health Foundation, Peek is asking whether the technology actually saves time?
“If you have to spend a lot of time correcting its outputs, then it's no longer a given that it actually does save you time.”
Peek believes that in the future, every clinical consultation will be recorded digitally, stored as part of a patient's record, and summarised with AI.
But the existing technology environment, particularly in primary care, presents a challenge.
“GPs use electronic health records that have evolved over time and often look outdated.
Any new technology must fit within these systems.
Asking people to log into a different system is not feasible.”
Peek is also involved in evaluating Patchs, a tool that applies AI to the process of booking GP appointments and conducting online consultations.
It was designed by GP staff and patients, in collaboration with The University of Manchester (where Peek was formerly based) and commercialised by the company Patchs Health.
It is now used by around one in 10 GP practices across England.
Working with end users – patients, GPs, and particularly the administrative staff who use these systems on a day-to-day basis – is crucial.
“You have to make sure they fit both with the systems people are already using, and also with how they do things, with their workflows.
Only then will you see differences that translate into real benefits to people.”
Over recent years, there has been a significant increase in the prevalence of mental health disorders among young people.
But with stretched NHS resources, it can be difficult to access Child and Adolescent Mental Health Services (CAMHS).
Not every child recommended for a referral will need to see a mental health specialist, says Dr Anna Moore from the Department of Psychiatry, but the bottleneck means they can be on the waiting list for up to two years only to be told they don’t meet the criteria for treatment.
The quality of advice they get about alternative options that do meet their needs varies a lot.
Moore is interested in whether AI can help manage this bottleneck by identifying those children in greatest need for support, and helping those who don’t need specialist CAMHS to find suitable support from elsewhere.
One way to do so is by using data collected routinely on children.
“The kinds of data that help us do this can be some of the really sensitive data about people,” she says.
“It might be health information, how they're doing at school, but it could also be information such as they got drunk last weekend and ended up in A&E.”
For this reason, she says, it’s essential that they work closely with members of the public when designing such a system to make sure people understand what they are doing, the kinds of data they are considering using and how it might be used, but also how it might improve the care of young people with mental health problems.
One of the questions that often comes up from ethicists is whether, given the difficulties in accessing CAMHS, it is necessarily a good thing to identify children if they cannot then access services.
“Yes, we can identify those kids who need help, but we need to ask, ‘but so what?’,” she says.
The tool will need to suggest a referral to CAMHS for the children who need it, but for those who have a problem but could be better supported in other ways than CAMHS that could be more flexible to their needs, can it signpost them to helpful, evidence-based, age-appropriate information?
Moore is designing the tool to help find those children who might otherwise get missed.
In the most extreme cases, these might be children such as Victoria Climbié and Baby P, who were tortured and murdered by their guardians.
The serious case reviews highlighted multiple missed opportunities for action, often because systems were not joined up, meaning no one was able to see full picture.
“If we're able to look at all of the data across the system relating to a child, then it might well be possible to bring that together and say, actually there's enough information here that we can do something about it.”
Across the world, fertility rates are falling, while families are choosing to have children later on in life.
To help them conceive, many couples turn to assisted reproductive technologies such as IVF; however, success rates remain low and the process can be expensive.
In the UK, treatment at a private clinic can cost more than £5,000 per cycle – in the US, it can be around $20,000 – and with no guarantee of success.
Mo Vali and Dr Staci Weiss hope that AI can change this.
They are leading From Womb to World, one of ai@cam’s flagship AI-deas projects, which aims to improve prospective parents’ chances of having a baby by diagnosing fertility conditions early on and personalising fertility treatments.
“We're trying to democratise access to IVF outcomes and tackle a growing societal problem of declining fertility rates.” Mo Vali
They are working with Professor Yau Thum at The Lister Fertility Clinic, one of the largest standalone private IVF clinics in the UK, to develop cheaper, less invasive and more accurate AI-assisted tests that can be used throughout the patient’s IVF journey.
To do this, they are making use of the myriad different samples and datasets collected during the fertility process, from blood tests and ultrasound images to follicular fluid, as well as data encompassing demographic and cultural factors.
Building the AI tools was the easy bit, says Vali.
The bigger challenge has been generating the datasets, clearing ethical and regulatory hurdles, and importantly, ensuring that sensitive data is properly anonymised and de-identified – vital for patient privacy and building public trust.
The team also hopes to use AI to improve, and make more accessible, 4D ultrasound scans that let the parents see their baby moving in the womb, capturing movements like thumb-sucking and yawning.
This is important for strengthening the maternal bond during a potentially stressful time, says Weiss.
“Seeing their baby's face and watching it move creates a very different kind of physical, embodied reality and a bond between the mother and her child,” she says.
Consulting with women who have experienced first-hand the challenges of fertility treatments is providing valuable insights, while The Lister Fertility Clinic – a private clinic – is an ideal platform in which to test their ideas before providing tools for the wider public.
It offers a smaller, more controlled environment where they can engage directly with senior clinicians.
“We want to ensure that the research that we are doing and the AI models that we're building work seamlessly before we go at scale,” says Vali.
Antonis Antoniou , Professor of Cancer Risk Prediction at Cambridge, has spent most of his career developing models that predict our risk of developing cancers.
Now, AI promises to take his work to an entirely new level.
Antoniou has recently been announced as Director of the Cancer Data-Driven Discovery Programme, a £10million initiative that promises to transform how we detect, diagnose – and even prevent – cancer in the future.
It’s a multi-institutional project, with partners across the UK, that will build infrastructure and create a multidisciplinary community of researchers, including training the next generation of researchers, with funding for 30 PhD places and early career research positions in cancer data sciences.
The programme will enable scientists to access and link a vast array of diverse health data sets, from GP clinics and cancer screening programmes to large cohort studies through to data generated through interactions with public services such as on occupation, educational attainment and other geospatial data on air pollution, housing quality and access to services.
These will be used in combination with AI and state-of-the-art analytics.
“The funding will allow us to use these data sets to develop models that help us predict individual cancer risk and greatly improve our understanding of who is most at risk of developing cancer,” he says.
“It will hopefully help us transform how we detect and prevent and diagnose cancer in the future.”
One of the key considerations of their work will be to ensure that the AI tools they develop do not inadvertently exacerbate inequalities.
“We have to be careful not to develop models that only work for people who are willing to participate in research studies or those who frequently interact with the healthcare sector, for example, and ensure we’re not ignoring those who can’t easily access healthcare services, perhaps because they live in areas of deprivation.”
Key to their programme has been the involvement of patients and members of the public, who, alongside clinical practitioners, have helped them from the outset to shape their programme.
“They were involved in co-developing our proposals from the planning phase, and going forward, they’ll continue to play a key role, helping guide how we work and to make sure that the data are used responsibly and safely,” he says.
The Cancer Data-Driven Detection programme is jointly supported by Cancer Research UK, the National Institute for Health & Care Research, the Engineering & Physical Sciences Research Council, Health Data Research UK, and Administrative Data Research UK.
Read more about AI and cancer here
It’s just over 20 years since the first human genome was sequenced, opening up a new scientific field – genomics – and helping us understand how our bodies function.
Since then, the number of so-called ‘omics’ – complete readouts of particular types of molecules in our bodies, such as proteins (proteomics) and metabolites (metabolomics) – has blossomed.
Dr Namshik Han from the Milner Therapeutics Institute is interested in how AI can mine this treasure trove to help discover new drugs.
“We’re applying AI approaches to dissect those really big data sets and try to identify meaningful, actionable drug targets,” he says.
His team works with partners who can take these targets to the next stage, such as by developing chemical compounds to act on these targets, testing them in cells and animals, and then taking them through clinical trials.
The Milner Institute acts as a bridge between academia and industry to accelerate this process, partnering with dozens of academic institutes, industry partners, biotech, pharma and venture capitalists.
But at the ‘bleeding edge’ of Han’s work is his collaborations with tech companies.
Han is interested in how quantum computers, which use principles of quantum mechanics to enable much faster and more powerful calculations, can address problems such as the complex chemistry underpinning drug development.
“We’ve shown that quantum algorithms see things that conventional AI algorithms don’t.” Han says.
His lab has used quantum algorithm to explore massive networks comprising tens of thousands of human proteins.
When conventional AI explores these networks, it only looks at certain areas, whereas Han showed that quantum algorithms cover the entire network.
AI has the potential to improve every aspect of drug discovery – from identifying targets, as Han is doing, to optimising clinical trials, potentially reducing the cost of new medications and ensuring patients benefit faster.
But that’s not what really excites Han.
“Take cancer, for example,” he says.
“There are many different types, and for some of them we don’t have specific drugs to treat them.
Instead, we have to use a drug for a related cancer and give that to the patient, which is not ideal.
“Quantum based AI will open up a completely new door to find truly innovative drugs which we’ve never thought of before.
That’s where the real impact has to be.”
Professors Andres Floto, Mihaela van der Schaar and Eoin McKinney on the power of AI to transform health and medicine.
Published 7 April 2025

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/ai-and-climate-and-nature:
Anil Madhavapeddy, Professor of Planetary Computing, Department of Computer Science and Technology
“Around one third of the world’s land surface has been transformed for human use in the last 60 years.
It’s mad just how terrible local decision-making can be for preserving global biodiversity.
By protecting one place we’re often just outsourcing the impact to somewhere else,” says Anil Madhavapeddy , Professor of Planetary Computing in the Department of Computer Science and Technology.
Madhavapeddy is part of the team building a new AI tool called Terra - a predictive model of all terrestrial life on Earth.
It’s a hugely complex task.
The aim is to understand, then help decision-makers try to reverse, ecosystem deterioration and biodiversity loss while also producing enough food, energy and water for our needs.
Terra will combine extensive terrestrial data with earth observation data from satellites and drones, predictively filling in the blanks to build accurate global maps of biodiversity and human activity, and to reveal the world’s biodiversity hotspots.
The tool will help governments and businesses predict the global biodiversity impact of land-use decisions about vital human activities, like farming.
It will vastly improve analysis of the effects of climate change, and the accuracy of biodiversity monitoring.
“Every bit of land on the planet is used for something - either by humans, or by nature.
With Terra we’re trying to map it all."
"We’ll use this to ask which land is most valuable for nature, and which for humanity, on a global scale, and show the potential impact of any land-use decision - aiming to protect the highly biodiverse areas,” says Madhavapeddy.
“We’re also working with Bill Sutherland’s Conservation Evidence project , which is gathering all human knowledge of biodiversity conservation to see which interventions are most effective for each species.
The Holy Grail is to combine the observational data with this knowledge-based data.
Then we can build really accurate maps of the world.”
“We can’t just rewild everything or humans will starve, and we can’t expand agricultural land so everyone can eat low-intensity organic food because there won’t be enough wildlife left.
Terra could help us find the solutions.”
Anil Madhavapeddy holds a map representing the extinction impact as a result of converting natural land to arable use.
Professor Bill Sutherland has an ambitious goal: “to change the culture so it becomes unthinkable not to use evidence in conservation projects.” He wants to stop time and money being wasted on nature conservation projects that don’t work – something he’s seen surprisingly often.
Twenty years, and the equivalent of 75 years of researchers’ time, after he began the project, his freely available Conservation Evidence database is being used by a wide range of conservation organisations and policy makers, and resulting in better outcomes for nature.
But with up to one million species still facing extinction, things need to happen faster.
The team is using Large Language Models (LLMs) - a type of AI that can understand and process text, learning as it goes - to help comb through the vast conservation literature.
They’re training it using their existing database, aiming for an automatic review system where AI can keep adding evidence from the ever-growing number of published papers: 300 million at last count.
"The problem is that it takes a long time to summarise evidence of what works in conservation.
The team has read 1.6 million papers in 17 languages, and new science is being generated all the time," says Sutherland, Professor of Conservation Biology in the Department of Zoology, adding:
"AI can make us much more efficient.
It can find papers it thinks are suitable for our database, summarise them, classify them, and explain its decisions.
It’s just incredible!”
Planetary Computing Fellow Dr Sadiq Jaffer , in the Department of Computer Science and Technology, is part of the interdisciplinary team building a ‘ Conservation Co-Pilot ’ based on the system.
This will guide decision-makers towards the best way to manage specific land types to conserve particular species - and should be available within a year.
“The Conservation Co-Pilot will enable people to get answers to specific questions using the Conservation Evidence database almost instantaneously – quite a contrast to a traditional systematic review, which might take a year and cost £100,000,” says Jaffer.
“Humans will still make the decisions, but the Co-Pilot will suggest the best course of action for nature, and can massively increase productivity."
More: A man with a big idea.
AI-Driven Conservation Co-Pilot is supported by ai@cam.
Professor Bill Sutherland
If hurricane warnings were taken more seriously because they were highly accurate, could more lives be saved?
If we’d foreseen the current state of our climate fifty years ago, could more have been done to curb global temperature rise?
As the climate warms, the Earth’s natural systems are starting to behave in increasingly unpredictable ways.
The models behind both short and long-term climate forecasts are getting more complex, and huge amounts of data being gathered, as scientists scramble to work out what’s going on.
Machine learning, and software engineers, are becoming vital.
“Reliable forecasts of future climate trends - like temperature rise and sea-level change - are crucial for policy-makers trying to plan for the impacts of climate change,” says Dr Joe Wallwork , a Research Software Engineer at Cambridge’s Institute of Computing for Climate Science (ICCS) , adding:
“We need better early warning systems to accurately forecast when and where extreme events will occur.”
“A lot of climate models are limited in resolution,” adds Dr Jack Atkinson , also a Research Software Engineer at ICCS.
“Climate processes can happen at very small scales, and machine learning can help us improve the representation of these processes in models.”
Atkinson is lead developer of FTorch , a software that bridges the gap between traditional climate models and the latest machine learning tools.
This breakthrough is improving climate predictions by better representing small-scale processes that are challenging to capture in models.
FTorch is now used by major institutions, including the National Center for Atmospheric Research, to enhance climate simulations and inform global policy.
Models in development by the team, which use FTorch, use fewer assumptions and more real climate data.
They’re powering the science of many climate studies - from sea-ice change, to cloud behaviour, to greenhouse gases in the atmosphere.
They’re helping to make climate predictions faster , which has important climate implications too.
“It’s an unfortunate irony that climate models require quite a bit of energy to run,” says Wallwork.
“With machine learning we can make the models more efficient, running faster so we can potentially lower our emissions.”
Jack Atkinson (left) and Joe Wallwork (right)
Dr Ronita Bardhan , Associate Professor of Sustainable Built Environment, Department of Architecture and her team have developed an algorithm using open-source data, that uses satellite images to reveal the heat loss from almost every home in the UK.
This is helping identify the homes at risk of losing most heat, which could be prioritised to improve their energy performance.
Bardhan has identified almost 700 homes in Cambridge alone that are particularly vulnerable to heat loss and hard to decarbonise.
The UK government is currently consulting on whether private rental homes should meet a minimum energy efficiency standard (an EPC rating of C) – with the outcome due in May 2025.
A limited number of homes have an EPC rating, but according to Bardhan’s research, over half of the houses in England and Wales would fail this requirement.
“Our aim is to inform policy discussions in support of decarbonisation strategies.
We’re using AI to unearth the hidden layers affecting population health, including the energy efficiency of our homes.”
Bardhan adds: “Prioritising the risks faced by individual households must become a central focus in climate change discussions.
By capturing thermal images, we can distinctly visualise rooftops, walls, and other structural elements to precisely identify how each building loses heat."
“This allows us to ask critical questions: How much of this heat could be retained through retrofitting?
How can we empower households to become more resilient in the face of a changing climate?
It allows us to identify poorly performing homes, and those whose owners most need government support to increase the property’s energy efficiency.
To reach net zero by 2050 this must be done as a priority.”
Household heat loss isn’t the only issue that can affect health – indoor overheating can too.
In the summer of 2022, thousands of people died in the UK due to extreme heat.
“We want to take maximum advantage of our algorithm – scaling it up to look not only at heat loss from homes for the winter months, but also what happens during the summer months when outside temperatures rise,” she says, adding:
“As the climate warms, buildings need to become more energy-efficient to help combat climate change and avoid excessive energy consumption.
We shouldn’t need to use air conditioning in the UK!"
More: https://www.sustainabledesign.arct.cam.ac.uk/projects/decarbonisation.
Bardhan's research is supported by the UK and European Space Agencies.
She contributes to the Health-Driven Design for Cities (HD4) project based at CARES in Singapore.
Ronita Bardhan
The immense value of forests for capturing atmospheric carbon and supporting biodiversity is now clear.
As market initiatives like carbon and biodiversity credits gain momentum to help offset our environmental impact, the science behind them is evolving too.
Two new Cambridge projects are harnessing the power of AI to improve forest monitoring and carbon tracking, by diving into remarkable levels of detail.
“Our AI model will provide stronger evidence to support programmes for carbon accounting and biodiversity credits, by validating large-scale satellite images with extensive, high-quality data collected on the ground,” says Dr Emily Lines in the Department of Geography.
She’s working with Dr Harry Owen , also in the Department of Geography, to develop an AI model trained on data collected across European forests.
This includes billions of terrestrial laser scans, drone images, and even manual measurements with a tape.
While the sheer volume of data has previously been difficult to manage, AI is now speeding up the process and making the data easier to interpret.
3D visualisation of a Spanish forest plot captured with Terrestrial Laser Scanning.
Colours highlight individual trees, while AI-powered wood classification is shown in black.
Credit: Harry Owen.
“AI allows us to create high-resolution, high-quality and large-scale estimates of ecosystem properties – including their species composition and ecological function.
This opens up new opportunities to rigorously test and validate credit-based valuations of ecosystems,” says Lines.
In a complementary project , researcher Frank Feng in the Department of Computer Science and Technology has developed an app called GreenLens , to measure trees on the ground much more quickly and accurately than a person with a tape measure.
Estimating tree trunk diameter is key in understanding a tree’s health and its ability to store carbon.
The freely available app is a user-friendly tool that provides reliable data to support reforestation projects and advance sustainability efforts.
“GreenLens uses AI-powered computer vision and depth detection to measure tree trunk diameters on affordable Android devices.
This makes it easier and faster for researchers, landowners, and communities to collect data and monitor forests - without the need for expensive equipment,” says Feng.
Together these projects demonstrate the growing role of AI and mobile technology in improving forest monitoring, accelerating effective climate action, and supporting biodiversity conservation worldwide.
More: Harnessing AI for Forest Monitoring is supported by ai@cam.
Frank Feng using the GreenLens app to measure a tree.
Professor Anil Madhavapeddy on how the speed of AI is why we must harness it to reverse the damage we’ve done to the planet.
Published 6 April 2025
Images ( Top) : 3D visualisation of a Spanish forest plot captured with Terrestrial Laser Scanning.
Credit Harry Owen.
(Bottom) Frank Feng, credit Rachel Gardner.
Link box images: Unsplash.
All other photographs by Jacqueline Garget.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/AI-deas:
Launched by ai@cam , the University of Cambridge’s flagship mission to drive AI innovation that benefits science, citizens and society, the AI-deas projects aim to drive progress in technical capabilities, solve problems and improve lives.
ai@cam awarded funding to five projects in 2024 spanning brain and mental health, fertility, language and communication, local planning decisions, and climate and nature.
Two more projects were awarded in 2025 to increase this breadth to cultural heritage and education.
“Too often there are barriers to collaboration which hinder progress in AI research that are connected to real world need,” said Jess Montgomery, ai@cam Director.
“The AI-deas programme offers a unique infrastructure to support challenge-led research that tackles pressing research questions and builds projects that have the potential to scale longer term.”
“We have had a fantastic response to our AI-deas call and are excited to welcome our new cohort joining us,” said Neil Lawrence, DeepMind Professor of Machine Learning and Chair of ai@cam.
“The projects in the latest round of funding continue to demonstrate that AI has the potential to connect to areas our wider community are passionate about, and the culture and education sectors are a key example of this.”
Explore the AI-deas projects :
Cambridge’s GLAM institutions (galleries, libraries, archives, and museums) house millions of objects from across the globe, representing an unparalleled repository of cultural and natural history.
However, challenges such as analogue formats, handwritten records, fragmented objects, multilingual sources and complex surfaces make much of this data difficult to access.
To address these challenges, the AI for Cultural Heritage Hub (ArCH) will create a secure workspace and empower non-technical users to analyse cultural heritage data securely with AI tools.
By encouraging collaboration among curators, researchers, IT professionals and AI experts, the new hub will prototype adaptive AI solutions to enhance understanding of collections and identify a selection of AI tools to address these problems.
Amelie Roper , Head of Research at Cambridge University Library and AI-deas lead, said: “The UK’s first AI for Cultural Heritage Hub will be both a community of practice and a prototype workspace.
ArCH will enable heritage practitioners and collections researchers to harness the power of AI to unlock cultural heritage collections.”
This project is a collaboration between the Cambridge University Library, the Department of Applied Mathematics and Theoretical Physics and the University's Collections-Connections-Communities Strategic Research Initiative.
As AI continues to advance, concerns are growing about its impact on traditional grading systems across the HE sector.
AI models are now capable of writing essays and providing detailed feedback that is improving rapidly, raising questions about how universities should adapt to this technology.
OpRaise (opportunities and potential risks of AI in supporting evaluation) aims to transform higher education assessment by establishing an evidence-based framework for integrating AI into academic evaluation processes.
To do this, the team will systematically analyse a comprehensive corpus of university essays from summative assessments in UK Universities.
The team will compare expert academic evaluations against assessments from multiple AI systems, varying prompting strategies to optimise AI performance.
By analysing the differences between human and AI assessments the goal is to develop targeted interventions to enhance AI effectiveness.
Deborah Talmi , Professor at the Department of Psychology and AI-deas lead, said: “I’m excited to see how the insights of this talented team of experts from diverse fields will bear on this practical question.
We are brimming with ideas for how to make this project a success and I hope that findings from our project will inform the use of AI more broadly, across educational settings.”
Brain diseases and mental health disorders are taking a toll on people throughout their lives.
Dementia is the leading cause of death in England and Wales, and different mental health disorders lead to significant reductions in life expectancy.
This project will use the latest advances in AI to better understand brain health and disease.
It will explore the environmental, social and neurological factors at play, to develop responsible AI-driven tools that help clinicians predict, diagnose and treat brain diseases and mental health disorders.
The project will be led by the Department of Psychology and delivered by an interdisciplinary team of experts in areas including data science, software engineering, neuroscience and clinical practice from across the university.
Professor Zoe Kourtzi , AI-deas challenge lead, said: "AI-deas is a springboard for thinking outside the box about using AI to tackle real-world challenges like those associated with brain and mental health disorders.
Brain and mental health disorders touch every family.
Building robust and responsible AI tools has the potential to help clinicians diagnose early, improve patient wellbeing and outcomes and reduce misdiagnosis, making resources available to people that need them the most."
The UK has the largest gender health gap in the G20 and declining fertility rates, with women's health issues not well understood.
This project aims to develop cheaper, less invasive and more accurate AI-assisted tests that can be used throughout the conception to childhood journey.
These tests will be used to enhance and personalise fertility outcomes.
This research will play a key part in improving fertility and women's health outcomes and shed light on the still largely unknown cellular, molecular and genetic mechanisms governing the development of life.
The Departments of Psychology, Computer Science, and Physics among others will lead this project, in partnership with two leading specialty hospitals.
Dr Staci Weiss , AI-deas challenge co-lead said: “AI-deas provides an interdisciplinary platform bringing together data and new AI analytic approaches to accelerate identification of reproductive health biomarkers from embryo through to neonate."
Mo Vali , AI-deas challenge co-lead said: "We will seek to revolutionise reproductive health technology using state-of-the-art AI methods, leveraging Cambridge's long tradition of research in this field.
Translating our research from lab to clinic by developing rigorous tests to improve clinical outcomes will benefit the wider public and help to ease the NHS burden.”
Using language to communicate is something many take for granted.
However, a significant proportion of the UK population find spoken or written communication more difficult due to sensory, neural or linguistic challenges such as hearing loss, brain injury or language barriers, and can face substantial disadvantages in many aspects of their lives.
This project aims to develop new AI methods to understand and address these challenges to improve equity and inclusion.
It will develop new ways to support people with language and communication difficulties.
For example, with AI we can assess and diagnose common language and communication conditions at scale, and develop technologies such as intelligent hearing aids, real-time machine translation, or other language aids to support affected individuals at home, work or school.
The MRC Cognition and Brain Sciences Unit will lead this project.
Matt Davis , AI-deas challenge lead, said: "New AI technologies are changing our day-to-day lives: we speak rather than type text messages on our phones, and have conversations with Alexa or Siri.
As these systems become more common they may reinforce the barriers faced by those who find communicating through language more difficult.
"Cambridge University hosts the UK’s largest community of researchers working on speech and language technology and have a remarkable breadth and depth of expertise in understanding the real-world impact of language challenges in education, health or work.
This project brings these research communities together to develop new AI technologies to support people who find communicating using language a daily challenge in order to improve equity and inclusion."
Public sector use of AI is growing, with some local authorities in England already using large language models and predictive analytics to make city-scale decisions.
It is important that the use of AI to make decisions is ethical and leads to the desired outcomes.
This project aims to investigate how local authorities in England are using AI to make decisions about issues such as placemaking, land use and mobility, and sustainable water supply systems to create public value.
The project will develop resources for local authorities to make ethical and informed choices and the use of AI as part of digitalisation initiatives.
The Department of Engineering will lead this project and facilitate collaboration with local authorities, and among experts in other domains including urban governance, philosophy and ethics.
Dr Kwadwo Oti-Sarpong , AI-deas challenge lead, said: "We're excited to be one of the winners of AI-deas and work on this project with practitioners across disciplines to shape the future of public sector decision-making using AI in creating connected places.
"Understanding how to practically root AI use in ethical considerations, and showing how that can be done, will significantly change how we create the future we want."
The twin climate and biodiversity crises are two of the world’s most complex challenges to tackle.
This project aims to develop AI approaches for bringing together a wide range of datasets and accelerating the collation of information.
This work will provide up to date, relevant and robust information for researchers and decision-makers working on climate and biodiversity conservation – opening up the possibility for more targeted and effective solutions to some of our world’s most pressing climate and biodiversity challenges.
Anil Madhavapeddy , AI-deas challenge co-lead, said: “Mitigating the impacts of climate change while maintaining and restoring biodiversity demands urgent, evidence-based action.
We're excited to bring together an interdisciplinary team across computer science, ecology, climate and conservation to use AI to empower decision-makers to equitably tackle the biggest challenge of our generation.”
This project is a collaboration between Cambridge Zero, Cambridge Conservation Initiative, Conservation Evidence, Institute for Computing for Climate Science, Conservation Research Institute, Centre for Landscape Regeneration, Cambridge Centre for Carbon Credits and Cambridge Centre for Earth Observation.
9 January 2025
All images are from Getty Images:

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/under-the-bonnet-at-AI-supercomputer-Dawn:
At the University of Cambridge, AI is being used to tackle some of the most pressing issues facing humanity
Dawn servers
Dawn has been created via a highly innovative long-term co-design partnership between the University of Cambridge, UK Research & Innovation, the UK Atomic Energy Authority and global tech leaders Intel and Dell Technologies.
This partnership brings highly valuable technology first-mover status and inward investment into the UK technology sector.
But what goes on under the bonnet of this AI supercomputer?
Hilary Fletcher and Stephen Bevan take a closer look at two of the projects powered by Dawn, and their potential to benefit people's lives around the globe.
Dr Scott Hosking
Powering a cutting-edge sea ice forecasting system
One of the projects that’s been running on Dawn almost since the start is IceNet , a cutting-edge AI sea ice forecasting system developed by an international team and led by the British Antarctic Survey (BAS) and The Alan Turing Institute .
IceNet has been trained on observational data to forecast the next three months of daily sea ice concentration maps.
The project advances the range of accurate sea ice forecasts, outperforming a state-of-the-art dynamical model in seasonal forecasts of summer sea ice, particularly for extreme sea ice events.
This step-change in sea ice forecasting ability is bringing us closer to conservation tools that mitigate risks associated with rapid sea ice loss.
Running the IceNet pipeline on Dawn has allowed the team to complete training significantly faster, experiencing higher data throughput with easier scaling.
The team’s use of a reproducible pipeline allowed the IceNet infrastructure to be easily ported to Dawn and allowed easy trialling on the top-end Intel GPUs operating inside its server stacks.
Dr Scott Hosking, head of the BAS AI Lab and Director for the Environment and Sustainability Grand Challenge at The Alan Turing Institute, leads the project.
He says: “AI models learn from the data, and you need big compute for that and that’s where Dawn comes in.
“With a traditional physics-based numerical model, you have to run the entire model from scratch each time to come up with an answer, this can take hours or days to run.
"But with AI, once you’ve trained the model you can make predictions within a matter of seconds, running it again and again to forecast multiple possible scenarios.
“And the cool thing is that once we’ve trained the model on Dawn we can stick it on our laptop and we can be in the field, on the ship, and we can make forecasts on the fly.
That’s a fantastic capability.”
Scott explains that where Dawn really comes in is forecasting sea ice despite the uncertainty created by our changing climate.
“The climate is continually changing, we’re on an upwards trajectory with global warming with the Arctic warming faster than anywhere right now,” he says.
“One of the challenges with AI models is that we train them on past data and of course the past is not representative of the future, so as more data becomes available, we will need to regularly retrain the model.
This is where Dawn is such a powerful tool and capability to have, to quickly retrain the model with that new data.
“But one of the novel aspects with IceNet is we also trained the model on future climate simulation data, so that means that IceNet has seen a future world, if you like, and we then fine-tune the model on the satellite observations."
And all this is already being put to real-world use, with IceNet’s forecasts being integrated into tools for wildlife protection, community empowerment, and marine navigation.
“Ships are currently one of the biggest carbon emitters, and ploughing an icebreaker through the ice demands a lot of fuel.
With our forecasts we can help shipping plot the best route to produce the least carbon”, says Scott.
“Another example is wildlife who depend on the sea ice to survive.
Understanding and being able to forecast sea ice can tell us when migrations can take place and allow conservationists to develop mitigation plans.”
AI could be ‘magic bullet’ that helps save lives of kidney cancer patients
Cambridge researchers, supported by the power of the Dawn supercomputer, believe AI is the ‘magic bullet’ needed to save countless lives through an affordable kidney cancer screening programme.
Because kidney cancer – which kills around 5,000 people in the UK every year – is often asymptomatic, most people are not aware they have it until the disease is at an advanced stage, which can limit treatment options.
Computerised Tomography (CT) scans are the most reliable and least invasive way to look for these cancers.
However, analysing these images is labour-intensive and therefore expensive.
It means screening for those at higher risk of developing the disease is not currently performed within the NHS.
But new research, led by Cambridge University PhD student Bill McGough, suggests that using AI to sift through patients’ scans and identify the presence of cancer could offer a much more affordable approach and make screening possible.
Initial findings from Bill’s research – comparing the performance of AI against that of radiologists looking at the same data, and simulating an AI kidney screening setting – show that a deep learning diagnostic tool reaches the same level of accuracy reading CT scans as radiologists, after being trained using doctors’ medical expertise.
And, as well as reducing costs, speeding up diagnosis, and freeing up radiologists’ time, the AI tool offers safety benefits for patients – by still being able to accurately read scans which are taken using less radiation than would usually be used for diagnostic purposes, and reducing the amount of dye, or ‘contrast medium’, a patient needs to be given to show detail in the CT images.
Bill, whose research is funded by the Cancer Research UK Cambridge Centre and is based in the Early Cancer Institute, said: “Although screening makes sense in the vast majority of diseases, it's ridiculously expensive – hundreds of millions of pounds – and so it isn’t practically possible.
So the question we’re asking is: Can we increase the likelihood of screening happening using AI?
Can AI extend the capability of the NHS to so something it wouldn’t otherwise have the budget to do?
And we think it can.”
Bill’s research also suggests that as well as helping to diagnose kidney cancer, AI could also play a further role in triaging the care of patients.
So, based on the risk it identifies in a scan, the AI tool could, for example, recommend a patient see a doctor straight away, or skip the next round of screening – again saving the NHS money and radiologists time.
Bill’s research – and its promising findings so far – would not be possible without the development of artificial intelligence supercomputers, and the support he receives from the Dawn team at Cambridge.
He said: “These computers enable us to perform calculations that we just couldn’t perform on our laptops.
We have the data and the code, but it’s the supercomputers that give us the sheer power to be able to train these AI models on enormous amounts of data and develop them, which is a huge task.”
As part of the research, the AI model is fed hundreds of multi-phase CT scans showing a ‘tracer’ substance injected into the arm and making its way around a human body.
The tracer ‘lights up’ different parts of the body in sequence and helps the tool to learn how human biology works, including how cancer behaves when there is a tracer going through it.
“It’s about the AI tool learning to recognise biological behaviour so it can predict what is happening in the kidneys,” said Bill.
“It’s not learning how to identify cancer specifically; it’s drawing sensible correlations based on the CT scan – it’s like it’s learning the ‘grammar’ of these images.”
Bill hopes that his research will show that cost-effective kidney cancer screening is feasible for around 2 million people a year.
“We think we can unlock screening for millions and ultimately save lives using AI,” he said.
“Early detection is one of the most powerful ways in which we can improve cancer survival, and we’re showing that AI could help to detect small cancers, catch the disease early, and improve survival rates.”
Cambridge University PhD student Bill McGough.
Ambitious goals in clean energy
Fusion is the natural process that powers our Sun.
If fusion energy can be harnessed economically on Earth, it will provide a near-limitless form of clean, safe electricity.
Find out how the UK Atomic Energy Authority is designing the UK’s prototype fusion energy power plant with the help of Dawn.
Their work is paving the way for accelerating the use of fusion energy in the UK.
How would you use a supercomputer?
We asked this question of families who'd taken a tour of Dawn on one of our virtual reality headsets.
Here's what they had to say.
Published 17 March 2025
Credits
Images: Joe Bishop; Getty/SeppFriedhuber; Lloyd Mann, University of Cambridge; Getty/MB Photography.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/Gina-Neff-AI-democracy:
Professor Gina Neff
Democracy’s survival depends on reimagining and rebuilding technologies with democratic accountability at their core.
If we leave the decisions about what to build to the titans of tech, the results will be anti-democratic and built for private over public gain, says Gina Neff .
Is our current pace of technological change ultimately greater than our ability to manage it?
These are some of the pressing questions my team and I grapple with at the Minderoo Centre for Technology and Democracy .
In my recent paper, Can Democracy Survive AI , published on the heels of the UK’s AI Opportunities Action Plan , I explain the fundamental challenges that AI poses to democracies.
In some ways, AI can be seen as inherently anti-democratic.
As it exists now, AI innovation is accelerating centralisation and control, fuelling ideologies of trade-offs between regulation and economic growth, prioritising efficiency over accountability, and enabling absolute control coupled with unaccountable power.
The story about AI that people are currently telling is one about economic growth and how technology will work for us.
However, there are many other possible futures that help us frame these potentially transformative technologies, for example as supporting artists and creators, rather than threatening their livelihoods.
Societies can  design and implement frameworks that mitigate these risks and use AI technologies to empower citizens, enhance transparency, and protect democratic values.
It is possible for novel technologies and AI systems to strengthen our elections , provide opportunities for creative industries , and empower frontline workers who deliver public services.
By shoring up responsible uses of AI, we can build tech-enabled workplaces that are safe, social media platforms that foster connection rather than sow division, and sustainable infrastructure that does not deplete our planet’s resources.
This reworking of AI for democracy calls for a collective reimagining of how AI is developed, deployed and governed.
Big Tech’s visions cannot be the only ones that count towards the kind of future we build.
We have to refocus on the hope and innovative ideas in other places, that show how everyday people can use and benefit from AI.
Civil society, for example, is where ideas of agency and the digital good are being explored and more playful ways of talking about AI’s future are emerging.
Robust cross-disciplinary academic research, at places like ai@cam and the Bennett Institute for Public Policy , and community dialogues on tech policy are helping restore our trust in each other and in our institutions.
Most crucially, everyday people are adopting, resisting and modifying AI tools across sectors, and there is hope to be found in their imaginaries.
People are using AI-powered tools to exercise agency over their health and well-being and pursue new educational avenues.
At the same time, many are pushing back against unchecked AI, with campaigns opposing facial recognition in public and demands for more transparency around biases in hiring algorithms.
Others still are modifying AI tools to improve how they serve their communities and better allocate council resources to underserved groups.
Moving fast and breaking things is not the way to a digital future where everyone benefits from AI.
Instead, it’s imperative we refocus on how AI innovation can support local communities, work with social movement ecosystems , and pursue new pathways for AI governance beyond the ‘growth’ narrative.
Democracy can survive AI if we reimagine technology for public not private interest – it is on us to ensure these systems are designed and deployed fairly, responsibly, ethically and inclusively.
Professor Gina Neff is Executive Director of the Minderoo Centre for Technology and Democracy at the University of Cambridge Centre for Research in the Arts, Social Sciences and Humanities (CRASSH).
Published: 14 April 2025

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/jill-duffy-ai-education:
Jill Duffy
AI in education has transformative potential for students, teachers and schools but only if we harness it in the right way – by keeping people at the heart of the technology, says Jill Duffy .
When you think about AI and education, the first thing that comes to mind is probably students using ChatGPT to write their essays and coursework.
But, important as this issue is, the debate about AI in education should go way beyond it.
As head of an exam board ( OCR ), I am well aware of how serious this issue is.
Deciphering whether a piece of work was AI generated was not part of the job description for educators a decade ago, and I’m sure not many appreciate this new addition to their workload.
ChatGPT writing essays may be the most noticeable phenomenon right now, but it is far from the only way that this technology will transform how we teach and assess young people.
Crucially, AI offers opportunities as well as threats.
But only if we harness it in the right way – by keeping people at the heart of education.
What does that mean in practice?
Let’s look again at the concerns over AI and coursework.
As I’ve previously argued , we cannot put generative AI back in its box.
Demanding that students never use it in any capacity is obviously not enforceable, and I would also argue is not desirable: the proper use of this technology will be a vital skill in their working lives.
In future, instead of asking students “did you use AI?” teachers will be asking them “ how did you use AI?” It’s about accepting where this technology can help students – finessing arguments, helping with research – while protecting the human skills they will still need – fact checking, rewriting, thinking analytically.
The same human-centric approach is needed when it comes to teaching and AI.
We can’t afford to ignore the obvious benefits of this technology, but we cannot embrace it blindly at the cost of real, human teaching.
At OCR we are looking into various tools that could help teachers who are struggling with ever-increasing workloads.
This could be about helping them with lesson planning, or searching through subject specifications or guidance materials.
So, we don’t expect AI to replace the very human skills of intelligently questioning a student to guide their learning, or safeguarding their wellbeing, or passing on a passion for their subject.
Instead, AI can take care of some of the time-consuming admin, giving teachers more time to actually teach.
This human centered approach guides everything we are doing at Cambridge and OCR.
We have been developing digital exams for the past few years, for Cambridge’s international exams and for OCR’s popular Computer Science GCSE.
What we are not doing here is simply transferring the paper exam on to a screen.
We have been testing and monitoring how students perform in these on-screen exams, using mocks and trials, to make sure there is no advantage or disadvantage to a particular method.
But keeping humans at the heart of education while getting the most out of new technology will take more than the efforts of one exam board.
As OCR recently warned in its report Striking the Balance , there is a risk that the move towards digital exacerbates existing inequalities in the system.
If digital learning can be more effective, what happens to schools that can’t afford the required technology?
A national strategy is required – involving the government, regulators, and other stakeholders – to ensure every school can benefit from the transformative potential of this technology.
Jill Duffy leads OCR and is managing director for UK Education at Cambridge University Press and Assessment .
Find out more about how Cambridge is developing AI-powered initiatives – from lesson planners to teacher assistants – to support educators around the world.
Published: 4 April 2025

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/Richard-Turner-AI:
Professor Richard Turner
AI will give us the next leap forward in forecasting the weather, says Richard Turner , and make it available to all countries, not just those with access to high-quality data and computing resources.
From farmers planting crops to emergency responders preparing for natural disasters, the ability to predict the weather is fundamental to societies all across the globe.
The modern approach to forecasting was invented a century ago.
Lewis Fry Richardson, a former student of King’s College Cambridge, who was working as an ambulance driver during the First World War, realised that being able to predict the weather could help save lives.
This led him to develop the first mathematical approach to forecasting the weather.
Richardson’s method was a breakthrough, but to say that it was time-consuming is an understatement: he calculated it would require 64,000 people working with slide rules to produce a timely forecast for the following day.
It was the development of supercomputers in the 1950s that made Richardson’s approach practical.
Since then, weather forecasting methods have become more sophisticated and more accurate, driven by advances in computing and by the increased amount of information we have about the weather from satellites and other instruments.
But now, we are poised to make another big leap forward, thanks to AI.
The last few years have seen an AI revolution in weather forecasting and my group has recently taken this to the next level.
Working with colleagues at The Alan Turing Institute, Microsoft Research and the European Centre for Medium Range Weather Forecasts, we’ve developed Aardvark Weather , a fully AI-driven weather prediction system that can deliver accurate forecasts tens of times faster and using thousands of times less computing power than both physics-based forecasting systems and previous AI-based approaches.
We believe that Aardvark could democratise access to accurate forecasts, since it can be run and trained on a regular desktop computer, not the powerful supercomputers that power most of today’s weather forecasting technology.
In developing countries where access to high-quality data and computing resources is limited, platforms like Aardvark could be transformational.
AI is a game changer
The need for improved forecasting systems is more crucial than ever.
Extreme weather events – from the recent wildfires in Los Angeles to last year’s flash floods in Spain – are becoming more frequent.
Predicting other parts of the Earth system is equally as important.
For example, 1.5 million people die each year in India due to poor air quality, and changes in ice on the sea and land at the poles have huge implications.
AI could help mitigate these risks by delivering timely, hyper-local forecasts, even in regions with limited observational data.
These AI systems have the potential to dramatically improve public safety, food security, supply chain management, and energy planning in an increasingly volatile climate.
AI-driven forecasting is also well-placed to play a crucial role in our transition to a net-zero future.
If we can better predict fluctuations in supply from wind and solar energy sources, we can optimise energy grids, reducing reliance on fossil fuels and making clean energy more viable on a global scale.
Richardson’s weather forecasting approach relied on numerical models – mathematical representations of the Earth’s atmosphere, land, and oceans that require massive computing power.
These models, though incredibly advanced, have limitations: they are expensive, slow to run, time consuming to improve, and often struggle to deliver accurate predictions in areas like the tropics or the poles.
The arrival of AI is changing the game entirely.
Results from Aardvark and other AI-driven systems have demonstrated that they can perform weather forecasting tasks with excellent speed and accuracy.
These models, trained on vast amounts of historical data, can learn patterns and generate forecasts in a fraction of the time that traditional methods require.
Through the Aurora project with Microsoft Research , I’ve also shown that the same approaches can transform forecasts of air quality, ocean waves, and hurricanes.
Companies like Google DeepMind, Microsoft, and various research institutions – including my team at Cambridge – are achieving results that rival or even surpass conventional numerical models at a fraction of the computational cost.
Of course, this transformation comes with challenges.
Ensuring trust and transparency in AI weather forecasting technologies is paramount .
Weather forecasting has long been a domain where public institutions – like the UK Met Office and the European Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts – play a critical role in ensuring reliability and accountability.
AI models, though promising, must be rigorously tested and validated to build public confidence.
These systems should be implemented alongside existing methods, rather than replacing them outright, and continuous retraining and re-evaluation will likely be needed due to the changing climate.
National weather services and universities like Cambridge must step up to ensure that AI-driven forecasting remains a public good, not a commercial commodity .
The rise of AI weather forecasting has opened the door to more commercial involvement in an area that would previously have been dominated by public institutions and international centres.
While start-ups and big tech companies are making significant strides in AI weather prediction and are a valuable part of the forecasting ecosystem, business interests are not necessarily aligned with societal need.
The risk is that critical forecasting capabilities could become privatised, limiting access for those who need it most.
Universities are uniquely positioned to act as a balancing force, driving research that prioritises long-term societal benefit.
However, traditional academic structures are often ill-equipped to handle the scale and speed required for AI research.
If we are to compete with industry, we must rethink how AI research is conducted – embracing interdisciplinary collaboration, investing in large-scale computational infrastructure, rethinking funding models so that they are faster and more agile, and fostering partnerships that ensure AI development aligns with the public good.
The future of weather forecasting will not be decided solely in the labs of tech giants or the halls of government.
It will be shaped by the choices we make now – how we invest in research, how we regulate AI deployment, and how we ensure that life-saving technology remains accessible to all.
Richard Turner is Professor of Machine Learning in the Machine Learning Group of the Department of Engineering, a Research Lead at the Alan Turing Institute , and previously a Visiting Researcher at Microsoft Research.
He is also a Bye Fellow of Christ’s College.
Interview: Sarah Collins

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/opinion-ai-and-health-and-medicine:
L to R: Professors Eoin McKinney, Mihaela van der Schaar and Andres Floto
Andres Floto , Mihaela van der Schaar and Eoin McKinney explain.
If you walk around Addenbrooke’s Hospital on the Cambridge Biomedical Campus, sooner or later you will come across a poster showing a clinician in his scrubs standing by a CT scanner, smiling out at you.
This is Raj Jena , one of our colleagues and Cambridge’s first – in fact, the UK’s first – Professor of AI in Radiology.
One of the reasons Raj has been chosen as a face of Addenbrooke’s is his pioneering use of AI in preparing radiotherapy scans.
OSAIRIS, the tool he developed, can automate a complex, but routine task, saving hours of doctors’ time and ensuring patients receive crucial treatment sooner.
It’s just one example of the ways that AI will transform medicine and healthcare – and of how Cambridge is leading the charge.
The impact of AI in medicine will likely be in four main areas:
First, it will ‘turbocharge’ biomedical discovery , helping us to understand how cells work, how diseases arise, and how to identify new drug targets and design new medicines.
Second, it will unlock huge datasets – so-called ‘omics’, such as genomics and proteomics – to help us predict an individual’s disease risk, detect diseases early and develop more targeted treatments.
Third, it will optimise the next generation of clinical trials , allowing us to recruit the most suitable participants, and analysing and interpreting outcomes in real time so that we can adapt the trials as they go along.
All of these will lead to the fourth way – transforming the treatments we receive and the healthcare systems that deliver them .
It will allow us to personalise therapies, offering the right drug at the right time at the right dose for the right person.
None of this, of course, will be straightforward.
While the technical knowhow to develop AI tools has progressed at almost breakneck speed, accessing the data to train these models can present a challenge.
We risk being overwhelmed by the ‘three Vs’ of data – its volume, variety and velocity.
At present, we’re not using this data at anywhere near its full potential.
To become a world leader in driving AI innovation in healthcare, we will need massive investment from the UK government to enable researchers to access well-curated data sets.
A good example of this is UK Biobank, which took a huge amount of foresight, effort and money to set up, but is now used widely to drive innovation by the medical research community and by industry.
Clinical data is, by its very nature, highly sensitive, so it needs to be held securely, and if researchers want to access it, they must go through a strict approvals process.
Cambridge University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust has established the Electronic Patient Record Research and Innovation (ERIN), a secure environment created for just this reason, with an audit trail so that it is clear how and where data is being used, and with data anonymised so that patients cannot be identified.
It is working with other partners in the East of England to create a regional version of this database.
We need this to happen at a UK-wide level.
The UK is fortunate in that it has a single healthcare system, the NHS, accessible to all and free of charge at the point of use.
What it lacks is a single computer infrastructure.
Ideally, all hospitals in the UK would be on the same system, linked up so that researchers can extract data across the network without having to seek permission from every NHS trust.
Of course, AI tools are only ever going to be as good as the data they are trained on, and we have to be careful not to inadvertently exacerbate the very health inequalities we are trying to solve.
Most data collected in medical research is from Western – predominantly Caucasian – populations.
An AI tool trained on these data sets may not work as effectively at diagnosing disease in, say, a South Asian population, which is at a comparatively higher risk of diseases such as type 2 diabetes, heart disease and stroke.
There is also a risk that AI tools that work brilliantly in the lab fail when transferred to the NHS.
That’s why it’s essential that the people developing these tools work from the outset with the end users – the clinicians, healthcare workers, patients, for example – to ensure the devices have the desired benefit.
Otherwise, they risk ending up in the ‘boneyard of algorithms’.
Public trust and confidence that AI tools are safe is a fundamental requirement for what we do.
Without it, AI’s potential will be lost.
However, regulators are struggling to keep up with the pace of change.
Clinicians can – and must – play a role in this.
This will involve training them to read and appraise algorithms, in much the same way they do with clinical evidence.
Giving them a better understanding of how the algorithms are developed, how accuracy and performance are reported and tested, will help them judge whether they work as intended.
Jena’s OSAIRIS tool was developed in tandem with Microsoft Research, but he is an NHS radiologist who understood firsthand what was needed.
It was, in a sense, a device developed by the NHS, in the NHS, for the NHS.
While this is not always essential, the healthcare provider needs to be involved at an early stage, because otherwise the person developing it risks building it in such a way that it is essentially unusable.
Speaking each other’s language
In 2020, Cambridge established a Centre for AI in Medicine with the ambition of developing ‘novel AI and machine learning technologies to revolutionise biomedical science, medicine and healthcare’.
The Centre was initially set up with funding from AstraZeneca and GSK to support PhD studentships, with each student having as supervisors someone from industry, a data scientist and a ‘domain expert’ (for example, a clinician, biologist or chemist).
Another industry partner – Boehringer Ingelheim – has since joined.
We are very fortunate in Cambridge because we have a mixture of world-leading experts in AI and machine learning, discovery biology, and chemistry, as well as scientifically-minded clinicians who are keen to engage, and high performance computing infrastructure, such as the Dawn supercomputer.
It puts us in the perfect position to be leaders in the field of AI and medicine.
But these disciplines have different goals and requirements, different ways of working and thinking.
It’s our role at the Centre to bring them together and help them learn to speak each other's language.
We are forging the road ahead, and it is hugely exciting.
If we get things right, the possibilities for AI to transform health and medicine are endless.
It can be of massive public benefit.
But more than that, it has to be.
Professor Andres Floto and Professor Mihaela van der Schaar are Co-Directors of the Cambridge Centre for AI in Medicine.
Professor Eoin McKinney is a Faculty Member

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/Michael-Barrett-AI:
Professor Michael Barrett
AI will only be as good – or as bad – as the information fed into it, so we need to fix any bias that perpetuates inequality and marginalisation, says Michael Barrett .
The potential of AI to transform people’s lives in areas ranging from healthcare to better customer service are enormous.
But as the technology advances, we must adopt policies to make sure the risks don’t overwhelm and stifle those benefits.
Importantly, we need to be on alert for algorithmic bias that could perpetuate inequality and marginalisation of communities around the world.
Algorithmic bias occurs when systems – often based on machine learning or AI – deliver biased outcomes or decisions because the data it has been given is incomplete, imbalanced or not fully representative.
I and colleagues here in Cambridge and at Warwick Business School have proposed a new way of thinking about the issue – we call this a ‘relational risk perspective’.
This approach looks at not just how AI is being used now, but how it may be used in the future and across different geographies, avoiding what we call ‘the dark side of AI’.
The goal is to safeguard the benefits of AI for everyone, while minimising the harm.
We look at the workplace as one example.
AI is already having a huge impact on jobs, affecting both routine and creative tasks, and affecting activities that we’ve thought of as uniquely human – like creating art or writing film scripts.
As businesses use the technology more, and perhaps become over-dependent on it, we are at risk of undermining professional expertise and critical thinking, leaving workers de-motivated and expected to defer to machine-generated decisions.
This will impact not just tasks but also the social fabric of the workplace, by influencing how workers relate to each other and to organisations.
If AI is used in recruitment, a lack of representation in datasets can reinforce inequalities when used to make decisions about hiring or promotions.
We also explore how this billion-dollar industry is often underpinned by largely ‘invisible’ workers in the Global South who clean data and refine algorithms for a user-group predominantly in the Global North.
This ‘data colonialism’ not only reflects global inequalities but also reinforces marginalisation: the people whose labour enables AI to thrive are the same people who are largely excluded from the benefits of that technology.
Healthcare data is in particular danger from such data-driven bias, so we need to ensure that health-related information analysed by the Large Language Models used to train AI tools reflects a diverse population.
Basing health policy on data from selected and perhaps more privileged communities can lead to a vicious cycle in which disparity is more deeply entrenched.
I believe that we can counter these threats, but time is of the essence as AI quickly becomes embedded into society.
We should remember that generative AI is still an emerging technology, and take note that it is progressing faster than the ethical or regulatory landscape can keep pace with.
Our relational risk perspective does not present AI as inherently good or bad.
Rather, AI is seen as having potential for benefit and harm depending on how it is developed and experienced across different social contexts.
We also recognise that the risks are not static, as they evolve with the changing relationships between technology, its users and broader societal structures.
Policymakers and technologists should anticipate, rather than react to, the ways in which AI can entrench or challenge existing inequities​.
They should also consider that some countries may develop AI maturity more quickly than others.
Finally, let’s draw on stakeholders far and wide in setting AI risk policy.
A multidisciplinary approach which will help avoid bias, while at the same time helping to demonstrate to the public that AI policy really does reflect varied and diverse interests and communities.
Michael Barrett is Professor of Information Systems and Innovation Studies, Vice-Dean for Strategy and University Engagement at Cambridge Judge Business School, and a Fellow of Hughes Hall.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/ai-for-nature-embrace-with-caution:
Photo by Zetong Li on Unsplash
Have you ever persisted in following your SatNav even when you knew you were going in the wrong direction?
If so, you’ll know that placing all your trust in a machine powered by AI, without also engaging your own intelligence, does not always get you where you want to go.
This is the message that a group of conservation scientists at Cambridge is pushing hard.
Efforts to protect the natural world need all the help they can get - but before embracing AI as the solution, we need discussions about its risks and wider implications.
“Everyone in biodiversity conservation wants to use AI, but many people aren’t that clued up on what it actually is and how it could help their work.”
“AI is a powerful technology that will enable massive advances in biodiversity conservation work.
People will need to adapt quickly, but they also need to understand the potential downsides.”
Dr Sam Reynolds, Conservation Science Group, Department of Zoology
Sam Reynolds.
Credit: Jacqueline Garget
AI is a computing tool .
It can process and interrogate huge amounts of data, expand human creativity, generate new insights faster and help guide important decisions.
It’s trained on human expertise, and in conservation that’s informed by interactions with local communities or governments – people whose needs must be taken into account in the solutions.
How do we ensure this happens?
Last year, Reynolds joined 26 other conservation scientists and AI experts in an ‘Horizon Scan’ - an approach pioneered by Professor Bill Sutherland in the Department of Zoology - to think about the ways AI could revolutionise the success of global biodiversity conservation .
The international panel agreed on a top 21 ideas, chosen from a longlist of 104, which are now published in the journal Trends in Ecology and Evolution .
Some of the ideas extrapolate from AI tools many of us are familiar with, like phone apps that identify plants from photos, or birds from sound recordings.
Being able to identify all the species in an ecosystem in real time, over long timescales, would enable a huge advance in understanding ecosystems and species distributions.
Another idea proposes using fibre optic cables, which are already spread across the world’s ocean floors, to map and monitor chronically understudied marine species like whales and seals – by interpreting disturbances in cable signals caused by the sounds these species make.
But for every positive idea, there’s a negative to consider too.
Photo by kazuend on Unsplash
The most obvious issue is that AI’s high demand for energy and physical infrastructure could directly undermine conservation goals.
It works on huge amounts of data, which requires supercomputers, technical skills, and a constant supply of electricity - all more likely to be available in the Global North.
“We need to prevent the concentration of power in conservation.
People in the poorer Global South, where many of the planet’s important ecosystems are located, are most likely to be affected by conservation but they’re also least likely to have access to AI infrastructure,” says Reynolds.
“It isn’t equitable to take information from studies in the Global South, use it to develop and train our AI models, and then dictate how land and resources are managed there.”
The researchers are also concerned about funders prioritising conservation projects involving AI, due to their novelty.
“That will be a surefire way to prioritise projects led by elite institutions in the Global North, steering resources away from fundamental work that already struggles to attract funding,” says Reynolds.
But the biggest impact of AI on nature might come from outside the field of conservation entirely.
“If we give all our attention to inventing new AI tools to fix specific conservation problems - important as these are - we’re missing a trick.”
“AI’s biggest impact on biodiversity is probably going to be through the ways it changes wider society.”
Professor Chris Sandbrook, Department of Geography and Director, Conservation Research Institute .
Chris Sandbrook.
Credit: Nick Saffell
Sandbrook's new paper , published in the journal Conservation Letters , takes a critical look ‘beyond the hype’ of AI.
Impacts could be positive, for example by transforming agriculture - currently the single largest cause of biodiversity loss.
AI-enabled precision systems could help farmers grow more food in a smaller area, with fewer resources, which could massively reduce the global land area needed for agriculture.
But other advances could damage nature, like AI’s potential to generate better medicines that extend human life expectancy.
Sandbrook says: “This is most likely to happen in wealthier countries like the UK and US, where each person has a high environmental footprint.
The price of longer lives could be greater biodiversity loss.”
Like Reynolds, Sandbrook is concerned about how AI might cause power and wealth to become concentrated – but he’s thinking in terms of the tech companies: giants that can lobby to stop governments regulating against their environment-harming activities.
Photo by Headway on Unsplash
“I want to urge policy makers, and CEOs of conservation organisations, to think really carefully about how the widespread adoption of AI in society could impact the natural world - even for uses of AI that on the face of it have nothing to do with conservation,” says Sandbrook.
He adds: “Managing and regulating AI to ensure global biodiversity is protected is an ambitious goal, but it’s vital to make this part of the conversation.
At the moment many people in the AI tech sector, and in government, just aren’t thinking about how their work might affect nature at all – they haven’t even noticed that it’s relevant.”
Meanwhile, the Horizon Scan ideas are catalysing discussions that are vital to ensure AI boosts, rather than damages, the impact of conservation work.
Reynolds has received invitations to speak to staff at organisations including the Wildlife Trusts, the Chartered Institute of Ecology and Environmental Management (CIEEM), and BP, all keen to know about the latest developments in AI for conservation.
Reynolds presenting his ideas.
Credit: Dr William Morgan
He’s helping others discuss how they can embrace AI to advance their conservation work, and how it might affect conservation more broadly.
For example, AI could help consultants make better environmental management plans, or help planners make better decisions about new developments to take biodiversity into account.
And in response to the discussions, he has published a Letter in the journal Trends in Ecology and Evolution , outlining ways that people involved in conservation can help support the equitable deployment of AI.
Photo by Scott Graham on Unsplash
Reynolds is also helping people navigate what he calls “the Wild West of AI solutions” - the ever-growing number of AI tools being sold to organisations who don’t fully understand what they’re buying.
He says his involvement in creating an AI ‘ Conservation Co-Pilot ’ has given him a valuable insight into how AI models work.
This tool will help guide decision-makers towards the best way to manage specific land types to conserve particular species.
It’s based on a database of effective conservation actions that has taken many experts 20 years to pull together.
“We can use what we’ve learned in creating an AI system ourselves to help others be careful about which AI tools they use, and to understand their limitations.
At the moment that’s a huge gap in the conversation,” he says.
“People may believe AI tools will be the answer to all their problems, but it’s important to understand that they’re only as good as the data they’ve been trained on.
In most cases that comes under very little scrutiny – that’s not because people don’t care, but because they don’t know to check, and in many cases - GPT 4.0 for example - it’s impossible to find out.”
Both Sandbrook and Reynolds are clear: people should not be lulled into thinking there’s no need to worry because AI will solve everything without our help.
“AI will have enormous benefits for conservation.
It’s extremely exciting and will allow us to do so many things we weren’t able to do before,” says Reynolds.
“But we need to embrace it cautiously, because it also introduces a whole range of new challenges that need to be thought about carefully, and overcome.”
Reynolds, S.
A.
et al: ‘ Conservation changed but not divided .’ Trends in Ecology and Evolution, April 2025.
DOI: 10.1016/j.tree.2025.04.002
Reynolds, S.A.
et al: ‘ The potential for AI to revolutionize conservation: a horizon scan .’ Trends in Ecology and Evolution, Feb 2025.
DOI: 10.1016/j.tree.2024.11.013
Sandbrook, C.
‘ Beyond the Hype: Navigating the Conservation Implications of Artificial Intelligence .’ Conservation Letters, Dec 2024.
DOI: 10.1111/conl.13076
Read more:
Professor Anil Madhavapeddy shares his thoughts on how AI could help us reverse the damage we’ve done to the planet.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/AI-VR-eliminates-fear-of-public-speaking:
By Louise Walsh
Chris Macdonald, inventor of the VR technology
Presenting in front of an audience is an important and unavoidable part of education and career progression, yet it’s also among the most feared activities, with surveys reporting as high as 80% of students finding this a source of social anxiety.
Fortunately, a groundbreaking solution has arrived.
Thanks to a first-of-its-kind platform developed by Cambridge researcher Dr Chris Macdonald , those suffering from public speaking anxiety can be transformed into skilled and confident speakers.
The platform provides tailored course material, a wide range of photorealistic virtual reality (VR) training environments, and support from an AI ‘coach’.
As revealed in a recent publication from Macdonald – Director of the Immersive Technology Lab at Lucy Cavendish College, University of Cambridge – the platform increases levels of confidence and enjoyment for most users after a single 30-minute session.
In the most recent trial with students from Cambridge and UCL, it was found that a week of self-guided use was beneficial to 100% of users.
The platform helped participants feel more prepared, adaptable, resilient, confident, better able to manage anxiety.
From 15 March 2025, World Speech Day, anyone in the world can freely access the platform , which is also being demoed at the Cambridge Festival on 29 and 30 March .
Chris and Lydia test the VR headset out
So-called ‘glossophobia’, fear of public speaking, stems from how we feel about ourselves or specific situations, and kickstarts a physiological response that makes it difficult to perform effectively – a racing heart, dry mouth, shaky voice and panic – which has knock-on effects, as Macdonald explains:
“People tend to avoid speaking opportunities, which maintains or worsens the fear and anxiety.
Some seek structured help, but behavioural therapy can come at a high cost or can take over 20 weeks to access and complete.
“Most people try to overcome the anxiety by practicing.
However, the practice environment is often nothing like where they will perform – it's usually highly controlled and comfortable like their bedroom, they may be reading from a computer screen, and there is no audience.
“As a result, it will feel like a significant step up when they present to even a small group of people – and a subtle audience gesture can throw them off.
I was determined to create a solution that is free and instantly accessible.”
With the new VR platform, a user can experience the sensation of presenting to a wide range of photorealistic audiences.
What makes Macdonald's invention unique is that it uses what he calls ‘overexposure therapy’ where users can train in increasingly more challenging photorealistic situations – eventually leading to extreme scenarios that the user is unlikely to encounter in their lifetime.
They might begin by presenting to a small and respectful audience but as they progress, the audience sizes increase and there are more distractions: spectators begin to look disinterested, they walk out, interrupt, take photos, and so on.
A user can progress to the point where they can present in a hyper-distracting stadium environment with loud noises, panning stadium lights and 10,000 animated spectators.
“An added benefit to this gamified approach is that users also really enjoy using the platform.
They are curious to see what’s next and they are enjoying the challenge of pushing themselves,” he explains.
With a background working as a consultant and technical director for leading-edge tech firms, Macdonald knew he could build something realistic and accessible: “With the latest version of the platform, users have said that the VR environments are so realistic it’s like being teleported to a different place.”
To help users improve their presentations, an AI ‘coach’ has been embedded into the platform to provide feedback.
Macdonald trained it using examples of the top 100 speeches of all time.
It was a little harsh to begin with, as Macdonald explains:
“The coach was initially so effective in its critical comparison that it really demotivated the user.
It was as though every word was crossed out with a red pen and the user had failed,” he says.
“I had to dial it back.
It now prioritises the areas that have the biggest impact and it gives more encouraging guidance.
It empowers the speaker to develop their own unique style.”
Training scenarios become increasing more challenging
The platform has hosted over 50,000 practice presentations from remote beta users and has been stress tested at events around the UK
Macdonald's aim was for the platform to be accessible to all and so he developed a method that converts smartphones into VR headsets: “Only 5% of UK households have a VR headset but 99% have smartphones.
And while VR headsets can cost thousands, a device mount costs around £15.
An old smartphone inserted into a low-cost device mount will provide the same content and the same experience.”
A first-of-its-kind, dual-compatible VR player ensures it works on both Android and iOS.
“Not only is this the first time that this treatment is available for free worldwide, it’s also the first time it is accessible via multiple devices and multiple operating systems.”
During development, the platform hosted over 50,000 practice presentations from remote beta users.
To further stress test the platform, Macdonald took the lab on tour which included exhibits at the leading science and technology events as well as events at a local market, library, community centre, church, and even someone’s living room.
On 29 and 30 March 2025, he'll be demoing the platform at the Cambridge Festival .
“Working closely with end users has been crucial to making sure the platform ‘works in the wild’ and becomes increasingly more effective.
Through constant public engagement, we can remain deeply grounded in public service.
“At one demo in Cambridge, we had over a thousand people trying it out.
One woman was visibly very emotional.
She said to me that she would have had the confidence to become a teacher if this had been around when she was younger.
It is very promising to see how effective the platform is given that I am already working on the next round of updates.”
In addition to the range of presentation-style audiences, he has started adding more specialised environments and challenges, such as reading a teleprompter in a virtual TV studio or responding to questions in a job or radio interview.
Beyond the main platform that is now freely available , he has created an app for healthcare providers, and is collaborating with organisations that seek to support specific groups such as children who stammer.
“The goal is to create more targeted treatment options for those who need it the most.
I am currently seeking funding to facilitate this.”
Dr Chris Macdonald established the multi-award-winning Immersive Technology Lab to investigate the transformative potential of emerging technologies for education and healthcare.
He is a Fellow at Lucy Cavendish College, University of Cambridge.
Catch up with Chris and try out the VR platform at the Cambridge Festival on 29 and 30 March.
Published: 15 March 2025
Words: Louise Walsh Film: Adam Page Images: Back view of student listening to a teacher: credit Monty Rakusen/GettyImages All others: credit Chris Macdonald

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/bennett-school-public-policy-announcement:
The University is launching a flagship public policy school , set to harness its world-famous academic community in the development of practical solutions to urgent policy problems – from tech disruption and climate damage to the effects of inequality .
The Bennett School of Public Policy, founded with support from the Peter Bennett Foundation, will open in October 2025.
Research priorities include two of the biggest policy challenges facing the UK and much of the world: plugging artificial intelligence into the private and public sectors, and the revival of post-industrial regions.
Researchers from the new School are investigating AI adoption by businesses, and working with the Civil Service on AI workflows, while others are finalising work on the British Constitution, and advising on how to bring together UK mayors and devolved leaders most effectively.
The School’s leadership say it will be defined by overcoming policy and academic silos to help foster a generation of tech-savvy and socially aware policymakers.
The Bennett School is launching a new Masters course in Digital Policy, and will deliver Cambridge’s well-established Masters in Public Policy.
Watch the co-directors, donor and Vice-Chancellor lay out the vision for the new School
“The era of making policy in silos, where an issue is either just an education or an economy problem, for example, needs to be put behind us,” said Prof Dame Diane Coyle, co-director of the Bennett School of Public Policy.
“Today’s challenges, from effective uses of AI to reviving towns and regions, demand solutions that reflect expertise across disciplines and sectors,” Coyle said.
Prof Michael Kenny, Bennett School co-director, said: “With its place at the heart of Cambridge, experts on everything from sustainable economics to quantum computing will come together at the Bennett School.”
“We aim to train government thinkers committed to advancing good growth – fairly shared, inclusive and sustainable – who can set the policy agenda for a rapidly changing world”
Prof Michael Kenny
Prof Michael Kenny and Prof Dame Diane Coyle.
The duo will be co-directors of the new Bennett School of Public Policy.
With the UK government seeking to “turbocharge AI”, the Bennett School has set up projects with businesses and the public sector to understand how AI can enhance operations.
For example, Coyle and colleagues are looking at how businesses from auto engineering to special effects are using Epic’s Unreal videogames engine in their processes, and separately at how officials can better utilise LLMs with a Bennett-produced AI toolkit.
“Why is it hard for organisations to adopt AI tools, even when it enables them to do in real-time on a screen those tasks it otherwise takes several days and outsourcing to achieve?” said Coyle.
“What are the barriers to using technology in business?
It’s an open question.”
The Bennett School will be launching a new Masters in Digital Policy in 2026, covering everything from AI to data governance.
Coyle, who sits on the UK’s Industrial Strategy Advisory Council as well as its New Towns Taskforce, is the architect of the new Masters in Digital Policy, commencing in 2026.
In this pioneering programme, policy professionals from around the world will be trained by leading Cambridge economists, political scientists, business and manufacturing experts, and machine-learning engineers – all on a single course.
“The US and China are way ahead on AI,” said Coyle.
“The UK and EU need to focus on their own comparative advantages, and skill up a generation of policymakers to be smart data consumers, who understand data governance just as well as prompt engineering.”
Along with deep research into the British Constitution and future of the UK Union, the new School will continue research on reforming the way government works to tackle geographical inequality, much of which is already in use by officials in local and central government.
“There is palpable disillusionment across the UK with governments that seem to be too London-centric,” said Kenny.
“This feeling is contributing to a wider, growing disenchantment with democracy in Britain.”
“In fact, our work shows political divisions emerging right across Europe between those living in cities and those in more rural areas such as the once-industrial towns that have struggled for decades,” said Kenny.
The Bennett School will build on Kenny’s work looking at “social infrastructure”: the parks, high streets and heritage sites that boost wellbeing and local pride, which he argues are as vital investment-wise as the giant infrastructure projects favoured by government.
Social infrastructure accounts for almost half the jobs in many coastal UK towns, an essential source of work for young people.
Areas with fewer social facilities often have a higher proportion of ageing residents at risk of loneliness.
The back streets of Blackpool, a UK coastal town that has struggled economically in recent years.
“Understanding how place, often at a hyper-local level, drives much of the political turbulence of our age, is a fundamental policy challenge for this century,” said Kenny.
“At the Bennett School, we work with people doing things out in the world, from international business to local government,” he said.
“Our teaching will be fused to a dynamic research engine – the Bennett Institute – so that those who train here can touch the policy impact we are already having.”
The School builds on the success of the University’s Bennett Institute for Public Policy, founded in 2018 with an earlier donation from Peter Bennett, a Cambridge alumnus.
Bennett has also supported the Bennett Innovation Lab, dedicated to enhancing innovation in the UK and beyond, with an initial focus on net zero aviation and energy technology.
The Bennett Institute for Public Policy’s work on place and productivity has already informed governments, NGOs, and central banks around the world.
Its researchers have collaborated with the United Nations to account for how ecosystems affect human health, and their social capital metric supports the UK’s Industrial Strategy Council in evaluating the effects of policy on public trust.
Coyle’s work on supporting UK regional growth through the ‘Green Book’ – the Treasury guidance on spending public money – influenced the Chancellor Rachel Reeves’s commitment to a shake-up of the Book earlier this year.
The University’s Vice-Chancellor, Prof Deborah Prentice, said: “The establishment of the Bennett School of Public Policy will reinforce the University’s status as a global powerhouse for innovative and evidence-based public policy solutions.”
“The new School will harness Cambridge expertise from across the social, physical and medical sciences to take on the most urgent policy challenges of our age”
Prof Deborah Prentice
Peter Bennett said: “It gives me enormous pleasure to support the creation of the Bennett School of Public Policy.
Significantly, this marks the establishment of a major new academic department at Cambridge for the first time in decades.”
“My involvement with public policy research at Cambridge has had a positive and lasting effect on my approach to philanthropy.
Under the leadership of Dame Diane Coyle and Mike Kenny, the School is set to become truly influential in shaping how resources are used wisely and strategically for the common good.”
Published 3 March 2025
Photographs: Aerial view of traditional British neighbourhood taken at sunset with tilt shift effect credit: kev303/Getty Programmer in front of monitors credit: pixdeluxe/Getty Blackpool photo credit: Wellsie82/Getty The text in this work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/cambridge-cancer-research-hospital:
Cambridge Cancer Research Hospital
Architect's image of Cambridge Cancer Research Hospital
Professor Richard Gilbertson
Dr Hugo Ford
"That’s where the new hospital will be," he says.
It’s hard to envisage that in just a few years’ time, this will be the location of Cambridge Cancer Research Hospital, a radical new hospital that promises to change the story of cancer forever.
It will be funded two-thirds by Government and one-third by philanthropy, with £100m to be raised jointly by the University of Cambridge and Addenbrooke's Charitable Trust.
The Hospital – a collaboration between the University of Cambridge and Cambridge University Hospitals (CUH) NHS Foundation Trust – will have 77 single inpatient rooms, along with a significantly expanded outpatient department and larger day patient unit.
But what really sets it apart is that in the same building, alongside the patients and their medical teams, will be academic and industry researchers , focused on delivering solutions that will transform the lives of millions of cancer patients – not just in the Cambridge and the East of England, but worldwide.
"At the moment, cancer affects one in two of us and is a diagnosis that induces fear in patients and their families," says Gilbertson, Director of the Cancer Research UK Cambridge Centre and Research Lead for Cambridge Cancer Research Hospital.
He is responsible for ensuring that research is at the heart of everything that takes place there.
"But imagine a world where there is no longer a fear of cancer .
That’s the world we’re trying to create.”
Dr Hugo Ford, Head of Cancer Services at CUH and Clinical Lead for Cambridge Cancer Research Hospital, says that bringing academics and doctors together is about "maximising the clinical benefits, the real world benefits of the research that's done.
And we're trying to bring in other communities from industry, from biotech, from other university departments, to build a much wider community."
One of the main focus areas for the new hospital is an area in which Cambridge has built unique expertise: early detection and intervention.
"We know that for a lot of cancers there is a latency period where they're either in a precancerous stage or in an early cancer stage before it can ever be diagnosed by conventional methods," says Ford.
Are there ways to detect the cancer at this early stage and intervene?
Gilbertson says such an approach will present a ‘win-win’ for both patients and the NHS.
"If you detect the cancer early, the survival chances are much better and the treatment needed is generally easier and more straightforward.
This is better for patients and much less expensive for the NHS ."
The top floor of the future hospital will house the Early Cancer Institute Research Clinic, headed by Professor Rebecca Fitzgerald, a clinical researcher who spends part of her time looking after patients with oesophageal cancer, a cancer that is difficult to treat if not caught early.
"We're being much more proactive," says Fitzgerald.
"We're trying to predict who needs more careful monitoring or preventative action ahead of them even knowing they've got a problem."
This will make Cambridge Cancer Research Hospital the only hospital in the UK that has space specifically aimed at preventing cancer, she says.
"It's really a testament to putting faith in the fact that we think there are different ways of doing things for the future ."
Fitzgerald already heads the Early Cancer Institute across the Campus, which is undergoing redevelopment as the Li Ka Shing Early Cancer Institute to enable world-class fundamental research aimed at understanding how cancers emerge and develop, finding biomarkers to detect it, and developing new strategies to find people at risk and to intervene.
She says the new Research Clinic in the hospital will enable them to translate their discoveries into clinical practice.
On the top floor it will have space for healthy and pre-symptomatic individuals to take part in studies as well as a "hotel type of arrangement" where researchers from across Cambridge and beyond – often from disciplines outside medicine, such as physics, engineering and maths – are able to spend a period of time working in partnership with patients to develop and test their innovations.
"The best way to really get research done in the most efficient way is to have it right alongside the patient," she says.
"The closer you can bring these things together, to really embed it in the whole ecosystem, it makes it easier for the researchers, it makes it easier for the patients."
Developing a diagnostic test can be a long and laborious process.
Fitzgerald knows this only too well.
Her capsule sponge for diagnosing Barrett’s oesophagus, a condition that greatly increases the risk of oesophageal cancer, is in the final stages of testing before being rolled out across the NHS, but it has taken two decades to reach this stage.
The hospital has carried out economic modelling that shows how having researchers in geographically dispersed locations – even just across the city, as is the case with Cambridge – can significantly hamper innovation.
"Even for some of the more straightforward inventions that we've invented here, particularly in early detection, could have been developed years faster had scientists been located next to patients," says Gilbertson, who is also Chair of the NHS Innovation External Advisory Board, and so is familiar with the challenges of bringing innovations into the NHS.
"To change the story of cancer, there needs to be a seamless integration between research and NHS care," he explains.
" We're seeking to take the very best of Cambridge science and make sure it’s ‘NHS ready’ , ensuring it can be readily deployed in York, Hartlepool, Stockport, wherever, patients need it."
Professor Rebecca Fitzgerald with the capsule on a string
Professor Jean Abraham
While the ambition is to catch cancer early enough to cure it – and ultimately, to intervene early enough to prevent it – there will always be patients needing more intensive or longer-term treatment.
In the past, cancer treatments brought with them extremely unpleasant side-effects, but thanks to new generations of medicines and therapies – including so-called PARP inhibitors developed here in Cambridge – treatments can be much more targeted, making them more effective and with fewer side-effects.
Professor Jean Abraham directs the Precision Breast Cancer Institute, which will move into Cambridge Cancer Research Hospital.
Abraham and her team use the latest advances in genomics to better match treatment to particular changes in DNA that give rise to the tumour.
Once a patient is undergoing treatment, they hope to monitor almost in real time how the tumour is responding – is it shrinking in response to the drugs, for example – and adjust as necessary.
"One of the great things that will happen when we get into the hospital is that we'll have the Precision Breast Cancer Institute and side-by-side to that will be our NHS Breast Cancer Unit for our patients," she says.
Equally exciting, she says, is that next to these will be the Integrated Cancer Medicine Institute.
There, researchers will look for ways to bring together the many different data sets collected from cancer patients – from DNA to blood tests and biopsies to medical imaging, for example – and apply artificial intelligence (AI) to guide treatment options.
Gilbertson says this will help them completely transform the currently "very clunky" patient pathway that starts with the patient noticing something is wrong and getting referred by their GP to their local hospital where doctors will run a number of tests.
"Those tests are like a hand of cards," he says.
"Doctors currently hold in their hands a bunch of x-rays, blood tests, DNA sequencing, histology, and clinical information and try to compare these to make decisions.
"Comparing these very different pieces of information is hard, and currently involves a group of very smart and very busy people sitting in a room – nurses, doctors, surgeons, radiologists, pathologists – spending many hours trying to make sense of these data for 50 or so patients at a time.
You can imagine that this takes hours and is very inefficient."
Multiply this process across the NHS and it creates "massive workforce issues and inefficiencies.
But if we could harness the power of AI to read scans, read histology reports, look at genomic data, and importantly integrate all this data, then this could transform the speed, accuracy and efficiency to make real time clinical decisions for 40 of those 50 patients.
"This doesn’t take the doctor out of the picture.
Most likely it will provide rapid answers for the 30-40 patients who have more straightforward treatment options, freeing the team to discuss the mode complex and difficult cases."
Crucial to the development of Cambridge Cancer Research Hospital has been the involvement of patients – after all, its entire ethos is about improving their lives.
Ensuring that their voices are heard is the responsibility of Elaine Chapman, the Lead Advisory Nurse on the project and herself a person living with breast cancer.
"I see very much part of my role as helping us work out how we're going to make this building work in practice on a day-to-day basis.
So for patients, that's about thinking what experience, what things they might be feeling and thinking when they're coming to the building and how can we have an environment that will help them to feel comfortable?"
Chapman is the liaison with the Patient Advisory Group, co-chaired by Fiona Carey and Neil Stutchbury.
"We’re trying to change the experience for cancer patients and make it better," says Carey, who took early retirement in 2012 following her third major surgery, which was for kidney metastases in the pancreas, which took a huge toll on her.
"You wouldn’t build a Cineplex without talking to people who are going to use it.
If you have your patients around the table from the beginning, you’re going to avoid costly mistakes."
Patients have been heavily involved in the design and building of the new hospital from the start, sitting on all the working groups, alongside the professionals.
" We see things clinicians don’t see ," says Carey.
"We know things they don’t know.
And patients aren’t just patients.
They have skills and expertise.
They might be engineers, architects, accountants, artists – we all bring stuff into the room beyond what would have been there without us."
Patients groups have been involved in the hospital project since very early on.
This has resulted in important changes to the proposed design, such as having changing rooms and procedure rooms connected by a door rather than across a public corridor.
"We all know about gowns," says Carey.
"The whole thing is really awkward.
Should I wear shoes and socks?
Is my bum hanging out the back?
Now the design has been changed to remove that problem."
Chapman says there is great enthusiasm for the project among the patients she speaks to.
"This new way of doing things, having those University institutes integrated into the building so that research can go from a thought straight to a patient is incredibly inspiring ."
Fiona Carey
Elaine Chapman
Work will begin imminently on the new specialist hospital within the burgeoning Cambridge Biomedical Campus, which is itself located at the heart of the UK’s and Europe’s leading life sciences cluster.
It’s anticipated that Cambridge Cancer Research Hospital will open its doors to patients, doctors and researchers in 2029.
For everyone involved, it cannot come soon enough.
"We already do amazing things in Cambridge,” says Chapman.
"But by having a new building that has been designed in partnership with patients, clinicians and the University, we'll improve the experience for those working in there and for our patients coming to it."
Ford believes that the atmosphere that they will create in the new hospital will make it feel like "a place that people want to come and work at, and feel that what they do is changing people's lives ".
As a practising clinician, he says that for the first time in his career, he looks forward to being able to offer people treatment in an environment that genuinely contributes to their health and well-being.
There's a lot of evidence about the impact of the environment on the patients, he says.
"It makes a difference to how they feel about their treatments and it makes a big difference to the way that the staff approach their work.
Ultimately, the environment makes a major contribution to successful patient outcomes .
"
The ambition is for the hospital’s impact to resonate far beyond its four walls, says Abraham.
"We can change the outcomes and the way we care for our breast cancer and other cancer patients, both here and around the world ," she says.
“What we want to develop are tools and ways in which we can help not just local patients, but regional, national and international patients.
We know we can deliver this because of networks of centres who have worked with us nationally and internationally on a variety of studies who we will partner with to increase our global impact."
All of this is possible, says Gilbertson, because Cambridge is "a magnet for brilliance" that spans across the disciplines and from which the Hospital can draw expertise.
"By uniting the brilliance of Cambridge with our patients, we can totally transform the way we practice medicine ," he says.
"Cambridge is a special place.
In fact, it's a special place for the country and beyond.
Our vision is not just for the NHS – it reaches to other countries.
It's a unique time to achieve that."
The University would be grateful to hear from people, trusts and foundations interested in providing significant philanthropic support for the hospital.
Please contact Mary Jane Boland , Director of Development, Cambridge University Health Partners.
Acknowledgements
Additional reporting by Louise Walsh and Jacqueline Garget.
Published 15 July 2024

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/Early-Cancer-Institute:
Professor Rebecca Fitzgerald, Director of the Early Cancer Institute
The Early Cancer Institute
“Traditionally, early cancer has been neglected,” says its Director, Professor Rebecca Fitzgerald.
“People have been much more focused on late cancer, advanced therapies, precision therapy, for example.”
Part of the problem is the hugely expensive and long road to get a new test or preventative treatment to market.
Testing a relatively small number of patients with very advanced disease in fairly small trials is a more cost effective way of seeing if a drug works; targeting early cancer, on the other hand, would involve large population studies over several years before you know if it has worked.
“People have tended to shy away from this kind of research, but I think everyone's waking up now to the fact that unless we do this, we're not going to really improve the survival for the majority of our patients, because most patients are still diagnosed late.
Professor Rebecca Fitzgerald
Researchers at the Institute are focusing in particular on cancers that are hard to treat and as such have very poor outcomes, including lung, pancreas, oesophagus and liver cancers, and acute myeloid leukaemia.
Outcomes for these cancers have changed little over the past few years.
Lung cancer cell (Daniel Munoz-Espin)
Fitzgerald’s own area of expertise is oesophageal cancer, where she pioneered the Cytosponge – a ‘pill on a string’ coupled with a lab test that is a remarkably straightforward but effective way of helping determine whether heartburn patients have Barret’s oesophagus, a pre-cursor to cancer, or are developing malignancies.
Now, she wants to build on Cambridge’s history of discovery and innovation and apply it to early cancer.
The Institute houses scientists from a broad spectrum of disciplines across the University – from biologists and clinicians to engineers, physicists and social sciences – working together under one roof to understand the fundamental biology of how cancer develops and how it evolves, and applying that knowledge to pioneer new methods for detecting, treating – even preventing – cancer early.
The Institute is located on the Cambridge Biomedical Campus, where its close proximity to a number of world-leading academic, NHS and industrial partners will prove essential to its success.
These include the Cancer Research UK Cambridge Institute, the Stem Cell Institute and the Victor Phillip Dahdaleh Heart and Lung Research Institute , three hospitals, and major pharmaceutical companies AstraZeneca and GSK.
At nearby West Cambridge, physicists, engineers and mathematicians will also collaborate with the Institute’s teams, and a short drive away is the Wellcome Sanger Institute.
Also on the horizon is a major new hospital on the Campus – Cambridge Cancer Research Hospital , which aims to begin construction later this year.
Discoveries and innovations emerging from the Early Cancer Institute will underpin much of the research and treatment that takes place there and beyond, and will be complemented by a dedicated space in the hospital.
This is, says Fitzgerald, one of only four life sciences ecosystems in the world – and the largest in Europe – that provide the capability, critical mass, and integration of science and medicine to transform patient care.
Earlier this year, the Institute announced that it had received an  anonymous £11million donation to support the redevelopment of the Hutchison building, where it is housed.
As a result of the donation, the building will be renamed the Li Ka Shing Early Cancer Institute in honour of Hong Kong-based philanthropist Sir Ka-shing Li and the enduring partnership between the Li Ka Shing Foundation and the University of Cambridge.
This donation will help Fitzgerald and colleagues achieve their ambitious goal.
In 2012, Margaret was referred for an endoscopy to investigate the cause of her heartburn.
She was diagnosed with Barrett’s oesophagus, where long term exposure to stomach acid damages the food pipe.
For the majority of people – around nine in 10 – the condition does not progress further, but for a small number of people, it can develop into oesophageal cancer.
Margaret’s specialist took a biopsy of the tissue and was able to confirm that everything was okay, but because of the risk associated with Barrett’s oesophagus, she was to receive a three-yearly check-up.
Then COVID-19 struck.
As the NHS diverted resources to manage the pandemic, waiting times for check-ups increased.
2021 came and went and Margaret wasn’t contacted for her three-yearly check-up.
Margaret
The test used the Cytosponge, developed by Professor Rebecca Fitzgerald at the University of Cambridge.
Margaret had been referred to Dr Sunny Kadri, a consultant at University Hospitals of Leicester NHS Trust and former research fellow in Professor Fitzgerald's lab conducting the initial trials of the device in 2010.
It involves the patient swallowing a pill on a string.
The pill dissolves to reveal a sponge, which is drawn back up the oesophagus.
As it does so, it collects some of cells from the lining.
It’s a procedure that takes a matter of minutes.
“It was a bit awkward to swallow, but with plenty of water goes down okay,” explains Margaret.
“But it’s not as unpleasant as an endoscopy and is faster and easier, which is better for you as a patient and better for the hospital.”
The cells are stained using a laboratory marker called TFF3, allowing them to be examined under a microscope.
This time, the test showed early evidence of dysplasia, a pre-cancerous stage.
Oesophageal cancer has poor outcomes – only one in eight oesophageal cancer patients (12%) survive for ten or more years, so catching the disease early is crucial.
Fortunately for Margaret, the Cytosponge test had detected her condition in time for it to be treated.
Dr Kadri carried out an endoscopic resection, a procedure to remove the pre-cancerous tissue.
She now has three-monthly check-ups and has been told that if the dysplasia doesn’t return, it may be possible to ‘burn off’ the Barrett’s oesophagus tissue.
All this has meant that, aside from some discomfort associated with the resection treatment, Margaret is able to return to enjoying her retirement and passions of playing golf and tennis.
*Name changed at the request of the patient
Professor Serena Nik-Zainal
Professor Serena Nik-Zainal is a DNA detective .
She uses whole genome sequencing to investigate tumour DNA, looking for mutational signatures – or ‘fingerprints’ – that can reveal what caused the mutations in a cell’s DNA that gave rise to the cancer: was it inherited, spontaneous, or triggered by something in the environment, such as sunlight or chemicals?
Nik-Zainal has built up expertise in whole genome sequencing and analysis over the last decade or so.
Now, she wants to apply this to early cancer – even to pre-cancer, for example some of the tumours that precede breast cancer, known as ductal carcinoma in situ, DCIS.
Not everybody with DCIS goes on to develop cancer, so Nik-Zainal’s team is trying to understand what sets apart those women who go on to develop cancer from those who don’t.
She will be looking at whether we see the same mutational signatures in early cancers as we do in developed cancers, as this will give clues as to which signatures are important to tumour development.
At present, if a woman arrives at the clinic with a lump in her breast, she will receive a biopsy.
If it turns out to be cancer, the tumour will be removed and its DNA sequenced.
This is important for guiding treatment: for example, faults in inherited BRCA genes are known to put women at high risk of developing breast cancer, but tumours can develop spontaneous (or ‘somatic’) BRCA defects – whole genome sequencing of the tumour DNA will pick up these mutations and could then guide early treatment for these women.
Nik-Zainal would like to see this sequencing happen at an earlier stage: “Maybe what we should be doing is sequencing at the start, when the patient first comes to biopsy – taking that sample, sequencing it, then really understanding at that point what is the status of the genome and is there anything we can do about it sooner?
We're trying to push the boundaries, make the genome sequencing matter sooner and faster.”
You might not expect to find fossil records in a cancer institute, but this is how Dr Jamie Blundell – an evolutionary biologist by training – describes the samples he works with.
His research involves looking at blood samples taken from patients with blood cancers such as acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) many years before their diagnosis.
Dr Jamie Blundell
Blundell uses insights from evolution and applies them to cancer, looking at how somatic mutations are acquired and expand.
“What we know about most cancers is that they're driven by the accumulation of multiple genetic changes on top of each other.
What the samples enable you to do is essentially watch that process of evolution occurring, seeing how it unfolded in that person over the decades.”
To do this, Blundell takes the cancerous tissue and looks for the tell-tale genetic changes that gave rise to that cancer.
He then tracks back through the older samples to see how and when the mutations arose, how they expanded and how they acquired further mutations.
Blood cancer is particularly suited to this approach, he says.
“People don't come in and give you a chunk of liver or lung, but they will give you a blood sample.
It's the one tissue where you can actually watch very precisely how cancer was born.
And a lot of the work has pointed to the first mutations occurring very early on in your life, often in your teens.”
Blundell believes we are not far off being able to take blood samples from at-risk groups – over 50s, say – and look for genetic anomalies that suggest an individual is at a significantly higher risk of developing an aggressive blood cancer.
These individuals could then be screened at regular intervals.
But detecting cancer early is only useful if something can be done it.
Fortunately, there are experimental trials taking place in the US that might result in new treatments.
“This is where the detection and the treatment go hand in hand, because the very thing that you're using to detect it, which is the genetic change, will also inform your treatment.
If you have a particular mutation in this gene, say IDH1 or IDH2, then there may be a targeted therapy for mutations in that gene, and so you can selectively target the premalignant condition.”
Dr Matt Hoare
While in the UK rates of most cancers are stable or declining, there is one cancer that is on the increase: primary liver cancer.
The reason we may not have heard about it is because liver cancer only tends to occur in individuals with liver disease, where the major risk factors have traditionally been excessive drinking and hepatitis B or C, and the latter diseases are uncommon in the UK.
But there is another significant risk factor: type 2 diabetes – and cases of this disease have increased dramatically in recent years, driven by rising levels of obesity.
By the time Hoare sees liver cancer patients, he says it is often too late to treat them.
“We should have caught them much, much earlier, identified that they were getting liver disease and then liver cancer.”
People in the UK with chronic liver disease are currently offered an ultrasound scan every six months, but Hoare describes this surveillance programme as “fantastically expensive, but generally ineffective”.
Like Nik-Zainal, Hoare wants to harness the revolution in genome sequencing to help understand liver cancer and who is going to develop it.
Tumours are essentially clones: a cell acquires a mutation, divides and replicates, spreading while continuing to acquire new mutations.
If you sequence any part of the cancer, you should find the common mutations that led to its transformation; sequencing of non-cancerous tissue is much harder.
Working with Dr Peter Campbell from the Wellcome Sanger Institute, Hoare sequenced tissue from patients with chronic liver disease and compared this to tissue from patients with primary liver cancer, expecting to find the same mutations.
But this was not the case.
“What we did find [in the case of liver disease] was lots of other mutations, and we kept seeing them again and again in the same genes and in the same parts of the same genes, which tells you that there must be Darwinian natural selection taking place.”
Just as the wing evolved independently several times – in mammals, birds and insects, for example – because it carried an evolutionary advantage, then this must also be the case with these mutations, he says: they must be overwhelmingly advantageous in liver disease.
“Why is that?
What does it mean for the cancer development?
At the moment we just don't know.
We know they’re not cancer-causing mutations, but we keep finding them in patients who are at risk of cancer.
What they actually do is they seem to affect metabolism genes, they affect things that control fat, that control diabetes, that control sugars, those kind of things.
They’re not immediately obviously connected to cancer, so what's the link?
That’s what we aim to find out.”
While mutations in our DNA may drive cancer, as Dr Daniel Munoz-Espin points out, “they are not sufficient to initiate cancer”.
He is interested in emerging evidence that a tumour’s ‘microenvironment’ plays a fundamental role in cancer.
The microenvironment is a tumour’s immediate surroundings: the blood vessels, immune cells, fibroblasts, for example.
Understanding the changes in the microenvironment that enable the cancer to progress will be important for helping develop new ways to treat cancers.
Dr Daniel Munoz-Espin
Munoz-Espin focuses on lung cancer, and among the tools he uses are organoids – ‘mini-tumours’ grown from cancer cells that mimic the behaviour of the tumour and its microenvironment.
They are increasingly used to replace the use of animals, such as mice.
They can also be used to screen potential drug candidates at a scale that would neither be practical nor ethical using mice.
One particular area that Munoz-Espin is interested in is senescence, one of the ways our body responds to unrepairable damage and stress, whether that be DNA damage, activation of cancer genes or response to chemotherapy drugs, for example.
“Senescence is a hot topic in cancer at the moment.”
Ordinarily, cells divide and replicate, which could be problematic if the cells are damaged.
Senescence prevents the cell from dividing anymore.
But it does not kill the cell, and there is increasing evidence that senescent cells can have very potent tumour-promoting activity, causing cancer initiation, progression and relapse or metastasis.
This is why senescent cells are often known as ‘zombie cells’, as they are supposed to be dead, but remain very much alive.
Experimental clinical trials are underway to validate ‘senotherapies’ – a cocktail of pharmacologically-active drugs that specifically target and kill senescent cells.
“We call it a ‘one-two punch’ therapy,” says Munoz-Espin.
His team is trying to identify the ideal combination for lung cancer.
“We’ve found that if we eliminate senescent cells, either in the precancerous stages or after chemotherapy, then we can prevent cancer initiation and progression, significantly increasing survival rates.”
Daniel Munoz-Espin (right)
This article was first published on 21 September 2022.
It was updated to include details of the £11m donation on 24 July 2024 and republished as part of the University of Cambridge's campaign Cambridge is Changing the Story of Cancer .
Photography:

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research/news/nhs-trial-of-sponge-on-a-string-test-replaces-need-for-endoscopy-for-thousands-of-patients:
A new test to help diagnose a condition that can lead to oesophageal cancer – developed by Cambridge researchers and trialled by the NHS – has reduced the need for invasive endoscopy in thousands of low-risk patients.
It is very exciting to see the positive results of the NHS England real-world pilot for our capsule-sponge test
The NHS pilot, which has tested over 8,500 patients with the ‘capsule sponge test’, showed almost eight out of 10 patients who completed a test were discharged without the need for further testing, freeing up endoscopy capacity for higher-risk patients and those referred for urgent tests for oesophageal cancer.
The test involves patients swallowing a small capsule-shaped device that contains a tiny sponge that collects cell samples for analysis before being extracted via a string thread attached to the sponge.
It has been developed by Professor Rebecca Fitzgerald, Director of the Early Cancer Institute at the University of Cambridge.
Professor Fitzgerald said: “It is very exciting to see the positive results of the NHS England real-world pilot for our capsule-sponge test.
This is a major step forward to making this simple test more routinely available outside of clinical trials.
Timely diagnosis is vital for improving outcomes for patients.”
Barrett’s oesophagus – a condition affecting the food pipe which can go on to cause oesophageal cancer in some patients – is usually diagnosed or ruled out via endoscopy (a camera test of the food pipe) following a GP referral to a gastroenterologist or other specialist practitioner who can carry out the procedure.
The sponge-on-a-string test being trialled by the NHS can instead be carried out quickly in a short appointment, without the need for sedation.
Amanda Pritchard, NHS chief executive, said: “Thousands of people have now benefitted from this incredibly efficient test on the NHS – while the sponge on a string is small in size, it can make a big difference for patients – they can conveniently fit the test into their day and it can often replace the need for an endoscopy while also helping to reduce waiting lists by freeing up staff and resources.
“The NHS is always striving to adopt the latest innovations and new ways of working that help improve patient experience and increase efficiency simple sponge on a string test is just one example of many pioneering tools we’ve trialled in recent years to help diagnose and treat people sooner.”
In a survey of over 350 patients who had the capsule sponge test, patients often said they would recommend the test to a friend or family member, and 94% of patients reported experiencing only mild or no pain at all.
The NHS began piloting the test during the pandemic when there was increased pressure on services and a growing backlog for endoscopy.
Gastro-oesophageal reflux, also known as acid reflux, is a relatively common condition, affecting around one to two in every ten people to some degree, and some of these people may already have or will develop Barrett’s oesophagus, which is a precursor to oesophageal cancer.
There are around 9,300 new oesophageal cancer cases in the UK every year.
The key to saving lives is to detect it an earlier stage of Barrett's oesophagus before it becomes cancerous.
The NHS pilot was launched at 30 hospital sites across 17 areas in England including Manchester, Plymouth, London, Kent and Cumbria.
Evaluation of the pilot showed that using capsule sponge was highly cost effective compared to using endoscopy-only for diagnosing patients – saving around £400 per patient.
Patients with positive results from the capsule sponge test who were referred on for an endoscopy had the highest prevalence of Barrett’s oesophagus at 27.2%, compared to zero patients with negative results who completed an endoscopy.
One of the first pilot sites at East and North Hertfordshire NHS Trust has now performed around 1,400 capsule sponge tests – offering to both patients with reflux symptoms via a new consultant led, nurse run early diagnosis service, as well as to patients on an existing Barrett’s surveillance programme.
In the first 1,000 patients, the capsule test identified Barrett’s in 6% patients with reflux and found two new cancers and three patients with dysplasia who may have had a longer time to diagnosis otherwise.
While 72% reflux patients were discharged back to their GP without the need for an endoscopy.
As of January, 368 patients have had a positive test result of whom about half have confirmed Barrett's oesophagus.
Dr Danielle Morris, a consultant gastroenterologist at East and North Hertfordshire NHS Trust, said: “Using the capsule sponge test as a diagnosis triage tool has had huge benefits for patients, avoiding the need for unnecessary gastroscopy in almost seven out of 10 patients, and helping to reduce endoscopy waiting lists enabling us to prioritise those who really need endoscopy to have it done quickly.
“The test is performed by a single trained practitioner in an outpatient setting, so it is very resource light compared to gastroscopy, and our patients are very supportive of the service – with almost nine in 10 patients preferring the capsule sponge to a gastroscopy.”
Adapted from a press release from NHS England .
Capsule and sponge
Credit: Cyted

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research/news/scientists-develop-test-to-identify-people-at-risk-of-developing-acute-myeloid-leukaemia-and-related:
The new ‘MN-predict’ platform will allow doctors and scientists to identify those at risk and to design new treatments to prevent them from developing these potentially lethal cancers.
MN-predict makes it possible to identify at-risk individuals, and we hope it can become an essential part of future leukaemia prevention programmes.
Researchers at the Wellcome-MRC Cambridge Stem Cell Institute (CSCI), the University of Cambridge’s Department of Haematology, and Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria del Principado de Asturias (ISPA) analysed data from more than 400,000 individuals participating in the United Kingdom Biobank.
Using this data, the scientists created 'MN–predict', a platform for predicting the risk of developing blood cancers such as acute myeloid leukaemia, myelodysplastic syndromes and myeloproliferative neoplasms over a 10- to 15-year period.
The test, now available in NHS clinics, requires patients to provide a blood sample from which DNA is extracted for limited sequencing, alongside basic blood cell counts.
With this information, MN-predict identifies those at high risk of any of these cancers and can be used in specialist clinics for leukaemia prevention.
Professor George Vassiliou, senior author of the study, said: “We all know that prevention is better than cure, but it is not easy to prevent diseases like leukaemia without knowing who is at risk.
MN-predict makes it possible to identify at-risk individuals, and we hope it can become an essential part of future leukaemia prevention programmes.”
The myeloid neoplasms are a group of related cancers encompassing acute myeloid leukaemia, myelodysplastic syndromes and myeloproliferative neoplasms.
Treatments for these cancers have improved in the last few years, but most cases remain incurable.
In the last few years, scientists have discovered that these cancers develop over decades through the accumulation of DNA mutations in blood stem cells - the cells responsible for normal blood formation.
The mutations encourage these stem cells to grow faster than normal and, as more mutations accumulate, they can progress towards leukaemia.
While mutations that promote cell growth are common, leukaemia develops only in a small minority of cases.
Identifying these cases early on helps efforts to prevent the cancers from developing.
The work is published today in the journal Nature Genetics .
Dr Muxin Gu, first author of the paper, said: “We hope that MN-predict will help clinicians to identify people at risk of myeloid cancers, and use novel treatment to prevent the cancers developing.”
Dr Pedro M Quiros, joint senior author of the study, said: “Despite some recent advances in their treatment, unfortunately these cancers remain lethal to many sufferers.
We hope that our efforts will help advance prevention in favour of treating the full-blown disease.”
The research and development of MN-Predict was funded by Cancer Research UK and the Leukaemia and Lymphoma Society.
Scientists from the Early Cancer Institute, University of Cambridge, University of Bristol, University of Oviedo (Spain), University of York, AstraZeneca (UK), German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ, Germany), St James's Hospital, Leeds (UK) and University of Pavia (Italy) also participated in the study.
Gu M, Cheloor-Kovilakam S, Dunn W, Marando L, Barcena C, Mohorianu I, Smith A, Kar S, Fabre M, Gerstung M, Cargo C, Malcovati L, Quiros P, Vassiliou G: ­­­' Multiparameter prediction of myeloid neoplasia risk .' Nature Genetics.
2023.
DOI: 10.1038/s41588-023-01472-1
Adapted from a press release by the Wellcome-MRC Cambridge Stem Cell Institute.
We make our image and video content available in a number of ways – as here, on our main website under its Terms and conditions , and on a range of channels including social media that permit your use and sharing of our content under their respective Terms.
Person having a blood test
Credit: Nguyễn Hiệp on Unsplash

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/best4-screening-trial-launch:
Professor Rebecca Fitzgerald demonstrates the capsule sponge (Credit: StillVision)
The BEST4 Screening trial will find out if the capsule sponge test could be used to screen people with heartburn for Barrett’s oesophagus – a condition that can lead to oesophageal cancer.
Capsule sponge (Credit: Cyted)
The capsule sponge test takes ten minutes to do and can be done by a nurse – making it much faster and less expensive than endoscopy.
The trial will find out if the capsule sponge test can reduce the need for cancer treatments and prevent deaths from oesophageal cancer.
The trial showcases UK science and innovation and is the last step in a series of clinical trials to see if the capsule sponge test could be offered in the cancer screening programmes of the four UK nations.
Over the next three years, the trial will recruit 120,000 people who regularly take medication for heartburn – the most common symptom for Barrett’s oesophagus.
Barrett’s oesophagus is a precursor condition to oesophageal cancer, where cells in the food pipe start to grow abnormally.
Invitations to join the trial will be sent by text message from NHSresearch to encourage as many eligible people as possible to take part in England.
Participants will be asked to join Heartburn Health, a new platform to take part in clinical trials in heartburn-linked cancers like BEST4 Screening.
Mobile screening vans will be rolled out across England to deliver the tests as part of the trial.
Mobile screening van (Credit: EMS Healthcare)
The trial follows decades of research by Professor Rebecca Fitzgerald and a team of scientists, clinicians and nurses at the Early Cancer Institute , University of Cambridge and Cancer Research UK Cambridge Centre , who invented and refined the capsule sponge test.
Professor Rebecca Fitzgerald, Director of the Early Cancer Institute and co-principal investigator of the BEST4 trials, said: “The capsule sponge is changing how we detect Barrett’s oesophagus and oesophageal cancer.
Catching it earlier can save lives by reducing the need for chemotherapy and surgery to remove the oesophagus.
“The BEST4 Screening trial is the pinnacle of many years of painstaking research, which has demonstrated that the capsule sponge can reliably identify Barrett’s oesophagus.
Thousands of people have already benefited in trials and pilot programmes, and now we’re taking the test to the next level to see if we could offer this to everyone with heartburn.
“The BEST4 Screening trial could fundamentally transform the lives of people affected by oesophageal cancer by providing the crucial evidence needed to make it a viable screening programme, rolled out to every part of the UK.”
There are around 9,300 new cases of oesophageal cancer in the UK every year, according to analysis from Cancer Research UK.
Oesophageal cancer is the seventh most common cause of cancer death in the UK, with around 22 deaths a day from the disease.
The capsule sponge starts off as a small, coated pill attached to a thread.
When a patient swallows the pill and it reaches the stomach, the coating dissolves and the sponge inside expands to the size of a 50p coin.
The sponge collects cells from the oesophagus as it is gently pulled out from the stomach by a nurse or GP.
The cells are sent for testing for two proteins called Trefoil Factor 3 (TFF3), which is only found in Barrett’s oesophagus, and altered p53 protein, which identifies cells which are starting to grow out of control and become oesophageal cancer.
The trial is backed by £6.4 million of funding from Cancer Research UK and the National Institute for Health and Care Research (NIHR).
It will be led from Cambridge University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust and the University of Cambridge, with the Cancer Research UK Cancer Prevention Trials Unit at Queen Mary University of London (QMUL) designing the trial and analysing results from it.
Professor Peter Sasieni, Director of the Cancer Research UK Cancer Prevention Trials Unit at QMUL and co-principal investigator of the BEST4 trials, said: “Most people with Barrett’s oesophagus have heartburn, but most people with heartburn don’t have Barrett’s oesophagus.
We have already shown that the capsule sponge can reliably identify people with Barrett’s oesophagus.
Now we need to show that using it in a targeted screening programme can help prevent oesophageal cancer and reduce deaths from this disease.”
The test is faster, less invasive and far less expensive than endoscopy, which is currently used to diagnose Barrett’s oesophagus and oesophageal cancer.
It has been piloted in health services in England, Scotland and Northern Ireland for patients who are currently on waiting lists for endoscopy, because they have long-term heartburn or have already been diagnosed with Barrett’s oesophagus.
To date, over 24,000 capsule sponge tests have been performed in pilot programmes, helping to reduce diagnostic backlogs in endoscopy and NHS pathology.
A previous clinical trial, BEST3, showed that the capsule sponge test picks up 10 times more cases of Barrett’s oesophagus in people with chronic heartburn, compared to routine GP care.
Paul Anderson (59), a stock controller from St Neots, is one of the first participants to join the BEST4 Screening trial in Cambridgeshire.
He said: “I first experienced acid reflux 10 years ago and I was referred for endoscopy to get it checked out.
I’ve been on medication for heartburn ever since to manage it.
“I’d never been on a clinical trial before, but when the invitation came for this one, I felt I had to sign up as the acid reflux had flared back up again.
I’m hoping that it may give me some more insight into my chronic heartburn, as well as helping people who may have similar concerns about their health.
“I’m hopeful that playing my small part in this worthy cause will help others to get checked out earlier.”
Chief Executive of Cancer Research UK, Michelle Mitchell : “Around 59% of all oesophageal cancer cases are preventable.
Yet endoscopy, the gold standard for diagnosing and treating this cancer, is labour-intensive and not practical for a population screening programme.
“Backed by funding from Cancer Research UK, the capsule sponge has become one of the most exciting early detection tools to emerge in recent years.
After many decades of research, we’re on the cusp of transforming oesophageal cancer diagnosis forever.”
Minister for Public Health and Prevention, Andrew Gwynne: “This trial is a shining example of how we can harness the power of technology to improve patient experience and speed up diagnosis.
"This innovation has the potential to allow us to perform lifesaving screenings quicker and cheaper, freeing up vital NHS resources.”
Scientific Director for NIHR Programmes, Professor Danny McAuley: “Thousands of people are needed to join this trial, and we encourage people to sign up as participants.
This important research will help benefit patients, and inform those who plan and deliver NHS services of how best to test for the disease."
The future Cambridge Cancer Research Hospital , planned for the Cambridge Biomedical Campus, will bring together clinical and research expertise, including Professor Fitzgerald’s work, under one roof.
It will enable the development and discovery of more non-invasive devices like the capsule sponge, to detect cancer earlier, and save more lives.
Artist's impression of Cambridge Cancer Research Hospital
More information about how to join the trial can be found at the BEST4 website or by emailing the BEST4 team .
You can also sign up to the NIHR’s Be Part of Research service at bepartofresearch.uk to take part in clinical research.
Simply answer a few questions about yourself and the conditions you’re interested in to be matched to studies happening in locations near you.
Adapted from a press release from Cancer Research UK

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/light-for-cancer-detection:
By Sarah Collins Published 6 August 2024
Thomas Else.
Photo: Lloyd Mann
The University of Cambridge’s Cavendish Laboratory – celebrating its 150 th anniversary and soon moving to its new home, the Ray Dolby Centre – is one of the most legendary physics laboratories in the world.
It’s where the electron, the neutron and the structure of DNA were discovered.
To date, 30 Cavendish researchers have been awarded the Nobel Prize.
Although primarily associated with physics, today, researchers at the Cavendish are also helping to unravel the mysteries of cancer.
This includes Professor Sarah Bohndiek , who is jointly based at the Cavendish and the CRUK Cambridge Institute.
Bohndiek’s team specialises in the use of light to uncover hidden properties of disease, especially cancer.
They are developing devices that go beyond the visible spectrum, using different wavelengths of light to enable earlier detection.
Sarah Bohndiek
One of their key projects involves photoacoustic imaging, a technology combining light and ultrasound.
Normal ultrasound scanners send sound into the body and measure the echo.
Photoacoustic imaging systems, however, measure the ultrasound generated when molecules absorb light and heat up.
Photoacoustic images show how molecules in the body are changing and are particularly useful for measuring oxygen levels in the blood.
“This is a useful feature for looking at cancer,” said Thomas Else, a research associate in Bohndiek’s team.
“Cancers tend to have lower oxygen levels than healthy tissue because they grow so quickly.”
Most widely-used methods for detecting and monitoring cancer – such as MRI and X-ray mammography machines – are bulky and expensive pieces of equipment, and in the case of mammography uses ionising radiation and applies painful compression.
“The lack of ionising radiation makes photoacoustic imaging safe and suitable for long-term monitoring, and it can produce high-contrast images at the bedside, like an ultrasound,” said Else.
“Photoacoustic systems are also lower cost and more portable than MRI machines, which makes it a valuable cancer monitoring technique in a wider range of medical settings.”
Photoacoustic imaging is already CE-marked in Europe and FDA-approved in the United States for breast cancer detection which could be a cost-effective alternative to traditional mammograms.
However, one of the challenges with the application of photoacoustic imaging, like several light-based medical technologies, is that it does not perform as well for people with darker skin tones.
Melanin, the main pigment that affects skin tone, absorbs light, meaning less light can get through the skin to make a measurement.
Typically, photoacoustic imaging uses light from the red end of the visible spectrum to the infrared – at wavelengths around 700 to 900 nanometres.
In this range, haemoglobin in the blood is the main source of contrast.
But in darker-skinned patients, melanin can overwhelm the haemoglobin signal.
“Melanin in the skin blocks some light and prevents it from getting deep into the tissue and to the cancer or the organ we want to image,” said Else.
“We wanted to look at the physics behind the underperformance of light-based imaging technologies for people of colour, which could help us address it.”
Photoacoustic images of mouse spleen and kidneys in albino and pigmented mice
In a study recently published in the Journal of Biomedical Optics , Else and his colleagues used a computer model of skin with varying levels of pigmentation to simulate photoacoustic images.
They validated the results in mice with different pigmentation patterns and in gel models, called phantoms, that mimic different skin tones.
“We found two main effects: one was if you try to measure blood oxygenation – which is important in cancer – in people with dark skin, you get incorrect measurements,” said Else.
“Blood oxygenation in Black patients is overestimated compared to white patients.
You also get lower quality images, with noise and distortions in the image, that could lead a clinician to misinterpret the scan, potentially making a tumour look more aggressive than it really is.”
To address these discrepancies, the researchers are conducting further studies with volunteers at Addenbrooke’s Hospital in collaboration with the Alliance for Cancer Early Detection to refine the technology and ensure its efficacy across diverse skin tones.
Bohndiek’s team is also exploring the use of photoacoustics for tailoring radiotherapy.
By using photoacoustics to understand how cancers respond to treatment, clinicians might be able to customise radiation doses more effectively.
The researchers are also exploring other light-based technologies, like pulse oximeters and smartwatches, which have shown biases in blood oxygenation readings for Black patients.
They aim to develop wearable devices that provide accurate measurements regardless of skin tone.
Andrey Popov via iStock/Getty Images
By tackling these biases head-on, the researchers believe they can create better and more inclusive medical devices that not only improve cancer detection and monitoring but also enhance the overall quality and accessibility of healthcare technology.
“Although we’re working on developing and improving technologies, our focus remains the same: we want to improve cancer detection and monitoring, so that every patient is given the best possible chance,” said Else.
Sarah Bohndiek is a Fellow of Corpus Christi College, Cambridge.
Thomas Else is a Member of Clare College, Cambridge.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research/news/exhausted-immune-cells-in-healthy-women-could-be-target-for-breast-cancer-prevention:
Researchers at the University of Cambridge have created the world’s largest catalogue of human breast cells, which has revealed early cell changes in healthy carriers of BRCA1 and BRCA2 gene mutations.
We’re very excited about this discovery, because it opens up potential for a preventative treatment other than surgery for carriers of BRCA breast cancer gene mutations.
Everyone has BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes, but mutations in these genes - which can be inherited - increase the risk of breast and ovarian cancer.
The study found that the immune cells in breast tissue of healthy women carrying BRCA1 or BRCA2 gene mutations show signs of malfunction known as ‘exhaustion’.
This suggests that the immune cells can’t clear out damaged breast cells, which can eventually develop into breast cancer.
This is the first time that ‘exhausted’ immune cells have been reported in non-cancerous breast tissues at such scale - normally these cells are only found in late-stage tumours.
The results raise the possibility of using existing immunotherapy drugs as early intervention to prevent breast cancer developing, in carriers of BRCA1 and BRCA2 gene mutations.
The researchers have received a ‘ Biology to Prevention Award ’ from Cancer Research UK to trial this preventative approach in mice.
If effective, this will pave the way to a pilot clinical trial in women carrying BRCA gene mutations.
“Our results suggest that in carriers of BRCA mutations, the immune system is failing to kill off damaged breast cells - which in turn seem to be working to keep these immune cells at bay,” said Professor Walid Khaled in the University of Cambridge’s Department of Pharmacology and Wellcome-MRC Cambridge Stem Cell Institute, senior author of the report.
He added: “We’re very excited about this discovery, because it opens up potential for a preventative treatment other than surgery for carriers of BRCA breast cancer gene mutations.
“Drugs already exist that can overcome this block in immune cell function, but so far, they’ve only been approved for late-stage disease.
No-one has really considered using them in a preventative way before.”
The results are published today in the journal Nature Genetics .
Risk-reducing surgery, in which the breasts are removed, is offered to those at increased risk of breast cancer.
This can be a difficult decision for young women to make and can have a significant effect on body image and sexual relationships.
“The best way to prevent breast cancer is to really understand how it develops in the first place.
Then we can identify these early changes and intervene,” said Khaled.
He added: “Late-stage breast cancer tends to be very unpredictable and hard to manage.
As we make better and better drugs, the tumours just seem to find a way around it.”
Using samples of healthy breast tissue collected from 55 women across a range of ages, the researchers catalogued over 800,000 cells - including all the different types of breast cell.
The resulting Human Breast Cell Atlas is now available as a resource for other researchers to use and add to.
It contains huge amounts of information on other risk factors for breast cancer including Body Mass Index (BMI), menopausal status, contraceptive use and alcohol consumption.
“We've found that there are multiple breast cell types that change with pregnancy, and with age, and it’s the combination of these effects - and others - that drives the overall risk of breast cancer,” said Austin Reed, a PhD student in the University of Cambridge’s Department of Pharmacology and joint first author of the report.
He added: “As we collect more of this type of information from samples around the world, we can learn more about how breast cancer develops and the impact of different risk factors - with the aim of improving treatment.”
One of the biggest challenges in treating breast cancer is that it is not just one disease, but many.
Many different genetic variations can lead to breast cancer, and genetic risk interacts with other risk factors in complicated ways.
For example, it is known that the likelihood of breast cancer increases with age, but this risk is greatly reduced by pregnancy early in life.
And age-associated risk is greatly increased in carriers of the breast cancer genes BRCA1 and BRCA2.
The new study aimed to understand how some of these risk factors interact, by characterising the different cell types in the human breast under many different physiological states.
The researchers used a technique called ‘single cell RNA-sequencing’ to characterise the many different breast cell types and states.
Almost all cells in the body have the same set of genes, but only a subset of these are switched on in each cell – and these determine the cell’s identity and function.
Single cell RNA-sequencing reveals which genes are switched on in individual cells.
“Breast cancer occurs around the world, but social inequalities mean not everyone has access to treatment.
Prevention is the most cost-effective approach.
It not only tackles inequality, which mostly affects low-income countries, but also improves disease outcome in high-income countries,” said Dr Sara Pensa, Senior Research Associate in the University of Cambridge’s Department of Pharmacology and joint first author of the study.
Breast tissue samples were provided by the Breast Cancer Now tissue bank.
The research was primarily funded by the Medical Research Council and Cancer Research UK.
Reference: Reed, A.D.
et al: ‘ A human breast cell atlas enables mapping of homeostatic cellular shifts in the adult breast .’ Nature Genetics, March 2024.
DOI: 10.1038/s41588-024-01688-9
Woman holds pink breast cancer awareness ribbon.
Credit angiola-harry-unsplash
Credit: Angiola Harry on Unsplash

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research/news/role-of-inherited-genetic-variants-in-rare-blood-cancer-uncovered:
Combining three different sources of genetic information has allowed researchers to further understand why only some people with a common mutation go on to develop rare blood cancer.
Our hope is that this information can be incorporated into future disease prediction efforts
Large-scale genetic analysis has helped researchers uncover the interplay between cancer-driving genetic mutations and inherited genetic variants in a rare type of blood cancer.
Researchers from the University of Cambridge, Wellcome Sanger Institute, and collaborators, combined various comprehensive data sets to understand the impact of both cancer-driving spontaneous mutations and inherited genetic variation on the risk of developing myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPN).
The study, published in the journal Nature Genetics , describes how inherited genetic variants can influence whether a spontaneous mutation in a particular gene increases the risk of developing this rare blood cancer.
This analysis has an impact on current clinical predictions of disease development in individuals.
Further research is required to understand the biological mechanisms behind how these inherited genetic variants influence the chances of developing rare blood cancer.
In the future, this knowledge could aid drug development and interventions that reduce the risk of disease.
Myeloproliferative neoplasms, MPNs, are a group of rare, chronic, blood cancers.
There are around 4,000 cases of MPN in the UK each year.
These occur when the bone marrow overproduces blood cells, which can result in blood clots and bleeding.
MPNs can also progress into other forms of blood cancer, such as leukaemia.
In the population, there is a large amount of natural variation between individuals’ blood cells, which can affect the amount of blood cells a person has and their particular traits.
This is because multiple different genes can influence blood cell features in an individual.
During routine blood tests, researchers take known information about these genes and analyse the variation to give a genetic risk score, which is how likely that individual is to develop a disease over their lifetime.
MPNs have been linked to random somatic mutations in certain genes including in a gene called JAK2.
However, mutated JAK2 is commonly found in the global population, and the vast majority of these individuals do not have or go on to develop MPN.
Whilst previous studies have identified over a dozen associated inherited genetic variants that increase the risk of MPN, these studies insufficiently explain why most individuals in the population do not go on to develop MPN.
This new study, from the Wellcome Sanger Institute and collaborators, combined information on the known somatic driver mutations in MPN, inherited genetic variants, and genetic risk scores from individuals with MPN.
They found that the inherited variants that cause natural blood cell variation in the population also impact whether a JAK2 somatic mutation will go on to cause MPN.
They also found that individuals with an inherited risk of having a higher blood cell count could display MPN features in the absence of cancer-driving mutations, thus, mimicking disease.
Dr Jing Guo, from the University of Cambridge and the Wellcome Sanger Institute and first author of the study, said: “Our large-scale statistical study has helped fill the knowledge gaps in how variants in DNA, both inherited and somatic, interact to influence complex disease risk.
By combining these three different types of datasets we were able to get a more complete picture of how these variants combine to cause blood disorders.”
Professor Nicole Soranzo, co-senior author from the University of Cambridge, the Wellcome Sanger Institute, and Human Technopole, Italy, said: “There has been increasing realisation that human diseases have complex causes involving a combination of common and rare inherited genetic variants with different severity.
“We have previously shown that variation in blood cell parameters and function has complex genetic variability by highlighting thousands of genetic changes that affect different gene functions.
Here, we show for the first time that common variants in these genes also affect blood cancers, independent of causative somatic mutations.
This confirms a new important contribution of normal variability beyond complex disease, contributing to our understanding of myeloproliferative neoplasms and blood cancer more generally.”
Dr Jyoti Nangalia, co-senior author from the Wellcome-MRC Cambridge Stem Cell Institute at the University of Cambridge, and the Wellcome Sanger Institute, said: “We have a good understanding of the genetic causes of myeloproliferative neoplasms.
In fact, many of these genetic mutations are routine diagnostic tests in the clinic.
However, these mutations can often be found in healthy individuals without the disease.
“Our study helps us understand how inherited DNA variation from person to person can interact with cancer-causing mutations to determine whether disease occurs in the first place, and how this can alter the type of any subsequent disease that emerges.
Our hope is that this information can be incorporated into future disease prediction efforts.”
This research was funded by Cancer Research UK and Wellcome.
J Guo, K Walter, P M Quiros, et al.
‘ Inherited polygenic effects on common hematological traits influence clonal selection on JAK2V617F and the development of myeloproliferative neoplasms .’ Jan 2024,  Nature Genetics.
DOI: 10.1038/s41588-023-01638-x
Adapted from a press release by the Wellcome Sanger Institute
DNA
Credit: Photo by Sangharsh Lohakare on Unsplash

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/olaparib-cancer-drug-steve-jackson:
For the past 35 years in Cambridge, he and his team have explored how our cells are able to deal with damage to our DNA.
Thanks to his and others' work we now know that an orchestrated network of ‘molecular police’ patrol, recognise and repair mistakes in our DNA caused either by accident or by agents like UV light or carcinogens.
DNA repair keeps our genetic material intact so that it can carry on encoding the functions necessary for life.
But Steve's fundamental curiosity about the nitty-gritty of DNA repair also led him in what he describes as “wonderfully unforeseen directions”.
After a chance observation and a leap of thinking, he realised that it was possible to switch off certain DNA repair mechanisms in cancer cells, causing them to die, while normal cells “just shrugged their shoulders and carried on growing and dividing”.
This led to him setting up a team of scientists in 1999 that created olaparib, a new class of cancer drug, which has now been used to treat over 140,000 patients globally.
One of these patients is Jackie van Bochoven.
“When I had the diagnosis, I was shocked and numb.
There were so many things going through my head.
I thought about my children.
And I thought about my mum and my sister who had both been diagnosed with breast cancer.
After the initial biopsy, I met Professor Jean Abraham at Addenbrooke's Hospital in Cambridge and she thought I was a good candidate for a new trial for breast cancer involving a combination of chemotherapy and olaparib.
I felt it was a fantastic opportunity.
I was thinking about my family and future generations.
I felt it was important to be part of the trial.
Five years on, I've just found out this week [April 2024] that the trial’s been very successful.
I’m back at work.
I’m enjoying life.
The trial has made a huge difference, and the success rate has been really positive for me.
I'm taking every day as it comes and taking every opportunity that I can.”
I’m a scientist so I haven’t tended to come into contact with patients who my work has helped.
But it’s such a privilege when I have.
One lady I met a few years ago stays in my mind.
Her ovarian cancer had returned and she was offered olaparib as part of a trial.
She described how frightening it was to be trying something so new but felt it was her only hope.
The drug worked and when we met, she had no signs of the cancer.
She said that I’d given her life back to her.
I don’t tend to think of myself as a lifesaver but it’s probably no surprise that I consider the development of olaparib as the most meaningful outcome in my career so far.
When I started out as an independent group leader in Cambridge, nearly everything my group touched seemed to turn to gold.
And then a reviewer’s comment made me stop and think.
I had brilliant people in my lab at the Gurdon Institute, where I was based when I moved to Cambridge in 1991.
We were working in new areas, studying how genes are transcribed into RNA to make proteins and we also had first insights into other cellular processes.
We had a brilliant review from our funders at the end of the first five years, but one of the comments questioned whether it was relevant for cancer patients.
I was concerned that great research on its own might not be fundable.
We needed to find translational opportunities that would potentially benefit patients.
Meanwhile I'd stumbled across something new and interesting: an enzyme that was activated by breaks in DNA.
It took a little time for the penny to drop but, when it did, I realised that something activated by broken DNA is probably involved in DNA repair.
The enzyme was part of a ‘molecular police force’ that patrols, spots damage and triggers the fixing processes.
This started cogs whirring in my brain.
I knew that radiation and chemotherapies kill cancer cells by generating DNA damage.
Could we make drugs that stop the molecular police from repairing the damage?
I couldn't get people to buy into the idea...
why would you want to inhibit DNA repair?
We need DNA repair.
It was counterintuitive to think about knocking it out.
One of the great things about Cambridge is that there are lots of examples of very successful biotech start-ups.
I thought, if they can do it, why can't I?
And that's the story of KuDOS, the company I set up in 1997.
I was a young professor in Cambridge and the science was new, but a small set of venture capital groups had the confidence to back me in my ideas.
Crucially I also had the support of my funders (the predecessors of Cancer Research UK) and the Tech Transfer Office (now Cambridge Enterprise).
The game plan was to go all-out and develop drugs against DNA repair enzymes , including against a protein family called poly ADP-ribose polymerase (PARP) which we knew helped repair broken DNA.
Out of this programme came olaparib, a potent PARP inhibitor.
And then came the second Eureka moment.
I was at a conference in a late night bar talking to Professor Alan Ashworth who at the time was at the Institute for Cancer Research in London.
He was working on cells with mutations in genes called BRCA1 and BRCA2, which commonly occur in people with cancer.
DNA repair is so important to our survival that we have evolved a backup mechanism in case PARP fails .
One such process is called homologous recombination and it involves DNA being exchanged between identical pieces of DNA to repair it.
Alan and others had figured out that BRCA1 and BRCA2 are very important for homologous recombination.
We speculated that if you block the PARP repair mechanism in people with cancers caused by BRCA1/2 defects, their healthy cells might revert to their backup and survive but, because the tumour cells have no BRCA1 or 2, they may have no backup and so would die.
This is exactly what scientists in our groups found.
This was the answer.
It meant that the PARP inhibitors that KuDOS had developed could be used to treat patients who had BRCA1/2-mutated cancers.
Sure enough, when we tested this, the BRCA-deficient cells dropped dead when you gave them a PARP inhibitor at concentrations where normal cells just shrugged their shoulders and carried on growing and dividing.
We published our work in the journal Nature in 2005.
It took us almost 18 months to get it through the reviewers.
It wasn’t that they didn’t believe it.
They were saying – at least for a while – was this really all that exciting and interesting?
Meanwhile, work was moving fast at KuDOS.
Olaparib had already gone into healthy volunteers.
The next stages of clinical trials were going to be very expensive.
The best way forward would be either to partner with a pharmaceutical company to share the risk and share the benefit, or to be acquired by a pharma company, which is what we did.
AstraZeneca bought KuDOS in 2006 for $210m.
This year marks 10 years since the European Commission granted approval for olaparib , marketed as Lynparza (the trade-name of olaparib) by AstraZeneca, to treat ovarian cancer patients who have BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutations.
The drug has been jointly developed and commercialised by AstraZeneca and MSD, and is now approved in several countries across multiple tumour types including forms of breast cancer, pancreatic cancer and prostate cancer.
Then, in 2023, the NHS agreed a deal to roll-out the drug to treat advanced prostate cancer and a form of early breast cancer.
I’m now based at the Cancer Research UK (CRUK) Cambridge Institute , which is next door both to AstraZeneca’s European headquarters and Addenbrooke's Hospital on the Cambridge Biomedical Campus.
I pass clinicians in the Institute corridor who prescribe olaparib for their patients.
It’s nearly 35 years since I set up my lab in Cambridge and I oscillate between thinking the time has gone in a flash to thinking it’s been a long slog which nearly did me in!
One thing I’ve learned is that ideas need people to drive them over lines.
In particular my KuDOS colleagues Niall Martin, Graeme Smith, Keith Menear and Barrie Ward, as well as Mark O’Connor who brought huge continuity to the drug’s development when he moved to AstraZeneca from KuDOS when it was acquired, and Susan Galbraith at AstraZeneca who had the insight and gravitas to allow the programme to progress.
There’s something about the environment here in Cambridge that not only creates great science.
It also really nurtures people and connections.
Curiosity is also hugely important.
There are a great many things we don't know and many things we don't even know we don't know.
The possibility of scientific discovery is what gets me out of bed in the morning.
Science is moving ever more quickly now .
I’m hopeful that more of these kinds of drugs will find their way to the right patients in combinations that could be curative for some.
Right now, PARP inhibitors are fairly expensive but when they fall off their patent cliff, maybe usage could go from hundreds of thousands to millions of people.
In my view, the future of cancer will also increasingly involve early diagnosis.
It’s intriguing to think that, for some patients, it might be possible to take olaparib or other drugs as a preventative treatment to wipe out rogue cells before they even get a chance to become a fully grown cancer.
What’s my advice for early career researchers?
Take calculated risks.
It’s a shots-on-goal thing: think about the approach, understand the biology, stay curious, and when things do not work out, try again and try something different.
Professor Sir Steve Jackson works at the Cancer Research UK Cambridge Institute.
His work has been funded by Cancer Research UK, Wellcome, European Union, European Research Council, Worldwide Cancer Research, the Mark Foundation for Cancer Research and other organisations.
Published:
With thanks to Jackie van Bochoven Words: Louise Walsh Photography: StillVision

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/CAR-T-cell-cancer-therapy:
Illustration of T cells (purple) attacking cancer cells (green)
CAR-T is a type of immunotherapy that provides a way round this by turning a patient’s own T cells into a battalion of highly targeted killers.
In 2020, Addenbrooke’s Hospital, part of Cambridge University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, became one of only a small number of centres in England equipped to provide this complex treatment.
“CAR-T cell therapy is a ‘living treatment’ in that once the cells are given to a patient, they persist for many months or even years, ready to attack the cancer cells should they pop up again,” explains Dr Ben Uttenthal, clinical lead for immune effector cell therapies at Addenbrooke’s and the Cancer Research UK (CRUK) Cambridge Centre’s Cancer Immunology Programme.
“For some types of aggressive cancer we are finding that we can cure more than double the number of patients using CAR-T cell therapy.
It’s been a game-changing treatment – and we’re only just scratching the surface of what’s possible.
Blood is collected from the patient and their T cells are isolated.
The T cells are then reprogrammed to carry a protein called the chimeric antigen receptor (CAR), which recognises certain cancer cells.
These modified CAR-T cells are then grown into large numbers and given back to the patient.
When the CAR-T cell spots a cancer cell, it starts to multiply and attract other parts of the immune system to attack and kill the cancer.
“I was basically told there was nothing else that could be done [for my leukaemia] as far as conventional medicines were concerned.
It was at this point my consultant told me about a new trial that was taking place known as CAR-T cell therapy.
For me it was the last chance saloon,” said Steve Johnson.
“Having the treatment is not pleasant – I had a number of fevers and temperature spikes for two weeks after the CAR-T cells were put back in, but I have absolutely no doubt this treatment saved my life.”
So far, only some types of blood cancers have been approved for CAR-T cell therapy by the NHS, explains Uttenthal: “The pioneering treatment is currently being offered to patients with aggressive forms of blood cancer called B-cell lymphoma and acute lymphoblastic leukaemia who have either relapsed or not responded well to chemotherapy or stem cell treatment.”
One such patient was a 54-year-old woman with a B-cell lymphoma which had shown no response to several different types of chemotherapy.
“The reaction was so vigorous that at one point we needed to give an antidote to damp down the immune response.
She needed intensive monitoring for a time, but after a couple of weeks she improved and she’s now completely recovered.
The last time we spoke she was away on a golfing trip in the Mediterranean!”
Dr Ben Uttenthal (credit: Dr Claire King)
The number of patients who can benefit from CAR-T cell therapy is increasing, explains Uttenthal: “That’s partly because the success of CAR-T cells has meant that they are being brought to earlier lines of treatment.
To improve CAR-T cell therapy further needs experts like Dr Mike Chapman , whose work at the MRC Toxicology Unit in Cambridge has focussed on identifying new targets and reducing toxicity.
One focus of Chapman’s work has been myeloma, a cancer of a type of white blood cell called plasma cells.
“Although CAR-T cells have been developed for this cancer, they haven’t yet given the long-term responses that we have seen in other blood cancers,” he explains.
Dr Mike Chapman (credit: Dr Claire King)
Taking samples of tumour from patients with myeloma, Chapman has been using proteomic techniques to map and quantify the many thousands of proteins on the surface of these cells – and then using computational approaches to prioritise and select them as potential targets.
He is currently working with CRUK’s innovation arm, Cancer Research Horizons, to progress the most advanced of the targets he’s identified into effective treatments for cancer patients.
“There’s a predictability about CAR-T cell therapy,” adds Chapman.
But, in the case of myelomas, current therapies have run into problems whereby the CAR-T cell accidentally targets cells in the brain tissue.
Chapman is working on a potential solution: ‘on-off gates’.
“We can make CAR-T constructs clever enough to switch themselves off if they recognise a marker that identifies it as the wrong cell to kill – like a brain cell,” he explains.
“But we’re taking this a stage further by re-wiring the cell to attack cancer cells that express only low levels of the target.
It’s a complicated system but the great thing about CAR-T cells is it’s a ‘rational therapy’ – what you predict happens actually does happen.”
Albon is the director of the Cambridge Cellular Therapy Laboratory (CCTL) at Addenbrooke’s Hospital.
She leads a team with expertise in immunotherapies and delivering bone marrow and stem cell transplants across the whole of the East of England.
“That’s CCTL’s ‘bread-and-butter’ job,” she says.
“But we also act as a regulated cell handler for a number of other novel cell therapy products – particularly those that have just come onto the market like CAR-T cells.”
Currently, the CAR-T cell therapies are manufactured by large pharmaceutical companies.
Albon’s team delivers the patient cells to the manufacturer and then receives and stores the final T cell product ready for when the patient needs it.
“These novel products are made specifically for each patient from their own cells, so we have to be 100% sure they are what we think they are to make sure that each patient receives the correct treatment.
This is why the work we do in CCTL is highly regulated.”
A state-of-the-art clean room suite is being built on the Addenbrooke’s site that will expand the facilities of CCTL significantly.
The aim is to deliver more treatments to more patients for more cancers, in readiness for the planned Cambridge Cancer Research Hospital being built.
The expansion will also mean a greater capacity to be involved in clinical trials.
“A CAR-T might be licenced for use in acute lymphoblastic leukaemia for example, but in order for that same product to be used in a different malignancy, it would have to undergo a clinical trial in that patient population.
Then the manufacturer gathers the data and applies for a licence,” she explains.
Sarah Albon (credit: Nick Saffell)
“We already work closely with the Cambridge Clinical Trials Centre at Addenbrooke’s on CAR-T trials and we will be expanding this once the new labs are up and running.
Published: 16 October 2024 Words: Louise Walsh Images: banner image credit Thom Leach/Science Photo Library via Getty Images; CAR-T diagram credit ttsz via Getty Images; others as shown

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/30-years-since-BRCA1:
How the discovery of a breast cancer risk gene changed the story of cancer
In the article, a team of US scientists led by Professor Mark Skolnick identified a gene known as BRCA1 , which was faulty in a number of families with hereditary breast and ovarian cancers.
Although pipped to the post in the race to discover the gene, Cambridge researchers – in particular Professors Bruce Ponder and Doug Easton – played a huge role in the work that underpinned this discovery, identifying families with a history of breast cancer and narrowing the search down to a small region on chromosome 17.
Professor Doug Easton
Just over a year after the discovery of BRCA1, Ponder and Easton would be among the authors on an article in Nature that identified a second gene, BRCA2 , which could also cause hereditary breast cancer when faulty.
Easton and co-author Professor Mike Stratton from the Institute of Cancer Research had led work that narrowed the search for this gene down to chromosome 13, resulting in its subsequent discovery.
A gene is a section of your DNA that contains the instructions for building proteins, molecules that perform many critical functions in your body.
Genes get passed down from parents to their children.
A gene is written in ‘code’ made up of a collection of units of DNA, represented by A, T, C and G.
Sometimes, genetic variants contain small changes in their ‘code’ – an A instead of a T, for example – that subtly or fundamentally change how the gene functions.
Finding disease-causing genes was not new.
They had already been identified for conditions such as cystic fibrosis, where a single faulty gene causes the disease.
But searching for genes for more common, complex diseases, where multiple genes contribute to disease risk, had not been tried before.
“It was an open question whether you could do the same for a common disease like cancer,” says Easton, now Professor of Genetic Epidemiology and Director of the Centre for Cancer Epidemiology at Cambridge.
“Now, it seems obvious, but it definitely wasn't at the time.
People were quite sceptical.”
Professor Helena Earl
Helena Earl , Professor Emeritus in Clinical Cancer Medicine at Cambridge, was a senior lecturer and consultant at the University of Birmingham in 1994, where she treated many women with breast and ovarian cancer.
She recalls their local clinical geneticist being “extremely excited” by the discovery.
But looking back, she says, “the discovery of the BRCA genes was just the beginning of the story.”
The discovery of the two BRCA genes had one obvious, immediate implication.
As Easton says, “You could suddenly identify people who were at much higher risk than the rest of the population.”
Cambridge was one of the many places to capitalise on the discovery, establishing a clinical genetic centre to test women for the genes.
This allowed clinicians to identify and counsel women at high risk, leading to new approaches such as MRI screening, which are now routine for carriers of high-risk genetic variants.
Earl recalls: “I remember seeing a young woman who had stage 4 ovarian cancer.
Nobody in her family had had ovarian cancer, which was puzzling, but we tested her and she was BRCA1 positive.
The gene had come from her father.”
Professor Jean Abraham was still at medical school when the news of BRCA1 broke.
Now Director of the Precision Breast Cancer Institute and a consultant oncologist at Cambridge University Hospitals, she says: “I was fascinated to read about it, but if I'm honest, I'm not really sure I fully understood what the impact of that finding would be.”
Today in her clinic, Abraham sees patients with breast cancer or who are at high risk.
Working out whether they are BRCA1 or BRCA2 carriers can be vital to providing the most appropriate treatment.
But the impact on the patient cannot be underestimated, she says.
“A hereditary cancer is an awful burden because you have the cancer yourself, and then if you have children, you have that extra burden of realising you might have given that same risk to them.
It's a big burden for patients to cope with psychologically, as well as physically.”
The discovery of the genes energised the discipline of genetic epidemiology of common cancers, says Easton – “the idea that if you collect the right sort of data and you have the technology, you can really discover a lot about the genetics of a disease.”
Professor Antonis Antoniou
Working alongside Easton at the Centre for Cancer Epidemiology at Cambridge is Antonis Antoniou , now Professor of Cancer Risk Prediction and Director of Cancer Research UK’s Cancer Data Driven Detection initiative.
In 1994, Antoniou was studying actuarial science – the mathematics of insurance – at the London School of Economics.
He says there was much interest within the insurance sector about how to take into account information about an individual’s genetic risk (though there is now a moratorium on using this information).
He describes the discovery of the BRCA genes as a ‘milestone’.
“We were able for the first time to identify those with substantially increased risk of developing breast or ovarian cancer and then help them, together with their healthcare professionals, make informed decisions about managing their cancer risks, for example through risk mitigation surgery, increased surveillance, starting screening at a younger age, and so on.”
In 2003, Antoniou, under the guidance of Easton, led a landmark study using family data on relatives of BRCA1 and BRCA2 carriers, that provided the first reliable estimate for the risks of breast and ovarian cancer associated with the genes.
He followed this up in 2017 with the first large-scale multinational prospective study of cancer risks for female BRCA1 and BRCA2 carriers, demonstrating that an individual carrier’s risk also depended on where exactly in the gene the mutation occurred and their family history of cancer.
This highlights some of the complexities of genetics.
“You might think after 20 years we’d know everything about [BRCA1 and BRCA2],” says Easton, “but one of the things we don't know completely is which variants in the gene are associated with cancer.”
The variants Easton and colleagues found in the original families make the gene inactive, but there are many other, so-called ‘missense variants’, where just one amino acid is changed.
And while BRCA1 and BRCA2 are very important, they only explain around a fifth of familial breast cancer cases.
“It became clear [the discovery of these genes] was by no means the whole story,” says Easton.
“The next question was, what explains the rest?”
As technology has progressed, large-scale studies – often involving tens or even hundreds of thousands of patients – have revealed a large number of common variants which, individually, are much less important than the BRCA genes, but still add together to increase an individual’s risk.
“Another related question is how these variants and genes relate to each other and to other risk factors,” says Easton.
“What are the lifestyle factors that influence the risks?
And how do you put all these risks together?”
Easton and Antoniou have led several major studies that have sought to address these questions, showing that common genetic variants, and other lifestyle factors, modify cancer risks for BRCA1 and BRCA2 carriers, acting like a ‘volume control’ that amplify or reduce cancer risks for carriers.
Their work has led to CanRisk , an online tool that enables healthcare professionals to calculate an individual's risks of developing breast and ovarian cancer using family history, genetic and various other lifestyle, hormonal and reproductive risk factors (it will soon expand to include prostate cancer).
The tool is used in clinical practice from the UK and Europe to the US and Australia and has provided more than 3.2 million risk assessments in the past four years.
In the early 1990s, Steve Jackson – now a Professor and, as of 2023, a Knight Bachelor – had set up a lab to look at transcription, the process by which our DNA gets converted to RNA in order to make proteins (akin to reading a recipe in order to make a dish).
Professor Sir Steve Jackson
In 1994, around the time that the first BRCA gene was discovered, Jackson published a paper in Science on DNA repair – the mechanism for mending damaged DNA.
When Jackson read about the discovery of BRCA1, he remembers thinking “Oh, isn't that cool?” but at that time there was no suggestion that the gene was linked to DNA repair – it would take until the late 1990s before the picture became clearer.
It transpired that the BRCA genes caused a fault in one of the two main mechanisms for repairing DNA double-strand breaks.
Jackson realised this was a weakness that could be exploited to kill tumours.
Over the following years, through his spinout company KuDOS, set up with the support of Cancer Research UK and later bought by AstraZeneca, he developed a new class of cancer drug known as PARP inhibitors – the first of these, olaparib, has since been used to treat over 140,000 patients globally.
“As a molecular biologist,” Jackson says, “[the discovery of the BRCA genes] was very exciting.
It showed that if you understand the molecular basis of cancers, it might help you understand and come up with better ways of treating them.”
Abraham says the discovery of the BRCA genes “paved the way for a revolution in targeted care”.
She is involved in developing clinical trials that build on Jackson’s work, for example looking at treatments for patients who have a non-hereditary breast cancer, but one that has some biological similarities to breast cancer in BRCA carriers.
“My role, if you like, is both to develop better ways to treat [BRCA carriers], but to also understand the differences between these patients and other patients who are similar but not the same, and in doing so find better ways to treat all of those patients.”
Sometimes, she says, it is about understanding how much treatment they need.
“We often give patients a lot of treatment because we want them to respond and not get the disease back.
So, can we scale it down for different types of breast cancers?”
If you know only one thing about the BRCA genes, it is probably that they are breast cancer susceptibility genes – indeed, the name itself stands for BR east CA ncer gene.
But from the outset, it was known that BRCA1 increases the risk of ovarian cancer, too.
As scientists get a better understanding of these genes, it’s becoming clear that they play a role in many other cancers.
“We know that BRCA1 is primarily associated with breast and ovarian cancer,” says Easton.
“BRCA2 has a somewhat wider range – it’s got quite a significant association with prostate cancer and also pancreatic cancer.
But there may be other cancers involved.”
In recent years, this has led to a fundamental shift in how we look at cancers, says Jackson.
"It doesn't matter that it's a prostate cancer, if it's got a BRCA mutation, you should be thinking about treating it with the same types of drugs you're using in BRCA-mutated breast and ovarian cancers."
Besides the obvious implications that the discovery of BRCA1 and BRCA2 has had in terms of understand and treating cancer, there have also been wider benefits, say the researchers.
“It's helped fundraising organisations such as Cancer Research UK to get their message over to the public,” says Jackson.
“These are things that people can connect to, particularly when you get certain very well-known individuals such as Angelina Jolie stepping in front of the media and saying, ‘I've got a BRCA mutation’.”
Abraham points to the boost that the discovery has had to the scientific community.
“There are literally thousands of people whose entire careers have been spent either looking in more detail at these genes or quantifying and understanding the risks that these genes pose."
Jackson agrees.
“It’s been a great example of cooperative research.
It’s not just the fundamental scientists, it's the epidemiologists, it’s the pharmaceutical companies, it's the biotech companies and the patients themselves.
Of course, there were some skirmishes along the way, but it's been a global effort, and one that the UK has played a major role in.
It’s a great showcase for what we can achieve.”
Despite the incredible progress that has been made over the past thirty years – and the many thousands of lives that have been saved – one thing is clear: we do not yet have all the answers.
“The discovery of the BRCA genes is an extraordinary story,” says Earl, “but it's still not finished.
There's lots still to learn.”
Video The story of olaparib: a life-saving cancer drug
Video Professor Walid Khaled on how faulty BRCA genes can cause certain cancers
Video The women helping Cambridge change the future of ovarian cancer
Published on 7 October 2024
Illustrations

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/lancet-breast-cancer-commission:
Experts predict 3 million new cases a year of breast cancer worldwide by 2040 and a million deaths, with people living in low- and middle-income countries disproportionately affected.
Despite major advances in the diagnosis and treatment, inequalities mean that many women worldwide still experience significant suffering related to physical symptoms, emotional despair, and financial burden.
These are among the conclusions of the new Lancet Commission , led by Professor Charlotte Coles from the University of Cambridge , which sets out recommendations to tackle these urgent challenges in breast cancer.
The Commission builds on previous evidence, presents new data, and integrates patient voices to shed light on a large unseen burden.
Professor Charlotte Coles, University of Cambridge and Cambridge University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust
Professor Coles added: "We hope that, by highlighting these inequities and hidden costs and suffering in breast cancer, they can be better recognised and addressed by health care professionals and policymakers in partnership with patients and the public around the world."
At the end of 2020, 7.8 million women were alive having been diagnosed with breast cancer in the previous five years.
Progress in research and cancer management has led to a decrease of over 40% in breast cancer mortality in most high-income countries.
Estimates suggest that global breast cancer incidence will rise from 2.3 million new cases in 2020 to over 3 million by 2040.
Although breast cancer is the most common cancer, gaps in knowledge continue to prevent effective action.
Professor Charlotte Coles
Even though 20-30% of patients with early breast cancer experience relapse, relapse is not typically recorded by most national cancer registries.
Therefore, the number of patients living with metastatic breast cancer is not known.
Meeting the needs of an under-measured patient population is difficult, and as a result, feelings of abandonment and isolation are common among those living with the condition.
Lesley Stephen, collaborator and patient advocate
Lesley added: "Patients with metastatic disease need more support and information in order to feel valued."
In the last decade, metastatic breast cancer outcomes have improved considerably.
The median overall survival for the two major subtypes, which include approximately 85% of metastatic breast cancer patients, has reached five years where recommended therapies are made available.
In a Commission survey of 382 healthcare professionals, more than half (55%) agreed that specific subtypes of metastatic breast cancer may become curable, and three-quarters agreed that it will become a chronic disease.
The authors make a case for a minimum of 70% of registries worldwide to record cancer stage and relapse.
These data could drive significant improvements in metastatic breast cancer care, outcomes, and emotional wellbeing among patients.
Initiatives that promote societal inclusion of people living with metastatic breast cancer are also paramount; for example, changes to labour market laws that empower more flexible working arrangements.
With a shift in perception, it may be possible to treat most, alleviate suffering for all, and forget no-one living with the disease, the Commission argues.
The associated costs of breast cancer – including physical, psychological, social, and financial costs – are immense but under-recognised.
Many of these costs are not captured by current global health metrics.
In response, the Commission established a UK-based pilot study that provides a snapshot of the economic burden and supportive care needs for people affected by breast cancer.
Nearly all of the 606 people living with breast cancer and carers surveyed by the Commission stated physical or well-being issues related to breast cancer.
One participant described losing their job as as result of being unable to cope during chemotherapy, while another experienced sexual dysfunction but found it difficult to ask for help.
Additionally, a fifth of participants with early breast cancer and a quarter of those with metastatic breast cancer reported difficulty in covering the costs of travel for treatment.
27% with early breast cancer and 35% with metastatic breast cancer said they had financial problems.
This pilot research suggests that, even in countries with a health care system free at the point of care, people with breast cancer can incur hidden costs.
Building on previous work, the Commission report also discusses serious health-related suffering, an indicator of the need for palliative care, with estimates provided by a small expert group.
In 2020, an estimated 120 million days were spent with serious health-related suffering per year for people who died of their cancer.
A further 520 million days were estimated for patients living with the disease.
Behind these numbers are individuals experiencing pain, shortness of breath, fatigue, and other, often resolvable, distressing symptoms.
Dr Carlos Barrios, Oncology Research Center, Hospital São Lucas, Brazil
The Commission advocates the development of new tools and metrics that capture the many costs associated with the disease.
This measurement should guide policymakers to invest in breast cancer prevention, early detection, cost-effective therapy, optimal management, financial protection, and other interventions that relieve suffering.
Many patients describe breast cancer as robbing them of power.
Therefore, healthcare professional-patient communication that empowers is highlighted by the authors as an important intervention.
A review of research by the Commission suggests better communication with patients can improve quality of life, decision-making, body image, and even adherence to therapy – with positive impacts on survival.
Professor Reshma Jagsi, Emory University School of Medicine, USA
Professor Jagsi added: "Patients should be encouraged to exercise their voices, choosing their level of involvement in care decisions."
The Commission calls for every healthcare professional in every country to receive communication skills training and for patient involvement in all stages of clinical research on breast cancer – from concept to translation into clinical practice.
To support these transitions, the report outlines a framework based on strategies to build rapport and empathy, share information, check understanding, and jointly agree next steps with patients.
Up to a quarter of breast cancer in high income countries could be prevented by modifying risk factors for breast cancer.
While education and awareness-raising efforts are important in this respect, bold policy changes that minimise population exposure to modifiable risk factors (including alcohol consumption, being overweight, and physical inactivity) are vital to reduce cancer incidence, suggests the Commission.
In addition, systematic approaches that identify those at increased risk of the disease are essential to enable equitable access to personalised prevention strategies, including cheap and effective medications that can avert breast cancer for many women.
The authors also argue for improved early detection programmes, beginning with efforts to promote stage shifting in diagnosis so that at least 60% of confirmed invasive cancers are early disease (stages one or two).
Professor Benjamin Anderson, Departments of Surgery and Global Health, University of Washington, USA
Published 16 April 2024
Adapted from a press release by The Lancet.
Reference Coles, CE et al.
The Lancet Breast Cancer Commission .
Lancet; 15 Apr 2024; DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(24)00747-5

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research/news/cutting-edge-genomic-test-can-improve-care-of-children-with-cancer:
Whole genome sequencing has improved clinical care of some children with cancer in England by informing individual patient care.
Research published today supports the efforts to provide genome sequencing to all children with cancer and shows how it can improve the management of care in real-time, providing more benefits than all current tests combined.
This is a powerful example of the genomic data revolution of healthcare that enables us to provide better, individualised care for children with cancer
The study, published on 2 July in Nature Medicine , is the first time that the impact of using whole genome sequencing in current NHS practice has been assessed.
It was led by researchers at the University of Cambridge, Cambridge University Hospitals NHS Trust, Wellcome Sanger Institute and Great Ormond Street Hospital.
The team analysed the use of routine genome sequencing, through the NHS Genomic Medicine Service, at Cambridge University Hospitals, where such tests are given to all children with solid tumours, and at Great Ormond Street Hospital, which provides the test for childhood leukaemia.
The researchers found that cancer sequencing gave new insights that improved the immediate clinical care of seven per cent of children, while also providing all the benefits of current standard tests.
Furthermore, in 29 per cent of cases, genome sequencing provided additional information that helped clinicians better understand the tumours of individual children and informed future management.
For example, uncovering unexpected mutations that increase future cancer risk leading to preventative measures being taken, such as regular screening.
Overall, whole genome sequencing provides additional, relevant data, about childhood cancer that is useful for informing practice.
The results also show that it can reduce the number of tests required, and therefore, researchers suggest it should be provided to all children impacted by cancer.
Whole genome sequencing (WGS) is a single test that provides a complete readout of the entire genetic code of the tumour and identifies every single cancer-causing mutation.
Comparatively, traditional standard-of-care tests only look at tiny regions of the cancer genome, and therefore many more tests are often required per child.
Professor Sam Behjati, senior author from the Wellcome Sanger Institute, Cambridge University Hospitals, and the University of Cambridge: “Whole genome sequencing provides the gold standard, most comprehensive and cutting edge view of cancer.
What was once a research tool that the Sanger Institute started exploring over a decade ago, has now become a clinical test that I can offer to my patients.
This is a powerful example of the genomic data revolution of healthcare that enables us to provide better, individualised care for children with cancer.”
NHS England is one of the few health services in the world that has a national initiative, through the Genomic Medicine Service, offering universal genome sequencing to every child with suspected cancer.
However, due to multiple barriers and a lack of evidence from real-time practice supporting its use, whole cancer genome sequencing is not yet widespread practice.
The latest study looked at 281 children with suspected cancer across the two units.
The team analysed the clinical and diagnostic information across these units and assessed how genome sequencing affected the care of children with cancer.
They found that WGS changed the clinical management in seven per cent of cases, improving care for 20 children, by providing information that is not possible to acquire from standard of care tests.
Additionally, WGS faithfully reproduced every one of the 738 standard of care tests utilised in these 281 cases, suggesting that a single WGS test could replace the multiple tests that the NHS currently uses if this is shown to be economically viable.
WGS provides a detailed insight into rare cancers, for example, by revealing novel variants of cancer.
The widespread use of genome sequencing will enable clinicians to access these insights for individual patients while simultaneously building a powerful shared genomic resource for research into new treatment targets, possible prevention strategies, and the origins of cancer.
Dr Jack Bartram, senior author from Great Ormond Street Hospital NHS Foundation Trust and the North Thames Genomic Medicine Service, said: “Childhood cancer treatment is mostly guided by genetic features of the tumour, and therefore an in-depth genetic understanding of cancer is crucial in guiding our practice.
Our research shows that whole genome sequencing delivers tangible benefits above existing tests, providing better care for our patients.
We hope this research really highlights why whole genome sequencing should be delivered as part of routine clinical care to all children with suspected cancer.”
Professor Behjati at the Department of Paediatrics, University of Cambridge, and is a Fellow of Corpus Christi College, Cambridge.
This research was supported in part by Wellcome, the Pessoa de Araujo family and the National Institute for Health and Care Research.
Reference A Hodder, S Leiter, J Kennedy, et al.
Benefits for children with suspected cancer from routine whole genome sequencing .
Nature Medicine; 2 July 2024; DOI: 10.1038/s41591-024-03056-w
Adapted from a press release from Wellcome Sanger Institute
When he was six-years old, Eddie began to have regular low-grade fevers that seemed to affect him a lot.
Even though early tests came back normal, the fevers became more frequent and his Mum, Harri, noticed that on one or two occasions he seemed out of breath while doing small things like reading a book.
A chest x-ray revealed a huge mass on Eddie’s chest, and he was diagnosed with T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL).
Eddie was immediately transferred to Great Ormond Street Hospital (GOSH) to begin treatment.
“I know it sounds like a cliché, but you really don’t think it will ever happen to your child.
It felt like our world fell out from under us.
During those first few weeks I remember wondering if this was it, I was taking so many photos of us together and wondering if it could be the last,” said Harri, Eddie's mum.
Eddie was put onto a treatment plan that included eight months of intense chemotherapy, followed by two and a half years of maintenance treatment.
As part of his treatment at GOSH Eddie’s family were also offered WGS to identify any cancer-causing changes.
“When we were offered whole genome sequencing, we didn’t even hesitate.
I wanted to have all the information, I wanted to have some peace of mind for the future and know that Eddie was having the right care throughout.
I also wanted to make sure that Eddie’s brother, Leo, wasn’t any more likely to get T-ALL because Eddie had,” said Harri.
On his seventh birthday, Eddie’s family received the call to say he was in remission.
Now, at nine years-old Eddie is nearing the end of his maintenance treatment and is doing well.
“We are trying to live each day, and this experience has really changed our outlook on life.
We always try to take the positive from every situation.
Words can’t explain what Eddie has been through this past three years but he has come out the other side as a sensitive, confident, and smart young man.
He is mature beyond his years and he has been involved in everything, including decisions about his treatment.
To say we are proud, doesn’t even come close to how we truly feel about him,” said Harri.
Their personal experience of WGS was so important on their journey that they provided support for this research.
Harri added: “I always say that having a child with a cancer diagnosis feels like you’ve been standing on a trap door all these years without knowing.
Then after the diagnosis, you are in freefall.
And even when things are stable again, you are constantly aware that the trap door is still there and there is a possibility it could open again at any time.
Having access to whole genome sequencing gave us some sense of reassurance, it could have informed us about targeted treatments and gave us some insight into future risk.
We wanted to support something that had the potential to have a real impact on treatment and outcomes so when we heard about this research project and its potential, it was very exciting that we could be a small part of it.
It helped us turn something so devastating into something positive and we just hope that this research helps.”
Boy Battling With Cancer
Credit: FatCamera (Getty Images)

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/potential-new-neuroblastoma-treatment:
Ball of neuroblastoma cells forming mature nerves after drug treatment (Credit: Kirsty Ferguson/Developmental Cell)
Published: 20 September 2023
The approach involves the use of a ‘differentiation therapy’, a type of treatment that does not involve killing cancer cells, but instead involves encouraging cells to become normal non-dividing cells.
While this new research is still at an early stage and has yet to be trialled in patients, it involves a combination of two drugs already approved for use – palbociclib, a treatment used for certain types of breast cancers, and retinoic acid, used to treat neuroblastoma patients at most risk of relapse.
The findings of the study, funded by Cancer Research UK, are published today in Developmental Cell .
Neuroblastoma is the third most common cause of cancer deaths in children, after brain tumours and blood cancers.
It arises in immature nerve cells known as neuroblasts, with around half of all neuroblastomas originating in the adrenal glands, which are located on top of the kidneys, and the remainder occurring in other areas of the abdomen, chest, neck or around the spine where nerve cells exist.
As the embryo develops, cells divide and replicate, migrating around the body, where they stop dividing and ‘differentiate’ into mature cell types, with chemical ‘switches’ attached to the DNA in cells turning its genes on and off and telling the cell how to behave.
Some of these cells go on to form the peripheral nervous system, which includes any nerves outside the brain.
Occasionally this programming goes awry and the immature cells carry on dividing instead of forming mature neurons, leading to the development of neuroblastoma.
The disease varies in its aggressiveness depending on the maturity of the cells within the tumour, with the most mature or differentiated tumours being the least aggressive, and the least differentiated tumours carrying the highest risk of relapse and death.
Professor Anna Philpott , who led the research at the Wellcome-MRC Cambridge Stem Cell Institute at Cambridge, was inspired to study neuroblastoma after her niece was diagnosed with the disease as a child.
Fortunately, unlike many children affected by this form of cancer, her niece’s story had a happy ending, and she is now a student in her twenties.
Professor Philpott, Wellcome-MRC Cambridge Stem Cell Institute and Clare College, Cambridge.
“Its outcomes are very variable.
Some children can be cured with surgery or chemotherapy, but others will need to receive a very high dose of chemotherapy – and some of them then relapse and require further treatment.”
Chemotherapy – while it can be effective – is a blunt instrument.
It needs to kill cancer cells, but in doing so it can kill cells in other tissue, causing side effects.
In neuroblastoma treatments, some of these side effects are relatively mild and many are temporary, though some can be life-threatening such as severe infections because of impaired immunity.
There is also a significant risk of long-term complications including hearing impairment, growth restrictions and infertility.
Some children can also develop second cancers as a result of the chemotherapy given to treat neuroblastoma.
Professor Philpott’s previous research had involved studying the normal development of nerve cells in tadpoles, but a chance encounter at a Cambridge seminar with a trustee of the patient charity Neuroblastoma UK made her realise that she could apply her findings to the condition that had affected her niece.
Joint first author Dr Kirsty Ferguson , a researcher at the Cambridge Stem Cell Institute said: “From studies of normal development, we know that if you’re able to slow down cell division, then the cells’ programming begins to correct itself and they get back on track in terms of differentiating.
We wanted to see if there was a way of encouraging this to happen in neuroblastoma cells.”
The team was able to show in a laboratory setting that treating neuroblastoma cells in a dish with palbociclib – already approved for front-line treatment of HR-positive and HER2-negative breast cancers – causes them to slow their division significantly and form mature nerves.
“Neuroblastoma cells don’t look like nerves, but more like round cells that divide very rapidly,” added Dr Ferguson.
“But when we treated them with palbociclib, their division slowed down and they started to grow axons and dendrites, which was an indication to us that they were maturing into nerves.”
With collaborator Professor Louis Chesler from the Institute of Cancer Research, Sutton, they then used the drug to treat mice into which human neuroblastoma cells had been grafted, and found that it was able to significantly reduce tumour growth.
The drug was also effective at extending lifespans in mice that had been genetically-altered to develop neuroblastoma.
But palbociclib was not enough to fully stop the growth of neuroblastoma.
Although the cells looked like mature nerve cells, they continued to divide, only at a slower rate.
To counter this, the team treated the cells in the dish with retinoic acid in addition to palbociclib.
Retinoic acid is a drug currently used as a maintenance therapy for neuroblastoma patients at highest risk of relapse, and the team found that this stopped the division of neuroblastoma cells even more effectively.
Professor Philpott and her collaborators, including Professor Suzanne Turner in the Department of Pathology at Cambridge, have now received funding from the Medical Research Council and Cancer Research UK to continue their research, including testing the effect of the drug combination in mice prior to taking this to clinical trial in children.
Dr Sarah Gillen , joint first author and also from Professor Philpott’s lab, said: “Children will still need chemotherapy to kill the main tumour, but once that treatment is out of the way, we think the combination of palbociclib and retinoic acid should be enough to stop any remaining neuroblastoma cells in their tracks."
Dr Sarah Gillen
Professor Philpott added: “Because both of these drugs have already been shown to be safe in people – and one of them is already in use in children – the clinical trial process should be much faster.
If it’s successful, then we could see this new treatment being used within the next decade.”
PhD student Lidiya Mykhaylechko looking at neuroblastoma cells (Credit: Kirsty Ferguson)
Dr Laura Danielson , Children’s and Young People’s Research Lead at Cancer Research UK, said: “Each year in the UK around 100 children are diagnosed with neuroblastoma.
Better and less toxic treatments are needed to ensure more of these children survive and with a better quality of life.
Dr Laura Danielson, Cancer Research UK
“It's a really nice way of taking some quite technical science and turning it into a positive force for good and common understanding,” she said.
As part of Cambridge Creative Encounters for the 2023 Cambridge Festival, Dr Ferguson was inspired by patient and family stories from the charity Neuroblastoma UK as a basis for some of her poetry.
“I found some very powerful and moving stories which I combined into a poem to help others understand what it’s like to live through this condition,” she added.
Dr Kirsty Ferguson
By Kirsty Ferguson
With many thanks to Neuroblastoma UK and all those who allowed their words to be shared, which are italicised throughout this poem.
None of us had heard the word neuroblastoma, until that frightful day.
Just 18 months old, Tumour size of a fist, With ten per cent chance of surviving, they say.
Then chemotherapy, surgery, A stem cell transplant; We were so proud Of her fighting spirit.
Radio-, Differentiation-, Immuno-therapy; And he never complained one bit.
This cancer - It was relentless.
What would we fight It with now?
There’s a lasting impact When a child has cancer, But we continue through, Somehow.
My little angel Slipped away that morning, As I whispered, “I love you, fly high”.
Now up above, With wings they spread, Sparkles of hope In the deep blue sky.
See everyone needs a bit of hope, Even just, A tiny glimmer.
You never know the journey Life will take you on - Remember to look For the things that shimmer.
Put your heart and soul Into what you want to achieve - Don’t let cancer Hold you back.
I truly wish you A future you deserve, Fly high, And never look back.
Ferguson, KM & Gillen, SL et al.
Palbococlib releases the latent differentiation capacity of neuroblastoma cells.
Dev Cell; 20 Sept 2023; DOI: 10.1016/j.devcel.2023.08.028

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/learning-from-experience:
Patients are vital to advances in tackling cancer
Words and photographs by Jacqueline Garget
Illustration: Kamila Baimukasheva on iStock/Getty Images Plus
Involving the community that benefits from the work may sound obvious, but patient involvement in cancer research has only recently become an accepted priority.
“If we want a new scientific discovery or new treatment to be accepted, we have to explain it properly and build trust with the people who are going to use it.
It has to be designed specifically for them – with their active input,” says Dr Rhys Grant , engagement lead for the CRUK Cambridge Centre, adding: “I think that fact became very clear during the COVID pandemic.”
“The interesting thing is how patients’ experiences diversify our perspective.
They help to direct our research priorities,” adds Cherry May Sanchez , a CRUK Senior Research Nurse who leads patient and public involvement for Cambridge’s Experimental Cancer Medicine Centre.
Patient involvement is now an integral part of cancer research and in Cambridge, patients are involved in every single step of the process – from planning research priorities , to developing clinical trials , to designing a new Cambridge Cancer Research Hospital .
Fiona Barve
Fiona Barve was diagnosed with ovarian cancer in 2017 and treated at Addenbrooke’s hospital; two years later she was declared cancer free.
She continues to receive a drug as part of a clinical trial, which aims to maintain this situation.
Since 2019 she has also been part of a Patient and Public Involvement (PPI) group and involved in activities such as raising awareness of ovarian cancer through the media, and planning new research projects.
She’s currently one of two patient co-applicants on a large grant application in preparation to Cancer Research UK, requesting funds for a clinical trial.
“This was the first time I’d heard of patients being co-applicants on grants,” she says, adding:
Fiona’s involvement in research even before it has begun means she can influence the way clinical trials are run, using her own experience as a patient to point out where the plans aren’t realistic – having to attend daily scans at the hospital, for example, or invasive tissue biopsies that will be of no personal benefit to the patients involved.
She adds: “They want patients to do all sorts, but not all patients are well enough or feel happy with the extra load.
It’s important to listen to our advice.
“It’s fantastic to work with such enthusiastic researchers, and I enjoy being involved in cutting-edge science and feel I do give valuable input.
Ultimately the whole cancer research process is to help patients, so it should be patient-centred.”
She’s also involved in workshops to evaluate new ideas that researchers want to submit for funding.
These give patients the opportunity to comment on, for example, how they feel about their anonymised health data being included in a platform built by a company outside the hospital – feedback that is then addressed before projects move forward.
“I do it because I have a daughter who could potentially end up with ovarian cancer, and it would be much better if she doesn’t have to go through what I did.
But she’s not going to be the only woman benefitting from this of course – there will be thousands of others.”
Hilary Stobart
Hilary Stobart was diagnosed with breast cancer in 2009.
After recovering from surgery, her surgeon asked if she would consider joining a clinical trial for radiation therapy.
Researchers wanted to know whether partial radiotherapy - focusing treatment on a smaller volume of the breast - would be equally as effective as treating the whole breast, but with fewer side effects.
Initially reluctant, she decided to go ahead after a research nurse told her that the trial was part of a large national study that was gradually revolutionising radiotherapy.
Hilary adds: “I certainly had qualms about agreeing to less treatment when I knew people who’d had radiotherapy that had worked.”
“But cancer treatment wouldn’t be what it is today without research – we’d still be at the stage of every breast cancer patient having chemotherapy as part of their treatment but we now know many don’t need it.
These advances can’t happen without patient involvement.
And I wanted to give something back.”
Around ten years after her treatment (the surgery and radiotherapy were successful), the study results were published: partial radiotherapy treatment is just as effective for many breast cancer patients.
The approach is now incorporated into the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) guidelines, and Hilary feels proud to have played a part.
She has gone on to use her experiences to contribute to many other cancer studies – helping simplify the wording of patient information sheets, and with trial design and management, for example.
In one trial design, researchers wanted to give each patient a mammogram immediately after radiotherapy.
“I sat there and winced when I heard that,” says Hilary.
“When you’ve just had radiotherapy you get a lot of soreness.
I told the researchers that having a mammogram straight afterwards would cause significant pain – so they cut it out of the study and did something else.”
She adds: “Cancer clinical trials are so important – they’re almost part of treatment really.”
Hilary is a member of the Patient and Public Involvement Group for Cancer Research UK’s radiation research network centre of excellence in Cambridge (CRUK RadNet Cambridge) – for which new members are always wanted.
She’s also a patient advocate in the Lancet Breast Cancer Commission to tackle global inequalities in breast cancer diagnosis, and for the Cambridge Experimental Cancer Medicine Centre’ s early phase clinical research.
Fiona Carey was diagnosed with kidney cancer in 2001.
After two large operations she was cancer-free for seven years, before secondary cancer appeared in her pancreas - requiring further surgery.
Following a long recovery, she was invited to an event at Addenbrooke’s hospital to talk about her experiences as a patient.
Afterwards she was invited to join a new Cancer Patient Partnership Group (CPPG) being set up by the oncology staff to improve cancer services.
“I put my hand up and that was that,” says Fiona.
"For me it’s about a real passion for patients to be involved.
“I think at first the clinicians were scared of us – as if we’d just come along and whine about our symptoms.
But they quickly realised that we could help to redesign services and enable a better experience for patients.”
Over a decade later, Fiona is now Co-Chair of the Patient Advisory Group for the Cambridge Cancer Research Hospital , scheduled to open on the Cambridge Biomedical Campus in 2028.
“By the time the idea for the cancer hospital started to become real, the oncology department had realised how valuable patient input was.
So they’ve involved us in the hospital design from the start, alongside the professionals,” says Fiona.
The group challenged a part of the planned layout, for example, where a changing room was across the corridor from an examination room.
“We all know about hospital gowns – the whole thing is really awkward, and no-one wants to have to walk across a corridor worrying that their bum is hanging out,” says Fiona.
Now the layout of these rooms has been changed to remove that problem.
“The patient group spent a lot of time thinking about what it would feel like that first, frightening time you go into Oncology.
We wanted it to feel safe and calm, but also to ooze competence, so you could feel the world-class research going on and be confident about your treatment,” says Fiona, adding:
"It makes sense for us to be in the room – you wouldn’t build a Cineplex without talking to people who are going to use it!”
Rhys and Cherry May are recruiting patients to help tackle cancer in all sorts of other ways too: helping to plan events , rewrite websites and patient information sheets , advise on patient recruitment , and speak at conferences .
Patients are even being encouraged to suggest, and lead, their own research projects - bringing in the appropriate researchers to help them.
“Until last year we’d never had patients come and talk to the public at our Cambridge Festival events before – but when we explained what’s involved many jumped at the chance,” says Rhys.
The next challenge is to recruit patients who represent the broad experiences and demographics of the East of England population as a whole, including various minority groups.
“We’re aware that we need a more diverse patient representation,” says Cherry May, “and we’re actively trying to recruit people from traditionally under-represented groups, by holding events in community settings like the Cambridge Central Mosque, Wintercomfort for the Homeless, and Cambridge United Football Club.”
“It’s clear that patient-centred research benefits everyone involved.
There's always something researchers overlook because they don't have that holistic experience,” says Rhys, adding:
More information:
The women helping to change the story of ovarian cancer
Cancer isn't fair - but care should be
Article published 15 July 2024
Kamila Baimukasheva on iStock/Getty Images Plus

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/prostate-cancer:
Prostate cancer is the most common cancer in men in 112 countries, and accounts for 15% of all cancers .
Worldwide, 375,000 men died from the cancer in 2020.
Only lung cancer ranks higher in terms of cancer mortality among men.
The Lancet recently estimated that new cases will rise to 2.9 million by 2040 from 1.4 million in 2020.
The prostate gland sits at the base of the bladder.
Cancers begin in the prostate’s lining epithelium and range from low-grade tumours that don’t require treatment to rapidly growing, lethal cancers.
The biology behind this spectrum of cancer behaviour is only partially understood.
Men like Andrew hold vital information to change the story of prostate cancer for good.
But men in his position aren’t always keen to take part in clinical trials, less because they fear side-effects, more because it’s one more thing to think about, and they don’t want to delay getting back to normal.
When he was invited, Andrew immediately agreed to take part and has no regrets.
“There are limited numbers of people who can go on these trials.
I felt it was the right thing for me to do.
It's no good just having things in a laboratory.
We need to try out treatments in people.
It was no hardship at all."
Andrew Pickering
Andrew is part of ASCERTAIN , a study which is investigating the biological effects of a new PARP inhibitor , an existing hormone treatment, and a combination of the two, on men with newly diagnosed prostate cancer.
For Andrew, this meant taking a pill once daily for three weeks between his diagnosis and prostatectomy.
He has also been undergoing ECG, blood and urine checks since his operation at Addenbrooke’s Hospital in Cambridge.
Andrew Pickering with his wife Claire
ASCERTAIN is one of a number of ‘window-of-opportunity’ prostate cancer studies being run collaboratively by two University of Cambridge teams in partnership with AstraZeneca.
It’s a multinational study involving colleagues in Europe, North America and Australia, with Cambridge as the joint lead.
These studies collect tumour biopsies before and after the investigational treatment to identify any impact on cancer cells of giving one or more drugs.
At the same time, the researchers carefully assess patients for any side-effects.
Central to this work is the partnership of two teams led by Dr Harveer (Harvey) Dev and Dr Simon Pacey .
Dev is a urologist, surgeon and lead for a surgical translational research group at Cambridge’s Early Cancer Institute.
Pacey is a medical oncologist and an experienced investigator in early drug development.
Both represent the University of Cambridge’s Department of Oncology, Cambridge University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, and Cancer Research UK.
Together, Dev and Pacey aim to exploit genetic vulnerabilities in prostate cancer to redeploy existing treatments and help develop new drugs.
DNA repair is so important to our cells that we have evolved several methods of repairing damage.
One of these involves an enzyme known as PARP , but there is a backup process known as homologous recombination that steps in should this method fail.
Cancer cells that harbour genetic alterations such as BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutations are unable to carry out homologous recombination.
Cambridge scientist Professor Sir Steve Jackson realised that inhibiting PARP in these cells meant they had no way of repairing themselves and they would die off – he had found their Achilles heel.
Harvey Dev
The benefits of PARP inhibitors for patients with BRCA and other mutations are well known, but Dev and Pacey’s work suggests that these benefits could be increased and more surprisingly, extended to the far larger group of patients who do not have homologous recombination repair gene defects.
In their previous work, Pacey and Dev have assessed the effects of giving an approved potent inhibitor of PARP enzymes, to patients for two weeks prior to prostatectomy.
Half of these participants were also randomly allocated to an anti-androgen hormone treatment, which lowers testosterone levels.
Analysis of biopsy and prostatectomy samples showed that inhibiting PARP enzymes contributes to a significant impact on the cancer cells even in some patients with no known gene mutations such as BRCA2.
The researchers found molecular evidence of drug effect in prostate cancer cells.
The study also revealed several unique effects of combination treatment that were not as strongly observed with the PARP enzyme inhibitor alone, or in a separate study involving anti-androgen therapy.
This includes changes in the expression of various pathways, including those involved in cell turnover and inflammation; these could help to explain why the combination treatment may be effective in a wider group of patients.
Crucially, both experimental treatments were well tolerated by all participants and had no impact on their planned operations or subsequent recovery.
NICE (the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence) recently approved the utilisation of the PARP enzyme inhibitor with drugs that block testosterone effects in patients with metastatic prostate cancer.
Dev and Pacey want to understand this better and to see if the treatment could be repurposed at earlier stages of prostate cancer, to help many more men.
“ We’re interrogating the genetic drivers that underpin these processes and we've identified a few candidates that we think are important.
We’re looking into novel markers which could be unrelated to the cascade of functions that BRCA is involved with but which we think are functionally relevant to how these drugs cooperate.”
The androgen receptor, the main hormone driver in cancer cells, is somehow contributing to the DNA repair process and it is through the combination of targeting that pathway and boosting the sensitivity of cancer cells to treatments that Dev and Pacey believe a breakthrough could be made.
Dev says: “As we start to validate our findings, we can go back to patients and look for those markers and see whether we've now identified another group of individuals who would benefit from combination treatment.”
Simon Pacey
Pacey says: “For clinical trials to work best, you need collaboration with a translational lab like Harvey’s, critically supported by patients who wish to take part.
Working with Harvey focuses the mind.
We all have a shared interest in DNA repair and we’re looking for opportunities to convert discoveries in this area into developing effective treatments.
“We’re in a great place on this campus.
It is quite unique that we can bring together surgery, radiotherapy, oncology, pathology and radiology experts to develop treatments for earlier onset patients to help them live much longer.
And we’re right next to the biopharma company, AstraZeneca, which is world class at developing PARP inhibitors and DNA repair inhibitors.”
Cambridge Biomedical Campus
Pacey focuses his efforts on drugs in early development because, he says, they “offer a sweet spot to do something impactful in the lab and make a difference down the line for patients.
I like what I do because the small scale of the studies makes it agile.”
Both Dev and Pacey can’t emphasise enough the importance of collaborating with trial participants like Andrew Pickering.
"So we rely on these pre-surgical, window-of-opportunity studies.
We rely on our patients giving us their time completely altruistically.
My job is then to design a study to answer key questions while minimising the risk of side effects.
I can’t get that risk down to zero but that’s what I’m aiming for so that men can undergo their planned surgery on time.
“We've got a really good track record in Cambridge of recruiting men to take part in these window studies, which is no small feat because the team might have to approach 200 men to recruit just 20.”
Andrew says: “During the trial you are monitored very closely.
Even if the trial drugs had side effects or were found to be harmful in any way at all, I'm certain that it would be picked up very quickly and addressed.
Having that attention is really reassuring.
The care given by the doctors and nurses, who are working as part of the trial team, is second to none.”
Dev adds: “Most of what we do wouldn't be achievable without patients volunteering for the benefit of others in the future.
It hits me with every patient interaction that we need to work fast to make a clinical impact now, rather than in 20 years’ time.
This motivation really feeds into the very DNA of our new Early Cancer Institute.
Physicists, engineers and mathematicians continue to make critical contributions to our research but we are also heavily and unapologetically clinical, and extremely aware of the need to accelerate our research efforts to help the very patients that we see every day.”
“Survival for later stage prostate cancer has improved due to new drugs being approved,” Pacey says, “but there’s a lot of room for improvement because men still aren’t living that much longer, compared to progress in some other cancers.”
“We now have the cellular and molecular technologies to look at cancers in much better detail but we’re not doing enough of that for prostate cancer yet.
We’re five to 10 years away from having a lot more information than we do now for each patient.
And then I think prostate cancer will move from a one-size-fits-all to increasingly be able to segment patients as we do with other cancers and having more personalised approaches.”
Cambridge Cancer Research Hospital , expected to open in 2029, will be a natural home for these fresh approaches.
Dev says: “The aim with the new hospital is to bring clinical translational research to the frontline so that we can have a faster and greater impact on our patients.
And at the same time, patients will be providing the samples which advance our research into, for instance, early signals of cancer.
“We’re currently building the business case for the nation’s first molecular prostate clinic for early cancers.
In the first instance, our vision is to bring genomic testing to all men in the East of England who have a newly diagnosed prostate cancer because of BRCA and other mutations.
They aren’t being evaluated right now because of limitations in the existing infrastructure.”
Andrew Pickering is back to work now.
“ I'm glad to get back into my routine,” he says.
“I never imagined I would get prostate cancer.
I noticed that I was having to go to the toilet more often than I used to, but I just put it down to getting older.
It was only when I mentioned it at a routine health check that the nurse suggested that it might not be old age, and that it would be worth getting my prostate checked.
The rest is history and how I find myself here today!"
Published 13 August 2024

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/this-cambridge-life/the-nurse-championing-cancer-patients:
This Cambridge Life
Two distinct things happened when I was relatively young that made me want to become a nurse.
The first was watching Live Aid in 1985 – I realised what a lot of need there was in the world.
The second was seeing the camaraderie and care of the team looking after my grandmother when she was ill with cancer in hospital.
My parents were sceptical when I told them my plans – I think they thought that at the tender age of just 17 I wasn’t empathetic enough and wouldn’t stick at it, so I thought: “right, I’ll prove you wrong.”
It turned out I wasn’t the only healthcare professional in the family.
My paternal grandmother had driven ambulances in the Second World War and my maternal great-grandmother had been a nurse.
I enjoyed district nursing during my training in Norfolk and so, after qualifying, I took a similar position in London.
It was there that I became interested in caring for people living with cancer.
When a job came up at the oncology unit of Addenbrooke's Hospital I decided to return to my roots in Cambridgeshire.
I learnt to give chemotherapy, conduct blood transfusions and run clinics.
Later, I worked as a research nurse in the haematology unit.
I’d speak to haematology patients about taking part in research trials, administer treatment and follow up with them afterwards.
It was rewarding to be with patients at every step of the way.
But it was also very difficult as some patients didn’t get better because of the progression of the disease, although they always remained positive about being involved in research.
While taking a break from nursing to work in the family business, I was diagnosed with stage four breast cancer.
I was given a low survival rate of about five years; I didn’t expect to be around very long.
I had my treatment – chemotherapy, surgery and radiotherapy – which was fairly gruelling.
I was then put on a maintenance drug called Herceptin which had relatively recently been licenced.
In fact, I’d given this to patients as part of a clinical trial whilst working on the oncology unit.
It was great to be able to access this drug, as I knew how well it had worked in a trial setting.
That was seventeen years ago.
Since then, every time my cancer has returned, I’ve been very lucky to benefit from research that increases longevity, allowing me to live well with cancer.
I returned to working at Addenbrooke’s – after my own experience of cancer I was worried that it would feel all too horribly familiar – I’d also been out of the NHS for a couple of years – but I gradually found my feet again and my confidence grew.
In time, and with the encouragement of colleagues, I became the lead cancer nurse.
I discovered that I had a passion for working alongside patients to improve services.
I remember presenting my plan to reduce consultant waiting times to a group of patients, they said: “this is lovely, but we don’t mind waiting – we just want to know how long we’ll be waiting for so we can go and do something else.” I learnt that as professionals we might unintentionally be focused on the wrong issue.
This was a real turning point for me.
Today, I’m the lead advisory nurse for the Cambridge Cancer Research Hospital (CCRH) which is being designed in collaboration with patients.
There’s a Patient Advisory Group (PAG) who attend key project meetings.
They are joined by a 90-member-strong patient network who are helping to shape every aspect of CCRH.
For example, they worked with a catering team to create a healthy and nutritious menu that will be cooked freshly onsite.
Beyond this, my colleagues and I have been going out into the community to chat with people whose voices are often unheard, for example those who are experiencing homeless.
Conversations with these communities help us to understand what barriers they may face to accessing healthcare.
We want to make sure that CCRH is somewhere that all people feel welcome.
There are things that only patients see.
For example, our PAG recommended having changing rooms within consultation rooms rather than across corridors.
They pointed out that patients would not want to cross a busy corridor in a flimsy hospital gown when they would likely be feeling vulnerable.
CCRH will bring together clinicians, researchers and patients under one roof.
This will speed up the development of new ways to detect cancer earlier and treat it more precisely.
These advances bring hope to myself and others like me who continue to live with cancer.
I consented for my blood and tissue to be used in research carried out by the Precision Breast Cancer Institute who are working to provide more personalised treatments.
While I may not directly benefit from this study, I know that taking part will improve breast cancer outcomes for others in the future.
I often think of the people I’ve lost and wonder why I’m still here.
Championing patients and ensuring that their views are heard brings me a sense of purpose.
I’m proud to be playing a part in the development of CCRH ‒ a hospital built on compassion, with patients and their needs right at its heart.
With thanks to Elaine Chapman
Photography: StillVision

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/close-the-cancer-care-gap:
Listening to people's lived experiences is helping to improve the awareness and uptake of cancer care.
People can have very different experiences of cancer care because of who they are, or how and where they live.
Some individuals and communities are ‘harder-to-reach’ in terms of healthcare awareness and access.
This might be because of socioeconomic, cultural or language barriers.
A voidable differences in health outcomes then arise when people miss out on screening, early diagnosis and the best treatment plan.
To mark World Cancer Day (4 February), and its campaign to make cancer care fair and equitable, we take a look at some of the ways that researchers and the Cambridge Cancer Research Hospital project are working with communities to ‘close the cancer care gap’.
Elaine Chapman, Lead Advisory Nurse, Cambridge Cancer Research Hospital project
Genetic testing in ovarian cancer patients is part of the toolbox that clinicians draw on to support decisions about which treatment will work best for a patient’s cancer.
The technique can also identify whether or not a patient was born with a high chance of developing cancer, helping them to take steps to reduce their chance of getting cancer again, and to share the information with family members if they wish.
But there is a lower uptake of genetic testing for ovarian cancer in communities where there are language barriers and a lack of awareness of inherited cancer risks .
Cultural attitudes and absence of support for non-English-speaking women can also contribute to the disparities in testing, as Dr Elaine Leung explains:
Dr Elaine Leung
Leung, from the Sandwell and West Birmingham NHS Trust, co-leads an award-winning project to improve rates of genetic testing with Dr Gabriel Funingana and Professor James Brenton from Cancer Research UK (CRUK) Cambridge Centre and based in the CRUK Cambridge Institute .
The project is called DEMO (for Demonstration of Improvement for Molecular Ovarian Cancer Testing ) and was funded by Ovarian Cancer Action as part of its groundbreaking programme to tackle health inequalities for women with ovarian cancer .
The DEMO team knew that 15% of women diagnosed with ovarian cancer in Birmingham are non-white and a significant proportion of these women require interpreting services, particularly among speakers of South Asian languages such as Punjabi, Urdu and Bengali.
The knock-on effects of language barriers can be profound, says Dr Marie-Lyne Alcaraz, a Programme Manager for CRUK Cambridge Centre:
“Access to information for people with cancer is of vital importance.
But where there’s a language barrier there’s often a significant gap in awareness and accessibility,” says Alcaraz.
“You sometimes see patients carefully tucking papers away, sometimes putting them in a box outside the house ‘out of sight’, and you know that the language barriers are too much for them to absorb the information.”
Dr Marie-Lyne Alcaraz
The DEMO team worked with patient groups representing people from ethnic minorities to identify the barriers and misconceptions around genetic testing.
One patient recalls the first project team meeting, saying:
The team then developed a collection of multilingual resources on the benefits of genetic testing for ovarian cancer patients.
These include accessible, freely available online films in Bengali, English, Polish, Punjabi, Romanian and Urdu [see below]
“These films will improve how patients understand the role of genetic testing.
The knowledge we’ve built up in this collaboration will help patient diagnosis of ovarian cancer in the UK and also in other countries,” says Funingana:
Dr Gabriel Funingana
Film available in Bengali , English , Polish , Punjabi , Romanian and Urdu
Film available in Bengali , English , Polish , Punjabi and Urdu
“The current picture of cancer prevention suggests that over a third of the eligible population in England are not currently participating in cancer risk detection measures like population screening programmes,” says Robinson, a medical anthropologist.
To understand some of the reasons why, she spoke to ‘hard-to-reach’ populations during the Elusive Risks project, which she worked on with Drs Maryon McDonald and Ignacia Arteaga at the Department of Social Anthropology.
Their aim was to understand how people make sense of, and navigate, risks in their lives, a theme Robinson continues to work on through her Anthropology By Communities initiatives with ‘less-heard-from’ people.
They discovered a different attitude towards risk and care.
“People living one day at a time due to social exclusion, stigma or poverty are frequently focused on immediate needs to ensure survival.
“For the people we spoke to, risk was positive, it meant stepping outside of your typical way of behaving to try to do something new that could make your life better.
But care was negative – children being taken into care, experiences of incarceration, being turned away from GP receptions and so on.”
She gives the example of a rough sleeper involved in the project:
For those who live without a permanent residence, maintaining contact with healthcare providers over blood tests and scans is patchy, and can be complicated by other factors.
The team came across one example when they worked with Shaynie Larwood, the Lead Nurse for the Gypsy & Traveller community in Cambridgeshire.
Larwood explained that culturally strong traits can sometimes work against people : “self-reliance, importance of family, stoicism, independence, not wanting to be involved with authority… doesn’t stand them in such good stead [when it comes to healthcare].”
Efforts towards closing the cancer care gap should draw on the expertise of ‘super-locals’ like Shaynie, who have first-hand experiences of issues affecting communities, says Robinson:
Dr Kelly Fagan Robinson
“They know the ‘hard-to-reach’ people as real people, and understand their concerns.
They showed us that people who were invisible in other contexts were in fact easy to reach under the right conditions.”
Realising how important it is to improve engagement between researchers and the people they serve, Robinson developed a course aimed at doing just this.
In a follow-on collaboration between Cambridge and the University of Manchester, she launched ‘ Shared Risk ’, a bitesize online ‘MOOC’ course aimed at helping researchers and clinicians at the CRUK Cambridge Centre to define and communicate cancer risk better.
Elusive Risks was funded by Cambridge's Early Cancer Institute at the University of Cambridge.
Shared Risk is the result of an International Alliance for Early Cancer Detection Skills Exchange and Development award.
Cancer is the second most common cause of death among the homeless population , who experience a doubled rate of cancer mortality compared with adults in the general population in high-income countries.
A number of factors contribute towards this, explains Dr Julia Gawronska, a postdoctoral Research Fellow at Anglia Ruskin University:
To tackle this, Gawronska, coordinates the Cambridge arm of a cross-European project called Cancerless , which aims to improve cancer prevention, rates of screening and early diagnosis among people experiencing homelessness.
Gawronska has been working with the CRUK Cambridge Centre to deliver a series of educational workshops on cancer signs and cancer prevention.
The workshops are part of the Health Navigator Intervention developed by the Cancerless team, and include support for signposting to GPs.
Through monthly educational workshops at Wintercomfort , a support hub for homeless individuals in Cambridge, the team has helped raise awareness of symptoms and looked at the barriers to accessing healthcare for people experiencing homelessness.
As the team became more visible and trusted at the hub, they found that not only has workshop attendance increased but, so far, 20% of attendees have since been referred to the Cambridge Access Clinic for further tests, with a 100% follow-up appointment rate.
Dr Julia Gawronska
The next step of the Cancerless project is to provide a blueprint for transforming access to screening, services and treatment for people experiencing homelessness in the UK and across Europe, with evidence-based policy recommendations and protocols.
Cancerless is funded by the European Union Horizon 2020 programme.
Due to open on the Cambridge Biomedical Campus in 2029, the Cambridge Cancer Research Hospital will transform patient care, delivering hope and better health outcomes for people with cancer.
The new hospital brings together clinical expertise at Cambridge University Hospitals with world-class scientists across the University of Cambridge and the CRUK Cambridge Centre.
It draws on the Centre’s work involving patients and the public at all stages of research – from advising on strategy, to shaping research and clinical trial proposals, to participating in clinical trials and research studies – and has its own Patient Advisory Group and Network who are using their lived experience of cancer to influence the design and facilities in the new hospital.
As plans for the hospital develop, the project is currently focusing on engaging with communities and individuals who are more likely to experience health inequalities or challenges in accessing healthcare.
Elaine Chapman, Lead Advisory Nurse and co-production lead on the Cambridge Cancer Research Hospital project explains:
“We appreciate that not everyone will want to join groups or be able to attend meetings online, so it’s been important to go out and meet people in their own localities.
“Through proactively building relationships with underserved groups in our region we hope to understand the challenges or barriers they have faced in accessing healthcare.”
The look and feel of the hospital is important to patients, as the team discovered on a recent visit to Cambridge Central Mosque as part of the Women’s Wellness Day.
When asked ‘what would help make visiting Cambridge Cancer Research Hospital comfortable for you?’ , the feedback covered everything from the need for a welcoming prayer space to how the new hospital should smell.
“Patients and members of the public have been involved in the hospital planning from the blank paper stage at the very start,” adds Chapman.
"Their ideas, feedback and experiences are helping to shape the new hospital to ensure it is the best it can be for anyone who may need to use it when it opens.”
If you are interested in finding out more about the new Cambridge Cancer Research Hospital and patient involvement, please visit Patients | Cambridge Cancer
Published: 4 February 2024
With thanks to Rosie Dean (Cambridge University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust) for reporting on Cancerless and the Cambridge Cancer Research Hospital
Image: ajijchan ( iStock/Getty Images Plus)

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/cambridge-first-professor-ai-cancer-radiotherapy:
New University appointment signals importance of AI in cancer fight
Professor Raj Jena.
Images: CUH
Cambridge oncologist Raj Jena has been appointed the UK’s first Clinical Professor of AI in Radiotherapy.
The creation of the new Cambridge University Clinical Professorship signals the importance of AI in the fight against cancer and builds on the University’s work to explore and apply the very latest technology to the world’s major challenges.
The technology is already being used in the diagnosis and treatment of some cancers, but Professor Jena – an academic radiation oncologist at Cambridge University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, and a researcher in the University’s Department of Oncology – says AI has the potential to transform the way patients experience cancer care through more innovative and personalised therapies.
However, developing increasingly powerful tools requires ever larger amounts of information to train AI models on, and so building the research collaborations needed to help gather information on this scale is one of the areas where Prof Jena hopes his new role can help.
“There are amazing AI tools being developed, but they need more data to feed on than one hospital or one healthcare system can generate.
The Professorship will make a concrete difference in terms of building networks and leading projects.
“We need to bring together the right teams and expertise to research these things, to understand the technology and of course develop guidance and good practice, because trust is key, as is making sure you bring others with you.
It’s one of the things I’m most excited about with this new role.
You can design an AI but if you don’t explain what you’re doing, and how it will help, you’re limiting the good it can do.”
Prof Jena’s research into AI in radiotherapy has already seen the OSAIRIS tool – which helps prepare scans, and cuts the time patients have to wait between referral and starting treatment – become the first cloud-based AI technology to be developed and deployed within the NHS.
OSAIRIS automatically segments radiotherapy images, identifying and protecting healthy tissue by drawing around it, in just a few minutes, under the control of a clinician.
Professor Jena discusses the OSAIRIS tool
Now he is designing a new smart radiotherapy machine that goes one step further, and helps identify tumours before suggesting the best possible radiotherapy treatment.
The research aims to support cancer services in developing countries, where radiotherapy machines and the staff to run them are in short supply.
The new tool will feed scans into an AI foundation model – trained on an international dataset of medical images – and mark out the tumour target and the best radiotherapy plan to treat it.
“It takes over from OSAIRIS, but of course marking out tumours is much more difficult than marking out healthy tissues – and is usually where the human expertise comes in,” says Prof Jena.
“However, it looks as if the programme can make a reasonable first attempt, and we’ve already had some initial success.”
Currently, the technology is not at a stage where a patient could be treated based on the diagnosis, but Prof Jena says because it can identify similar cancers from a huge database of cases from around the world, it can help offer insights by detailing how those other patients were treated.
“The beauty of using AI in this way is that we start out with the kind of simple tools that we've already been using, to process images and add content, but then we’re adding the AI of a large knowledge system.
And finally we’re adding the power of a foundation model to sift through this massive amount of information.
Individually we can do all those things already, the key is putting them all together.”
And Prof Jena says the technology will only become more sophisticated.
“We’ll start to see AI impacting in each stage of the patient’s treatment,” he said.
“There’s a lot of AI that’s focusing on being able to pick up tiny cancer signals among all the ‘noise’.
So we’ll have more early detection programmes, and instead of having to wait for a cancer to be big enough to see on a scan, we’ll be asking can we instead analyse breath, or a finger prick of blood?”
AI is also likely to play a bigger role in helping clinicians decide on treatment paths for patients after they have been diagnosed, integrating huge amounts of separate data, including genomics, and suggesting the most effective way forward.
Indeed, another AI research study at Cambridge will look at the patient in their entirety and suggest a personalised treatment plan accordingly.
So if, for example, a patient has lost a significant amount of muscle mass, it may suggest a particular drug would be unhelpful, and if it identifies something like a central obesity pattern – consistent with diabetes or metabolic syndrome – it might suggest that this condition should be treated before a particular type of medicine is used on the cancer.
Prof Jena says the power of AI to mine vast amounts of genomic data to inform treatment has been a ‘game changer’, slashing the time it takes to map the full genomic readout of a tumour.
“It’s coming down and down, and for some cancers it's as fast as four days now.
And that's amazing when you think about it.
In the old days, somebody would put a needle into a tumour, and then a pathologist would put some dye on it and look at it under a microscope, and then they would decide the best way forward with a very limited amount of information from the tumour itself.
Now, suddenly, we’re able to digest several gigabytes of information about a tumour’s genetic profile and reduce all of that into actionable data within days.”
Genomic analysis on this scale means some patients – for example brain tumour patients – have been able to access new treatments that would not otherwise have been thought of.
The tools look for patterns in the tumour genome regardless of the type of cancer, and these can be correlated to new therapies available in the clinic.
“It’s wonderful to find a match,” says Prof Jena, “because there’s absolutely no way you would have been able to read the entire genomic profile of a tumour and pick up the signature that unlocks a potential treatment.”
In the future, Prof Jena believes patients will be able to access their own ‘disease avatar’ to help monitor their condition.
So, a patient who notices a slight change within themselves might be offered a ‘first pass’ by an AI-supported system – which could offer some reassuring context based on the information they supply – instead of that information going straight to their doctor or specialist nurse.
“What might be a worrying change for one patient could be completely expected in another,” says Prof Jena.
“The system might escalate unexpected changes, and put the patient straight through to their doctor, or it might instead suggest monitoring the situation, and get back in touch with the patient the next day to follow-up.
The key aspect of an avatar based model is that it would individualise its action based on what it knows about the patient.”
And in terms of radiotherapy specifically, Prof Jena says AI will not only continue to simplify and accelerate the complicated and time-consuming process of preparing scans, but it will also play a bigger role in informing treatment plans.
He says: “We have known for a long time that tumours shrink and change in the weeks that pass during radiotherapy treatment.
We have simply lacked the means to change the treatment each day in line with the changing shape of the tumour.
AI can transform this process, so that each day we could take a new scan, build a new picture of the tumour, and recalculate the treatment plan while the patient is lying on the treatment couch.
It means we’re adaptive and protecting everything outside the tumour.
It will give us much more information to track how tumours are changing, almost in real time, and allow our radiotherapy to be as precise as possible.”
Published: 17th October 2024 Interview and words: Stephen Bevan Images: Cambridge University Hospitals

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/cambridge-black-excellence-cancer-research:
'The impact we’ve had has  gone far beyond what we imagined'
Black scientists in Cambridge are driving change to help create a cancer research sector that better represents the wider population.
Among them, an organisation co-founded by a Cambridge student to champion Black excellence in cancer research is also working to empower the Black community around the disease and break down harmful stigma and misconceptions.
Black in Cancer was launched by Sigourney Bonner – with US colleague Dr Henry Henderson – while she was studying for a PhD in paediatric brain tumours at the Cancer Research UK Cambridge Institute and Girton College.
Its twin focuses are its Pipeline Programme, to increase the number of Black scientists in the field, and its Cancer Awareness Project, to enhance knowledge of the disease within the Black community.
“Black people are still underrepresented in research while being overrepresented in cancer mortality,” said Sigourney.
“So, Black in Cancer is about addressing both of these challenges.
We want to bring Black researchers to the fore, and at the same time create a trusted, and culturally informed source of information for people who are dealing with a diagnosis of cancer.
We want to empower people in their healthcare decisions, increase participation in clinical trials, and get rid of misconceptions about this disease.
“Black patients are sometimes not heard, and referrals to oncologists can take longer and require more GP appointments for those from ethnic minority backgrounds.
There are a number of reasons why people might be less inclined to seek help, some of those can be socioeconomic factors, for example taking time off work to go to the GP and the financial impact of that, but the reasons can be complex, and both social and cultural.”
Research by the Race Equality Foundation found that Black patients report more negative experiences of cancer care than White patients, and have limited awareness of support available.
It also found that healthcare providers often have a poor understanding of the needs of Black and minority ethnic communities, particularly in cancer awareness.
And a recent study by Cancer Research UK and NHS Digital found Black women were more likely than White women to be diagnosed with late-stage cancer , when the disease is generally harder to treat.
Contributing factors include a lack of awareness about warning signs, barriers to tests or treatment, and delays speaking to medical professionals because of embarrassment or not feeling confident talking about their symptoms.
In less than four years, Black in Cancer – which recently moved its headquarters to Cancer Research UK's Cambridge Institute – has established partnerships with universities and research organisations in the UK and the US, created a conference series, developed a mentorship programme, and helped Black researchers access around £1.5m of funding.
The organisation has also worked with Cancer Research UK (CRUK) on the launch of the Black Leaders in Cancer PhD Scholarship Programme , in partnership with Cambridge University, to help develop the next generation of Black scientists in cancer research and tackle barriers to progression that Black people face in accessing Higher Education, particularly postgraduate studies.
Less than 2% of UK bioscience postgraduate researchers are Black, according to CRUK’s diversity data , and only 1% of applicants.
In contrast, Black people made up 4.5% of the population in the 2021 census .
“The impact we’ve had has already gone far beyond what we imagined when we started,” said Sigourney.
“Back then, I hadn’t been considering anything other than making it through my PhD, to be honest!
It was more like let’s just see what happens, let’s try and bring people together – maybe we’ll have a Slack channel, maybe we can connect and dispel some of the myths around cancer in the community.
We’ll do that and go from there.
But we didn't expect this level of support – for our programmes to grow this big.
And obviously we can't stop now!”
Black in Cancer began in the summer of 2020, amid a number of social justice movements, including Black Lives Matter.
“It led to conversations about spaces for Black people within different communities, particularly spaces that aren’t necessarily deemed those that Black people frequent,” said Sigourney.
“And for me, personally, until I started my PhD I’d never met a Black woman with a PhD, and by that point I’d done an undergraduate degree, and a year in industry at two different pharmaceutical companies.
I hadn’t met anybody who looked like me to aspire to, and so I wanted to be that person for Black researchers starting out, to provide inspiration, resources and support.”
Sigourney, whose focus as a Human Physiology undergraduate at Leeds University was neuroscience, moved into cancer research after graduating, and following a family member’s cancer diagnosis.
“It had a big impact on our family, and it was a very challenging time.
Cancer is something that a lot of people have in common, and statistically just under one in two of us will be diagnosed in our lifetime.
Cancer unites us and I think that made me want to be a part of the journey and help people.
So I thought, maybe I can take a foray into that area, and I moved to AstraZeneca for three and a half years.
There was so much going on, so many different projects, but that was the first time when I could really see myself in this space.”
Encouragement to pursue a PhD had come first from a lecturer during a summer studentship at Leeds years before, and then from a supervisor during her time at AstraZeneca.
“They were amazing, both women, and they assured me I was more than able, that I could succeed, and were so supportive in my journey.
And as an organisation we would never say people from other backgrounds can’t be great mentors for Black students, but you just have to be aware of some of the particular challenges that the Black community faces.
“Visibility is, of course, vital.
Just because somebody can see a job exists doesn’t mean they feel it’s achievable, so seeing Black scientists working in this field is really important.
Because without that you can subconsciously narrow your options, and not even be aware you’re doing it.”
And there is also the practical side of getting into such a specialist area.
Black in Cancer offers guidance to students taking their first steps in research, for example choosing the right university to get the experience they need.
“Just being able to navigate through all that, for people who are the first in their family or network to be choosing this path, is a big deal.
So what we can do is communicate that kind of cultural capital and knowledge, and ask them ‘have you thought about this ?’”
In 2022, Black in Cancer collaborated with CRUK on its inaugural conference at the Science Museum in London , which brought together leading Black cancer doctors, researchers, and patient advocates from across the world.
And last month, its first US conference was held in partnership with the Frederick National Laboratory for Cancer Research, at the Natcher Conference Center in Maryland.
“When we started, conferences were in our 5-10-year plan, so to have done the first one by year two was incredible,” said Sigourney.
“To be able to bring together all of these different communities, including research and advocacy, and foster connections, has been extraordinary.”
But as well as the larger scale accomplishments, Sigourney says the difference Black in Cancer has been able to make to the lives of individuals has been just as rewarding.
“It’s people emailing us, telling us their brother or their aunt has been diagnosed and not knowing what to do.
And I’ve been able to speak to them, and tell them where they can get more information, and what questions to ask at their next appointment – which details they should make a note of.
For me, on a personal level, the biggest impact is playing a part in someone’s experience and letting them know they’re not alone in this journey.”
Sigourney Bonner, co-founder of Black in Cancer.
Image: Lloyd Mann
Randy Greaves is one of the students in their first year of the CRUK-funded Black Leaders in Cancer PhD Scholarship Programme.
Studying at the Department of Oncology and Christ’s College, he says the funded programme has given him the opportunity to realise a life-long dream.
“I come from a very rural community in Jamaica, and I was born with multiple visual impairments, so it was always a challenge for me to access education,” he said.
“But I still managed to do very well at school.
I particularly loved the sciences, so I knew I would go in that direction.”
Randy’s original plan had been to study medicine and become a doctor, but he needed to adjust his ambitions when a lack of specialist educational support meant this was not possible.
“I had been considering oncology, because my aunt died from cancer when I was very young – she had always been one of my biggest supporters and we were very close.
When I was unable to study medicine in Jamaica, my aim changed.
But I still wanted to learn more about cancer, because if I wasn’t going to become an oncologist, I was going to be a cancer researcher.”
And alongside studying for his degree in pharmacology at the University of the West Indies, Randy began his own research into cancer, taking a number of molecular biology courses at the same time.
After graduating he completed a Master’s in Cancer Research and Precision Oncology at the University of Glasgow, funded by a Commonwealth Scholarship, before beginning the Black Leaders in Cancer PhD Scholarship Programme last October.
“The PhD programme has been great so far, and we’ve had a really good introduction to a lot of different skills,” he said.
“I’ve especially liked bioinformatics, because it has become a very useful tool in research.
I’m also interested in cancer immunology, which is a very promising field where we look at the role of the immune system in cancer, and how we can develop potential treatments that may allow the immune system to effectively recognise and eliminate cancer.
“There are so few Black people working in this field, particularly from low and middle income countries, so an opportunity like this is so important for researchers like me, and for the Black community in general.
In the Caribbean, there aren’t the same resources and facilities, and people aren’t as aware about cancer.
So when they do get sick it’s usually at an advanced stage.
I hope I can help raise that awareness.”
Black Leaders in Cancer PhD Scholarship Programme
Magda Ali is in her final year of the Cancer Research UK Cambridge Centre MRes + PhD in Cancer Biology funded studentship at the Department of Pathology and Lucy Cavendish College.
After graduating from King’s College London with a degree in Biomedical Science, she spent two years working as a scientist on cell and gene therapy assets at GlaxoSmithKline, before beginning her PhD researching immune cell trafficking into solid tumours.
“I loved my undergraduate degree, every part of it, I found it fascinating!” she said.
“In my final year I studied the biology of cancer and it felt like that was what everything had been leading up to.
It put all of the things I’d studied up to that point into the context of this horrible disease, that dysregulates everything and co-opts all of these pathways that normally work well, using them to its own advantage.
I found the complexity of the disease really interesting, particularly because of cancers resistance mechanisms.
It’s the biggest challenge.”
During her degree, Magda specialised in cancer immunology.
“I was really lucky to get a final year degree project in a lab working on immunotherapies – it was becoming a hot field at that time so it was a great opportunity.”
And off the back of the lab experience she built up during her degree, Magda landed a position at GSK, where she worked for two years before applying for her PhD.
She said: “Not many people from my school went on to University to study for an undergraduate degree, let alone to study for a PhD, but it was something I’d known I wanted to do for a long time.
“It’s important that there is representation of all races and heritages when it comes to research and running clinical trials, and not just at the point of developing the drug – but at the point of thinking about which questions to ask.
We need diverse minds and diverse backgrounds to ask questions that are relevant for everybody, to make sure there’s equal access to healthcare.
Education is such a privilege, and although some people make a huge effort, I think in general we can do much better at communicating science to the public.
“After my PhD, I hope to work as a science communicator to bridge the gap between science and the public.”
MRes + PhD Programme in Cancer Biology
Published: 26 July 2024 Interviews and words: Stephen Bevan

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research/news/cancer-researchers-and-astronomers-join-forces-in-fight-against-disease:
A unique collaboration of astronomers and cancer researchers at Cambridge has been awarded more than £5m to establish the Spatial Profiling and Annotation Centre of Excellence (SPACE) to open up access to their groundbreaking cancer mapping technology and establish collaborations with other scientists to enable them to investigate tumours in 3D.
When we took on our particular challenge, much of what we proposed was science fiction
The technology from Cancer Grand Challenges team IMAXT uses advanced spatial biology techniques to analyse tumours, some of which are based on technology originally developed to map the Milky Way and discover new planets.
Now, other scientists will be able to access these technologies to create detailed tumour maps that could one day transform how we diagnose and treat cancer.
Led by Professor Greg Hannon and Dr Dario Bressan at the Cancer Research UK Cambridge Institute and Dr Nicholas Walton at the University of Cambridge’s Institute of Astronomy, SPACE will give other researchers the opportunity to study cancer in a way that wasn’t previously possible.
Dr Dario Bressan, Head of the SPACE Laboratory at the Cancer Research UK Cambridge Institute, said: “Tumours aren’t just a uniform mass of cells; they consist of a diverse ecosystem of cancer cells, immune cells, and other essential components that support their survival.
Hidden within these intricate networks lies valuable information which could guide us in making more personalised treatment decisions for each patient.
“With the SPACE platform, researchers can zoom into specific cell populations, highlight the complex connections between them, and even run virtual experiments to predict how the tumour might respond to different treatments.
By unlocking these insights, we can transform the future of cancer care and uncover new opportunities for targeted therapies.”
The IMAXT team was first awarded £20 million in 2017 by Cancer Research UK through Cancer Grand Challenges, a global research initiative co-founded by Cancer Research UK and the National Cancer Institute in the US.
Since then, the team has united experts from fields rarely brought together including medicine, Virtual Reality (VR), programming, molecular biology, chemistry, mathematics, and even astronomy, to create a completely immersive tool for studying tumours.
As well as enabling scientists to analyse 3D tumour maps, IMAXT created pioneering VR technology which allows the user to ‘step inside’ a tumour using a VR headset.
With the headset, scientists get to view vast amounts of detailed data about individual tumour cells in a 3D space.
Instead of looking at this data on a computer screen, they can see all the information in real-time, as if they were inside the tumour itself.
Professor Greg Hannon, Director of the Cancer Research UK Cambridge Institute, said: "Cancer Grand Challenges offers a unique opportunity for international teams to address some of cancer’s biggest challenges.
When we took on our particular challenge, much of what we proposed was science fiction.
“Over the past 7 years, our team has turned those early hopes and ideas into approaches that can now be made broadly available.
In nature, biology unfolds in three dimensions, and we now finally have the tools to observe it that way—giving us a much deeper, more accurate view of cancer.
We’re thrilled to share these breakthroughs with the broader cancer research community."
Director of Cancer Grand Challenges at Cancer Research UK, Dr David Scott, said: “IMAXT is changing what’s possible when it comes to cancer research.
“We can glean important insights about a tumour by analysing its genetic makeup or its proteins, but no technology alone can give us the depth of understanding needed to truly understand this complex disease.
“By combining state-of-the-art technology and vast expertise, IMAXT will change how cancers are classified, treated and managed, giving more people a better chance of surviving their disease.”
The funding will support the SPACE hub laboratory, hosted at the CRUK Cambridge Institute, and the SPACE analysis and computing platform, developed and operated at the Institute of Astronomy, University of Cambridge.
Together SPACE includes and combines most available technologies for the spatial molecular profiling of tumours.
The continued collaboration between the cancer and astronomy teams from the IMAXT project will ensure the maintenance and development of all critical aspects of the platform – from technical and scientific expertise to instrumentation, computing, and data analysis – to allow SPACE to continue at the forefront research in the rapidly emerging spatial-omics field, and be a valuable centre of excellence to support new research in the Cancer Grand Challenge and cancer research communities.
SPACE is funded by Cancer Research UK through Cancer Grand Challenges.
Additional support for the SPACE project has been provided by the UK Space Agency through their funding of the development of imaging and analysis techniques at the IoA, Cambridge for a range of space science missions.
These have been successfully applied to spatial imaging data through IMAXT and are ready for wider use in SPACE.
Dr Paul Bate, Chief Executive Officer at UK Space Agency said: “Space is powering our daily lives, from satellite navigation to weather forecasts and climate monitoring.
This collaboration between the cancer and astronomy teams in the IMAXT project is another real-world example of how space science and technology is bringing benefits to people here on Earth.
“Thanks to this partnership, the same science and technology that mapped the Milky Way may soon have a positive impact on people battling cancer, and could support doctors to provide better, faster treatment."
Going forward, a next-generation version of the VR technology will be further developed and commercialised by Suil Vision, a start-up company recently launched by IMAXT team members and Cancer Research UK’s innovation arm, Cancer Research Horizons.
Suil Vision is the first start-up to emerge from the Cancer Grand Challenges programme.
With a £500,000 investment from the Cancer Research Horizons Seed Fund, Suil Vision will create a market-ready version of their suite of VR technologies for analysing multiple types of biological data, rolling these out across research institutions and companies worldwide.
Image
Top: Lung with two metastatic lesions derived from a mouse primary triple-negative breast tumour.
The figure shows how the registration of the different imaging modalities to a cellular level allow to segment individual cells and identify tumour cell populations, differentiate hypoxic areas, increased fibrosis, infiltration of immune cells and blood and lymphatic vessels by staining with a panel of 35 cell markers at the same time.
Bottom: Sample in 3D depicts a tumour grown in the mammary gland of a mouse showing the power of the SPACE pipeline to produce and visualise large volumes (typically ~100,000 individual images registered and stitched and up to 500TB 500 GB of data).
The orange fluorescence beads are clearly visible in the medium outside the biological tissue and prove to be crucial for all stages of multimodal registration.
Adapted from a press release by Cancer Research UK
Lung with two metastatic lesions derived from a mouse primary triple-negative breast tumour
Credit: SPACE Laboratory

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/cambridge-cancer-research-ai:
The Cambridge researchers using machine intelligence to beat disease
By Stephen Bevan
Credit: Jeffrey Markowitz
‘Game changing’ technology which can predict how patients will respond to cancer treatment before they receive it is part of a wave of Cambridge research harnessing the power of AI in the fight against the disease.
The new tool – which focuses on ovarian cancer, but has the potential to help treat other cancers – means that vital time can be saved on futile therapies and other treatments introduced sooner.
The AI model uses machine learning to digitally integrate a wealth of patient data – including CT images, blood tests, genomic results, and electronic health records – to help clinicians make quicker, highly personalised, and better-informed decisions in treating ovarian cancer, which is usually diagnosed at an advanced stage when immediate intervention is key.
Most patients are given chemotherapy to shrink tumours ahead of primary surgery to remove them, however 39% of women do not respond to the chemotherapy , which only serves to delay the surgery.
But using the new AI tool, IRON (Integrated Radiogenomics for Ovarian Neoadjuvant therapy), researchers were able to predict whether chemotherapy would be effective during a study involving 134 women at two centres.
Dr Mireia Crispin-Ortuzar, who along with Professor James Brenton co-leads the Cancer Research UK Cambridge Centre's Ovarian Cancer programme, said: “Essentially, it means that we can estimate who might benefit from these treatments and who might need alternatives, so we can make changes to the treatment journey sooner.
It also allows us to discover reasons why patients are not responding to chemotherapy.”
Alongside clinical data and patients’ general characteristics – including age and disease status – IRON uses augmented radiomics to scan CT images, measure lesions, and reveal patterns in tumours and tissues that the human eye cannot detect, on a scale that would be prohibitively expensive to do ‘by hand'.
All of this information is then analysed using the AI model to predict the likely success of chemotherapy.
“Measuring the volume of the disease is crucial in understanding and treating it,” said Dr Crispin-Ortuzar.
“And to measure the disease it helps greatly if you know the boundary of the lesions.
This is extremely time consuming for radiologists and takes hours out of their day.
Now we have developed automatic AI tools to do this, which coupled with IRON could be game changing.”
Dr Mireia Crispin-Ortuzar
Professor James Brenton
Professor Brenton, who is also co-leader of Cambridge University’s Mark Foundation Institute for Integrated Cancer Medicine, and is based at the Cancer Research UK Cambridge Institute, said the research was hugely significant, and that AI offered clinicians “new thinking” on targeting cancer.
“AI gives us the ability to follow these structures in time and space, and to correlate the image with the genomic features,” he said.
“And that is a really major step forward, and is what a complex disease like ovarian cancer really needs.
“Outcomes for patients with advanced stages of ovarian cancer haven’t changed dramatically in the past 20 years, because research hasn’t made a ‘move the needle’ difference.
It needs new thinking that can sometimes be lost in more pragmatic kinds of clinical trials, which haven’t learned enough about why the cancer does or does not respond.
We need completely new tools, and these AI approaches are groundbreaking in that regard.”
IRON is part of a collaboration between The University of Cambridge, Cambridge University Hospitals and GE Healthcare , which is also developing a comprehensive clinical decision-making support platform that integrates and refines cancer patient data from multiple sources into a single, much more manageable tool.
It will help explain what scans or test results mean when analysed together, supporting doctors who currently receive this information in separate formats and from many different sources.
Professor Brenton said: “We believe very strongly that the only way to have enough precision to treat patients and to understand what they need requires integration of very complex data from the clinical data stage ­­– imaging, genomes, proteins and so on – and no one's really done that at any sort of scale up until now.”
Crucially, the platform will also help doctors share expertise, technologies, and discoveries with colleagues around the country – and reach patients in other hospitals, particularly those with rarer diseases which require specialisation.
“In the short term it’s about doing a better job with the information we already have,” said Professor Brenton.
“In the medium term it’s about the new discoveries that these tools will take us to – analyses of areas of the cancer that we’d otherwise have to spend huge resources and thousands of hours trying to find.
And this will lead to more trials and feed into future treatment, which is extremely exciting.”
Professor Brenton with the Brenton research group
And Dr Crispin-Ortuzar said that the research was already collecting “latent” information which could point researchers in new directions.
“We can use these AI models to tell us where we should be looking next,” she said.
“When we segment lesions to find where the boundaries are, we're actually having to detect all of the texture within that lesion, so we’re collecting latent information even if we’re not using it at that moment.
It’s information that is hidden somewhere in the segmentation algorithm and it’s being quantified, so we can use it to see if something unique is happening.
It means that these tools are helping us to create our research programmes – they’re helping us with the science and not just simply automating tasks.”
Machine learning could pave the way for kidney cancer screening programme
AI could also help doctors diagnose kidney cancer earlier, according to another new Cambridge study – by enabling cost-effective screening for those at higher risk of the disease, which kills around 5,000 people in the UK every year.
The researchers’ initial findings show that their AI model far exceeds previous attempts to automatically detect small renal cancers, and in the future could make routine health checks for the disease possible – which would otherwise be too expensive – similar to the NHS’ now-established screening programme for lung health.
Cancer Research UK Cambridge Centre-funded PhD student Bill McGough, a researcher at the Early Cancer Institute, led the study, which suggests a deep learning diagnostic tool could reach the same level of accuracy reading CT scans as radiologists, after being trained using doctors’ medical expertise.
He said: “We want to screen for cancers that might not otherwise be economically feasible to screen for, by introducing AI and using an automated, highly accurate diagnostic system that allows us to multiply radiological tasks infinitely.
Our research suggests that the model we have developed could effectively replicate a radiologist’s ability to detect kidney cancer on CT scans.”
The system uses ‘convolutional neural networks’, a deep learning method for imaging analysis, to first highlight the location of kidney within a CT scan, before analysing it for the presence of cancer.
It was trained on 534 patient scans, and tested on 64.
As well as reducing costs, speeding up diagnosis, and freeing up radiologists’ time, the AI tool offers safety benefits for patients – by still being able to accurately read scans which are taken using less radiation than would usually be used for diagnostic purposes, and reducing the amount of dye, or ‘contrast medium’, a patient needs to be given to show detail in the CT images.
“All of this means we have a system that could be appropriate for screening sections of the population,” said Bill.
“Most people don’t notice symptoms of kidney cancer until the disease is at a more advanced stage, but now we have shown that AI could help to detect small cancers, catch the disease early, and improve survival rates.”
Cambridge PhD student Bill McGough
Dr Raj Jena
AI imaging uses patient digital twin to cut waiting times
AI cancer imaging application, OSAIRIS , developed by the NHS and University of Cambridge, has cut waiting times for radiotherapy for fast growing tumours by two weeks when used alongside other technologies.
It means patients are beginning treatment 15 days after referral, ahead of the NHS national target of 31 days.
“We know that the earlier you start radiotherapy, the more likely you are to cure a patient,” said Dr Raj Jena, an oncologist at Cambridge University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, who is leading the OSAIRIS research.
“So starting therapy sooner will translate into more cancer cures.
No one wants to wait to start curative radiotherapy, what you want is to finish your treatment as quickly as possible.”
OSAIRIS works by significantly cutting the amount of time a doctor needs to spend drawing around healthy organs on scans before radiotherapy.
Outlining the organs is critical in order to protect the healthy tissue around the cancer from radiation.
It can take a doctor between 20 minutes and three hours to perform this task, per patient.
This complex but routine task is ideally suited to AI with the oncologist in control, checking every scan.
Dr Jena, whose long-term collaboration with Microsoft Research on Project InnerEye helped develop OSAIRIS, said: “We take a scan of a patient and create their ‘digital twin’, which we use to prepare the radiotherapy treatment.
The algorithm goes through the scan and before the oncologist even sits down to do the work, it has already marked out all the healthy structures.”
OSAIRIS is being used at Addenbrooke’s Hospital, Cambridge, in the treatment of prostate and head and neck cancers, but has the potential to work for many other types of cancer.
Dr Jena says patients’ cancer journeys will be transformed as the power of AI continues to be utilised.
He said: “OSAIRIS is one tool that addresses one key step in the chain.
What we now need are tools like this that speed up every step in the chain – then the whole thing gets faster.
We want patients to go from the point at which they first realise that something is wrong to completing their treatment as quickly as possible.
“There is tremendous power in what we will be able to do as we get better data from healthcare settings and apply AI and machine learning techniques.
The OSAIRIS algorithm was trained on about 250 patients, and it matches human performance.
If you can provide 10 times that amount of data, you start to get some interesting patterns emerging, where the algorithm continues to perform well even with scans that look very different to anything it has seen before.
“The ability to take information from one problem and make use of it in another problem is of course a feature of human intelligence.
This is where it gets really interesting to me, both as an AI researcher and a clinician.”
Pattern recognition tool helping researchers 'create order out of the chaos' and target deadliest cancers
Cambridge researchers have also used AI to make sense of damaged DNA to target some of the most hard-to-treat cancers – including lung, pancreatic and oesophageal cancer.
Pattern recognition tools have allowed them to ‘untangle’ DNA that has been rearranged by the disease, known as chromosomal instability (CIN), which up until now has made pinpointing drugs and therapies incredibly difficult, and has meant that treatment for some cancers has not advanced for decades.
Professor Markowetz with the Markowetz research group
Florian Markowetz, Professor of Computational Oncology at the University of Cambridge, who led the team, said: “These genomes are a complete mess of missing and redundant parts, and with this genomic chaos there are no good biomarkers, which means there are no good drug targets to aim treatment at.
But now we can figure it out with this tool; we can find patterns in the genomes which tell us how the DNA became scrambled, which was impossible until now.”
Funded by an ERC Advanced Grant, the researchers used the tool to investigate patterns across 7,880 tumours, representing 33 types of cancer, and determined that 80% had detectable CIN.
They uncovered previously hidden biomarkers in the structure of the abnormal DNA to produce a ‘ compendium’ of 17 different ‘copy number signatures’ that predict how patients will respond to different drugs, and identify which drugs could help them – including drugs that have not previously been considered.
The development of the compendium led to the foundation of precision medicine start-up Tailor Bio, which is helping to bring the tool to a clinical setting, with the first clinical trials being planned.
Professor Markowetz, who is based at the Cancer Research UK Cambridge Institute, said the key step in the research and the development of the compendium – which the team is now working to extend and refine – was using AI to look at the entire landscape of the DNA, rather than just one particular part that had been altered.
“The patterns show us what caused the abnormalities in the chromosomes,” he said.
“Each of these causes is a weakness in the cell, for example a DNA repair pathway that’s not working, and many of these weaknesses can be treated with drugs.
We are creating order out of the chaos.”
Professor Florian Markowetz
Published: 15 July 2024 Interviews and words: Stephen Bevan

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/cambridge-cancer-spinouts:
A brilliant idea for helping cancer patients is just that – an idea – until it is put into practice.
But turning research into something that can improve patient outcomes and benefit healthcare systems around the world is not easy.
Being in Cambridge helps.
University spinouts are supported through their commercialisation journey by the University's innovation arm, Cambridge Enterprise.
And becoming part of the UK's leading life sciences cluster in Cambridge and the surrounding area provides plenty of inspiration plus access to investors and talent and the guidance of others who have gone before.
Meet 10 of our spinouts, all committed to changing the story of cancer.
The use of fragment-based drug discovery (FBDD), pioneered by a team of Cambridge chemists and biochemists, led to the foundation of Astex and transformed the way in which pharmaceutical companies can identify new lead compounds for drug discovery.
To date, more than 40 compounds discovered using FBDD have reached clinical trials.
The approach allows for the efficient exploration of chemical space by using small fragments to identify hotspots on protein targets, which are then elaborated into larger drug-like molecules.
Astex's FBDD approach has led to the approval of three drugs in 75 countries, positively impacting patients with breast and urothelial cancer and leukaemia.
Academic founders : Professor Sir Tom Blundell, Department of Biochemistry and Professor Chris Abell, Yusuf Hamied Department of Chemistry
A new method of studying DNA is offering ground-breaking insights into health and disease.
Fundamental research into understanding genetic and epigenetic information in DNA led to the creation of spinout, biomodal (formerly Cambridge Epigenetix).
Current technologies have difficulty accurately reading epigenetic and genetic information from small samples of DNA, causing crucial information to be missed.
By contrast, biomodal’s innovative technology combines genetic and epigenetic analysis in a single sequencing run, capturing the most important data from DNA samples.
This approach is being used in various fields, including cancer research  as well as neurodegenerative diseases, liquid biopsy for early detection of cancer, precision medicine, and non-invasive prenatal testing.
Academic founder : Professor Sir Shankar Balasubramanian, Yusuf Hamied Department of Chemistry
Developing successful cancer treatments remains challenging, with high failure rates.
Cosmology may hold the answer.
Founded by a biomedical engineer, a computational physicist and a medical oncologist, Concr uses established computational frameworks from astrophysics to enable learning between disparate and messy oncology data to accurately model cancer biology.
This allows scientists to predict therapeutic response for individual patients, simulate clinical trials and generate biomarker hypotheses, thereby de-risking drug development and improving patient outcomes.
In July 2024, the first patients were recruited into Concr’s observational trial of their FarrSight®-Twin technology for outcome prediction in breast cancer.
Academic founder : Dr Matthew Griffiths, Cavendish Laboratory
PharmEnable Therapeutics is breaking down the barriers of inaccessibility: for the patient, the target and the drug.
A pioneering drug discovery company, PharmEnable leverages artificial intelligence to reimagine small molecules.
Working on targets that require the exquisite specificity of biologics, it is creating much-needed treatments particularly for cancer and neurological conditions.
The team is developing a pipeline of life-changing small molecule drugs with antibody-like selectivity targeting hard-to-reach areas.
It is also working with partners across disease areas, where achieving drug selectivity and optimal properties poses a significant challenge.
Academic founder : Dr Hannah Sore, Yusuf Hamied Department of Chemistry
PhoreMost is pioneering new technologies to help create treatments for diseases which were previously considered ‘undruggable’.
Through its next-generation screening platforms such as SITESEEKER® and GlueSEEKER, PhoreMost is able to identify the best new targets for future therapies, particularly in oncology and in Targeted Protein Degradation, a technique for dealing with proteins that are causing diseases.
Through this innovative approach PhoreMost aims to expand the number of diseases that can respond to treatment, enabling the discovery of next-generation therapies.
By doing so, it is creating more effective and targeted medicines for patients, increasing treatment options for cancer and other diseases with limited therapies.
Academic founders : Professor Ashok Venkitaraman and Dr Grahame Mckenzie, MRC Cancer Unit
This biotech company, started by a Cambridge nanoscientist, is working on better treatment options for patients with difficult-to-treat cancers.
Antibody-drug conjugates (ADCs) are designed to target and kill cancer cells while sparing healthy ones.
These therapies combine powerful drugs with antibodies that specifically target cancer cells.
Spirea is focusing its innovative ADCs on treating certain solid tumours, where current treatment options are few.
While ADCs aim to improve upon existing treatments, many have faced challenges in clinical development such as toxicity, limited effectiveness, and the range of cancers they can treat.
Spirea’s technology aims to improve this by attaching more drug to each antibody, enhancing the ability to kill cancer cells.
Academic founder : Dr Myriam Ouberai, Nanoscience Centre
STORM Therapeutics was founded in 2015 by two Cambridge researchers, following their ground-breaking work in RNA epigenetics.
They identified the importance of RNA modifications during the development of cancer, creating the pathway for STORM to develop pioneering cancer drugs targeting this new mechanism.
STORM's leadership team is dedicated to advancing its first-in-class pipeline into other areas as well as cancer, including inflammation and neurodegenerative and infectious diseases.
Its lead product, STC-15, is the first RNA modifying enzyme inhibitor to enter human clinical trials, currently being evaluated in a Phase 1 study in patients with advanced solid tumours.
Academic founders : Professor Tony Kouzarides and Professor Eric Miska, Gurdon Institute
Cancer treatment has advanced over the past decade thanks to breakthroughs in immuno-oncology, which trains the body’s own T cells to target cancer cells.
However, current approaches, although promising, have not yet realised their full potential.
T-Therapeutics has developed a new platform, OpTiMus®, based on more than 10 years of medical research at the Wellcome Sanger Institute and the University of Cambridge.
By creating a near-unlimited database of T cell receptors (TCRs), the platform enables the development of new therapies which are specific to each patient, unleashing the potential of their own immune system.
T-Therapeutics also aims to harness this approach to target various autoimmune disorders.
Academic founder : Professor Allan Bradley, Department of Medicine
Verinnogen has created a device to enhance the accuracy and efficiency of pre-clinical studies, ultimately leading to faster breakthroughs in cancer treatments.
Its innovative hand-held device accurately measures 3D objects, such as subcutaneous tumours, reducing operator error.
This profiling tool enables researchers to measure the true biological responses to treatment.
It also enables more ethical research by potentially reducing animal usage and improving animal welfare.
Verinnogen is reducing the cost of evaluating cancer therapies and bringing the next-generation of critical cancer treatments to patients faster.
Academic founders : Dr Isaac Johnson and Dr Mike Irvine, Cancer Research UK Cambridge Institute
52North develops cutting-edge medical devices to enhance patient care, particularly for those living with cancer.
One such device is Neutrocheck®, a low-cost, finger-prick test which gives quick, reliable results at home, enabling cancer patients to check their risk of neutropenic sepsis – a dangerous side effect of chemotherapy – without going to hospital.
52North’s technology integrates seamlessly with digital platforms, enabling decentralised clinical decision-making and improving health equity.
52North’s devices can both improve patient outcomes by getting treatment to those at risk sooner, and have the potential to streamline NHS operations, reducing costs and waitlists through more efficient, personalised care.
Academic founder : Dr Saif Ahmad and Dr Mireia Crispin, Department of Oncology, Dr.
Nikki Weckman, Department of Engineering
Published 18 October 2024
Words: Joanna Tramontin Layout: Sarah Fell
Banner: Getty Images: credit: Cavan Images Astex: credit: Wellcome Collection biomodal credit: unsplash Concr credit: Concr PharmEnable credit: PharmEnable PhoreMost: GettyImages credit: nicolas_ Spirea: GettyImages credit: Love Employee STORM credit: STORM T-Therapeutics credit: T-Therapeutics Verinnogen credit: Verinnogen 52North credit: StillVision

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/changemakers-jessica-taylor:
What’s the aim of your research?
My research in Professor Richard Gilbertson’s lab at the Cancer Research UK (CRUK) Cambridge Institute focuses on a very rare subtype of medulloblastoma.
It has a five-year survival rate of about 90% but this cure comes at enormous cost to the child.
After aggressive surgery, the child has radiotherapy and chemotherapy, which can cause long-term side effects.
We want to understand why children get these brain tumours in the first place.
They’re too young to have been exposed to the environmental factors that contribute to adult cancers.
Is paediatric brain cancer all about tiny missteps in development?
Could we reverse engineer this pathway and fix it?
If not, can we diagnose earlier and treat using kinder therapies that take into account quality of life as well as survival?
That’s something that really appeals to me.
Our long-term aim is to either reduce or completely transform the therapeutic journey.
How did you become a cancer researcher?
I had no interest in sciences when I was at school.
I wasn’t on that path at all.
I wanted to be an actress and I wanted to have fun.
I dropped out of school before A-levels.
I’d been working in hospitality since I was 12 or 13 and I carried on.
By the time I was 21, I was managing my own pub in Manchester.
When I started here in the lab, I already knew how to change a gas canister thanks to my time working in bars!
A sign saying all tips given to Jess will be donated to Cancer Research
I had so much curiosity about everything and I wasn’t really fulfilling that in my job, so I applied for a Foundation Year, with the idea that I would end up as an Environmental Health Officer.
I’m glad that I waited and was ready for it.
I really have had a wonderful time doing every job that I’ve ever done.
How did you manage to change direction?
There were convoluted twists and turns along the way that showed me what I wanted.
After my foundation year, I started a degree in Biochemistry at the University of Salford.
I wasn’t sure at first that I could do it – I hadn’t written anything apart from food orders since school!
But it was great – I got hooked on chemistry in my first year and was lucky enough to spend my penultimate year at AstraZeneca at such an exciting time when they were working on a drug for ovarian cancer.
Then one day I met a girl on the bus who's boyfriend was doing a Masters at the University of Manchester.
The lab he was working in had just advertised a PhD on an adult brain tumour called glioblastoma.
I contacted the Professor and was accepted.
It nearly gave my old chemistry teacher a heart attack when I told her I was doing a PhD!
And now I’m a researcher at the CRUK Cambridge Institute and a Fellow at Emmanuel College, where I enjoy going to dinner and chatting to people about anything from animal behaviour to 16th-century medieval law.
Who inspires you?
I went to a lecture at the Royal Society by a German virologist called Harald zur Hausen who discovered the role of papilloma viruses in cervical cancer, for which he received the Nobel Prize in 2008.
When I met him, I thought it was so cool that he was just hanging around London and chatting to students.
Jess with her nana at graduation
There’s also my Nana.
She has shown me that you can push through all kinds of obstacles that might come your way and still live a reasonably fulfilling and interesting life.
My nan was diagnosed with her first primary cancer in 1986, the year before I was born.
She’s had many since, and she’s still going.
In the back of my head I'm thinking “you must keep doing this because otherwise Nana will be mad at you!”
I read about the fantastic work here and I go to amazing seminars, and every day I think my Nana will be proud of me.
When would you say you're most fulfilled in your job?
When I’m in the lab and I feel like I’ve got a plan and the plan might work or it might show something completely different to what I am expecting, and that's cool too.
I do some undergraduate teaching and when I finally explain something very complex to someone and they get it, that’s amazingly fulfilling.
What are your hopes for the future of cancer?
However much we would love to be out of a job in cancer research in the next 10 to 50 years, I don’t think it's going to happen.
What I do hope is t hat we can treat people better, with better therapies that do not put people through a battle for life.
The family members who’ve had cancer, including my nana and my dad, have all said to me that the chemo and the radiation made them feel worse than the cancer.
We don’t want that.
We want people to live with cancer for a very long time and have a normal, healthy life.
Dr Jessica Taylor is a researcher at the Cancer Research UK Cambridge Institute, a member of the Cancer Research UK Cambridge Centre Brain Cancer Virtual Institute, and a Fellow at Emmanuel College.
Published: 15 July 2024
Interview and words: Zoe Smith Design: Alison Fair Photography: Nick Saffell Editor: Louise Walsh

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/changemakers-swetha-kannan:
You’ve wanted to make a difference from a young age.
How has your choice of research fed into this?
My ambition is to understand cancer better, particularly from an immunological perspective, and to offer people an equitable chance of treatment.
In Cambridge, my PhD research is focused on studying why immune systems don’t function as well as they should in old age and how this may link to poorer immune-surveillance and responsiveness in the elderly to cancer, infections and vaccines.
But I’ve also been working independently with oncologists back in India since 2020.
At the start of the pandemic, when in-person lab work at the University became remote, I took the chance to expand on my research skills by working with Dr Vishal Rao at HCG Cancer Centre in Bangalore.
He is a big name in head and neck surgical oncology and at the time was also working on novel immunotherapeutic approaches for COVID-19.
The University supported me through pilot entrepreneurial grants from Trinity Hall, where I'm a postgraduate student, and mentorship through the University’s Bio-Spark Programme for early-stage scientists.
Dr Vishal Rao and Swetha
Working with Dr Rao has been such a productive experience leading to several publications .
More importantly, not only has it given me a deeper understanding of immunology and oncology, but it’s also helped me develop a strong sense of purpose in my passion for research.
What inspired you to start this journey?
Growing up in India, my memories are that cancer was a cursed word that came with fear of death.
I was in Grade 7 at school when I first became curious about the mysteries of cancer and why we don’t have a definitive cure.
In 2018, my own world came crashing down when my beloved grandmother was diagnosed with endometrial cancer.
I was her primary caregiver.
It was so distressing to see the toll that treatment took on her physically and emotionally.
During and after her cancer treatment, I started shadowing several renowned oncologists in India, including her own – Dr Rani Bhat – and this has by far been the most humbling experience for me.
It opened my eyes to how complex cancer is as a disease and how care must be multi-factorial and holistic to sustain the overall quality of life of patients.
I also shadowed Dr Rao for a few months after conducting research with him.
He once said to me: “Swetha, the goal must be to heal patients of their cancer not merely treat it.” As someone coping with chronic anxiety and panic disorder, this hugely resonated with me.
How did you approach finding a solution?
When I was 19, and an undergraduate at the University of Edinburgh, I founded a non-profit organisation.
The Lalitha Foundation – named after my grandmother – is committed to improving the mental health of cancer patients in India and is supported by a fellowship from the Clinton Global Initiative University .
My first step was to contact medical students and doctors to help spread the word.
Having oncologists as contacts from my past work experience was hugely helpful with this.
Within a few weeks we had a couple of hundred sign-ups.
Next, with the help of mental health specialists, we started training volunteers in how to talk to patients.
We now have volunteers in Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Delhi and Assam.
By raising awareness on mental health and cancer, we’ve created safe places for people to open up and talk to their oncologists.
I’ve seen families becoming more supportive as a result.
We currently operate with a team of 100 volunteers and, in 2023, were honoured with the Diana Award , the most prestigious humanitarian accolade young people can receive for their social work.
In May 2024, I was also honoured with the Vice Chancellor’s Social Impact Award at the University of Cambridge for these efforts .
You are also passionate about increasing access to cancer care in India.
What has this led to?
The mortality rate in rural areas of India, where 70% of the population live, is twice that of urban areas, mostly because diagnostics and treatment centres are in cities.
I started to think about how people living in rural areas could be better supported.
Working with Dr Rao, I helped design a portable diagnostics technology : it’s a quantum electron tunnelling based spectroscope.
It works by looking for changes in electron transfer pathways in mitochondria, which is the process for how energy is transferred and stored in our cells.
The changes can be used as a proxy of whether the cells are in a pre-cancer stage.
The pilot experiments for this work were supported by the Lee-Yung Family Fund for Entrepreneurship at Trinity Hall and we went on to be named as winners of their competition recognising the most novel, promising tool among those that secured the preliminary grant.
We’re now working with collaborators at the Indian Institute of Science to help us scale down the size of the spectroscope so that it can be more transportable and easily accessible in rural areas, where tobacco consumption leads to a high incidence of head and neck cancers.
I’m also working with Dr Rao on the development of a cancer drug that can be given as a pill to enable ‘chemo at home’ for cancer patients in rural areas who struggle with accessing intravenous chemotherapy.
It was recently awarded a patent by the Indian Government.
Where do you find your inspiration today?
A lot of my inspiration still comes from my grandmother.
She’s 85 and always really interested in what I’m doing.
She is really hopeful of what science can do.
She’s also someone who I hugely look up to and learn from as a person because she’s always emphasised the importance of being kind, compassionate and hopeful in a world that can seem otherwise.
She teaches me to use any and all privileges to help others find theirs.
Swetha and her grandmother Lalitha
When would you say you ’ re most fulfilled?
My biggest fulfilment comes from patient interactions when I’m working with oncologists back home.
I find great satisfaction and peace in holding a patient’s hand and alongside the doctors, explaining to them the nature of their disease and treatment.
I also find it extremely meaningful to be able to talk to their caregivers and help break stigmas associated with the disease in India, such as it being contagious through physical contact, which can lead to patients feeling very isolated.
And your hopes for the future of cancer?
My biggest hope is for care to be more personalised and equitable.
It’s really unfair that so many people are restricted in their ability to be treated with the best possible therapeutics because of where they are, or which part of society they belong to.
The new Cambridge Cancer Research Hospital being built here will be a crucial first step towards inclusive equitable cancer care.
Hopefully people can build on lessons from the work here and take that forward to their own home countries to make treatments more equitable everywhere.
Swetha Kannan is a PhD student in the Department of Medicine, a postgraduate student at Trinity Hall and a member of the Cancer Immunology Programme at the Cancer Research UK Cambridge Centre.
Published: June 2024

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/changemakers-oluwasegun-afolaranmi:
Cancer is an incredibly complex disease and one of the biggest breakthroughs in treating it has come from using our own immune system to fight the disease.
But cancer cells can develop ways of evading it, and so we are working on understanding how the immune system functions so that we can improve therapies for patients.
We found that immune cells use a particular pathway to optimally deliver their poisons to cancer cells.
Insights from this work will potentially enable better design of advanced cellular therapies, enhancing the ability of immune cells to deliver what we call the ‘kiss of death’.
How did your interest in cancer begin?
Before I started my PhD at the Cancer Research UK (CRUK) Cambridge Institute, I did my medical training in Nigeria.
I was deeply moved by the experiences of cancer patients, especially with the very limited treatment options available.
In 2017, I attended the World Healthcare Students' Symposium in Rwanda – the first to be held in Africa.
I heard about the disproportionate rate of death from treatable cancers across other African countries and I realised this is something that needs a lot of attention.
For me, it became a personal passion.
I thought, if I get very well trained in medical school and beyond, I could contribute to meaningful work, and by extension contribute to reducing the inequities in mortalities from cancer globally.
This has now morphed into a better-formed career goal of doing global translational science alongside compassionate patient care.
"I feel that this is one of the best places to do cancer research."
What do we need to do to expand access and reduce disparities in cancer care?
I think it is multi-layered.
We should start with patients.
Cancer is a very heterogenous disease, but enrolment in cancer clinical trials is vastly unequitable.
That means that many of the results cannot be truly generalised.
A very good example comes from my clinical experience in Nigeria where we see a much higher incidence of triple negative breast cancer – a type that is not amenable to hormonal therapy – than you would see in the UK, for instance.
The other thing that’s important is training – giving people the skills and opportunity to be able do more locally and globally.
How have you helped to bring about change?
After the World Healthcare  Students’ Symposium in 2017, my colleagues and I felt we needed to do something.
The following year we organised a conference on the future of African healthcare with the Federation of African Medical Students’ Association, a pan-African initiative aimed at building a network of medical students.
We brought together 600 students and 30 speakers from across Africa and beyond to discuss sustainable solutions to healthcare challenges with workshops across multiple healthcare domains.
We attracted the support of the World Health Organization-Africa region, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, and Johnson & Johnson.
Thankfully, the meeting was a success, with attendees leaving inspired to drive change and many of them have gone on to do great things in their respective ways.
I want to continue to do work that’s relevant within Africa.
One of the reasons I enjoy being in my lab is because the CRUK Cambridge Institute has a collaboration with the Uganda Cancer Institute, which has a focus on training programmes for young scientists.
We went to Uganda last September to train and exchange ideas with students, researchers and staff as part of the Cambridge Makerere Summer School.
You sound passionate about supporting others in gaining skills.
How did this develop?
I am the youngest member of an extended family in Nigeria, and grew up in a setting where resources weren’t particularly available.
However, I have been incredibly fortunate to have individuals and institutions who have provided me with opportunities that shaped my life and career.
I was privileged to get high-quality medical training at the University of Ibadan, Nigeria, after which I received a scholarship for a Master’s at the University of Oxford, and then a Gates Cambridge scholarship for a PhD in Cambridge.
The Gates Cambridge community is special, with a structured programme to support you beyond just providing financial support.
I wanted a place where you feel like you are in a second home and there are many activities to make you feel that way.
I am particularly fond of the monthly Gates football.
Altogether, my personal experiences continually inspire me to support others in my own modest way.
Looking back on my time at school in Nigeria, for instance, I could see that there was inadequate guidance and resources for public secondary school students to think about further education.
So I co-founded The Ganglion Initiative in 2017 to provide guidance, mentorship and scholarship opportunities.
We now have NGO status and have reached over 13,000 students across 30 Nigerian public schools and online.
You are working in fundamental science.
How does that compare with medicine?
It can sometimes feel very different.
In medicine, if somebody comes to you with a complaint, you might be able to give them a medication or do an operation, and sometimes you get results almost instantaneously.
In science things can be a bit drawn out.
You have an idea.
You discuss the idea.
You refine the idea.
You do the first experiment.
It doesn’t work.
It takes maybe six months to first see your idea come together, and that can be deeply gratifying in a unique way.
I think the privilege of being able to work in both medicine and science is the opportunity to zoom in and zoom out from time to time, delivering care to the person right in front of you but also being able to think of the big picture of how you might contribute to the care of many people who you might never meet.
I am also grateful to be getting my scientific training at a great place.
My supervisor, Dr Maike De La Roche, is an inspiration.
She’s a truly kind person, really committed to everyone’s success, and the culture within the lab is great.
The CRUK Cambridge Institute is also very supportive and well resourced.
I feel that this is one of the best places to do cancer research.
I think cancer will continuously become a disease that’s manageable, and I hope ultimately curable.
My generation is coming into the field at the point where there are so many possibilities for achieving success against cancer, with so many tools available.
It’s still incredibly challenging but we’re at the precipice where a lot of things are coming together to be able to scale efforts.
I think that in the not-so-distant future, we will get to a point when people experience cancer just like any other liveable disease, like asthma or diabetes, and still be able to reach their full potential.
But we must make sure that this progress is truly global.
Oluwasegun Afolaranmi is a Gates Cambridge Scholar in the Cancer Research UK Cambridge Institute and a postgraduate student at Homerton College.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/conservation-success-stories:
By Sarah Collins Published 18 March 2025
European bison.
Credit: Rafal Kowalczyk
The study draws on data from the IUCN Red List , the world’s largest database of species conservation status.
The researchers say their results , reported in the journal PLOS Biology , highlight both the successes and the need for urgent action.
Painted stork.
Credit: Mihai Leu
The world is facing a global biodiversity crisis, with 28% of more than 160,000 assessed species threatened with extinction, and an estimated one million species facing this fate due to human activities.
However, conservation measures can be successful, if there is concrete evidence about what works.
The researchers, led by the University of Cambridge with the IUCN, BirdLife International, and Oxford and Durham Universities, used Red List data to assess whether conservation measures had been put in place, and whether those actions had a positive impact on a given species’ conservation status.
“We found that almost all the species that have moved from a more threatened category to a less threatened category have benefitted from some sort of conservation measures,” said lead author Ashley Simkins, a PhD candidate in Cambridge’s Department of Zoology.
“It’s a strong signal that conservation works.”
While there is no ‘one size fits all’ solution, the researchers observed some connections between conservation success stories.
Many of these species live in isolated areas, such as islands, where intensive conservation efforts – such as habitat protection, captive breeding and reintroductions – can be fully implemented.
“While biodiversity loss is a genuine crisis, it’s vital that we celebrate the success stories wherever and whenever we can,” said Simkins.
“It’s so hard for a species to improve its conservation status, but with the right effort, we can turn things around.”
The Iberian lynx, once the world’s most endangered cat, has rebounded from just a few hundred individuals to a few thousand.
Likewise, the kākāpō, a flightless parrot from New Zealand, has benefitted from dedicated recovery programmes.
And the European bison, which was hunted to extinction in the wild in the early 20 th century, now roams parts of Eastern Europe thanks to sustained conservation efforts over decades.
Humpback whale.
Credit: Stuart Butchart
Marine species have also seen dramatic recoveries.
Humpback and blue whales, once driven to the brink of extinction by commercial whaling, have made a comeback after an international moratorium on whaling.
However, despite these success stories, the study found that six times more species are declining than improving.
The researchers say that like human healthcare, preventative measures in conservation are preferable and more cost-effective to emergency interventions.
“Humans have gotten pretty good at what could be considered ‘A&E’ conservation – focusing on species at very high risk of extinction,” said Simkins.
“What we’re less good at is preventing species from becoming threatened in the first place.
We need to move beyond treating the symptoms of biodiversity loss and start addressing the root causes.”
The researchers also emphasise the need for collaborative, locally driven conservation.
In Papua New Guinea, for example, conservationists worked with local communities to replace tree kangaroo hunting with sustainable forms of animal protein including farming of chickens and fishing —an approach that benefitted both people and wildlife.
“It’s vital that we as conservationists are working with stakeholders, rather than dictating to them, whether that’s an Indigenous community in Papua New Guinea or a farmer in Somerset,” said Simkins.
“Conservation doesn’t have to be a zero-sum game – there are compromises that can benefit both the natural world and human society.”
White-tailed eagle.
Credit: Paul Donald
“In this climate of constant stories about wildlife declines and insufficient political action to protect nature it’s important to realise that there are also many success stories and that conservation efforts are making a real, demonstrable impact in the world,” said co-senior author Dr Silviu Petrovan, also from the Department of Zoology.
“Conservation works if given the chance.”
“This research sheds light on which actions to save species have been effective, and what interventions are needed,” said co-author Dr Stuart Butchart, Chief Scientist at BirdLife International.
“Governments need to turn their words into actions, and rapidly scale up efforts to save species from extinction and help populations to recover.
Safeguarding our natural heritage for future generations depends upon this.”
“The IUCN Red List of Threatened Species informs and guides on-the-ground conservation decisions; actions which are further guided by the research presented in this publication,” said co-author Craig Hilton-Taylor, Head of the IUCN Red List.
“Almost everyone will have their own favourite example of a conservation success story, whether it’s the bald eagle in North America, or the red kite in the UK,” said Simkins.
We need joint action to ensure these positive stories aren’t the exception – they’re the norm.”
The research was supported in part by the Natural Environment Research Council (NERC), part of UK Research and Innovation (UKRI).
Ashley Simkins is a Member of King’s College, Cambridge.
Reference: Ashley T.
Simkins et al.
‘ Past conservation efforts reveal which actions lead to positive outcomes for species .’ PLOS Biology (2025).
DOI: 10.1371/journal.pbio.3003051
Credit: Rafal Kowalczyk 2.
Credit: Mihai Leu 3.
Credit: Stuart Butchart 4.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/cambridge-climate-spinouts:
"Half the technologies we are going to need if we are to meet our net-zero goals are still in the lab," says Chris Gibbs, Investment Director at Cambridge Enterprise .
"As part of the University's net-zero commitments, we have invested over £7 million in new companies that will get those ideas out of our labs and into the real world.
The result is a portfolio of new ventures already worth more than £500 million, all based on Cambridge research and all with the potential to make a huge contribution to addressing the climate emergency.
Barocal is developing breakthrough technologies to decarbonise the cooling and heating sector, which accounts for 40% of global energy consumption.
Based on 15 years of research, it's 'barocaloric' material forms the basis for entirely new systems that deliver two to three times greater energy efficiency and can be used in air-conditioners, fridges and heat pumps.
This minimises the fugitive emissions from an industry that contributes significantly to global warming.
Academic founder : Professor Xavier Moya, Department of Materials Science and Metallurgy
Concrete is essential to our built environment.
We use over four tonnes of it every year for every person alive on the planet.
However, cement, which is used to bind concrete, contributes 7.5% of global carbon emissions – triple that of aviation.
Cambridge Electric Cement (CEC) has developed a technology for recycling cement from demolition waste, making zero-carbon cement a possibility.
It does this by replacing the lime flux used in steel recycling with recovered cement paste, producing a clinker that can be used to make new cement, without affecting the steelmaking.
This cement can match the performance of Portland cement (the cement most commonly used to make concrete) without the environmental impact.
Industrial trials with CEC's experienced partners are already underway to scale the technology.
Academic founders : Professor Julian Allwood, Dr Cyrille Dunant and Dr Pippa Horton, Department of Engineering.
Cambridge GaN Devices (CGD) designs, develops and commercialises power transistors and computer chips using gallium nitride (GaN) instead of silicon.
GaN-powered devices offer significantly higher performance than their silicon-based counterparts, enabling radical improvements in energy efficiency and compactness in the sustainable electronics field.
CGD launched a new series of products this year to support high-power applications, including data centres and motor drives.
CGD is currently partnering with a range of companies to get its technology to market.
Academic founders : Dr Giorgia Longobardi and Professor Florin Udrea, Department of Engineering
Industrial textile dyeing consumes massive amounts of water and energy and has an enormous carbon footprint.
Colorifix has pioneered the first entirely biological process to produce, deposit and fix pigments onto textiles.
Using a synthetic biology approach, it offers a radically different solution to conventional dyeing technologies that cut the use of harsh chemicals and leads to huge reductions in water consumption.
Colorifix is expanding internationally and trebling the size of the team.
Academic founders : Dr Jim Ajioka, David Nugent and Orr Yarkoni, Department of Pathology
Around 44% of metal used to make the body of a car is trimmed off and scrapped.
DeepForm is pioneering production processes for car - and other manufacturers - that are more efficient and more environmentally friendly.
Suited to a wide range of steel and aluminium panels, this innovative sheet metal forming technology provides a new way to press sheet metal for car parts and other applications.
Reducing waste by up to 80%, DeepForm’s technology lowers the cost and CO 2 emissions in the manufacturing process.
Academic founders : Professor Julian Allwood and Christopher Cleaver, Department of Engineering
Echion has devised and patented new materials that enable lithium-ion batteries to charge safely in less than 10 minutes with a long cycle life, ensuring extended use.
Its niobium-based anode material, XNO®, has an important role to play in electrifying heavy duty transport and industrial applications such as rail, high-powered off-road vehicles and fleets of trucks, buses and delivery vans.
Academic founders : Jean de la Verpilliere, Dr Alexander Groombridge, Professor Michael De Volder and Professor Adam Boies, Department of Engineering.
Material extraction and processing is a major contributor to global greenhouse gas emissions.
This is especially true for materials which underpin the technologies we rely on to green our economy, including electric vehicles, and wind turbines.
By harnessing the accuracy of leading material modelling techniques and the speed of machine learning models, Materials Nexus is able to rapidly design and create new materials that solve performance, cost, and environmental issues.
Academic founders : Dr Jonathan Bean and Dr Robert Forrest, Department of Physics
Built on a decade of battery research, Nyobolt has created ultra-fast charging battery solutions that drastically decrease charge time from hours to minutes, driving electrification in power-hungry industries such as heavy-duty trucking and warehouse robotics.
In electric vehicles, a recent track test demonstrated that Nyobolt’s 35kWh EV can charge up to 80% in less than five minutes.
This will make a move to smaller, more efficient battery packs possible, providing the same convenience as re-fuelling an internal combustion vehicle at a petrol station and eliminating customer 'charge anxiety'.
The technology is also removing a significant barrier to the electrification of highly polluting industries such as mining.
Nyobolt’s batteries also last much longer than traditional lithium-ion under fast-charge cycles, reducing the overall demand for natural resources.
Academic founders : Prof Dame Clare Grey, Dr Sai Shivareddy and Dr Kent Griffith, Yusuf Hamied Department of Chemistry
Seprify manufactures cellulose ingredients, which provide safer, eco-friendly alternatives to traditional materials, resulting in fewer harmful chemicals in everyday items.
Its products include white pigments which can be used as sustainable alternatives to titanium dioxide for use in industrial applications such as paints, inks, cosmetics and pharmaceuticals.
Seprify's products can also be used in the food industry in, for example, beverages, plant-based foods, coffee creamers and confectionary.
Its innovative technologies are used to recycle and repurpose materials, reducing waste and conserving resources.
Academic founders : Dr Lukas Schertel and Professor Silvia Vignolini, Yusuf Hamied Department of Chemistry
Hidden plastics in thousands of personal and homecare products are washed into waste water systems everyday.
An estimated 855 billion single-use sachets are produced globally each year and cannot be economically recycled.
Xampla creates Morro™ materials which are natural, biodegradable, recyclable and compostable materials made from plants, designed to eliminate the most polluting plastics.
Xampla’s Morro™ Coating can drop-in to existing manufacturing supply chains and is widely available through global licence partners.
Academic founders : Marc Rodriguez-Garcia and Professor Tuomas Knowles, Yusuf Hamied Department of Chemistry
Published 24 October 2024
Banner: Getty images: credit: blackdovfx Barocal: GettyImages credit: vchal Credit: Cambridge Electric Cement Credit: Cambridge GaN Devices Credit: Colorifix DeepForm: GettyImages credit: xia yuan Credit: Echion Technologies Materials Nexus: GettyImages credit: DanBrandenburg Credit: Nyobolt Credit: Seprify Credit: Xampla

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research/news/fully-ai-driven-weather-prediction-system-could-start-revolution-in-forecasting:
A new AI weather prediction system, developed by researchers from the University of Cambridge, can deliver accurate forecasts tens of times faster and using thousands of times less computing power than current AI and physics-based forecasting systems.
The system, Aardvark Weather, has been supported by the Alan Turing Institute, Microsoft Research and the European Centre for Medium Range Weather Forecasts.
It provides a blueprint for a new approach to weather forecasting with the potential to transform current practices.
The results are reported in the journal Nature .
“Aardvark reimagines current weather prediction methods offering the potential to make weather forecasts faster, cheaper, more flexible and more accurate than ever before, helping to transform weather prediction in both developed and developing countries,” said Professor Richard Turner from Cambridge’s Department of Engineering, who led the research.
“Aardvark is thousands of times faster than all previous weather forecasting methods.”
Current weather forecasts are generated through a complex set of stages, each taking several hours to run on powerful supercomputers.
Aside from daily usage, the development, maintenance and use of these systems require significant time and large teams of experts.
More recently, research by Huawei, Google, and Microsoft has shown that one component of the weather forecasting pipeline, the numerical solver (which calculates how weather evolves over time), can be replaced with AI, resulting in faster and more accurate predictions.
This combination of AI and traditional approaches is now being used by the European Centre for Medium Range Weather Forecasts (ECMWF).
But with Aardvark, researchers have replaced the entire weather prediction pipeline with a single, simple machine learning model.
The new model takes in observations from satellites, weather stations and other sensors and outputs both global and local forecasts.
This fully AI driven approach means predictions that were once produced using many models – each requiring a supercomputer and a large support team to run – can now be produced in minutes on a desktop computer.
When using just 10% of the input data of existing systems, Aardvark already outperforms the United States national GFS forecasting system on many variables.
It is also competitive with United States Weather Service forecasts that use input from dozens of weather models and analysis by expert human forecasters.
“These results are just the beginning of what Aardvark can achieve,” said first author Anna Allen, from Cambridge’s Department of Computer Science and Technology.
“This end-to-end learning approach can be easily applied to other weather forecasting problems, for example hurricanes, wildfires, and tornadoes.
Beyond weather, its applications extend to broader Earth system forecasting, including air quality, ocean dynamics, and sea ice prediction.”
The researchers say that one of the most exciting aspects of Aardvark is its flexibility and simple design.
Because it learns directly from data it can be quickly adapted to produce bespoke forecasts for specific industries or locations, whether that's predicting temperatures for African agriculture or wind speeds for a renewable energy company in Europe.
This contrasts to traditional weather prediction systems where creating a customised system takes years of work by large teams of researchers.
“The weather forecasting systems we all rely on have been developed over decades, but in just 18 months, we’ve been able to build something that’s competitive with the best of these systems, using just a tenth of the data on a desktop computer,” said Turner, who is also Lead Researcher for Weather Prediction at the Alan Turing Institute.
This capability has the potential to transform weather prediction in developing countries where access to the expertise and computational resources required to develop conventional systems is not typically available.
“Unleashing AI’s potential will transform decision-making for everyone from policymakers and emergency planners to industries that rely on accurate weather forecasts,” said Dr Scott Hosking from The Alan Turing Institute.
“Aardvark’s breakthrough is not just about speed, it’s about access.
By shifting weather prediction from supercomputers to desktop computers, we can democratise forecasting, making these powerful technologies available to developing nations and data-sparse regions around the world.”
“Aardvark would not have been possible without decades of physical-model development by the community, and we are particularly indebted to ECMWF for their ERA5 dataset which is essential for training Aardvark,” said Turner.
“It is essential that academia and industry work together to address technological challenges and leverage new opportunities that AI offers,” said Matthew Chantry from ECMWF.
“Aardvark’s approach combines both modularity with end-to-end forecasting optimisation, ensuring effective use of the available datasets."
“Aardvark represents not only an important achievement in AI weather prediction but it also reflects the power of collaboration and bringing the research community together to improve and apply AI technology in meaningful ways,” said Dr Chris Bishop, from Microsoft Research.
The next steps for Aardvark include developing a new team within the Alan Turing Institute led by Turner, who will explore the potential to deploy Aardvark in the global south and integrate the technology into the Institute’s wider work to develop high-precision environmental forecasting for weather, oceans and sea ice.
Reference: Anna Allen, Stratis Markou et al.
‘ End-to-end data-driven weather prediction .’ Nature (2025).
DOI: 10.1038/s41586-025-08897-0
Adapted from a media release by The Alan Turing Institute
Professor Richard Turner using Aardvark Weather
Credit: The Alan Turing Institute

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/changemakers-bhaskar-vira:
The Pro-Vice-Chancellor for Education at the University of Cambridge since 2023 is keeping faith with a life-long love for the natural world and a determination to tackle the climate and nature crises, as he now adds responsibility for 'Environmental Sustainability' to his portfolio.
An economist who led the University’s Department of Geography from 2019-22, Bhaskar came to academia with a deep understanding of humanity’s impact on nature after a childhood in the panoramic foothills of the Himalayas and dense jungles of central India.
“I think some of my early influences showed that the natural world was important to us but also very fragile and that we had to do something to protect it.”
Bhaskar in the Himalayas
Then, as an undergraduate, he read the UN’s groundbreaking 1987 Brundtland report, which set out humanity’s plight in stark terms.
“I've spent a lot of my career thinking about how to convert that instinctive commitment to nature into something that is meaningful in terms of my own work.”
Bhaskar’s work has always ranged across academic disciplines in an effort to strive for impact, whether it’s on nature, in education curriculum, public policy or community outreach.
He places a lot of stock in the collegiate structure, having been an undergraduate and doctorate at St John’s, and now a Fellow of Fitzwilliam College.
Professor Bhaskar Vira
In 2019-20, he helped to create Pani Pahar - the Water Curriculum , a curriculum resource that was based on a UKRI-funded research project on water security in the Indian Himalayas.
The resource is now being used to deliver a central education platform within a programme of tree plantation drives, waste management and recycling that engages students, communities, village councils and towns in the northeastern Indian state of Nagaland.
Currently, alongside his leadership and teaching roles at Cambridge, he continues to retain his commitment to using scholarship to inform policy and public debate.
Having previously curated a photo exhibition as part of the Pani Pahar project, he has just started working on a Discovery Channel series on the environmental challenges facing India.
That knowledge, energy and drive makes Bhaskar characteristically hopeful about the task in hand as he becomes the first Cambridge Pro-Vice-Chancellor for Education and Environmental Sustainability.
His brief is to develop an academic strategy that will integrate and enhance the University’s interdisciplinary research strengths, capabilities and ambitions and will encompass its educational offerings and outreach activities.
Is he daunted by the scale of the challenge?
“I increasingly think that most of the biggest challenges are no longer technical, but they're really political, social and economic.”
And he says that the centuries-old Cambridge structure with its 31 colleges, broad range of academic pursuits, enviable academic freedom and keen emphasis on encouraging researchers to collaborate with colleagues across multiple disciplines from physics to fine art history (known as interdisciplinarity) is one of its key strengths.
“So, I think we've got all the ingredients in place to make a really meaningful contribution.”
“We're doing this both because we genuinely care and feel that this is important, and also because society expects institutions like ours to make a difference.”
His strategic vision for the University is to lean into the engine that powers Cambridge, the fiercely independent people and institutions that have produced 125 Nobel laureates , developed the theory of evolution, split the atom, cracked the genetic code of DNA and helped to create better lives for millions.
“One of the greatest sources of energy in this place is the bottom-up vision of people who are doing amazing work, so part of what I think we need to do is to harness that energy and make that bigger than the sum of its constituent parts.”
His plan is to encourage every part of Cambridge to always push towards the frontiers in efforts to address climate change and biodiversity loss.
Key to that strategy is encouraging interdisciplinarity, providing incentives and removing obstacles to progress.
“I don't want to be complacent, but I think there's hope.
I'm really confident that with the right incentives in place, people can actually make a difference.”
Professor Bhaskar Vira is the University of Cambridge's Pro-Vice-Chancellor for Education and Environmental Sustainability, and Professor of Political Economy at the Department of Geography.
He is a Fellow of Fitzwilliam College and an alumnus of St John's College.
Published: 21 October 2024
Interview and words: Paul Casciato Design: Alison Fair Photography: Natalie Sloan-Glasberg Editor: Louise Walsh

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/changemakers-emily-shuckburgh:
An education in mathematics at Oxford and Cambridge was followed by a PhD in atmospheric science in the Department of Applied Mathematics and Theoretical Physics , and academic stints at the École Normale Supérieure in France and at M.I.T.
Emily then spent a decade working at the British Antarctic Survey, where she focused on researching the polar oceans in a changing climate.
A gifted science communicator, Emily has collaborated with and advised royalty, global leaders from business and finance, government ministers, celebrities, journalists and more.
But there is one person who really influenced her as a Sixth Form student sitting on a beach with a book during school holidays.
“Reading (Sir) David Attenborough’s book Life on Earth , I was struck by the beauty and wonder of the natural world, and I became fascinated with the idea I might be able to use mathematics to better understand it.”
From that moment on, her course was set.
“I still have the book – if you riffle through the pages, bits of sand fall out.
Mathematics is valuable in its own right of course, but my passion has been using it in ways that support nature and human society.”
Emily and U.N.
Secretary-General António Guterres at Trinity, after the award of an honorary degree to Guterres 2021 during COP26.
Credit: Mary Turner/Cambridge.
In 2016, she was awarded an OBE for science communication.
In 2017, she co-authored a children’s book with HM King Charles III and Natural England Chair Tony Juniper.
Climate Change: A Ladybird Book was the first peer-reviewed children’s book on climate change.
The University lured her back in 2019 to run its ambitious climate change initiative.
Cambridge Zero was created to help the University fulfil its mission to contribute to society through the pursuit of research and education at the highest levels of international excellence, taking aim at the existential threat of climate change.
The initiative runs workshops for climate and nature researchers, organises and supports funding calls, liaises with business, governments, U.N.
bodies and other universities.
It engages with students and Cambridge’s 31 Colleges, while seeking to update the curriculum in higher education and for children around the world.
It also works closely with other Cambridge institutions focused on climate, conservation, sustainability, education, publishing, assessment and the University’s own operations.
“Our work at Cambridge Zero gives us hope.
We have the power to instigate significant change, yet achieving it demands unparalleled collaboration across various domains including research, education, decarbonisation, policymaking, industry and public engagement.”
The ICCS focuses on applying AI and machine learning to climate modelling.
Data-driven approaches developed here will increase the accuracy of our climate models and improve the reach and reliability of forecasts for extreme weather.
“Essential to assessing climate risks is understanding what might happen in the future to the ice sheets, ocean circulation or weather patterns, and what the wider implications are – our principal tools for doing that are mathematics and computation.”
CLR is a University-wide collaboration, whose mission is to work with a vast number of partners seeking to regenerate the British countryside.
It aims to better manage land for climate and nature, while ensuring that the people who live on it can thrive.
The initiative navigates complicated, interconnected challenges, and requires evidence-based solutions to degradation that can be monitored at scale using the latest sensor technologies.
It also needs to consider economic factors, public health and, crucially, the viewpoints of local communities, to make sure solutions work for everyone.
'Facing the New Reality', film made by the Climate Group for Climate Week NYC 2023 opening ceremony.
Credit: Produced by Climate Group with the creative agency Nice & Serious
Emily Shuckburgh, Director of Cambridge Zero
Emily Shuckburgh, by Nick Saffell
“A surprising insight came from our colleagues in Archaeology.
They gave us key information on how these landscapes have evolved in tandem with human societies for millennia.”
On a personal level, Emily says that using our influence is as important as action.
She is determined to drive the urgent message home that there is hope, and we do have the tools to stop climate change if we take action now.
“In a way, the most important thing anyone can do is use their influence – in whatever spheres they act.
There’s only so much you can do as an individual.
Influencing wider behaviour leads to mass movement.”
Emily on a panel at Climate Week NYC 2023.
Left to right:  Siemens AG Chief People and Sustainability Officer Judith Wiese, Professor Emily Shuckburgh, Google Chief Sustainability Officer Kate Brandt (Selwyn 2007).
Credit: Paul Casciato.
Professor Emily Shuckburgh and fellow climate scientist Professor Katharine Hayhoe, Chief Scientist for The Nature Conservancy and Professor at Texas Tech University.
Emily standing with three other women leaders at Climate Week NYC 2023.
From left to right are Google Chief Sustainability Officer Kate Brandt (Selwyn 2007), Climate Group CEO Helen Clarkson, Professor Emily Shuckburgh, Siemens AG Chief People and Sustainability Officer Judith Wiese.
Emily Shuckburgh is the Director of Cambridge Zero, Professor of Environmental Data Science at the Department of Computer Science and Technology, and a Fellow of the Cambridge Institute for Sustainability Leadership.
Interview and words: Liam Morgan and Paul Casciato Design: Alison Fair Photography: Nick Saffell Editor: Louise Walsh

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/changemakers-melissa-leach:
A gathering of Cambridge Conservation Initiative affiliates and employees, outside the David Attenborough Building.
“Restoration is a vital paradigm,” Melissa says.
“It shapes the way we promote the thriving of people as a part of nature.
It embodies ideas about hope and the future.
We can repair past damages but also build and shape landscapes that work for people, and for all the diverse forms of life.” “We need to understand ecologies as highly dynamic, historically embedded and shaped by people.” CCI is a unique endeavour.
It brings together Cambridge experts with 10 leading conservation organisations to design, fund and deliver a huge range of projects around the world.
It’s a partnership with an eye on the biggest challenges: conserving biodiversity, restoring landscapes and seascapes, influencing key policy decisions and offering leadership on environmental issues.
Ever since CCI’s uplifting inauguration, when Sir David Attenborough abseiled its 50-foot high green wall , these goals have been paramount.
The goals became action in CCI’s flagship project: the Endangered Landscapes and Seascapes Programme (ELSP).
The ELSP is a large-scale restoration of Europe's land and seas.
It has already conserved 160,000 hectares and protected over 100 threatened species.
From Romanian mountaintops to Portuguese valleys, the ELSP employs nature-based, community-led methods to revivify the natural world.
Melissa is keen to build on the programme’s early successes.
“The ELSP provides a model for work on restoration, which could be adapted across the world.”
The CCI also runs a Collaborative Fund , bringing together various parts of the University with the other CCI partners.
The fund has already enabled work to map the world’s migratory freshwater fish , and provided vital data on the environmental consequences of conservation .
Providing another perspective, the CCI’s Arts, Science and Conservation programme is an outlet for artists to collaborate with researchers and respond to the latest environmental debates.
The programme has enabled artist residences both in Cambridge – at the David Attenborough Building and the Museum of Zoology – and in the landscapes where CCI partners are working.
“The arts programme is such a fantastic way to make sure that conservation is fully engaged with cultural contexts.
Conservation is about passion.
It is about fostering hope.
“Love is what drives people to conserve and restore.
We should be inspired by the affectionate relationships we establish with the landscapes we live in, and their many non-human inhabitants.”
Melissa Leach, Executive Director of the CCI
Melissa at the David Attenborough Building, by Nick Saffell
“As an undergraduate at Newnham, the Geography Department was a very lively place.
I’ve always loved geography for the way it brings together ecological, social and cultural questions.
Cambridge was a prime place for that.
“I worked with some incredible people, who’ve remained mentors of mine ever since.
People like my Director of Studies Dr Lucy Adrian , Professor Susan Owens and Professor Bill Adams .
Later on, I got to know Professor Bhasksar Vira – now Pro-Vice Chancellor for Education and Environmental Sustainability.
He was an important part of the founding of the CCI.” For her PhD at SOAS, Melissa studied social anthropology and travelled to the rainforests of Sierra Leone.
Following this, Melissa led groups at the Institute of Development Studies (IDS), the world-leading international development institution where she became overall Director in 2014.
Throughout a varied 30-year career at IDS, she deepened her research on the environment while continuing her work in West Africa.
“My approach has been one of community engagement.
I make sure that interventions and policies work for local people – that they are built on indigenous knowledge and practises.” “I’ve always wanted to make a difference to the biggest challenges of our time.
I think bringing research into the real world is the way to do that.”
Outside the David Attenborough Building
15th Anniversary Event in the Museum of Zoology
Inside the David Attenborough Building
So far, Plant Sciences, Zoology and Geography have been the areas of the University most involved in CCI.
But Melissa sees huge potential in working with experts in Economy, Law and Archaeology too.
She also wants to expand the approaches pioneered in the ELSP from a European to a global focus.
More broadly, Melissa sees genuine reasons for optimism in our fraying world.
“There are sources of hope.
A plenitude of environmental efforts, driven by the everyday actions of citizens, aim to conserve and restore our world.
I’ve seen them time and again, in place after place – there is real momentum in so many areas.
“We now have a global biodiversity framework , which will be a year old at COP16 this autumn.
It sets the stage for ambitious work – where we can answer questions of justice, participation and indigenous rights.” World-leading partnerships like the CCI are wellsprings of ecological hope.
Fostered by collaboration and compassion, the communities brought together here are restoring our common home.
To do so, they use a mixture of cutting-edge scientific discoveries and the timeless stories of our forebears.
Such work will go a long way to securing a sustainable future for life on earth.
Melissa Leach at the David Attenborough Building, by Nick Saffell
Professor Melissa Leach (Newnham 1985) is a Bye-Fellow of Pembroke, Professor of Social Anthropology and Executive Director of the CCI.
The University and 10 conservation organisations created the Cambridge Conservation Initiative.
The partner organisations are: BirdLife International, British Trust for Ornithology, Cambridge Conservation Forum, IUCN, Fauna & Flora, RSPB, TRAFFIC, Tropical Biology Association, UNEP-WCMC and Wildlife Conservation Society.
Interview and words: Liam Morgan Design: Alison Fair Photography: Nick Saffell Editor: Louise Walsh

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/changemakers-rachael-garrett:
Rachael with a local farmer in Brazil, by Gabriel Sap
That branching purpose has taken Rachael to the Brazilian Amazon, Indonesia, Borneo, Sumatra, Ghana and the Côte d'Ivoire.
She works with farmers around the world to conserve their remaining forests, and restore what has been cleared.
To succeed, Rachael has to understand what makes people tick: why they cleared the forests, and what would make them change their behaviour.
Rachael describes herself as a ‘land scientist’ – landing somewhere between geographer, economist and psychologist.
Her role as Director of the CRI takes her deep into Cambridge’s root network.
She holds a position in Geography, but works closely with zoologists, plant scientists, land economists and computer scientists to bring insights to bear on our most pressing environmental issues.
Rachael stands at a crucial juncture, where the University meets the Cambridge Conservation Initiative Council.
The latter has 10 partner organisations, who put research into practice.
“CRI is about combining our strength for a common good.
If we work alone, we’re nowhere near as powerful as we could be together.”
The CRI team stretches across more than seven Cambridge departments.
Active members include David Coomes , David Edwards and Adam Pellegrini from Plant Sciences; Emily Lines , Chris Sandbrook , Matthew Adeleye and Andrew Friend from Geography; Bill Sutherland , Andrew Balmford , Lynn Dicks and Rob Fletcher from Zoology; Anil Madhavapeddy and Srinivasan Keshav from Computer Sciences; and Laura Diaz Anadon and Andreas Kontoleon from Land Economy, among others.
Rachael advises on several United Nations panels, including the Science Panel for the Amazon and the Forum on Sustainability Standards .
Other CRI members have contributed to the Intergovernmental Panel on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services and the seminal IPCC reports .
This gives them a prominent role in science policy.
They advise on everything from timber monitoring in Peru , to Rachael's own work on deforestation in Brazil.
Rachael Garrett, Director of the CRI
Rachael at the David Attenborough Building, by Nick Saffell
“Our remaining forests are the basis of climate stability and food security.
Forests make rainfall, which is then distributed to the bread-baskets of the planet.
Brazil is the world’s largest producer of food commodities.
The rainfall in its agricultural areas comes from the Amazon.
“Local forests provide us with clean water.
In many cases, restoring forests is cheaper and better than making a new water filtration plant.
“Lack of forest integrity contributes to more widespread fires.
Fires are increasing in intensity around the world.
They take a massive toll on human health and are catastrophic for biodiversity.”
So why do we destroy these linchpins of Earth’s life-support systems?
“We assumed people cleared forests for economic reasons.
That’s certainly true for some.
But when we looked deeper at the motivations, we realised that people have false expectations about the profitability of different activities.
Besides, money wasn’t their only motivation.
Self-efficacy and social norms are also an important part of the story.”
Rachael has a large grant from the European Research Council to assess, among other things, farmers’ decision-making in the real world.
She conducts behavioural experiments in Indonesia and Côte d'Ivoire to test what will change people’s behaviour.
“Showing people that they can make more money by improving their agricultural practices is essential.
But it’s an insufficient motivator.
“We do things because we want to be perceived as a good community member.
If we can tie conservation actions with people’s sense of being respected, that might be more effective.
“We need to appeal to a wider sense of meaning and social values.”
This approach from social sciences provides another lever in the fight to conserve nature.
It aligns with arguments from philosophers like Michael Sandel, who examines The Moral Limits of Markets .
Profit – shock horror – is not the ultimate source of human meaning.
Rachael with a woman on horseback, by Gabriel Sap
Rachael points to three key movements as sources of climate hope.
They focus on the improvements of rights and representation for maligned groups: indigenous people, women, and the youth.
Progressive ideas of climate justice are already making a massive positive difference.
“The synergies between these improved rights and sustainable development goals are inspiring.
I’ve seen it happening in the Amazon, where indigenous communities are gaining rights and representation.
The more you invest in social equity and justice, the more sustained benefits you get for conservation.
There are numerous examples of successful nature restoration in areas managed by indigenous people and supported by indigenous women especially.”
Rachael and her team at the CRI are facing down the biodiversity and climate crises.
With cutting-edge science, branching expertise, and surprising sources of meaning, they are helping to preserve our planet and change our minds for the better.
Rachael and colleagues in the forest
Rachael and a friend
Professor Rachael Garrett is a Fellow of Homerton, Moran Professor of Conservation and Development, and Director of the Conservation Research Institute.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/changemakers-lindsay-hooper:
Lindsay Hooper is CISL’s Interim CEO.
With over 20 years’ experience at the forefront of business and sustainability, she has led CISL’s evolution into the respected international Institute it is today.
Lindsay was the first in her family to go to university, coming to Cambridge on a scholarship.
In her early career, she saw how finance and energy shaped economies.
She also recognised the potential of rewiring markets for the better.
That’s when she heard the call of CISL and its ambitious mission.
In 1994, CISL’s founder Dame Polly Courtice received a royal commission from the now King Charles.
The Prince of Wales’s Business & Sustainability Programme was born: the first sustainability education programme of its kind for senior business leaders.
It was designed to increase leaders’ ability to respond to environmental issues.
The programme made them face reality: you can’t do business on a dead planet, or a society in chaos.
Since those early days, the programme has expanded.
It now holds seminars across the world, and has become a global benchmark for sustainability leadership education.
Participants benefit from the insights of academics, expert practitioners and third sector leaders, leaving the programme more informed about evidence-based solutions and the policies we need to succeed.
Lindsay says: “Despite decades of scientific evidence on the urgent need for action, it remains more profitable to undermine the planet’s health than to invest in the green transition.
Everything we do, whether it’s education, advocacy, developing decision-support tools or fostering innovation, is focused on changing that equation.”
CISL’s board features some of the best minds at the University – including Emily Shuckburgh , Director of Cambridge Zero , Mike Kenny, inaugural Director of the Bennett Institute for Public Policy , and Diarmuid O’Brien, the University’s Pro-Vice-Chancellor for Innovation .
They work with others, such as the Cambridge Conservation Initiative , to widen the impact of Cambridge expertise, and focus the University’s presence at major events like COP29 , COP16 and New York Climate Week .
“CISL’s particular strength is working with the private sector and policymakers feeding into real-world decision making.
We support businesses to contribute to market shifts that will preserve our environmental systems.”
“Our educational programmes are evidence-backed and rigorous.
They recognise many of the challenges we face are not technical, but social, cultural and economic.”
But Lindsay also recognises that education is not enough.
Lindsay at Entopia, by Nick Saffell
CISL convenes groups of business leaders to encourage governments to enact progressive policy.
During Tony Blair’s premiership, they played a key role in The Climate Change Act , making the UK the first country to have legally binding emissions targets.
They supported the EU’s Nature Restoration Law too, helping to swing a tight vote in its favour.
Elsewhere, CISL runs the Centre for Sustainable Finance , where leading investors, insurers and banks unite to build a more sustainable economy.
These initiatives are sparking a ‘quiet revolution’ in the business world and showcase CISL’s many-sided influence.
When it comes to psychology, Lindsay agrees with Rachael Garrett , Director of the Conservation Research Institute, that profit isn’t always the key motivator for people to change their behaviour.
Lindsay says, “Many people aren’t principally motivated by profit.
Personal values, concern for their children’s future and social norms all play a role.
But the markets we’ve constructed don’t recognise these values.
Our economic structures incentivise businesses to optimise their short-term financial performance.
“At the moment, our rules serve us badly.
We have committed, educated individuals stuck within systems we’ve created, compelling them to do the opposite of what they’d like to be doing.
We need to rewrite the rules of the game.
“We need business action, but the impact of any lone business is nowhere near enough.”
As Pilita Clark’s Financial Times piece on CISL has it, businesses need to “go beyond setting targets for cutting their own carbon footprints and start lobbying for sweeping, long-term rules that reshape entire markets.”
Lindsay's urgency is infectious.
“We have the evidence required for action, like the Dasgupta Review .
What we need is the political will to enact solutions.
We need clear, consistent policies to incentivise innovation and action at scale.
It’s time to act.”
Lindsay Hooper, Interim CEO for CISL
Lindsay Hooper, by Nick Saffell
This award-winning ‘living lab’ is home to the The Canopy : CISL’s startup incubator and accelerator.
So far, it has supported over 500 sustainability start-ups through its accelerator programmes , linking them to the Institute’s network of leaders, corporate partners and University researchers.
“It’s a space that sparks conversations and creativity.
We have lots of innovators and entrepreneurs on site.”
Designed with staff wellbeing and building performance in mind, Entopia illustrates what’s possible in the built environment.
“Everyone here wants to meet society’s needs in a sustainable way.
Entopia allows a network effect to take place – we can be more than the sum of our parts.
“Cambridge’s academic strength matters.
Our programmes bring in experts from geopolitics, behavioural economics, history and more, to offer a deep view of how paradigm change happens.
“What’s more, Cambridge’s entrepreneurial acumen is unashamedly brilliant.
We can foster rapid innovation that transforms people’s lives.
“We’re at an inflection point.
We missed our moment to redesign markets in 2008, when the financial crisis made reform possible.
The post-COVID rebuild was another missed opportunity.
“Many politicians have a strong enough mandate, and the business and financial sectors are waking up too.
Structural change needs to happen fast.
I stand with Johan Rockström : giving up is not an option.
We can do this.”
Lindsay Hooper is the Interim CEO for the Cambridge Institute for Sustainability Leadership.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/how-to-restore-a-landscape:
Inside the programme protecting Europe's land, sea and species
Scottish highlands, by Mark Hamblin
Biodiversity, climate stability and people’s relationship with nature have all declined in recent decades.
To fulfil the EU’s new Nature Restoration Law , which requires the restoration of 20% of Europe’s degraded land and sea by 2030, it’s time to try something bold.
Enter the Endangered Landscapes & Seascapes Programme .
The Programme provides grants to projects across Europe, so that they can restore threatened environments.
Projects made possible by the Programme have preserved over 250,000 hectares of land and sea, and helped to protect over 100 threatened species.
Across 14 restoration landscapes, these projects are bringing back nature on a massive scale.
From deltas in the Danube to Portuguese valleys , the Programme is allowing nature-based, community-led methods to revive the natural world.
“We’ve realised that nature can restore itself,” says Nancy Ockendon, Science Manager for the Programme.
“For animals and plants to be resilient to climate change, they need open, diverse space.
Thinking at landscape and seascape scales meets a lot of these needs.”
Nancy Ockendon, Science Manager for the Endangered Landscapes & Seascapes Programme
Przewalski’s horses, by Neil Aldridge
There isn’t much time to figure out what works.
The evidence from previous European conservation projects is surprisingly scant, and the potential paths to take are bewildering.
Is it better to plant trees, or rely on natural regeneration?
What species should we bring back?
And while time is short, restoration is not a quick fix.
Some projects aim to kickstart sustainable processes that run for centuries.
By the time projects have acquired baseline data and have made their interventions, they could be several years in.
How do we document change in a meaningful way, over such large areas and long periods of time?
These are pressing questions.
And the Endangered Landscapes & Seascapes Programme is working hard to solve them.
“The main way we build evidence is through monitoring.
We choose indicators that will give useful information about how landscapes are changing.
Restoration takes a long time: some of our projects have a 200 year vision.
“We think carefully about what will motivate policymakers to engage with restoration, and inspire the local community.” In this endeavour, Nancy can rely on her friend Bill Sutherland , whose Conservation Evidence group she worked in for five years.
“Bill was influential in setting up the Programme.
He suggested that all our projects contain an experimental trial component, to build the evidence base for what works in restoration.
His group thinks a lot about how best to combine different kinds of evidence to make a decision about what's best for a given landscape.
A cinematic introduction to the Programme
“Every landscape is unique.
Our project partners are incredible: they really know the land they’re restoring.
Drawing on that experience, they test several different approaches at once, to see what works best.
“These projects have to be there for the long term.
They need to be physically present in the landscape, and be a part of the community.
This is why all the projects we support have strong links to local communities.
“For example, in the Carpathian mountains , Foundation Conservation Carpathia has over 100 staff, many of whom have been recruited from, and live in, the community.
In the long term, they hope to establish a protected area that is supported by a thriving local economy.”'
The Programme is also keen to harness the power of failure.
“We’re trying to create an open and honest culture, and learn from our mistakes.
It’s a new discipline.
We will get things wrong.”
In Turkey’s Gökova Bay , the project trialled cages for transplanting seagrass – which worked, until the cages were washed away in a storm.
Misfortunes like these suggest changes for a future design.
Other projects can build on this, and skip some earlier tribulations.
Landscape in the Tajo River, by Juan Carlos Munoz Robredo
Despite the intimidating task, Nancy remains focused and hopeful.
“Careful management of these landscapes over the last few decades has demonstrated what is possible.
What was once a barren valley in the Cairngorms is now covered in native Caledonian, broad-leaved forest.
We’re busy collecting data that will encourage others to emulate our approach.” At the Society for Ecological Restoration ’s 2024 conference, 30 project partners delivered inspiring talks.
As well as learning from each other, they provide a model for landscape-scale restoration, showing how it can move ecosystems towards positive tipping points.
Project partners at the SER conference in Estonia
One Endangered Landscapes & Seascapes Programme project Nancy calls an ‘inspiration’ sits just a couple of hours drive from Madrid.
This summer, she joined its community for a film screening, where the local mayor waxed lyrical about the jobs the project has generated.
Read our introduction to the Iberian Highlands now, and see how this landscape-scale approach is being put to work.
If you strain your ears, you might hear the galloping of Przewalski's horses.
Elsewhere, a UK project is providing a safe haven for vital fish and bird species.
Dive into the Solent Seascape to see how volunteers are braving the early chill to plant new seagrass meadows.
The Endangered Landscapes and Seascapes Programme is managed by the Cambridge Conservation Initiative , a partnership between the University of Cambridge and ten of the world’s leading international biodiversity conservation organisations.
The Programme was established and continues to be funded by Arcadia , a charitable fund of Lisbet Rausing and Peter Baldwin.
Published October 2024

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/evidence-biodiversity-conservation-cambridge:
With up to one million species facing extinction, Professor William Sutherland is using what he knows to help stop biodiversity loss.
Because nature can’t wait.
By Sarah Pratt
Photo credit: Lloyd Mann
A little over 20 years ago, Professor of Conservation Biology William Sutherland identified a significant gap in the growing field of conservation science: a lack of data-driven decision-making .
This can lead to valuable and limited resources, especially time and money, being wasted.
Sutherland wanted to be part of the solution, so after years of academic work, “producing nerdy books and doing academic-y stuff,” he turned his attention to conservation full time.
He clearly recalls the meeting that changed the course of his work.
During a discussion about research strategy, Sutherland heard, “the future is evidence-based medicine.”
It was then he realised the need for evidence-based conservation.
“There’s been no feedback mechanism in conservation,” says Sutherland.
“In medicine, cases are reviewed and if they didn’t go well, doctors try to work out why and are held accountable – the field has been transformed by using evidence of what works.”
Sutherland began collating conservation research data from around the world, and this work grew into Conservation Evidence , an accessible, free and authoritative resource to support practitioners and policy makers as they make decisions about how to maintain and restore global biodiversity.
It can take less than a minute to search the website and find out whether a conservation action has been effective (or not).
It’s a simple concept based on a lot of hard work.
Professor Bill Sutherland.
Credit: Lloyd Mann
He was quick to notice a lack of organised methods of learning.
“You just had to speak to people and visit sites and then gradually you accumulated knowledge,” he recalls, adding: “people talked about what worked and what didn’t but you had no idea where these beliefs came from.”
He was also struck by how often he heard stories of unsuccessful conservation work.
A review of decades of expensive tree-planting programmes in northern India, for example, showed they hadn’t been effective.
And bridges meant to decrease the risk of bats colliding with vehicles are proving ineffective after more than £2 million was spent on 15 gantries in the UK.
Sutherland says:
“My goal was - and still is - to change the culture so it becomes unthinkable to not use evidence in conservation.”
So far, in collaboration with over 1,100 international group of experts, Sutherland's team has generated over 8,924 summaries of the effectiveness of over 3,690 conservation interventions for 24 species groups, habitats or other conservation issues .
This has involved scanning over 1.6 million papers in more than 650 journals , including 325 journals in 17 non-English languages .
As well as the database of evidence , there’s an annual publication, What Works in Conservation , subject-specific ‘ synopses ’ of evidence, a journal , and a blog .
“We want people to not just generate more data, but also collate it in a way that’s easy for other people to use,” says Vanessa Cutts, a research associate who works with Conservation Evidence, adding:
One of Conservation Evidence’s natural partners is the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds (RSPB).
The 135-year-old organisation has more than 200 nature reserves, 1.2 million members, and a long history of in-house science.
It has a two-way relationship with Conservation Evidence, acting as a contributor to - and user of - the data.
Professor Jeremy Wilson, Director of Science at the RSPB
“The RSPB has always been committed to operating as an evidence-based conservation organisation - we were an early adopter of the Conservation Evidence philosophy,” says the RSPB’s Director of Science, Professor Jeremy Wilson.
“So we make a contribution to the sum of knowledge of 'what works in conservation', especially in relation to birds.
There is a need to make conservation as a whole more evidence-based.”
After 30 years as a conservation scientist, Wilson notes people often think making a cultural switch to evidence-based conservation is expensive and difficult, but this is not always the case.
“You can do a great deal to move yourself into the evidence-based conservation space without it being too culturally frightening, or needing to spend vast amounts of extra resources you can't readily afford,” says Wilson, adding:
Wilson believes Conservation Evidence is also having an impact on the funder community, with growing expectations of evidence-based approaches for groups bidding for funding.
“I think the support for resourcing the growth of science teams within other conservation organisations, particularly the charity sector, is starting to grow,” says Wilson, adding: “It’s key to support Bill Sutherland and his team in developing the future of Conservation Evidence because it provides a great service.”
Rush spreads quickly, crowding out wading birds and reducing grassland biodiversity.
Eleven sites in England and Wales – the majority of them RSPB nature reserves – have set up experimental plots with different rush management techniques.
Roughly half the plots use herbicide, while the rest are given a variety of other treatments, involving different frequencies of cutting the rush and types of aftercare.
Dr Lynda Donaldson, Senior Conservation Scientist, RSPB
Donaldson and her team collect data that includes how long the rush is kept under control and the environmental conditions.
She says:
A key goal of Conservation Evidence is to provide practitioners and site managers with results like these, so they can decide which approach to use.
Every site has different conditions, and there may be even two or three effective solutions.
The researchers work to understand the mechanisms of why a particular method succeeds, and they take a decidedly scientific approach.
“Our aim is to understand what works and why so we can make this information available to sites to help them apply the best techniques,” says Donaldson.
“Since there are limited resources, it is important to use them as efficiently and effectively as we can, and use platforms such as Conservation Evidence to share our learnings.”
Evidence Champions commit to use Conservation Evidence and other relevant sources of scientific evidence at some stage of their process.
They agree to the principles of evidence-based conservation, and many test new tools and guidance and help write support documents.
The 39 Conservation Evidence 'Evidence Champions' include the National Trust and the Woodland Trust.
A USFWS contingent travelled to Cambridge in June 2024 for the international workshop, Delivering the Effectiveness Revolution in Conservation: Lessons from Organisations, Policy Makers & Funders , where this new partnership was announced .
Members of the USFWS in Cambridge.
From left to right: Shannon Noelle Rivera (Program Evaluator), Dr Matt Muir (Program Evaluation Officer), Dr Daphne Carlson (Head of DIC); Tatiana Hendrix (Program Officer).
“Our designation as an Evidence Champion marks a significant milestone in our mission to protect the world’s diverse wildlife and their habitats,” says Daphne Carlson, Head of the DIC, adding:
“By promoting and supporting evidence-based practice in our efforts and partnerships, we are working with others to embed evidence into conservation practice.”
Photo: Giordano Cipriani/ Getty
Human actions have adversely affected 75% of the Earth’s land and 66% of oceans, and up to a million species are facing extinction.
“In Cambridge you have to have big ideas,” says Sutherland, adding:
Professor Bill Sutherland is Director of Research and formerly Miriam Rothschild Professor of Conservation Biology in the Department of Zoology , and a member of the Cambridge Conservation Initiative .
Read more: It's time to look at the evidence
Research enquiries: Professor Bill Sutherland
Find out more at: www.conservationevidence.com
Layout by Jacqueline Garget

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/landscape-regeneration-cambridge-partnership:
Ambitious collaborations are bringing biodiversity back to the Scottish Highlands
Cairngorms landscape.
Photo credit: scotlandbigpicture.com
In 2024, for the first time in over 400 years, two beaver kits were born in the wild in the Cairngorms National Park.
It was a big moment for a team of conservationists who have eagerly watched the progress of the beaver families they’ve released in the area over the past year.
“For two beaver pairs to have bred successfully proves the work that has gone into identifying suitable habitat and locations has been worthwhile," said Dr Roisin Campbell-Palmer, Head of Restoration at the Beaver Trust.
Beaver eating bracken.
Credit Elliot McCandless/Beaver Trust
The reintroduction of beavers is one of many activities supported by Cairngorms Connect , a project with a 200-year vision to transform this area of the Scottish Highlands by regenerating habitats and species.
It’s also the kind of meaningful, collaborative work the Centre for Landscape Regeneration (CLR) is all about.
The CLR is an interdisciplinary partnership of economists, social and physical scientists, engineers, biologists and computer scientists working to provide data and knowledge to support landscape regeneration across the UK.
The partnership is collaborating with Cairngorms Connect by supporting their efforts, learning from their experiments, and providing scientific evidence for the project's impact.
Professor David Coomes.
Credit Nick Saffell
Professor David Coomes, Co-Director the Centre for Landscape Regeneration
Coomes, who co-directs the Centre alongside Professor Emily Shuckburgh, adds: “By partnering with Cairngorms Connect, we are part of this amazing long-term programme to enhance this wonderful part of the world.
We are bringing together research evidence and local knowledge to benefit landscapes, in this case the Cairngorms.”
The partnership between the CLR and the Cairngorms Connect Science and Monitoring programme includes connecting with local communities, land-use scenario modelling, and measuring changes in biodiversity and ecosystem functioning, including bird and plant surveys and mapping of young trees in woodland expansion areas.
Tracking biodiversity patterns, tree growth and accumulation of carbon in the soil will help the teams figure out what impacts the restoration actions are having, and where.
The overarching plan is to bring biodiversity back to 600 square kilometres of the Cairngorms National Park from the River Spey to the summit of Ben MacDui.
It’s the largest restoration project in Britain , and over 5,000 species have been identified here – around 20% of which are nationally rare or scarce and some recorded nowhere else in Britain.
The Cairngorms National Park, classified as a protected area by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) , has experienced significant biodiversity loss, as well as damage to its important blanket bogs.
The UK’s peatlands store at least 20 times more carbon than all its trees, but only about 13% of them remain undamaged.
The Cairngorms National Park features 10,000 hectares of peat-rich bog.
Credit scotlandbigpicture.com
Alongside support from the Cairngorms national Park Authority, four landowners - Forestry and Land Scotland , RSPB Scotland , NatureScot , and Wildland Ltd – are integral to the Cairngorms Connect project.
It’s their land that will see expanded woodlands, repaired blanket bogs, rewilded rivers, restructured plantations, natural regulation of animal populations and the re-introduction of animals such as beavers and wild cats.
Resources for restoration on such an impressive scale have come from the Endangered Landscapes & Seascapes Programme , managed by the Cambridge Conservation Initiative in partnership with Arcadia .
A pine sapling grows on heather moorland.
Cairngorms Connect has planted 1,253 hectares of new native woodland over the past five years.
“The area has great potential for restoring nature on a large scale.
Until recently, high deer numbers that were maintained for hunting have kept the forest from coming back, but millions of young trees are now establishing naturally across the landscape, thanks to the work of Cairngorms Connect," says Coomes, adding:
River Spey, Cairngorms.
It’s a collaborative research hub that’s home to over 70 researchers who focus on three iconic UK landscapes: the Cambridgeshire Fens, the Lake District and the Cairngorms.
The CLR is led by the University of Cambridge along with RSPB, NIAB and the UK Centre for Ecology and Hydrology (UKCEH).
It's funded by the Natural Environment Research Council (NERC) as part of their Changing the Environment Programme , which aims to bridge the gap between researchers, communities and practitioners to solve complex environmental challenges.
Although ecological restoration has a diverse community of supporters , it’s not without its challenges.
“People can make money from land-use practices that damage biodiversity, so unless you get the incentive structures right, you’re not going to bring nature back,” says Coomes.
He believes a cultural shift is needed to change the way we think about nature and the economy, so we can build the health of nature into our measures of national success.
“Over the last 20 years or so, we researchers have worked to reframe the way people, including economists, think about nature – not just as something we’re passionate about, but something that’s necessary,” he says.
“At the Centre for Landscape Regeneration, we are passionate about finding solutions to the interlinked climate and biodiversity crises through our research," says Coomes, adding: “It’s vital that all those connected to a landscape are involved to enhance its future.
Support from the Endangered Landscapes and Seascapes Programme provides exciting opportunities to all work together to make our countryside a better place for people and nature.”
Pine martens are one of 5,000 identified species that call the Cairngorms home.
Find out more: Centre for Landscape Regeneration
Research enquiries: Professor David Coomes

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/making-fuel-from-sunlight:
Device for making solar fuels on the River Cam near the Bridge of Sighs
Professor Erwin Reisner is an expert in renewable energy and sustainable chemistry, in particular the sunlight-powered production of sustainable fuels and chemicals.
At his laboratory in the Yusuf Hamied Department of Chemistry, Reisner and his team are developing prototype devices that convert waste, water and air into practical fuels and chemicals.
These devices take their inspiration from photosynthesis: the process by which plants convert sunlight into food.
The devices don’t use any outside power: no cables, no batteries – all they need is the power of the sun.
Reisner’s team has developed devices that can convert contaminated water or seawater into clean hydrogen fuel and drinking water, floating ‘artificial leaves’ that could one day be used to generate clean fuel at sea, and devices that can convert CO 2 and plastic waste into sustainable fuels.
Artificial leaves floating on the River Cam
“We’re not just interested in decarbonisation, but de-fossilisation – we need to completely eliminate fossil fuels to create a truly circular economy,” said Reisner.
Reisner was recently awarded a prestigious Royal Academy of Engineering Chair in Emerging Technologies, which will help him and his team to focus on their ten-year mission to develop their prototypes to the point where they are ready for market.
If scaled up, these solar-powered devices could help address the intertwined crises of plastic waste and carbon emissions.
Erwin Reisner
To support his mission, Reisner hopes to establish the Cambridge Circular Chemistry Centre in the Department of Chemistry, which will accelerate the multi-disciplinary research and engineering that is needed to support the transition of solar chemical technologies to enable a circular chemical industry in a net zero future.
He hopes to raise £3 to £5 million in funding from donations to launch the centre in the next two years, and a total of £20 million over the next 10 years to bring his plan to fruition.
“There is not yet enough public awareness of the critical role that chemistry must play in our ambition to meet net zero targets,” said Reisner.
“We are all familiar with renewable electricity, wind energy and electric vehicles, but the most difficult part is still to come: making renewable fuels and transitioning the chemical industry sector.”
A sustainable chemical sector would affect everything we do and use, from the plastic bottles we drink from, to the keyboards we type on, to the chairs we sit on.
All these things need to be made renewable, or at least in a circular way, but first, the catalysts to drive the required sustainable processes need to be developed.
“That’s exciting for me as a chemist, because we’ve got so many opportunities to solve complex problems,” said Reisner.
“Exciting new technologies are being developed in chemical laboratories right now.
Chemistry can solve the most important problems our society faces today, and there are huge opportunities for entrepreneurs to develop sustainable chemical technologies and companies.”
The technologies Reisner and his team are developing are fundamentally new.
They’re not simply improving existing technologies; they’re working on totally new concepts and creating things that haven’t been thought of before.
“What I'm most enthusiastic about from a practical point of view is the conversion of waste such as plastic, biomass and the greenhouse gas CO 2 into green fuels and chemicals,” said Reisner.
“Of course, there are known ways to recycle, but it’s quite different from our technology.
We could have an entirely solar-powered recycling centre that could recycle things that can’t currently be recycled using conventional methods.”
Reisner says that another big advantage of the solar-powered technologies he’s developing is that small-scale applications are highly feasible, which could be particularly useful in remote environments or developing countries.
“For example, oil is currently refined in huge, centralised facilities, but with our technology, people could generate their own energy remotely,” he said.
“Households – particularly in developing countries where cooking with dirty fuels such as kerosene causes up to four million deaths per year – could generate their own clean hydrogen for cooking and heating.
And in the agricultural sector, farmers could use solar-powered solutions to make their own fertiliser in a green way.”
Reisner sees limitless possibilities for his lab’s work.
He believes that his team has established a holistic framework to develop the solar chemical technologies of the future, but what is really needed to make this a reality is stable and unconstrained long-term support from donors, together with a genuine commitment from industry and the government to a future without fossil fuels.
“We’re working on ways we can redesign and fundamentally rebuild our chemical industry, and our entire economy, in a sustainable way to enable a liveable future on our planet without fossil fuels,” said Reisner.
“There’s no bigger challenge right now, but I believe we can get there.”
The Reisner Group, October 2023
Photo credits, top-bottom: Chanon Pornrungroj Virgil Andrei Gabriella Bocchetti Nathan Pitt

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/research/features/what-does-it-take-to-make-a-better-battery:
Like many of us, when I wake up I reach for the phone on my bedside table and begin scrolling through Twitter, Instagram, email and news apps.
I listen to streamed music as I get ready for work and podcasts during my commute.
By the time I reach the office, my phone already needs a boost.
It’s not even 9am.
It’s a modern miracle that we have computers in our pockets more powerful than those that supported the moon landings.
But, despite the fact that the transistors inside our phones and laptops have been getting smaller and faster every year, the batteries that power them have not.
The key to making electronics portable – and powering a sea change in how we communicate and consume information – was the commercialisation of lithium-ion batteries by Sony in 1991.
Lithium-ion batteries are rechargeable, so when the device is connected to a charger it restores the battery for another use.
While lithium-ion batteries have undeniable advantages, such as relatively high energy densities and long lifetimes in comparison with other batteries and means of energy storage, they can also overheat or even explode and are relatively expensive to produce.
Additionally, their energy density is nowhere near that of petrol.
This limits their market penetration in two major clean technologies: electric vehicles and grid-scale storage for solar power.
Cambridge researchers are working to solve the puzzle of how to build next-generation batteries that could power a green revolution.
Professor Dame Clare Grey is one of the UK’s leading battery researchers, heading up a large research group in Cambridge’s Yusuf Hamied Department of Chemistry.
In 2021 she was awarded the Körber European Science Prize, worth one million euros, which honours breakthroughs in the physical or life sciences that have high application potential.
Grey pioneered the optimisation of batteries using NMR (nuclear magnetic resonance) spectroscopy – similar to MRI technology – to enable the inner working of batteries to be monitored while they are operating and without cutting them open.
Using such methods, her group studies materials that could be used in next-generation batteries, fuel cells and supercapacitors.
A better battery is one that can store a lot more energy or one that can charge much faster – ideally both.
Grey’s group is developing a range of different next-generation batteries, including lithium-air batteries (which use oxidation of lithium and reduction of oxygen to induce a current), sodium batteries, magnesium batteries and redox flow batteries.
A working lithium-air battery, for example, would have a theoretical energy density ten times that of a lithium-ion battery, giving it potential applications in portable electronics, transportation and grid storage.
However, although this high energy density would be comparable to that of petrol, the practical energy density achievable is noticeably lower and significant research challenges remain to be addressed.
While Grey works with industrial partners to improve the batteries going into electric cars today, she says the role of universities is to think about entirely new types of batteries, such as the ones she is developing in her lab.
“Universities need to be coming up with answers for ten to 15 years from now – we’re the ones who are best placed to innovate, think creatively and generate radical, new solutions,” she says.
“We want to make sure that our work has an impact well beyond today’s batteries.”
Professor Dame Clare Grey (credit: Gabriella Bocchetti)
In 2019, Grey co-founded Nyobolt with Dr Sai Shivareddy to commercialise ultra-fast charging batteries based on its patented carbon and metal oxide anode materials and other advances.
The Cambridge spin-out has proven its fast-charging batteries in an electric sportscar prototype, demonstrating a charge from 10% to 80% in under five minutes , twice the speed of the fastest-charging vehicles currently on the road.
Shivareddy, CEO of Nyobolt, explains: “Nyobolt’s low impedance cells ensure we can offer sustainability, stretching out the battery’s usable life for up to 600,000 miles in the case of our technology demonstrator.”
Dr Sai Shivareddy (credit: Nyobolt)
In addition to developing entirely new types of batteries, a major strand of Grey’s research is the detection of faults.
As part of her Professorship funded by the Royal Society, Grey is trying to find ways to locate faults in batteries before they happen.
“Can we detect indicators of faults in batteries before they go wrong?
If we can find them, then we could potentially prevent battery safety issues.
In addition, we want to explore whether a car battery that’s reached the end of its life could have a second life on the grid, for example.
If we could work out, in real time, what causes the battery to degrade, we could change the way we use the battery, ensuring it lasts longer,” she says.
“The more we know about the state of health of a battery, the more valuable that battery becomes.
Both strategies – increasing battery life and finding a second use – lead to cheaper batteries.”
Grey is also heavily involved with the Faraday Institution, the UK’s independent institute for electrochemical energy storage research, early-stage commercialisation, market analysis and skills development.
She is co-leader of one of 10 major research projects.
The project involves eight other university and eight industry partners and is examining how environmental and internal battery stresses (such as high temperatures and charging rates) damage electric car batteries over time.
The results will be a crucial step towards making batteries of the future have longer life.
“When you think about other electronic devices, you’re generally only thinking about one material, which is silicon,” says Professor Siân Dutton at Cambridge’s Cavendish Laboratory in the Department of Physics, and who is also working on the Faraday Institution project.
“But batteries are much more complex because you’ve got multiple materials to work with, plus all the packaging, and you’ve got to think about how all these components interact with each other and with whatever device you’re putting the battery into.”
Professor Siân Dutton
Among other projects, Dutton’s research group is investigating the possibility of a battery electrolyte that is solid instead of liquid.
One of the primary safety concerns with lithium-ion batteries is the formation of dendrites – spindly metal fibres that make a battery short-circuit, potentially causing the battery to catch fire or even explode.
“If the electrolyte is solid, however, you may still get dendrites, but the batteries are far less likely to explode,” she says, adding: “It’s important for universities to look at unconventional battery materials like the ones we’re investigating.
If everyone moves in the same direction, we won’t get the real change we need.”
Meanwhile, in the University of Cambridge’s Department of Materials Science & Metallurgy, researchers in Professor Manish Chhowalla’s laboratory have been studying the materials used in battery cathodes.
Their aim is to make lithium-sulphur (Li-S) batteries lighter for applications in the aerospace industry.
Working with nine other universities with funding from the Faraday Institution, they have developed a new cathode material that uses two-dimensional nanosheets of molybdenum disulfide instead of carbon.
“Li-S batteries possess high energy density and are lightweight, which makes them potentially deployable in short-range commercial flights,” explains Chhowalla.
“Their other advantage is the electrodes of Li-S batteries don’t contain expensive transition metals like cobalt that have social and environmental issues associated with their mining.”
“Imagine a world where you don’t worry about battery charging times,” says Grey.
“It isn’t just about the convenience: rapid response on the grid is critical for grid stability.
If you could charge a car battery almost immediately, you remove the inconvenience of the longer journey, or the difficulty of charging if you live in a city – and it allows you to use a smaller battery – which is the simplest way to reduce cost and be more sustainable.”
The prospect of an electric car with a range of 1,000 miles, or being able to store solar and wind generated electricity for the weeks and months with no sun or wind may all be some years away, but says Grey:
“We’re continuing to push new materials and new methods because, without them, research fields stagnate.
To achieve climate goals and transition away from fossil fuels, we need to be thinking about how to solve these problems now.
Fortunately, basic research into new battery technologies is already in full swing.”
Updated: 9 October 2024 Originally published: 11 February 2019
Words: Sarah Collins Updates and design: Louise Walsh
Banner image: Just_Super/Getty Images

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/low-cost-solar:
Professor Sam Stranks.
Photograph by Nick Saffell.
Although it may feel as if the news around climate change is unrelentingly negative, there are some remarkably bright spots.
One of the brightest is solar energy.
In just the last ten years, the cost of solar cells has fallen by 90%.
Over four decades, solar has transformed from one of the most expensive electricity sources to the cheapest in many countries.
But we still have further to go.
To implement and expand solar energy worldwide, we need to make it cheaper and more efficient than silicon, the dominant material used for solar cells today.
One way to do this is to make solar cells from materials that can use more of the solar spectrum than silicon can, which would make them more efficient.
The most promising replacement for silicon is a family of materials called perovskites.
Perovskites are cheaper than silicon and make excellent solar cells: their overall energy output can often meet or – in the case of multi-layered ‘tandem’ devices – exceed that of traditional silicon solar cells.
However, they are not yet stable enough to operate at high performance for many years.
In his lab at Cambridge’s Department of Chemical Engineering and Biotechnology , Professor Sam Stranks is studying how perovskites degrade over time, to improve their efficiency and stability.
Stranks’ team uses specialised microscopy techniques to study defects in the perovskites, enabling them to get highly detailed pictures at the micro- or even the nanoscale.
They also simulate how perovskite devices work under sunlight, testing them continuously for thousands of hours under artificial sunlight, or under high-stress conditions by increasing temperature or humidity levels.
These tests help them understand how and when the devices break.
These results are then taken back to their fabrication lab, where changes can be made to the composition of the materials, or how they are layered, to improve performance.
“Because perovskite devices are much cheaper to produce, they may not need to have as long a lifetime as their silicon counterparts to enter some markets,” said Stranks.
“But to fulfil their ultimate potential, perovskite solar cells will need to reliably operate for at least a decade or more.”
One of the curiosities of perovskites is their ‘messy’ structure, which is very different from highly ordered silicon crystals.
This messiness causes defects in the material that lead to tiny ‘traps’, which typically reduce performance.
In a 2022 paper published in Nature , Stranks and his co-authors showed that these traps could hold the key to improving the longevity of perovskite solar cells.
Even with the traps, perovskites show a similar efficiency to silicon.
But by tuning the chemical composition, and how the perovskite film forms, Stranks and his colleagues showed that it’s possible to prevent the formation of some of these traps.
Their results suggested that it’s possible to improve the efficiency of perovskites even further while improving longevity, opening the door to commercial production of perovskite solar cells.
Perovskite sample.
Photograph by Nick Safell.
Perovksites are prepared in liquid ink that is simply printed to produce a thin film of the material.
Printing perovskite solar cells onto flexible or even transparent materials at scale could open up a huge range of applications, such as transparent sheets that could be layered on top of silicon solar panels, solar cells that could be wrapped around buildings or on top of cars, or rolled out like a spool, reducing installation costs of rooftop solar power.
“Another strength of perovskite devices is that they can be made in countries where there’s no existing infrastructure for processing silicon,” said Stranks.
“Silicon solar cells are cheap in the long term, but require a substantial initial capital outlay to begin processing.
But for perovskites, because they can be printed so easily, using far less material, you lower that initial cost.
They offer a viable option for low- and middle-income countries looking to transition to solar energy.”
Stranks is a co-founder of Swift Solar , a company dedicated to developing high-performance perovskite solar modules scaled for global energy needs.
The company builds on the advances made in Stranks’ Cambridge lab, which have resulted in tangible enhancements in perovskite efficiency, lifespan and stability.
“What gets me up each day is the opportunity to make a difference, particularly around global challenges like climate change,” said Stranks.
“It’s really exciting to me that through the technology we develop in the lab, we could make a huge difference to society’s most pressing challenge.”
Photo credits: Nick Safell

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/flight-path-to-net-zero :
Published 23 September 2024
An ambitious five-year plan created by the Aviation Impact Accelerator ( AIA ), a project led by the University of Cambridge and hosted by the University’s Whittle Laboratory and the Cambridge Institute for Sustainability Leadership ( CISL ), sets out four Sustainable Aviation Goals over the next five years that could help the sector navigate to net zero emissions across the world by 2050.
“Aviation stands at a pivotal moment, much like the automotive industry in the late 2000s,” said Professor Rob Miller, Director of the Whittle Laboratory.
“Back then, discussions centred around biofuels as the replacement for petrol and diesel – until Tesla revolutionised the future with electric vehicles.
Our five-year plan is designed to accelerate this decision point in aviation, setting it on a path to achieve net zero by 2050 .”
If the goals are not implemented immediately and achieved by 2030, the opportunity for transformation could slip away, leaving the world to face the escalating climate impacts of a rapidly growing aviation sector, which is projected to at least double its emissions by 2050.
Aviation is a major contributor to climate change, accounting for 2-3% of global CO 2 emissions and 4% once the non-CO 2 climate impacts are included.
Despite ambitious pledges from governments and industry, the aviation sector remains significantly off course in its efforts to achieve net zero by 2050.
The report, titled Five Years to Chart a New Future for Aviation , outlines four actionable steps that must be initiated immediately and completed within five years if the sector is to get itself on track for that goal.
The report will be presented to industry leaders at Climate Week NYC as part of events hosted by the Sustainable Markets Initiative, founded by King Charles III.
Professor Rob Miller, Director of the Whittle Laboratory
Each of the four goals is specifically targeted to raise ambition in a particular area of aviation.
The first goal is to remove the clouds (contrails) formed by aviation .
Speeding up the deployment of a global contrail avoidance system could reduce aviation’s climate impact by up to 40%.
This would involve the immediate creation of experiments at the scale of whole airspace regions to learn in real environments.
For example, an aircraft changing altitude in regions of the atmosphere where there is potential to form clouds.
Around one in 30 flights produces a persistent contrail, a region of cloud that can trap heat and increase the climate impact of aviation.
The climate impact of contrails from planes is estimated by some researchers to be about the same as the aviation industry's total CO 2 emissions, though there is scientific debate surrounding this estimation.
The second goal is to implement a new wave of policies aimed at unlocking system-wide efficiency gains across the existing aviation sector.
This has the potential to halve fuel burn by 2050 by tapping into efficiency gains that individual companies can’t address.
The third goal is to reform Sustainable Aviation Fuel (SAF) policies to account for global biomass limits across all sectors while driving renewable electricity production.
This would provide the market with the confidence needed to rapidly scale up SAF production and ensure its sustainability.
The goal is to put in place the global policies required to minimise the wider impact of SAFs on climate and nature.
The final goal is to launch several moonshot technology demonstration programmes designed to rapidly assess the viability and scalability of transformative technologies, bringing forward the timeline for their deployment.
An example of this is long-haul hydrogen aircraft.
The low weight of hydrogen fuel, even once the weight of the tanks is included, makes hydrogen advantageous for long-haul flight, and the introduction of hydrogen would remove CO 2 emissions from flight.
King Charles on a visit to the Whittle Laboratory
The first post-coronation engagement for His Majesty The King was to convene a group of aviation industry CEOs, alongside senior Government representatives, to help work on the 2030 Goals.
His Majesty visited the University of Cambridge in May 2023 and broke ground on a £58-million Whittle Laboratory facility while encouraging the acceleration of sustainable aviation.
His Majesty also spoke at the opening reception for COP28 and “urged us to continue to raise our ambitions in driving change in the aviation sector,” said Miller.
Credit: Julian Anderson
The AIA sits in the Whittle Laboratory, one of the world’s biggest turbomachinery labs conducting research into the rapid development of ultra-low emission aircraft and low carbon power generation.
The AIA is a global initiative that brings together more than 100 experts from across the aviation industry to accelerate the sector's transition to net-zero emissions.
Its goal is to develop interactive tools and models that assist stakeholders—governments, industry leaders, and the public—in understanding and exploring pathways to sustainable aviation.
By focusing on technological innovation, policy development, and environmental impact, the AIA aims to speed up progress toward zero-emission flight.
Partners include Boeing, Rolls-Royce, the Royal Air Force, Stratos, Emirates, 4Air, Flexjet, the UK Department for Energy Security & Net Zero, the UK Department for Transport, Breakthrough Energy, the Sustainable Markets Initiative, MIT, the University of Melbourne, and University College London.
For the full report click the link here .
Published 23 September 2024 Words: Sarah Pratt based on a press release from CISL
For media information please see this Press Statement or contact:
Zoe Kalus , Head of Media at CISL (Cambridge University's Institute for Sustainability Leadership)
zoe.kalus@cisl.cam.ac.uk ; Mob: +44 7845652839
Banner image: credit Daniel Garrido/Getty Images

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/fast-charging-electric-supercar:
Nyobolt EV Dynamic
N yobolt, a University of Cambridge spin-out company, has demonstrated its ultra-fast charging batteries in an electric sportscar prototype, going from 10% to 80% charge in under five minutes, twice the speed of the fastest-charging vehicles currently on the road.
In addition to ultra-fast charging times, the batteries developed by Nyobolt – which was spun out of Professor Dame Clare Grey ’s lab in the Yusuf Hamied Department of Chemistry in 2019 – do not suffer from the degradation issues associated with lithium-ion batteries.
Tests of the first running Nyobolt EV prototype will be used to validate the company’s battery performance in a high-performance environment.
Cambridge-based Nyobolt has used its patented carbon and metal oxide anode materials, low-impedance cell design, integrated power electronics and software controls to create power-dense battery and charging systems.
These support the electrification of applications such as heavy-duty off-highway trucks, EVs, robotics and consumer devices that demand high power and quick recharge cycles.
Initial in-vehicle testing using 350kW (800V) DC fast chargers confirmed that the Nyobolt EV’s battery can be charged from 10 per cent to 80 per cent in 4 minutes 37 seconds – with a full charge enabling the prototype to achieve a range of 155 miles.
That is twice the speed of most of the fastest-charging vehicles today.
Independent testing of the technology confirmed that Nyobolt’s longer-lasting and more sustainable batteries can achieve over 4,000 fast charge cycles, or 600,000 miles, maintaining over 80 per cent battery capacity retention.
This is many multiples higher than the warranties of much larger EV batteries on the road today.
Dr Sai Shivareddy
The battery pack in the Nyobolt EV prototype not only adds miles faster but the compact battery pack size enables energy-efficient electric vehicles that are cheaper to buy and run, and crucially use fewer resources to manufacture.
“Nyobolt is removing the obstacle of slow and inconvenient charging, making electrification appealing and accessible to those who don’t have the time for lengthy charging times or space for a home charger,” said Shane Davies, Nyobolt’s director of vehicle battery systems.
Nyobolt’s battery assembly plans could be in production at low volume within a year, ramping to 1,000 packs in 2025.
Nyobolt’s flexible manufacturing model enables volumes of up to 2 million cells per year.
Nyobolt’s technology builds on a decade of battery research led by Grey and Shivareddy, who invented cutting-edge supercapacitors.
Key to the company’s ability to offer ultra-fast charging without impacting battery life is its low-impedance cells that generate less heat, making it easier to manage such high-power levels during charging.
Its anode materials in lithium-ion battery cells allow for a faster transfer of electrons between the anode and cathode.
Nyobolt EV electronics
Nyobolt EV interior
Nyobolt EV charging
Nyobolt EV dash
Nyobolt EV rear
Nyobolt is in conversation with a further eight vehicle manufacturers about adopting its technology.
Alongside automotive applications, Nyobolt’s fast-charging technology is set to be used this year in robotics.
“Our extensive research here in the UK and in the US has unlocked a new battery technology that is ready and scalable right now,” said Shivareddy.
“We are enabling the electrification of new products and services currently considered inviable or impossible.
Creating real-world demonstrators, such as the Nyobolt EV, underlines both our readiness and commitment to making the industries see change is possible.”
Published: October 2024 Story: Sarah Collins and Nybolt.
Design: Jessica Keating Photography credits: Nyobolt

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/road-to-net-zero:
By Hilary Fletcher
They represent as much as 8% of total world carbon emissions.
But despite best efforts, global emissions from road haulage are increasing along with our increased consumption – because virtually everything that we purchase arrives on a truck, even if its road trip is just part of its overall journey.
On the journey to net zero, the decarbonisation of road freight is a particularly challenging destination to reach.
But that’s where a team led by a Cambridge professor of engineering comes in.
Professor David Cebon (pictured above, far right) runs the Centre for Sustainable Road Freight (SRF), an ecosystem of academics, industry and policymakers which launched in 2012.
The Centre researches a wide range of engineering, logistics and policy issues, from fundamental to applied, small to large scale and tactical to strategic.
“We’re looking for sustainable solutions to decarbonise road freight for the planet, but those solutions need to be economically viable, or they won’t fly - and they have to be socially and politically acceptable.
And of course time is of the essence,” says Cebon.
Electrification of road freight is one current major issue the Centre is addressing on a number of fronts.
It’s a complex problem requiring a multi-disciplinary approach, looking at logistics, engineering, policy and energy factors in tandem.
Urban vehicles are already transitioning to electric, so much so that Cebon says within the next 10 years we’ll “wonder why on earth we ever drove diesel trucks in cities”.
But long-haul freight is a much more difficult challenge, as Cebon explains:
“Suitable electric vehicles are available now for most applications, but the batteries are heavy and they need to charged within the logistics day so that they don’t add time and cost,” he says.
“That adds many challenges and means the major issues facing the industry are actually about energy supply, charging infrastructure and logistics: not about the vehicles or technology."
The Centre is currently leading the Joint Operators Logistics Trial (JOLT), which is a collaborative project designed to explore how transport operators can move quickly and cost-effectively to an electric vehicle norm for heavy road freight operations in the UK.
The programme is based on two guiding principles, firstly that by sharing data with their collaborators, partners will maximise their learning; and secondly, that by sharing capital assets with their collaborators, partners will minimise their costs.
The objective is to develop the knowledge and models needed to de-risk electric freight operations and inform policy and investment decisions.
The participating fleet operators are sharing their learning experiences in a pre-competitive environment to develop a clear understanding of how electric lorries and charging infrastructure can be deployed most effectively to serve their business needs.
The project is providing shared access to a fleet of electric vehicles, provided by Volvo Trucks, Scania and DAF Trucks, and mobile chargers, provided by partner Evyve.
These are being used by logistics partners including John Lewis Partnership – one of the UK’s best-known retailers - to test a pre-agreed sequence of in-service electric vehicle trials.
High resolution operational data is being collected during each trial period and analysed, anonymised, and shared with all partners as part of a managed collective learning process.
The SRF has also spun-up partner research organisations with the same structure (engineering + logistics + policy; academia + industry + government), working with top universities in India, China, South America and South Africa.
These research centres have the same mission as the SRF.
The five research groups exchange students and academics and share tools and methods, data and ideas, as well as running joint projects and international workshops.
“We have developed our own international ecosystem of research friends who can all work together on common problems and solutions: to help decarbonise road freight world-wide,” says Cebon.
So with all this in mind, how feasible is the goal of net – or near – zero emissions from road freight by 2050?
Cebon is optimistic.
“The industry is making real progress towards decarbonisation” he says.
“With electric vehicle technology advancing so quickly, the industry has a basic platform that should be up to the job of cleaning up the emissions.
“But what we’ve found since our launch 12 years ago is that road freight can only be decarbonised by taking a systems view of the engineering, logistics, energy and infrastructure: modelling the way that they interact, as all sectors of the economy decarbonise simultaneously.
That capability is in our DNA at the Centre for Sustainable Road Freight – so we can make a useful contribution.
“I am hopeful that the international road freight industry will get near to zero emissions by 2050.”
Images: Getty, XH4D and Scharfsinn86; Centre for Sustainable Road Freight.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/climate-biodiversity-economics:
Published: October 2024
Calculating climate costs
Not so long ago, prevailing work on the macroeconomics of climate change contended that – while set to fiscally devastate low-income countries near the equator – many cooler, wealthier nations will escape the financial fallout and even profit from warmer climes.
By 2017, influential studies had fed into an International Monetary Fund global report showing countries such as Canada and Sweden gaining in per capita outputs if temperatures rise as predicted.
However, a Cambridge economist and his team wasn’t buying it.
“The idea that rich, temperate nations are economically immune to climate change and could see their prosperity surge as a result… it just seemed so implausible,” says Dr Kamiar Mohaddes , an Associate Professor at Cambridge Judge Business School and Fellow in Economics at King's College.
“It’s not solely about a number on the thermometer.
It’s the deviation from climate conditions to which countries are accustomed that determines income loss, whether that’s cold snaps, heat waves, droughts, floods or natural disasters.”
Mohaddes and colleagues crunched the numbers using data from 174 countries going back sixty years to calculate the link between temperature change and income levels.
They modelled the world’s economies under business-as-usual emissions, as well as a scenario in which humanity “gets its act together” and holds to the Paris Agreement.
The study , which found that all countries – rich or poor, hot or cold – will suffer economically under the current emissions trajectory, showed the US losing 10.5% of its GDP, and Canada over 13%, by the end of this century.
Published as a working paper in 2019, the research underpinned much of a 2021 letter to the Chair of the Federal Reserve , signed by twenty-five members of the United States Congress, calling for the incorporation of climate risk into monetary policy.
This year the research has been updated and expanded in a new working paper using the latest data from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC).
Results indicate that without significant mitigation and adaptation efforts, global GDP could decline by up to 24% by 2100 if fossil fuel pollution continues unabated.
Aiming data-driven analyses at those who influence business and policy is at the heart of a new initiative, climaTRACES lab , established this year by Mohaddes and his fellow former Cambridge Gates Scholar Dr Ramit Debnath , who recently conducted research on how lethal heatwaves will hold back India’s economic development.
ClimaTRACES was launched in May, on the same day that former US vice-president and legendary environmental campaigner Al Gore spoke at King’s College .
Gore argued that research at universities focuses on technological solutions to the climate crisis, but there is little research into the “formation of political will” for action.
“Al Gore highlighted the very gap climaTRACES sets out to address,” says Mohaddes.
“We want to work out how policy makers and businesses can best understand the cost of climate change and biodiversity loss.
We need to take these communities with us through the right communications, and the right policy and product design.”
One of the first research projects from climaTRACES is in collaboration with the Boston Consulting Group (BCG), one of the world’s “big three” management consulting firms.
The new report suggests that an upfront investment of less than 2% of global GDP in additional efforts to prevent global warming will limit the temperature increase to under 2°C, avoiding the loss of an estimated 11% to 13% of cumulative GDP by 2100.
“Our work estimates the cost of inaction in the short-term will be 10% to 15% of lost global GDP by the end of the century – wiping out many trillions of dollars of wealth,” says Mohaddes.
“Hesitating to incur the upfront costs of climate mitigation has truly enormous economic implications down the line.”
Working with the private sector will be a focus for climaTRACES.
“An organisation like BCG has the machinery to take this research to its client base, to the key players in services, manufacturing and agriculture,” says Mohaddes.
“Our work will be to generate the data and help shape the messages needed to address the climate crisis.”
Nature of debt
Century’s end can feel distant for a private sector preoccupied with the next quarterly report, and policymakers dealing with constant shocks hitting their economies.
Mohaddes worked with colleagues from the University’s Bennett Institute for Public Policy to show how ecological damage will affect national finances much sooner in the form of sovereign credit ratings.
The economists used artificial intelligence to simulate the effects of climate change on Standard and Poor’s credit ratings for 108 countries by 2030, as well as decades into the future.
The first “climate smart” credit ratings suggested that – if nothing is done to curb emissions – up to 63 nations could be downgraded by over a notch on average by the end of this decade, with countries such as Germany and Sweden dropping three notches, and the US and Canada falling two notches.
The multinational bank Standard Chartered now use the research in their modelling for sovereign default probabilities.
Some of the Bennett Institute-led team went on to produce the first biodiversity-adjusted sovereign credit ratings , to show how destruction of natural habitats could affect public finances.
Again, the findings were stark.
Loss of plant and animal species may already be set to cause major sovereign downgrades, with China and Indonesia on course to drop two notches, perhaps as early as 2030.
Beyond its intrinsic – and incalculable – worth, biodiversity provides fundamental natural services: from basic sustenance through fish stocks or insects that pollinate crops, to soil regeneration, and water and climate regulation.
According to Bennett Institute research, if parts of the planet see “partial ecosystems collapses” of fisheries, tropical timber production and wild pollination, as simulated by the World Bank, then over half the 26 nations featured in the study face downgrades.
All these predicted sovereign credit downgrades would increase the annual interest payment on debt by billions of dollars a year and put many developing nations at severe risk of default – in effect, bankruptcy.
Biodiversity economics
The total absence of the essential ecosystem services in national balance sheets is not only a major blind spot of economic risk – it has served to intensify exploitation of the natural world.
It’s a hole in the discipline many believe we can no longer afford.
Over a forty-year career at Cambridge’s Faculty of Economics, Prof Sir Partha Dasgupta has led the way in developing economic models that include nature and human wellbeing – going beyond the Gross Domestic Product metrics that have dominated since the last world war.
GDP ignores everything that ecosystems provide – from raw materials to clean air.
Dasgupta argues that GDP is not fit for purpose, as it is based on a “faulty application” that does not include “our most precious asset”: nature.
He is joined in this assessment by other Cambridge economists including Prof Dame Diane Coyle , Co-Director of the Bennett Institute, where the ‘ Wealth Economy ’ project has worked on ways to measure assets required for sustainable prosperity.
“GDP tots up the value of stuff and services produced by a given country to provide a single number used to rank national economies,” says Coyle.
“A focus on GDP without proper regard for environmental degradation or inequality has been a disaster for global ecosystems.”
The UK Treasury commissioned a report on the economics of biodiversity led by Dasgupta, published in 2021.
The landmark 600-page review called for urgent increases to global supplies of “natural assets”: from the expansion of Protected Areas to policies that reduce damaging consumption such as meat-heavy diets.
Currently, nations are judged to have thriving economies when their biological assets are being severely eroded.
Estimates show that between 1992 and 2014, produced capital per person doubled, but the stock of natural capital per person declined by nearly 40%.
The report recommended new metrics for economic success, with the injection of natural capital into national accounting as a critical first step.
Dasgupta was among the Cambridge academics to help the United Nations launch their updated ‘ Ecosystems Accounting ’ framework.
There is also a need for “supra-national” economic systems to preserve the biosphere, the report argued, such as payments to countries in a position to protect irreplaceable habitats – tropical rainforests, for example – and charges for the use of ecosystems outside national borders e.g.
fishing and freight traffic on open oceans.
When accepting the BBVA award for Economics, Finance and Management earlier this year , Dasgupta pointed out that oceans are vital public goods treated as free goods.
“All the billions of dollars of merchandise shipped across the oceans, polluting them, yet no one pays any rent,” he said.
An international tax on ocean-harming activities, from sea-bed mining to cruise ships, could help alleviate pressure on marine ecosystems.
Dasgupta proposes establishing a new institution – perhaps linked to the World Bank, for example – to collect this ocean rent.
Revenue could then be used to compensate the countries that house rainforests, in order to stop the deforestation contributing to species loss and climate change.
“It's a self-financing proposition that solves two problems in one go.”
Good growth
As highlighted in Dasgupta’s Review, the UN estimates we use natural assets equivalent to 1.6 Earths to maintain our current living standards.
A fixation with GDP growth has taken a devastating ecological toll, and some now argue for a dramatic scaling back of production to decarbonise our economies.
“Economic growth lifted millions out of poverty, but it’s true that growth in rich nations has been tied with greenhouse gas emissions and environmental destruction,” says economist Dr Alessio Terzi from the University’s Department of Politics and International Studies.
“I wanted to understand if reversing growth is really the answer.”
Terzi went back through the centuries to examine how economic expansion is “ interwoven with the human quest for well-being and self-determination ”.
He set out to look “beyond the slogans” at the potential systems that restrict economic growth.
“Capitalism will always rekindle growth, but that’s part of why it’s such an efficient machine for fostering innovation, which we need develop and deploy new clean-energy technologies.
Degrowth means slowing this innovation down.”
Listen to Dr Alessio Terzi discuss sustainable economic growth on the Bennett Institute's Crossing Channels podcast.
In his book ‘ Growth for Good ’, Terzi concluded that trying to reorient market capitalism is better than aiming for a radical economic transformation that could “take years of soul searching… years we don't have by the way, because 2050 is tomorrow”.
As a thought experiment , Terzi used two decades of data from the IMF and Global Carbon Project to calculate that – while far from Net Zero – the current trajectory of decarbonisation could see CO2 emissions fall 48% by mid-century.
However, to almost halve carbon emissions through decreased economic output, global GDP would need to shrink 5% every year.
By way of comparison, the worldwide COVID-19 lockdowns of 2020 shrank GDP by 2.7%.
Harnessing capitalism does not mean relying on free markets.
A new age of green technologies must learn lessons of previous industrial revolutions, says Terzi, which saw governments invest in infrastructure – from rail to waterways – and lend money to early manufacturers.
“Take cars,” says Terzi.
“Expensive and prone to failure at first, it wasn’t clear they would be more efficient than horse carriages.
Innovations such as assembly lines reduced costs, but government bans were also used to speed the transition from horses to cars in cities.
Bans on sales of fossil-fuelled cars are just the current-day equivalent.”
Echoing Dasgupta, Terzi's recent working paper argues for international collaboration across wealth divides as a fast-track to decarbonisation.
“For example, bilateral or regional partnerships in which poorer nations can provide green minerals to richer nations in exchange for investment in sustainable infrastructure.”
Cleantech competition
Technological turning points always see winners and losers, however.
Governments are interested in how to increase the chance that their countries and companies end up on the ‘winning’ end.
Building an evidence base for the types of cleantech and green industrial policy that boost competitiveness is a focus for Laura Diaz Anadon , Professor of Climate Change Policy at Cambridge and Director of the Centre for Environment, Energy and Natural Resource Governance (CEENRG) .
Among other work in this space, Anadon co-led one of the first studies on the forces behind government funding of energy research in the 21st century.
Public energy ‘Research, Development, and Demonstration’ (RD&D) in the OECD countries plus China and India grew from just under $10 billion in 2000 to over $25bn in the late 2010s.
An analysis of official reports showed RD&D increases in many Western economies – from post-2008 US investments to the EU Green Deal – were often justified by policy makers pointing to competitive threats from China, which grew cleantech spending at double-digit rates almost every year between 2003 and 2014.
“RD&D for onshore wind increased in a number of other big economies when Chinese firms entered the market,” says Anadon.
“However, shippable cleantech such as solar PV suffered from the intense Chinese investment that eliminated other market players.”
Anadon was a lead author on the Innovation chapter in the IPCC’s 2022 ‘Mitigation of Climate Change’ 6th Assessment Report, which called for the rapid rollout of policies that generate “demand pull”: stimulating the creation and expansion of markets and industries for emissions-reducing technologies.
To understand this "demand pull" in large economies, Anadon and her Cambridge colleague Dr Cristina Peñasco conducted a major analysis of low-carbon policies, and compared how they perform in areas such as cost and competitiveness.
All the data was poured into an interactive online tool that allows users to explore evidence around carbon-reduction policies from across the globe.
“New technologies that are not yet competitive can be pulled into markets using government policy, and over time the cost comes down through refined manufacturing and the business models that get developed,” says Anadon.
“Consumers become comfortable with the tech, and we get to the point we are at today with things like electric vehicles and solar panels, where in some parts of the world it is now cheaper than fossil fuel incumbents.”
Laura Diaz Anadon, Professor of Climate Change Policy
While Anadon points out that such improvements in cleantech were “ not foreseen by deterministic models or experts ”, she argues that a new generation of economic modelling – incorporating far more detailed data from global regions, sectors and technologies – can catalyse the energy transition.
Further work from Anadon and CEENRG shows many policies that spur renewable growth in OECD countries do not have the same effect in low- and middle-income countries, where “international finance, lower cost of capital, and institutional change" are all needed to facilitate energy transitions.
Anadon is also Vice-Chair and Founding Member of the European Scientific Advisory Board on Climate Change (ESABCC), created by the European Climate Law in 2021.
In a report last year the ESABCC called for a new 2040 target for EU-wide emissions reductions of at least 90% relative to 1990 levels, a recommendation supported by President of the EU Commission, Ursula Von der Leyen.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/CISL-sustainable-ESG-report :
New thinking from the University of Cambridge Institute for Sustainability Leadership (CISL) argues that we need to flip the Environmental Social Governance (ESG) model on its head if global businesses are serious about tackling the climate and nature crises.
In Survival of the Fittest: From ESG to Competitive Sustainability interim CEO Lindsay Hooper and CISL Fellow Paul Gilding argue that we need to put business into sustainability rather than tacking ESG onto the business agenda as an add-on.
They also offer an uncomfortable truth to the global business world they advise: despite decades of commitments, legions of advisors, innovation and investment, we are still not on track to make the changes needed to keep global temperatures from rising to catastrophic tipping points and slow destruction of the natural world.
Their most recent discussion paper centres around the argument that we do not have time to rebuild institutions and economic systems before the global ecosystem spirals into chaos.
Instead, we must leverage the market’s potential to deliver change quickly and at scale by redesigning business incentives and penalties.
This will require a step change from business.
Founded in 1994 by its Patron, HM King Charles III, CISL works with business, finance and government to accelerate action for a sustainable future.
It operates a global network of leaders and innovators helping them understand sustainability challenges and how to address them.
It does this through a unique mix of education, research, innovation and policy engagement, working across its hubs in Cambridge, Cape Town and Brussels.
That puts the authors in an authoritative position to offer credible business and policy ideas to confront the rising challenges.
Hooper wrote in a September editorial for The Financial Times that ESG fails to address a fundamental tension between profitability and sustainability, making it mostly an extra layer on top of business models to manage risks and enhance reputations.
Lindsay Hooper, interim CEO, CISL
“As long as the market rewards short-term gains over long-term resilience, businesses will harm the planet, and markets will destroy the foundations on which they depend,” Hooper writes.
She praises some of companies getting it right – the Swedish steel, mining and utility businesses that formed the Hybrit initiative – working for a reinvention of their industry with solutions such as fossil-free steel.
But Hooper and Gilding also point to the sclerotic progress of the German car manufacturing industry, whose response to existential risks from international competition in the electric vehicle market includes efforts from some companies to prolong the life of the internal combustion engine.
The discussion paper says there is a simple two-pronged approach to a more pragmatic business approach that engages with market fundamentals to address the climate and nature crises.
It starts with changing the mindset.
To stop seeing sustainability as a ‘nice to have’ alongside commercial performance, but about long-term competitive positioning.
“For those who choose to act, the question must no longer be how much sustainability related activity can we afford?
And must instead be how do we accelerate, navigate and benefit from the transition, and secure our long-term business success?”
Secondly, both Hooper and Gilding say in their report that social and political support for the radical market change required to address global challenges will be critical and, encouragingly, that there is underlying public support for addressing sustainability.
“There is no political movement arguing for climate destruction, for more refugees, for food crises, for water scarcity or for more inequality."
On the contrary, survey after survey tells us that citizens are deeply concerned about climate and nature.
Governments can and must act, and they can do so in ways that secures buy-in across political divides, they say.
Paul Gilding, CISL Fellow
The conditions are ripe for business to push for and governments to introduce consistent, long-term government commitments and credible delivery plans, for the right policies in the right place to unlock investment and sustainable innovation.
Of course, this raises important questions about the kinds of policy measures and government actions that are most effective, questions that Cambridge academics and CISL’s leaders groups are working on.
But this isn’t just about sitting back and waiting for governments.
There is an important role for business here – to take control of the story from those seeking to defend the status quo for personal gain - and make the case that swift action on sustainability challenges will be good for economies, for jobs, for security, for health, Hooper and Gilding say in their report.
“To date, progressive businesses have advocated co-operatively, gently and cautiously.
Many have opted to step back and keep quiet in the face of recent aggressive backlash.
This must change.
A more robust and interventionist approach by a critical mass of businesses is essential now.”
Published: October 2024 Words: Paul Casciato Design: Jessica Keating

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/green-economy-future:
Dimitri Zenghelis/Credit: Dimitri Zenghelis
A new report by researchers from the University of Cambridge and the London School of Economics and Political Science (LSE) argues the UK government should invest in green infrastructure now or watch productivity lag behind China, the United States and other countries already running away with the benefits.
Is reaching net zero a growth and prosperity plan?
by the UK Treasury's former Head of Economic Forecasting, Dimitri Zenghelis , says it's not too late for the UK to lean into its innate scientific advantages and reap the benefits of investing in the infrastructure needed to be a leader in a global economic revolution that is already under way.
The report argues that the Treasury should not be captive to an inaccurate UK narrative which assumes that investing in green infrastructure costs too much and that borrowing to finance the transition to a net zero economy will worsen UK public finances in the long-term.
"Fiscal responsibility requires investing in assets that generate sustainable private and public returns, while encouraging national savings," Zenghelis says.
The report takes aim at the UK’s fiscal rules, combined with the Treasury’s rigid application of “cost benefit analysis” for green investments.
These factors combine to make boosting economic growth virtually impossible and have trapped the UK in a “doom loop of austerity.”
“Public investment is prone to feast or famine cycles, becoming the soft target that is cut to meet the rules every time there is bad economic news,” says Zenghelis, who is currently Special Advisor to the Bennett Institute for Public Policy at Cambridge and a Senior Visiting Fellow at the LSE's Grantham Research Institute.
In the report's foreword, Cambridge Zero Director Professor Emily Shuckburgh and Grantham Institute Chair Professor Lord Stern, say a new model of growth and development is in our hands.
"...the UK has the science and innovation base to lead, but action must be clear, swift and strong," they say.
Cost benefit analysis is a narrow accounting approach used to assess the advantages (benefits) and disadvantages (costs) associated with a particular decision, project, or policy, assuming the rest of the system stays the same.
“We are already in a large-scale, transformative technology revolution, where the whole system is changing," Zenghelis says.
"Marginal cost benefit analysis is the wrong tool.”
Project-by-project return on investment is not the right measure for decision-makers in the midst of a massive transformational economic revolution propelled by AI, automation and climate-related innovation, the report says.
Investments must complement each other when building a new network that changes the system and creates a cascade of effects across the economy impacting jobs, productivity and costs.
The report from the Cambridge Zero Policy Forum and the Grantham Research Institute on Climate Change and the Environment at LSE shows how China and the United States have leapt out ahead of the UK and other major economies by setting clear strategic industrial targets and spending hundreds of billions on climate change-related investments and tax credits.
Their investments have already driven massive growth in renewable energy sources, electric vehicles, batteries, heat pumps and other climate sectors.
“China and the United States have made strategic and political decisions to use climate mitigation as a tool for growth rather than fixating on cost benefit analysis models that are not appropriate,” Zenghelis says.
The report argues that the multiplying effects of green infrastructure investment are so large that analysts have also systematically under-predicted the scope for raising productivity with clean innovation.
A net zero transition strategy cannot be dealt with as separate from the rest of the economy.
Tough policy decisions are also needed on public spending, taxes, debt accumulation and national saving, the report says.
“If the Treasury is serious about dealing with the challenges of growth and productivity and climate mitigation, then it must be willing to reassess its decision-making process,” Zenghelis says.
The report recommends a wider range of complementary approaches and says it is not too late for the UK to tap into the ground-breaking research and innovation of its world-leading Universities to reap the opportunities available.
The UK is in a strong position to embrace technological change by leaning on a solid base in scientific innovation, strategic risk management and fluid financial and capital markets.
The country leads or has the potential to lead in offshore wind, environmental monitoring equipment, natural risk management, turbines, advanced semiconductors and water management treatment, biotech and life sciences, clean aviation, green hydrogen, finance and services.
Zenghelis also proposes a Growth and Transition Team at the heart of government, which could integrate strategies on net zero, digitalisation, and AI to boost productivity and growth.
Published: October 2024 Story by: Paul Casciato All images via Unsplash

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/stories/covid-19-interspecies-frontier-history-with-pangolins:
How our long history with pangolins reveals the preconditions of both the pandemic and environmental crisis.
Written by Sujit Sivasundaram Edited & designed by Tom Almeroth-Williams
Image courtesy of Alex Strachan via pixabay
The origins of the COVID-19 pandemic go far beyond China and much further back than 2019.
The long history of the current crisis lies in human interactions with animals, not least pangolins, in a variety of settings, including in Europe.
This global, increasingly capitalised and geographically-evolving story is one historical context that has allowed the virus to jump across the species barrier.
Zoonotic transfer occurs where relations between humans and animals have been unstable or where they are entering a new phase of contact.
Such transfer is linked with the climate emergency because life on the planet is being radically changed by accelerating extinctions caused partly by humans entering biodiverse areas and using land in new ways.
This is altering the interspecies frontier.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, historians have been asked to provide lessons from past epidemics to provide solace and cultural nourishment.
The role of the historian is as critical as ever, but it does not lie primarily in ‘compare and contrast’ exercises.
It is necessary to track the environmental past of the virus; it is urgent to understand the relationship between the planet’s illness and human illness.
Such a history might include the intensifying structures of colonisation, capitalism and settlement as they impact interspecies relations.
Historians may also respond to the inequalities brought to light by the pandemic, by challenging the racialisation of differing human engagements with nature and animals .
There is a global history of animal-human engagement that needs to be written in the light of COVID-19.
This global history has set the preconditions for the pandemic and is revealing of the pathway to environmental crisis.
A pangolin curled up in defensive position.
Image courtesy of Wildlife Alliance via Flikr under a CC licence
The trafficking of pangolins has grown exponentially in the last decade, so much so that the Western press has labelled it ‘ the most trafficked mammal .’
In China, ground-up scales are used in traditional medicine, although the country recently announced that it will be moving to de-list them as an approved official ingredient .
Fresh blood or foetuses are considered an aphrodisiac and eating tongue and other body parts can convey social status and a cultured appreciation of wildness.
A pangolin being rescued in 2010.
Even over the last decade, the trade has been transformed as pangolin populations have declined in some Asian regions.
Between 2000 and 2008, as Daniel Challender and others document , the trade was heavily weighted towards Asian pangolins from Southeast Asia moving to China and Vietnam.
But in more recent years other Asian states have been involved and African pangolins have more fully entered the international trafficking network.
Plate showing a pangolin from Albertus Seba, Locupletissimi Rerum Naturalium Thesauri Accurata Descriptio (1734-1765).
Image courtesy of Smithsonian Libraries via the Biodiversity Heritage Library.
Scientists across the globe are trying to determine how COVID-19 arose.
Samples taken from patients with COVID-19 have demonstrated that over 96% of the virus’ genome is shared with a coronavirus from horseshoe bats.
Pangolins were proposed – firstly by scientists from South China Agricultural University in Guangzhou – as the intermediate host .
However, the most recent research suggests that COVID-19 originated from a genetic recombination of a pangolin virus with a bat virus .
Given such recombinations, it is difficult to isolate the mechanisms of origin.
It is also difficult to isolate the viruses carried by different groups of pangolins.
One important paper for instance, which disputed the involvement of pangolins, ends with this qualification: ‘ due to the limited viral metagenomic data obtained from pangolins, we cannot exclude that other pangolins from China may contain coronaviruses that exhibit greater similarity to the SARS-Co-V-2 virus.
’
The pangolin is a creature which has consistently generated classificatory confusion.
Naturalists have puzzled over whether to place pangolins next to other ant-eating mammals (such as armadillos, sloths, anteaters and aardvarks) or instead alongside carnivorans.
Pangolins now comprise a mammalian order named Pholidota, with three genera, Manis, Phataginus and Smutsia.
Eight different species are found in subtropical Asia and sub-Saharan Africa.
The samples used by the scientists, in the paper just cited, were described as ‘Malayan’ and ‘Manis Javanica.’ But the scientists’ qualification raises the query of whether the result may have been different if they had compared their samples with coronavirus in pangolins ‘from China.’
After samples arrived in Europe for the first time in the late-seventeenth century, a pangolin skin was a prized element of a naturalist’s ‘cabinet of curiosity.’ As Natalie Lawrence has shown, from the very first accounts penned by Europeans of sightings of pangolins in Asia there was a confusion about how to characterise the creature .
The Dutch merchant Jan Huyghen van Linschoten (1563-1611), described the pangolin as:
In addition to the taxonomic quandary about where the pangolin fitted, there was confusion over the identification of the creature’s parts.
Assembling a pangolin from various detached skins in poor conditions of preservation further complicated processes of naming and classification.
Early naturalists consistently confused armadillos and pangolins.
This led to an intervention by eighteenth-century French naturalist Georges-Louis Leclerc, Comte de Buffon (1707–88).
Buffon sought to lodge armadillos and pangolins in separate geographical blocs: the first belonged to the New World and the second to the Old World.
Lady Impey’s Pangolin by Shaikh Zain ud-Din (1779).
By permission of the British Library: Add.Or.4667
European colonial natural history separated out humans and nature very rigidly.
Nature was turned into a resource within a capitalist system and the plunder of this resource generated persistent structures of inequality.
The colonial archive from South Asia may be deconstructed to recover the unstable, evolving and intense intersection of humans and pangolins from the eighteenth to the twentieth centuries.
A very good entry-point to the late-eighteenth-century moment when Britons sought to orientalise India, is Patna artist Shaikh Zain ud-Din’s gouache on paper representation, ‘Lady Impey’s Pangolin’ (1779).
Lady Impey, the wife of Calcutta’s chief justice, kept a large collection of creatures including a fruit bat, a dwarf flying squirrel, a ‘mountain rat’ and a pangolin.
What is striking about the image is the lack of any context and even a lack of curiosity demonstrated either by the artist or the pangolin.
There are other images of pangolins which are similar to ‘Lady Impey’s Pangolin’ (which is shown above).
This image is almost like a stock depiction of the pangolin in this period.
The lack of engagement between the pangolin and the human in ‘Lady Imepy’s Pangolin’ is in keeping with the nature of orientalist knowledge in this era.
For instance, important orientalist, philologist and judge William Jones responded to the receipt of a pangolin as a gift: ‘I solicited his restoration to his beloved rocks, because I found it impossible to preserve him in comfort at a distance from them’.
Jones preferred to immerse himself in ‘oriental’ texts about animals.
More broadly, the pangolin was problematic for those in search of divine design: what was it for and why did it look like it did?
Temminck's Pangolin (Manis Temminckii) from Brehm's Zoological Atlas (Edinburgh, 1885)
The late nineteenth century colonial archive also demonstrates the constraints that pangolins placed on humans who sought to know or tame them as imperialism and encroachment into biodiverse areas accelerated in Asia.
Colonial natural historians often complained of the difficulty of getting hold of pangolin specimens, given the creature’s nocturnal habits.
Their hunt for skins gave way to a race to rear pangolins and keep them in captivity.
In late colonial India, the forester and wildlife photographer, F.
W.
Champion, author of The Jungle in Sunlight and Shadow (1934), complained:
‘The pangolin is an exceedingly difficult animal to study in the wild, for he spends most of his life underground and very rarely appears above the surface in the daytime.’
And when Champion did manage to take pangolins captive, he found that they exercised their power against the conditions of their enclosure.
Domesticity came under attack:
‘One specimen placed for comfort in the bathroom of my stone-built bungalow, the floor of which was plastered with what passes for cement in India.
Within an hour he had dug up the floor in several places, and finally, choosing a spot near the wall, he had removed several stones weighing ten pounds or more each.’
Champion’s narrative, when placed within a much wider set of accounts like this, points to human attempts to control pangolins but also to animal responses to human colonisers.
Landscape in central Sri Lanka.
Image courtesy of Chris Blackhead under a CC licence via Flikr
Asian indigenous peoples have, of course, viewed pangolins from a totally different cultural perspective.
It is important to recall this knowledge here as indigenous peoples are at the frontier of the climate crisis; their knowledge systems also operate outside the colonial and capitalist modes of engaging with nature.
Caṇḍi Śiwa relief in the 9th-century Loro Jonggrang temple, Prambanan, Indonesia, showing a pangolin (bottom, to the right).
Image courtesy of Véronique Degroot.
Oral riddles and exchanges used by the Väddā or Wanniyalaeto (literally ‘forest dwellers’) – a people group seen as the Aboriginal inhabitants of Sri Lanka – suggest that indigenous modes of naming are commensurate with early modern European natural historical classification.
Wanniyalaeto men smoked and dug pangolins out of their holes – the creature was an important source of protein.
According to the anthropologists, Charles and Brenda Seligman in their book of 1911, this indigenous community called the pangolin ‘bagusa’, ‘eya’ and ‘kabelelewa.’
A 1924 Sinhala–English dictionary also gave the pangolin four distinct names: kaballavā  (කබල්ලැවා) , mulkodhu (මුල්කොදු), valdaranayā (වල්දරණයා) and ǣyā (ඈයා) denoting how the island’s inhabitants were struggling with the creatures’ various features in finding a name.
One possibility is that the main name in Sinhala for pangolin, kaballavā combines two words, kabal (කබල්) for skull and ǣyā (ඈයා) for porcupine.
Though these elaborate naming practices align with the confusion of European natural historians, there is something quite distinct and troubling to a European sense of classification in an exchange presented by Gwladys Hughes Simon as a Wanniyalaeto lullaby:
Rocked little one, / Crying little one; / Get to sleep little one.
/ Roasted little one, / Pengolin, little one!
/ Sleep little one.
This blurs the relation between the two ‘little ones’, the child and the pangolin.
To identify a pangolin with human progeny is a fundamental form of recognition, especially in a community that reveres ancestors.
Meanwhile, the cyclicality of rocking and roasting which is part of this chant, allows alternative emotions connected to nurture and ingestion to become aligned.
Cattle market in Ambalavao, Madagascar, 2010.
Image courtesy of Raphael Medina under a CC licence via Flikr
If the human-pangolin relationship was unstable and liable to oscillation between detachment and engagement, that relationship has now entered a new phase where pangolins are heavily exploited with little room to manoeuvre.
This plight is certainly shared with many wild creatures with whom humans have not had sustained contact until now.
It is precisely from a context where there has been long-term instability in the human-animal relationship that zoonotic disease transfer is likely.
This instability might include a sequence along these lines: little past contact accompanied by modes of evasion, ignorance, interest or confusion, giving way to heavy contact.
That was what characterised the pangolin-human story.
Seeking to identify pangolins, or other animals, as the villains that caused a pandemic could spell disaster for their populations, but it also misses the point of our long shared history.
Among the anthropogenic drivers of zoonotic disease transmission are human domestication of animals, human encroachment into habitats high in wildlife biodiversity and the hunting of wild animals.
Large-scale industrial farming is also a problem because it produces genetically similar populations across which disease can spread quickly.
In this context, the relation between the animal, the human and disease deserves plotting over the long term.
The human-pangolin history chartered here is a first step in this direction.
COVID-19 arises from the human-animal interface.
The way ahead for historians as they collaborate with other scholars in the arts and sciences may not lie simply in decentring the human and centring the animal.
The interlocking crises of the pandemic and of climate change call for a multi-species and even trans-species history that is about the role of various life forms and things as generative of historical change.
Reference: Sujit Sivasundaram, ‘ The Human, the Animal and the Prehistory of COVID-19 ’, Past & Present (2020).
DOI: 10.1093/pastj/gtaa024
Sujit Sivasundaram is Professor of World History at the University of Cambridge and Fellow of Gonville and Caius College.
His latest book, Waves Across the South: A New History of Revolution and Empire , was published by William Collins on 20th August 2020.

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/topics/This-Cambridge-Life:
05 January 2024
Kirstie is determined to bring these narratives to the fore.
“Art doesn’t need to be in an elaborate frame on the wall of a gallery,” says Harriet Loffler, curator of The Women’s Art Collection at Murray...
She discusses being inspired by Stephen Hawking, the unknown space before you...
Nabil Ali is discovering the natural colours hidden within the berries, blooms and bark found in the Cambridge University Botanic Garden – including...
Fifth-year medical student, Ashna Biju, is not afraid to talk about the topics that other people would rather avoid.
She’s passionate about public...
She sees her research as a chance to fight back...
Her research has taken her into the archives with...
A new set of films, aimed at teenagers whose schools...
Dara McAnulty is an award-winning author and environmental campaigner.
In December 2022 he was awarded a BEM for services to nature and the autistic...
Christopher Haylock, Head of the University Counselling Service (UCS), is transforming the service to ensure it provides the best possible support to...
Growing up on free school meals at one of the lowest performing state schools in the country, Raghib Ali went on to become a leading epidemiologist...
When PhD student Sigourney Bell turned to Twitter to connect with other Black scientists, she could never have guessed that this would be the...
Self-confessed ‘nerd’ Serena Nik-Zainal went from hospital wards to the laboratory on a mission to provide patients with the best possible treatment...

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/jobs/assistantassociate-professor-in-information-systems-ns44866:
Cambridge Judge Business School (CJBS), part of the University of Cambridge, is a world-class institution known for rigorous thinking and high-impact education.
Since its founding in 1990, CJBS has built a strong reputation for transforming individuals, organisations, and society through research and teaching.
Located at the centre of the Cambridge Cluster, Europe's leading technology entrepreneurship ecosystem, CJBS sits within an 800-year-old university yet embodies a modern, globally engaged business school.
It was ranked 1st in the UK's 2021 Research Excellence Framework for business and management studies.
The Organisational Theory and Information Systems (OTIS) group at CJBS has developed a reputation for research that is rigorous, original, and consequential.
Faculty regularly publish in leading journals such as Information Systems Research, MIS Quarterly, Academy of Management Journal, Organization Science, Administrative Science Quarterly, Organization Studies, and Journal of Management Studies.
The group is actively engaged with regulators, practitioners, and the media.
We are seeking to recruit an Assistant or Associate Professor in Organisational Theory and Information Systems.
Appointment may be with or without tenure, depending on qualifications and experience.
The successful candidate will help enhance the group's global visibility through high-quality research, impactful publications, and the successful placement of PhD graduates in academic roles.
Applicants should have a strong track record of impactful research, demonstrated by publications or a robust pipeline of working papers, and experience teaching in business school programmes (MBA, EMBA, MPhil/PhD) or Executive Education.
While all areas of Organisational Theory and Information Systems will be considered, we particularly welcome candidates whose research and teaching focus on digital innovation, digital technology/AI, digital social innovation, digital/data governance, digital entrepreneurship, or digital health.
The successful candidate will be expected to contribute to teaching at undergraduate, graduate, and post-experience levels.
Teaching loads are relatively low by US and European standards to allow time for research.
Responsibilities may include core and elective courses on the MBA, EMBA, MPhil/PhD, and undergraduate (tripos) programmes, along with project supervision and administrative duties.
The anticipated start date is 1 September 2026, or earlier if possible.
A competitive package of benefits is offered.
Application requirements:
Please also provide the names and contact details of three referees via the online form.
We will request references directly for longlisted candidates.
Referees will be asked to comment specifically on the candidate's suitability for this role.
Shortlisted applicants will be invited to visit Cambridge for a departmental visit, informal discussions with faculty, a presentation, and a formal interview.
We particularly welcome applications from female candidates and individuals from BAME (Black, Asian, and Minority Ethnic) backgrounds, as these groups are currently underrepresented at this level within our department.
If you are interested in this role, we encourage you to apply promptly.
The closing date for this advertisement may be earlier than initially indicated should a number of suitably qualified candidates submit applications.
We also reserve the right to extend the closing date, if necessary, until the position is filled.
Click the 'Apply' button below to register an account with our recruitment system (if you have not already) and apply online.
For an informal discussion about the role, please contact hrsupport@jbs.cam.ac.uk
Please quote reference NS44866 on your application and in any correspondence about this vacancy.
The University actively supports equality, diversity and inclusion and encourages applications from all sections of society.
The University has a responsibility to ensure that all employees are eligible to live and work in the UK.
Apply online
Judge Business School
Competitive
NS44866
Academic
25 June 2025
26 September 2025

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/jobs/term/Judge-Business-School:
Found 9 vacancies

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/jobs/assistantassociate-professor-in-finance-ns44811:
Since 1990, Cambridge Judge Business School (CJBS) has forged a reputation as a centre of rigorous thinking and high-impact transformative education, situated within one of the world's most prestigious research universities, and in the heart of the Cambridge Cluster, the most successful technology entrepreneurship cluster in Europe.
Cambridge Judge Business School is a highly ranked modern business school (ranked 1st in the most recent UK Research Excellence Framework in 2021), located at the heart of an 800-year-old University, with an ambitious and collegial faculty in the Finance group.
The Finance group has developed a reputation for research that is rigorous, original, and consequential, as evidenced by a strong publication record, deep engagement with regulators and practitioners, as well as high-profile media coverage.
Finance faculty publish regularly in finance journals, including the Journal of Finance, the Journal of Financial Economics, and the Review of Financial Studies.
The Finance group at CJBS is looking to recruit an Assistant/Associate Professor in Finance (with or without tenure, depending on the candidate's record).
The group seeks to further increase its global visibility through its research outputs, including publishing impactful research in internationally recognised Finance journals as well as placing its PhD graduates in academic careers.
The ideal candidates will have a record of impactful research, as evidenced by their publications to date and a strong paper pipeline.
They will also have excellent teaching experience in premium business school degree programs (Master in Finance; MBA; Executive MBA) or on Executive Education engagements.
Although we will consider candidates in all areas of finance, preference will be given to candidates doing research and teaching in asset pricing or corporate finance.
You will be expected to contribute to teaching courses at undergraduate, graduate, and post-experience levels.
However, our teaching loads are relatively low by US and European standards, allowing you to focus on research.
The teaching associated with the post may cover core and elective courses on the MBA, EMBA, MFin, MPhil/Ph.D.
programmes, and undergraduate/tripos programmes.
Project administration and dissertation supervision are also expected in this role.
We are looking for an anticipated start date of between 1 September 2025 and 1 September 2026 and offer a competitive package of benefits.
For an informal discussion about the role, please contact hrsupport@jbs.cam.ac.uk .
Please quote reference NS44811 on your application and in any correspondence about this vacancy.
NS44811
1 April 2025
1 September 2025

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/jobs/assistantassociate-professor-in-economics-ns44865:
Cambridge Judge Business School is a highly ranked modern business school (ranked 1st in the most recent UK Research Excellence Framework in 2021), located at the heart of an 800-year-old University, with an ambitious and collegial faculty in the Economics & Policy group.
The group has developed a reputation for research that is rigorous, original, and consequential, as evidenced by a strong publication record, deep engagement with regulators and practitioners, and high-profile media coverage.
Economics & Policy faculty publish regularly in leading economics journals, including the American Economic Review, European Journal of Political Economy, and The Review of Economics and Statistics.
The Economics & Policy group at CJBS is looking to recruit an Assistant/Associate Professor in Economics & Policy (with or without tenure, depending on the candidate's record).
Our group aims to enhance its global visibility through high-impact research outputs, including publications in leading Economics journals and the successful placement of PhD graduates in academic careers.
Ideal candidates will demonstrate a strong record of impactful research, evidenced by their publications and a robust pipeline of working papers.
Additionally, candidates should possess excellent teaching experience in premium business school programmes (such as Master of Finance, MBA, Executive MBA) and Executive Education engagements.
Although we will consider candidates in all areas of economics and policy, preference will be given to candidates doing research and teaching in the following areas:
The teaching associated with the post may cover core and elective courses on the MBA, EMBA, MFin, MPhil/PhD programmes, and undergraduate/tripos programmes.
Please quote reference NS44865 on your application and in any correspondence about this vacancy.
NS44865
25 April 2025

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/jobs/assistantassociate-professor-in-strategy-ns44867:
Within CJBS, the Strategy & International Business group's research has uncovered how corporations deal with disruptive events and compete in an increasingly complex global environment with a diverse set of socio-political and economic influences.
A distinctive feature of the group is its ability to produce leading research at the juxtaposition of how corporations achieve and sustain competitive viability, and how their social and environmental footprints can be examined and moderated through internal and external governance systems.
The successful candidate will hold a PhD in management or relevant adjacent fields, and will have a record of impactful research, evidenced by publications and a strong paper pipeline.
Project administration and dissertation supervision are also expected.
We are looking for an anticipated start date of 1 September 2026, or mutually agreed, and offer a competitive package of benefits.
Please quote reference NS44867 on your application and in any correspondence about this vacancy.
NS44867
30 May 2025
29 September 2025

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/jobs/assistantassociate-professor-in-marketing-ns43743:
The Marketing group at CJBS comprises scholars specialising in marketing strategy and modelling, including econometrics, machine learning, and analytical approaches.
In addition to publishing impactful research, our members engage in diverse research areas such as game theory, industrial organisation, innovation, econometrics, entrepreneurship, and behavioural decision theory.
We welcome applicants working in all areas of marketing.
The successful candidate will hold a PhD in marketing (or a related discipline) and will have a record of impactful research, evidenced by publications and a strong paper pipeline.
They will possess excellent teaching experience in premium business school degree programs or executive education engagements.
The appointment will be made at the Assistant Professor or Associate Professor level, depending on the candidate's experience.
Appointments may be made with or without tenure, depending on the candidate's record.
For those appointed on a tenure track, a decision will be made within five years.
We anticipate the start date to be between 1 September 2025 and 1 September 2026 and offer a competitive package of benefits.
Please ensure that the following documents are included in your application:
Please provide the names and contact details of three referees on the online form.
We will contact the referees of longlisted candidates directly to request references.
Referees will be asked to comment specifically on the candidate's ability to undertake this particular role.
Please quote reference NS43743 on your application and in any correspondence about this vacancy.
NS43743
9 June 2025

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/jobs/university-assistant-clinical-teaching-professor-in-medical-virology-pk46964:
The University of Cambridge wishes to appoint a University Assistant Clinical Teaching Professor in Medical Virology (Honorary Consultant Status) on the Teaching and Scholarship pathway (Band 9) within the Department of Pathology.
The post is available immediately.
The key aim of the appointment is to strengthen the Department's organisation and delivery of the Applied Biomedical Sciences teaching strand of the Clinical Medicine course with contributions to the teaching of pre-clinical undergraduate and postgraduate students.
The post is situated within the Department of Pathology, which is both in the School of Biological Sciences, and the School of Clinical Medicine, with association to medical virology at CUH.
The successful candidate will be expected to develop and contribute to the activities of the Department and participate, as an honorary consultant, in the Medical Virology Service at CUHNHSFT.
The successful candidate will be a dedicated educator who will take a leadership role in the strategic organisation, delivery and ongoing further development of the Applied Biomedical Sciences course delivered across years 4-6 of the course and delivery of the Year 5 written examination papers in Clinical Medicine working in partnership with the current Lead Teacher for Clinical Pathology.
They will have a good understanding of the pedagogical principles of such teaching and experience in applying these principles to the delivery of varied and novel educational resources and teaching sessions.
They will also participate in teaching general pathology to second and third year undergraduates, leading to the Medical and Veterinary Sciences Tripos or the Natural Sciences Tripos.
The successful candidate will be expected to undertake research duties as mandated for the University of Cambridge Teaching and Scholarship pathway, including educational research.
Within the Department of Pathology, this post will sit within the Division of Virology.
The successful candidate will have clinical responsibilities (3 programmed activities per week) within the Medical Virology Service of the UKHSA at Cambridge University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust (Addenbrooke's Hospital) and must be eligible for an Honorary Consultant contract.
The role also includes the equivalent of 5 programmed activities per week for teaching and two for research and administration.
Job plans for all full-time honorary consultants currently include a commitment to the NHS Trust for an agreed number of programmed activities per week, averaged over the year.
The precise deployment of this time and its allocation to service delivery, continuing professional development, NHS research and development and other Trust-related activities is agreed on a regular basis through discussion with the Clinical Lead for the UKHSA diagnostic laboratory, the School of Clinical Medicine, and the Head of Department of Pathology, Professor Heike Laman, to whom the post-holder will directly report.
Please check the attached Further Particulars document for more information.
This is an integrated appointment between the University and Cambridge University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust ("NHS Trust").
You will therefore also be issued with an Honorary Clinical Contract by the NHS Trust.
You should be aware that if your contract with the NHS Trust is terminated your employment with the University will be terminated, and vice versa.
Please ensure that you upload a covering letter, CV and a completed Additional Clinical Information form and payslip, in the Upload section of the online application.
If you upload any additional documents which have not been requested, we will not be able to consider these as part of your application.
Please include details of your referees, including email address and phone number, one of which must be your most recent line manager.
Informal enquiries and requests for further information are very welcome and should be addressed to  Professor Heike Laman: hod@path.cam.ac.uk
If you have any queries regarding the application process, please contact: hr@path.cam.ac.uk
Please quote reference PK46964 on your application and in any correspondence about this vacancy.
Department of Pathology
£105,504 - £139,882
PK46964
18 August 2025
8 September 2025

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/jobs/term/Department-of-Pathology:
Found 4 vacancies

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/jobs/assistant-professor-in-bladder-cancer-honorary-consultant-urologist-re46977:
Applications are invited for the post of Assistant Professor of Bladder Cancer (Honorary Consultant Urologist), Department of Surgery.
This post offers unrivalled opportunity to undertake high quality research within an outstanding academic and clinical environment.
Applicants should hold GMC specialist registration or be eligible for entry on the Register or within six months of receipt of a certificate of completion of training at time of interview.
You will also require medical defence cover for the duration of your appointment.
Applicants should hold clinical training and experience equivalent to that required for gaining UK certificate of completion of training in urology, and training required to fulfil all aspects of the clinical role with an emphasis on treatment of bladder cancer, but also with a general urology and on-call commitment.
You are required to hold a PhD/DPhil/MD at the time of your application.
Candidates should have a developing bibliography of research publications, a track record of securing research funding and expertise in clinical trial conduct.
The successful candidate will be appointed on the Clinical Consultant scale for Assistant Professor (Honorary Consultant Urologist) and can take up the appointment as soon as possible.
For University Assistant Professors the appointment is subject to satisfactory completion of a five-year probationary period.
This is an integrated appointment between the University and Cambridge University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust and as such requires an Honorary Clinical Contract, which will be issued by Cambridge University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust.
Informal enquiries about this post may be directed to Prof Grant Stewart gds35@cam.ac.uk or Miss Alex Colquhoun alexandra.colquhoun2@nhs.net
We particularly welcome applications from women and /or candidates from a BME background for this vacancy as they are currently under-represented at this level in our department/institution/Faculty/School/University.
Please ensure that you upload a covering letter, CV, current and future research plans (two sides of A4 only) in the Upload section of the online application.
The covering letter should outline how you match the criteria for the post and why you are applying for this role.
Please quote reference RE46977 on your application and in any correspondence about this vacancy.
Department of Surgery
£105,504-£111,714 or £114,894-£126,018 or £139,882
RE46977
15 August 2025
30 September 2025

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/jobs/term/Department-of-Surgery:
Found 1 vacancy

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/jobs/clinical-lecturer-in-cardiology-rc46608:
Applications are invited for a Clinical Lecturer in Cardiology, Department of Medicine.
Based on the Cambridge Biomedical Campus this post offers an unrivalled opportunity to undertake high-quality research in an outstanding academic and clinical environment.
Applicants should be medically qualified, have full GMC registration, and have an existing NTN/NTN(A) in Cardiology.
If a number is not held, candidates will need to be clinically benchmark to be able to take up the post.
Clinical benchmarking can be achieved through application for specialty training within the national recruitment window where the minimal appointable score must be achieved.
Candidates are responsible for ensuring that their clinical application is submitted within the appropriate recruitment round to ensure that you are benchmarked before the date that the post needs to commence.
You are required to hold or have submitted a PhD/DPhil/MD at the time of your application and be of the standing required for an appropriate honorary contract of service with the NHS LETB (specialist trainee/LETB).
Candidates who have not submitted their PhD/MD at the time of application will not be considered.
Previous experience in the immune-inflammatory mechanisms of cardiovascular disease is required.
This is a fixed-term appointment for a maximum of 4 years or until you obtain CCT (subject to any extension that you apply for and be granted by NIHR, which can be for a maximum of 24 months).
Salary Scales
StR £44,159pa - £76,280pa
Nodal £49,909pa - £70,425pa (ST3 and above)
This appointment requires an Honorary Clinical Contract.
This is an integrated appointment between the University and the relevant NHS Trust / Body.
You will therefore also be issued with an Honorary Clinical contract by the NHS Trust.
You will require GMC registration, Licence to Practice, and Medical Defence Cover for the duration of your appointment.
Informal enquiries about this post may be directed to Professor Ziad Mallat, zm255@cam.ac.uk
Please ensure that you upload a covering letter and CV in the Upload section of the online application.
Please quote reference RC46608 on your application and in any correspondence about this vacancy.
Department of Medicine
£36,616-£70,425
RC46608
20 August 2025
17 September 2025

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/jobs/university-assistantassociate-professor-in-materials-engineering-nm45350:
Applications are invited for a University Assistant/Associate Professorship in Materials Engineering.
The successful applicant will contribute to research in at least one of the following areas from a materials engineering perspective: energy systems, advanced manufacturing and materials, computational and data-driven engineering, and robotics.
The Department of Engineering is one of the few truly integrated engineering departments in the world.
It is also the largest department in the University of Cambridge, with this breadth and scale bringing unique advantages.
The research portfolio, both in Materials Engineering and across the broader Engineering spectrum, contains many world-class contributions to research.
The role-holder will be expected to provide innovative teaching in materials, contributing to undergraduate courses, laboratory coursework, supervising undergraduate projects, examining and supervising of post-graduate students.
The position is based in the Engineering Department in Central Cambridge.
In addition to this, please ensure that you upload the application documentation as follows:
Curriculum Vitae (CV)
A full publications list
Statement of professional, teaching and research experience and describe your future research plans (no more than two pages total)
A covering letter
The closing date for applications is 31 August 2025.
If you have any questions about the application process, please contact the HR Office ( hr-office@eng.cam.ac.uk , +44 (0) 1223 332615).
The interviewing panel will meet soon after the closing date to produce a short-list; references may be solicited.
Short-listed candidates will be invited to the Department to take part in informal meetings with staff, give a short seminar/lecture and attend a formal interview.
This process is expected to take place in October or November 2025.
Informal enquiries may be made to Professor Michael Sutcliffe ( mpfs@eng.cam.ac.uk ) +44 (0) 1223 332996.
Please quote reference NM45350 on your application and in any correspondence about this vacancy.
Department of Engineering
£46,735 - £59,139 (Grade 9) 
£62,728 - £66,537 (Grade 10)
NM45350
1 July 2025
31 August 2025

New sentences found on https://cam.ac.uk/jobs/term/Department-of-Engineering:
Found 12 vacancies